
                               1 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 10, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Put the Burden on the Borders, Not on Employers; Costs to Municipalities

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 182 words


To the Editor:

Your call for immigration reform expresses a view shared by millions of
California taxpayers and workers.

Last year, Los Angeles County spent $272 million on services for illegal aliens;
$130.5 million is being spent on welfare for children of illegal aliens under
aid to families with dependent children - a 41 percent increase in just over a
year. Over 70 percent of the births at County U.S.C. General Hospital are to
illegal alien mothers.

In 1965, only 6,000 illegals were apprehended along the San Diego sector of the
border; in each of the last three years, the number has exceeded 400,000; the
Immigration and Naturalization Service projects that 600,000 will be caught this
year.

This upsurge makes it imperative for Congress to pass immigration reforms now,
to strengthen our border patrol, impose sanctions on employers who willfully
hire illegals, implement a guest-worker program and reimburse local governments
for expenses their taxpayers have unfairly borne too long. MICHAEL D. ANTONOVICH
County Supervisor, Fifth District Los Angeles, Feb. 24, 1986

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 6, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Law Bars Benefits For Illegal Aliens

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 178 words


To the Editor:

It seems inconceivable that Alan C. Nelson, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service Commissioner (''Illegal Aliens Are Not Entitled,'' letter, Sept. 18),
does not know that illegal aliens are barred by statute from receiving welfare,
unemployment and Social Security benefits (though they pay taxes for these
''entitlements'' at the same rates as everybody else). Mr. Nelson's statement
that ''they get into welfare and entitlement programs at approximately the same
rate as U.S. citizens'' is disingenuous at best.

His suggestion that providers of health care should determine the immigration
status of all patients would result in many sick and injured aliens not seeking
necessary help out of fear of being turned over to the I.N.S. Using such means
to discourage illegal immigration flies in the face of humanity and the
Hippocratic oath, and does shame to this centennial year of the ''huddled masses
yearning to breathe free.''

PETER HIRSCH
Research Director, Association
of Immigration Attorneys
  New York, Sept. 19, 1986

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 22, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

SERVICE NEEDS OF ALIENS BRING WORRIES ON COSTS

BYLINE: By JOHN HERBERS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1048 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 21


State and local officials around the country say the $1 billion a year the
Federal Government has pledged for social services for illegal aliens who gain
legal status under the new immigration law may fall far short of the need.

They fear that places with many immigrants, such as Los Angeles County and New
York City, could face a disproportionate burden of providing welfare, health,
education and other non-Federal services to aliens who come under the amnesty.
As illegal immigrants, they have been ineligible for many of these services or
have been reluctant to apply for fear of discovery.

''There is no way $1 billion can cover the huge costs,'' said Susan Golding, a
San Diego County Supervisor. The county is the main point of entry for Mexican
nationals.

Few Have Any Estimates

At the same time, Federal, state and local officials agree that no one knows how
much the Federal obligation should be because of uncertainty in several areas.
These include how many aliens could qualify for amnesty, how much the aliens
will need in social services or how many have already received some of these
services and thus would not create new costs.

Illegal aliens are not now eligible for a number of Federal social programs,
including Aid to Families with Dependent Children, food stamps, supplementary
assistance for the aged, blind and disabled, unemployment compensation and most
Medicaid benefits. Nor are they eligible for general welfare assistance
sponsored by the states.

Those granted amnesty under the new law would become eligible for some of these
programs immediately and for others over a period of five years. After five
years as permanent legal residents, they may apply for citizenship, and then
their rights become the same as those of other citizens.

Elibility for a number of programs is hanging in the balance with pending court
cases.

Major Sticking Point

Who would pay the social costs created by legalizing a major part of the
''underground'' alien population was a major issue in the five-year debate on
the immigration law. The state and local governments wanted assurance that the
Federal Government would pay all additional costs, but some of the sponsors did
not want such a commitment while most domestic programs were being cut.

The figure of $1 billion a year was calculated by the Congressional Budget
Office, based on an estimate of 1.4 million aliens gaining amnesty.

The basis of the anxiety in the debate, however, was that the Federal Government
might do what it has done in the past: enact a national program to achieve a
national purpose but then leave it to the states and localities to pay the costs
as best they could.

In New York City, officials have estimated that as much as $78 million a year
might be needed by 1989, based on estimates that 360,000 illegal aliens in the
city are eligible for amnesty. ''But we really don't know, nor do we know
whether any or all of that would be reimbursed,'' said an official who asked
that his name not be used.

Wider State Services Cited

Brian Bilbray, a San Diego County Supervisor, expressed the same uncertainty but
said he strongly believed the Federal money would fall well short of need. ''Our
states have guaranteed access to social services that go far beyond the Federal
programs'' that were the basis for the $1 billion Federal pledge, he said. But
he welcomed the law nevertheless, saying, ''For the first time in 35 years the
Federal Government has begun to recognize that they have an obligation in
this.''

A number of state, local and Federal officials said in interviews that they
viewed the guarantees in the law ''as just a beginning.'' Jess Noah, an
immigration specialist in New York State's office here, said the states and
localities would expect Federal adjustments as needs became clear.

The immigration law is particularly subject to controversy, officials say,
because its costs will not be uniformly distributed among the states.
California, New York and Texas have 70 percent of the nation's illegal aliens,
according to official estimates.

John Sweeten, director of intergovernmental relations for San Diego County,
noted that with the Indochina Assistance Program, which brought refugees to the
United States after the Vietnam War. Federal assistance petered out after most
of the refugees migrated to California and a few other states.

Some Revenue Will Rise

In addition, no one is sure what increases in revenues will flow from the law.
Federal officials said jurisdictions would collect more in taxes when aliens
became legalized because many more would begin paying taxes they evaded while
working ''off the books.''

The new law provides that illegal aliens who have been in the United States
continuously since before Jan. 1, 1982, are eligible for legal residence,
entitling them to most state social services and some Federal ones. Beginning in
the 1988 fiscal year, which starts Oct. 1, 1987, the Federal Government is
committed to an outlay of $1 billion a year for social services.

However, the Federal Government would retain part of the money to pay its share
of some services. What is left would go to states and localities: $930 million
in 1988, $695 million in 1989, $590 million in 1990 and $555 million in 1991,
which is when the legalized aliens would become eligible for food stamps and the
main Federal welfare program. The money is to be distributed under a complicated
formula.

'Problem Is Too Big'

New York City and state officials in the New York area said that although the
matter was under study, no conclusions had been reached as to the likely costs
in the region, which has large numbers of aliens.

Los Angeles County, however, has produced an analysis that shows why officials
are worried. If estimates are correct, the annual cost of providing health and
welfare services there would be $495 million a year, more than half what the
Federal Government would distribute to all the states in the first year.

Mr. Bilbray and Ms. Golding, the San Diego County Supervisors, said constant
monitoring would be needed, possibly by a permanent national body, to determine
the costs and assign them to the Federal Government. ''There is no other way,''
said Ms. Golding. ''The problem is too big.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 1, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

BEHIND THE MASS CITIZENSHIP CEREMONY

BYLINE: By Albert J. Parisi

SECTION: Section 11NJ; Page 2, Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 569 words


MANY OF the immigrants who will become citizens at Ellis Island on July 3 could
be doing so because of the initiative of five New Jersey members of Congress.

Under existing immigration law, only New York residents would have been eligible
to take the oath on the island, which is part of New York State.

But in April, Representatives Dean A. Gallo, Peter W. Rodino Jr. and Frank J.
Guarini introduced a bill calling for a one-time relaxation of the law. A
companion bill was introduced by Senators Bill Bradley and Frank R. Lautenberg,
both Democrats.

The measures were passed by Congress late last month and President Reagan was
expected to sign them last week. They would let two immigrants from each state
and United States possessions, territories and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico
take part in the ceremony.

''The bill symbolizes this country's unique character as a nation of immigrants
who have established themselves and prospered,'' said Mr. Guarini, whose
grandparents immigrated from Italy in the early 1890's.

According to the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington, 100 to
300 immigrant petitioners from around the country, as well as from Puerto Rico,
possessions such as Guam and territories such as the Virgin Islands, are
expected to be sworn in on Ellis Island by Chief Justice Warren E. Burger.

When planning began last year, the ceremony was intended for some 2,500
immigrants, but officials said Ellis Island's shallow channel could not handle
the large boats needed to carry that many people.

The open-air swearing-in will take place at 9 A.M. on the island's south side,
not in the Registry Building's Great Hall, where early immigrants were
processed.

''The Great Hall and the Registry Building are still hard-hat areas and under
renovation,'' said Cassie Boothe of the Immigration Service.

The ceremony is one of 48 taking place simultaneously around the country. In
all, about 25,000 immigrants will become citizens that day.

According to Mr. Guarini and Mr. Gallo, the Governors of each state will select
the participants.

Robert LeGrand, a senior aide to Mr. Gallo, said it was hoped that ''charitable
groups such as Kiwanis or Rotary Clubs'' would pick up the participants' food,
lodging and transportation expenses.

Although opening the ceremony to nationwide participation was approved in
Washington, its concept did not originate there.

''When I first heard about the planned ceremony,'' said Joseph J. Bell, the
Morris County Clerk, who is in charge of naturalization procedures, ''I thought
to myself, 'Wouldn't it be nice if people from my area could take part in this
history-making swearing in process?' ''When I found out about how the law works
in this respect, and considering the scope of what we're celebrating July 4
weekend, I didn't think it was fair to leave people out.''

Mr. Bell contacted elected officials, including Mr. Rodino, who heads the House
Judiciary Committee, which started the move to relax the immigration law
guidelines.

While the Ellis Island program is going on, Mr. Bell will be swearing in new
citizens, too, at the Mennen Sports Arena in Morris Township. In that ceremony,
about 1,000 people from Bergen, Passaic, Warren, Sussex, Somerset and Morris
Counties will take the oath.

''These new immigrants are joining a nation of immigrants,'' Mr. Bell said,
''and that's a special celebration in and of itself.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Joel Niedzwicki and Jeff Olsen working on the boat landing at
Ellis Island; Photo of Bruce Bassman working on fireworks display while Nunzio
Santore inspects rockets (NYT/Don Hogan Charles and F. N. Kinney)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 2, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

5 GIVEN PROBATION IN ALIEN SMUGGLING

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 826 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., July 1


A Federal district judge today declined to impose prison terms on five church
workers convicted May 1 as participating in a conspiracy to smuggle aliens into
the country illegally and instead suspended their sentences and placed them on
probation.

But the atmosphere in Federal District Court surrounding Judge Earl H. Carroll's
action was marked by the same high emotion and legal ambiguity that
characterized the trial of 11 people involved in smuggling Central Americans
into the country.

Five of the eight defendants convicted May 1 were sentenced today. The judge
will continue sentencing for the three others Wednesday. Three others were
cleared on all counts.

The defendants are members of a loose coalition of church groups who over the
last several years have aided what the Government says is the illegal
immigration of Central Americans. Supporters of this movement to provide
sanctuary to aliens say they have given aid to refugees fleeing persecution who
are not permitted to come here under United States immigration policy.

Prosecution Position

The Government has said the defendants were, in essence, a smuggling ring that
clearly broke the immigration laws no matter how lofty the motives of
particpants might have been.

Early today the defendants said they were doubtful they could abide by the terms
of the probation as read to them in court. They objected to language that
forbade them to associate with organizations or individuals involved in the
activities for which they were convicted and left open the possibility they
would decline to agree to the probation, which could result in prison sentences.

However, this afternoon the judge revised the probation, dropping the section
that dealt with association and simply stating that the defendants must comply
with all immigration laws.

The judge suspended sentences for defendants including Sister Darlene Nicgorski,
a Roman Catholic nun, who had been convicted on five counts of violating United
States immigration law. She faced a potential 25-year prison term.

Also given suspended sentences were Phillip Willis-Conger, of Tucson, convicted
on three counts; Peggy Hutchison, of Tucson, convicted of one count; Wendy
LeWin, of Phoenix, convicted of one count, and Maria Socorro Pardo de Aguilar,
of Nogales, Mexico, convicted on two counts. Ms. LeWin was placed on three years
probation; the four others were placed on five years probation.

The prosecutor, Donald M. Reno, addressed the court regarding only Mr.
Willis-Conger, reminding the judge Mr. Willis-Conger had been arrested once
before on similar charges and questioning whether his motives were political or
religious.

Mr. Reno and other immigration officials declined to criticize the suspended
sentences.

Judge Called Compassionate

''I think the judge is very compassionate and understanding despite the fact of
the experience that he and I went through in this courtroom,'' Mr. Reno said.

And the prosecutor said he felt the convictions would still serve as a deterrent
to people considering participation in the sanctuary movement. ''Despite their
saying they will continue their 'border ministry,' the message sent out to
fringe members is that jurors aren't going to buy that line,'' he said.

The defendants said they were pleased by the suspended sentences but added that
they expected to continue working in behalf of Central American refugees.

Most of today's hearing consisted of the sort of material the defendants had
wanted to introduce into the six-month trial.

They had planned to base their defense on conditions in Central America and
issues of international law that they said justified their actions in bringing
refugees from El Salvador and Guatemala into the United States and harboring and
transporting them once they were here.

Issue Ruled Not Germane

Judge Carroll repeatedly ruled that such issues were not germane to the question
of whether the defendants broke United States immigration laws. ''Good motive is
not a defense to intentional acts of crime,'' he had told the jury.

But in their statements regarding their own sentencing, the defendants were
allowed to make those points, and they described tortured and terrified refugees
and said they were required by their religious faith to assist.

They insisted the United States Refugee Act of 1980 and international law
required the Government to provide safe haven to those fleeing persecution.

Ms. Hutchison, noting the forthcoming Liberty Weekend festivities, said she felt
the defendants had acted within the nation's best traditions.

''It is common for Jewish people to proclaim 'Never again' in terms of never
forgetting the Holocaust and never allowing it to occur again,'' said Ms.
Hutchison. ''Today I stand before this court to proclaim as a Christian, never
again should our nation stand by silently in the midst of a different Holocaust,
in this case, the people of Central America.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 18, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

CITY SEES BENEFITS IN IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 482 words


Because New York City has already opened its schools, municipal hospitals and
other services to illegal aliens, the United States Senate's immigration bill
will not have a major impact on the city, municipal officials said yesterday.

But there is expectation that the bill, which would offer legal status to
undocumented aliens who entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1982, will
produce more Federal aid to reimburse the city for social-welfare and health
programs.

In addition, some officials in industries believed to provide work in New York
to unskilled illegal aliens - restaurants, hotels, hospitals and manufacturing
companies, among others -contended that the bill could place an unfair burden on
employers and might cause discrimination against minorities.

The bill would subject employers to civil penalities, ranging from $250 to
$10,000, for each illegal alien they hired.

Inaccurate Census Count

Municipal officials estimate that there are between 750,000 and 1 million
illegal aliens in the city. The Koch administration has long argued that the
reluctance of undocumented residents to identify themselves produced an
inaccurate count in the 1980 Census, and thus deprived the city of significant
amounts of Federal aid in programs that are determined by population.

Under provisions of the bill, Federal money for Medicaid, the health care
program for the poor, and for several other Federal programs could be used for
illegal aliens. A maximum of $1 billion a year would be made available to states
and municipalities to help finance such programs.

''I think New York will do quite well,'' said Representative Charles E. Schumer,
Democrat of Brooklyn, who drafted the House version of the legislation.

Mayor Koch, who supported the bill, said Thursday that the city would not be
reimbursed completely for programs it offers to illegal aliens. ''But overall,
since there will be money coming in that would not otherwise be coming in, we're
very grateful,'' Mr. Koch said in a news conference.

Some industry officials said yesterday, however, that they were concerned
employers would bear the burden of enforcing the legislation.

''It will have an impact on the restaurant industry here in New York,'' said
Cynthia R. Darrison, executive director of the Restaurant League of New York.
''I think it is going to make employers hesitant or wary about hiring
minorities. They are going to be concerned about inadvertently hiring an illegal
alien. I am very concerned about that.''

Representative Robert Garcia, Democrat of the Bronx, said he feared that the
bill would produce discrimination against Hispanic job applicants in particular.
''What you are doing is forcing people - restaurant owners, store owners - who
heretofore never had to make these kinds of judgments, all of a sudden you are
asking them to be the judge and jury,'' Mr. Garcia said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 29, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

ON BORDER, DOUBTS ABOUT CURBING ALIEN FLOW

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1632 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, Oct. 24


Here on the Rio Grande, where thousands of illegal aliens from Mexico play a cat
and mouse game daily with Border Patrol agents, there is widespread skepticism
that the immigration legislation passed by Congress will dramatically alter the
porous nature of the border.

Even though the immigration bill is already changing some aspects of life, as
employers re-evaluate their need to hire illegal aliens and lawyers prepare for
a business windfall from aliens applying for amnesty, many people doubt it will
disrupt the legal and illegal interplay that has developed over decades between
El Paso and Ciudad Juarez across the river in Mexico.

''I don't think it will change too much,'' said Victor Munoz, head of the El
Paso Central Labor Council of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of
Industrial Organizations.

'Very Very Watered Down'

Like many union members here, Mr. Munoz is an enthusiastic supporter of
sanctions against employers who hire illegal aliens.

''From the days of the building of the railroads, in mining, cattle, and
agriculture,'' he said, ''El Paso has always depended on cheap labor from
Mexico. How can you expect the community here to comply with the law when people
here hire Mexicans to clean their houses and care for the children? I think the
enforcement here will be very, very watered down.''

Illegal immigration from Mexico to El Paso is part of the accepted daily
routine. Every morning construction workers like Tony Diaz and maids like Elsa
Reyes make their way across a narrow footbridge over the Rio Grande, just west
of downtown, to work in El Paso.

They chat with one another good naturedly, like regulars at a bus stop, waiting
for American Border Patrol officers to leave the area. When they do, the aliens
saunter along a dirt path toward a busy highway, which they dash across on their
way to work.

To them, the new immigration legislation will be just another wrinkle in an
ever-changing game.

The bill, which was approved Oct. 17, imposes penalties for the hiring of
illegal aliens but offers legal status, or amnesty, to those who have lived in
this country continuously since before Jan. 1, 1982. Employers who hired illegal
aliens would be subject to civil penalties ranging from $250 to $10,000 for each
such alien.

President Expected to Sign

The prohibition on hiring illegal aliens would take effect as soon as the
President signs the bill, which he has indicated he will do, but there would be
a six-month period in which no penalties could be imposed on employers.

The President is not expected to sign the bill until after the election Nov. 4.
He has 10 days to sign the legislation after it gets to the White House or it
will die. Congressional officials said the bill would probably get to the White
House later this week; the submission was delayed in part because of the
complexity of the legislation.

Because illegal immigration is such a part of daily life here, the bill has been
a subject of intense interest. Proponents say it could raise wages, open up
thousands of jobs to unemployed El Pasoans, and give some degree of stability to
the city's labor pool. El Paso's unemployment rate for September hit 13.5
percent, up from 10.5 percent last September. There are now 29,800 workers
looking for jobs in this city of 500,000 people El Paso, along with other border
cities such as Laredo, McAllen, Brownsville and Harlingen, is invariably among
the cities with the top unemployment rates in the state.

Opponents of the new immigration legislation say it will lead to increased
discrimination against Hispanic people, saddle employers with an impossible job
in separating legal residents from illegal ones, and prove to be an unenforcable
bureaucratic nightmare. They also say a flood of illegal aliens given amnesty
could put a further strain on already overwhelmed social service agencies.

Some employers have already made quiet inquiries to state employment agencies
about hiring American workers to replace illegal aliens, according to a state
employment official. An already busy business in false documents will probably
get busier, many officials say. And many economists say the measure will be
somewhat inflationary as businesses raise prices to cover increased labor costs.

But most feel the bill reflects a world that is far more black and white than
the crazy quilt of Mexico and America that exists at the border. Farmers, for
example, say they depend on Mexican workers for low-paid seasonal agricultural
work. And they say it is unrealistic to expect them to monitor the documents of
the workers they hire for jobs Americans will not perform.

'Might Hire 150 to 200'

''These farmers might hire 150 to 200 people a day to harvest chili peppers,''
said Larry Brown, the county extension agent with the Texas Agriculatural
Extension Service.

Representative Ronald D. Coleman, a Democrat whose district includes El Paso,
voted against the bill and said he thinks it will eventually need to be revised.
''It doesn't reflect the reality of life on the border,'' he said. ''It's going
to foster discrimination against Mexican-Americans, it's going to force small
businesses to act as enforcers of our immigration policy, and it's going to
increase taxes locally and in the state.''

The loudest voices against the bill have come from Hispanic organizations such
as the League of United Latin American Citizens. Local officials of the
organization, such as Juan T. Garcia, say that faced with the possibility of
fines, employers will hesitate to hire any Hispanic people.

''It's going to be enforced capriciously and selectively,'' said Mr. Garcia,
''and it is going to make skin color a much bigger factor in hiring. If you have
brown faces on the job, you know you will be facing more delays, more document
checks, more harassment.''

Carlos Marentes, coordinator of a local farm workers' union, said he thought the
legislation would serve only to provide a new weapon for the growers to
discriminate against Hispanic workers and a new impetus for deporting Hispanic
people. His group is advising Hispanic people not to apply for amnesty, saying
it will be used to deport them.

A Range of Positions on Bill

But reactions to the legislation do not break down into anything resembling
ethnic categories. Some of the sharpest attacks come from non-Hispanic
employers. And many of the biggest supporters of immigration law changes are
legal Hispanic residents who feel illegal immigrants are their biggest
competitors in the work force.

''Hiring these illegals is the reason all these Americans can't find jobs,''
said Mauro Florido, who is unemployed.

W. D. Kaigh, a local college professor and pollster who heads K. Associates
here, polled 600 registered voters in January 1985 to see how they felt about
stiff job sanctions against employers who hire illegal aliens. He found that
53.6 percent of the Hispanic respondents and 51 percent of the non-Hispanic
respondents approved. The poll had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus
four percentage points.

In another poll, he asked 303 local residents how they felt about local foot
patrols in which United States Border Patrol officers patrolled downtown with
local police officers. The patrols had been criticized by Hispanic
organizations. He found that 71 percent of Hispanic respondents and 70 percent
of non-Hispanics approved. The poll was taken in March 1985 and had a margin of
sampling error of plus or minus six percentage points.

Hector Venegas, a labor market analyst with the Texas Employment Commission,
said many Hispanic workers saw the immigration legislation as the only hope for
improving the local job picture. ''The border has been wide open, and the labor
market has been getting worse all along the border,'' he said. ''The feeling
among many people in El Paso is that charity begins at home, and it's time to
start taking care of our own. The law isn't perfect, but it's a start at
rectifying a situation that needs rectifying.''

Some Get the Message

Mr. Venegas said the effectiveness of the legislation would depend on how it was
enforced and how it was interpreted. But he said there were already indications
some employers were getting the message. He said he had heard from some local
employers, who have been hiring illegal aliens, that they will now begin hiring
through his agency.

''I don't like the law,'' said Juan Cigarroa, president of an organization
representing contractors who hire laborers for farm work. ''Illegal aliens don't
do jobs people here want. No illegal alien ever took a job from me. But I can't
afford to pay those fines. I got to put food on my own table.''

There are many doubts, however, about how deep that fear will go. This is a town
where much of the work has always been done by illegal aliens and where people
say the manpower limitations on the immigration service, the ease of getting
false documents and the tradition of a porous border will have more force than
the legislation itself.

Amid the widely differing views of the bill is one point of widespread
agreement. Both proponents and opponents are sharply critical of the lack of
cooperative programs such as free trade zones or joint economic programs to best
utilize the links with Mexico and improve the border economy on both sides of
the river.

''A big part of the problem is that we have a very poor foreign policy toward
Mexico,'' said Erik Emblem, president of the El Paso Building and Construction
Trades Council of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and a supporter of employer sanctions.
''Those people aren't coming here because they want to leave home. They're
coming because they're starving to death. Standing on the bridge with baseball
bats isn't going to keep them away.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photos of Mexicans entering the United States (NYT/Bruce Berman (Page
A16)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 18, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

REAGAN SEEKS TO CUT FUNDS FOR NEW IMMIGRATION LAW, HOUSE PANEL IS TOLD

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 845 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 17


President Reagan wants to cut spending for enforcement of the new immigration
law substantially below the levels envisioned by Congress, Administration
officials said today.

The officials said the full amounts approved by Congress were not necessary to
carry out the law, which Mr. Reagan signed Nov. 6.

The law prohibits the hiring of illegal aliens. It also offers amnesty, to
illegal aliens who entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1982, and have lived
here continuously since then.

The amnesty program is to begin May 5, when the Immigration and Naturalization
Service will open about 100 offices throughout the country to accept
applications from illegal aliens. A month later the Government is to begin
visiting work sites and inspecting employers' records to enforce the ban on
hiring illegal aliens.

The new law authorized $422 million of extra funds for the current fiscal year
and $419 million for the next year. Immigration and budget officials said the
President would seek no more than $306 million for the current year. For the
next year, they said, the Office of Management and Budget has tentatively
decided that the Reagan Administration will seek $380 million in extra funds to
carry out the new law.

House Panel Hears Plans

Alan C. Nelson, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, discussed
the agency's plans today at a hearing of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on
Immigration, headed by Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, a Kentucky Democrat.

Mr. Nelson told the panel that the $422 million authorized by Congress for the
current fiscal year was not excessive, and said Congress could appropriate more
money if it did not consider the President's request to be adequate.

At the hearing and in interviews, members of Congress expressed concern about
the budget for the immigration service, which is a branch of the Justice
Department.

Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat, said: ''I was always
worried that parts of the Administration were ambivalent about the immigration
bill. Now they may succeed in killing the law by starving it.''

Mr. Mazzoli, a co-sponsor of the legislation, said the budget proposals
suggested that ''there are moles in the Justice Department who really don't want
this bill to work.''

Immigration officials said Mr. Nelson had requested $356 million of extra funds
for the current fiscal year. The Justice Department reduced the request to $306
million before submitting it to the budget office, they said.

The law calls for a 50 percent increase in personnel for the Border Patrol,
which now has about 3,700 officers.

Immigration officials said the budget office had approved the Justice
Department's request for $125 million to review applications from illegal aliens
seeking amnesty in the current fiscal year. But, they said, the budget office
decided to cut the department's request for investigations and related types of
enforcement to $118 million from $166 million.

A Wide Range of Penalties

Under the law, employers are subject to civil penalties ranging from $250 to
$2,000 for each illegal alien hired. If employers repeatedly violate the law,
they may be subject to $10,000 in penalties for each illegal alien hired.

Louis D. Enoff, Deputy Commissioner of Social Security, said the Administration
was developing a procedure to let employers verify that the names and Social
Security numbers of job applicants match those in Government records. The
procedure will be tested first in Texas, where many employers fear they may be
fined for unwittingly hiring illegal aliens.

Mr. Nelson said the Government would ''work with the business community in a
policy of cooperative compliance,'' and would help employers find ''legally
authorized workers'' to replace illegal aliens.

The new law prohibits employers from discriminating against legal aliens because
of their citizenship status. Mr. Reagan contends that aliens filing complaints
under this section of the law must prove that the employer had a
''discriminatory intent.''

Mark R. Disler, Deputy Assistant Attorney General for civil rights, said aliens
must show such intent even where there was a ''pattern or practice of
discrimination.'' However, he acknowledged that it was possible to infer an
employer's intent from a pattern of behavior, such as a consistent refusal to
hire qualified Hispanic people.

Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, sharply criticized the
Administration's position, saying it provided much less protection for the civil
rights of legal aliens than Congress intended.

Richard E. Norton, associate commissioner of the immigration service, said
illegal aliens applying for legal status would be charged a fee. The amount of
the fee has not been decided, he added, but it will cover the full cost of the
legalization program.

Members of Congress said the law did not require the program to pay for itself.
They expressed concern that the Government would set the fee so high that many
illegal aliens could not afford to apply for legal status.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 12, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

HIRING ALIENS: THE NEW RISKS

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1589 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 11


Businesses across the country are struggling with the new immigration law's
attempts to curb the hiring of illegal aliens, and perhaps nowhere is the
concern more evident than in southern California, where several million illegal
aliens are believed to be employed.

From the strawberry fields of Orange County to the hotels of Beverly Hills and
the garment factories of downtown Los Angeles, illegal aliens have become a
significant -and routinely accepted - part of the work force here.

Now many businesses in the region are worried that the legislation could shrink
the pool of low-wage laborers. Their most immediate concern, however, is how
they will cope with the law's regulations governing hiring practices - including
provisions for stiff fines and jail sentences.

'Everybody Is Nervous'

''Everybody is nervous about it,'' said Gerald Breitbart, the director of
chapter relations for the California Restaurant Association, ''because nobody
knows how it's going to work out.''

Indeed, while the millions of illegal aliens already in the United States
scramble to sort out their fate under the portion of the law that would grant
legal status to many of them, employers in California and elsewhere appear to be
adapting only haltingly to their new role as important enforcers of immigration
policy.

The law makes all employers responsible for checking that everyone they hire
after Nov. 6, 1986, is legally entitled to work in the United States. It sets
penalties for those companies and individuals who knowingly hire illegal
immigrants. The rules for farm workers are somewhat different than for other
laborers.

Part of the problem, company executives and business groups say, is that more
than two months after the legislation was signed by President Reagan, many
employers remain unsure of its requirements, while others have made little
effort to understand how the changes will affect them.

''We haven't gotten the impression that they are ready for it or aware of it,''
said Virginia Lamp, a labor relations lawyer for the United States Chamber of
Commerce who is a specialist in the new legislation. ''Whenever we start talking
with companies about the fact that the law will affect all of their hiring
practices, they're shocked.''

Moreover, some companies worry that the law will burden them with additional
paperwork and bureaucratic snafus, and that any mistakes could subject them to
heavy fines, even if they make a good-faith effort to comply. Other businesses
fear offending prospective employees, exposing themselves to discrimination
suits and having to pay higher labor costs, experts on the new law said.

'Very Real Concern'

''There's a very real concern, especially among small and medium-sized
companies, about how much more paperwork and checking they're going to have to
do,'' said Ray Remy, president of the Los Angeles Area Chamber of Commerce.
''That can have a very real effect on a growing company.''

Immigration officials said that most of the concerns were unfounded or would be
allayed as companies learned more about the law. They said that much of the
confusion should be alleviated after the Immigration and Naturalization Service
finishes translating the vague language of the legislation into detailed
regulations. That process should be completed by the end of next month, they
said.

''It's no more complicated than O.S.H.A. or Social Security or any other Federal
regulation that everybody deals with as a matter of course in business,'' said
Howard W. Ezell, the Western regional commissioner of the immigration agency.

Mr. Ezell's reference to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration,
however, is exactly the type of comparison that many employers make in worried
tones. Among many executives, O.S.H.A. is considered a prime example of an
overly bureacratic regulator, and they fear the new immigration law will produce
a similar situation involving their hiring processes.

The law requires employers to ask for identification such as birth certificates,
passports, driver's licenses, immigration papers or similar documents that would
establish that an applicant is a citizen or an alien who is authorized to work,
officials said. Employers would not be responsible for authenticating documents,
but they would have to sign a statement saying they had been shown proof of
legal status. They would also have to keep a record of the document check.

Employers found to have knowingly hired illegal aliens would be subject to civil
fines starting on the first offense at as little as $250 for each undocumented
worker but rising to as much as $10,000 per worker on the third or subsequent
offenses. In the case of repeated violations, criminal penalties, including up
to six months in prison, could be invoked.

The law provides for a ''shakedown'' period lasting until May 31, during which
the sanctions will not be enforced. For the succeeding year, until June 1, 1988,
only warnings will be given to first offenders, although repeat offenders will
be subject to fines.

Forms to Be Distributed

Next month, the I.N.S., the Labor Department, the Small Business Administration
and other Government agencies will begin distributing forms on which employers
are to swear that they have properly documented new employees, Mr. Ezell said.
The I.N.S. is also beefing up its enforcement staff, he added.

For the most part, businesses in California have welcomed the law insofar as it
removes the prospect of raids on the workplace by the Immigration Service
seeking illegal aliens. They also praise the amnesty provisions for workers who
have been in the country since 1982 because that should make their current work
force more stable. But they also worry that what they approve of in principle
may prove burdensome in practice.

''Business felt that changes needed to be made in immigration law, but there is
concern about the employer sanctions,'' said Mr. Remy of the Chamber of
Commerce.

Some employers fear that no matter how diligent they are in following the rules,
they will still hire some illegal aliens inadvertently and be penalized if the
immigration agency takes a hard line with them.

''It's darn near impossible to avoid hiring some illegals,'' said Jack A. Wick,
executive director of the California Association of Nurserymen, which represents
growers employing 50,000 people.

Fake Identifications

He and others said that many illegal aliens carry fake identification, some of
it nearly indistinguishable from valid documents. They worry that the
regulations being formulated by the I.N.S. might place some additional burden on
them to authenticate documents, or that the demands on them to verify
identification might be increased in the future.

''What constitutes proof that they are here legally? That is our biggest
problem,'' said Marvin Kroner, president of Acme Thread and Supply Inc. and a
vice president of the Mark Textile Company in Los Angeles.

Many employers, Mr. Wick said, ''still are concerned that on audit, the
Government will say, 'You should have been doing it this way, you're guilty on
these 12 people, so hand over $12,000.' ''

Employers, he said, ''didn't mean to miss those 12, but it happens.''

William R. McDonald, the senior vice president for human resources at the Hilton
Hotels Corporation, which is based in Beverly Hills, said he feared that the law
might shrink the pool of low-wage laborers, a concern expressed by executives in
several other industries that need large numbers of unskilled workers.

'Back-of-the-House' Jobs

Mr. Breitbart of the restaurant association said, ''If the law truly does what
it's intended to do, it's going to create something of a labor shortage in what
today is the back-of-the-house, minimum-wage job.'' Higher labor costs would
lead to higher prices on the goods and services produced by those workers,
executives said.

Some executives fear that they could be placed in a difficult position if they
suspect that the documents shown by an applicant are not genuine. If they ask
for further proof of legal status or decide not to hire someone on the basis of
suspicious documentation, the applicant might have grounds to sue, contending
discrimination.

''You have to walk a very fine line,'' Ms. Lamp said. ''We anticipate a flood of
litigation on the civil rights side.''

Civil rights lawyers, in fact, are concerned that some businesses might rule out
hiring any applicants from certain ethnic groups in an attempt to avoid the risk
of hiring illegal aliens. ''We are going to be monitoring that very closely,''
said Antonio Rodrigues, director of the Los Angeles Center for Law and Justice,
which represents many aliens.

The immigration service is holding a series of seminars around the country to
explain the law to employers and answer questions. Turnout in California has
been high, and, after the sessions, most business people seem satisfied that
they can cope with the new regulations, Mr. Ezell of the I.N.S. said.

''I've yet to have any employers' group say to me, 'We're finished, this is too
much for us, we're taking our business overseas,' '' Mr. Ezell added.

The United States Chamber of Commerce is also offering an education program. It
will soon mail to its 184,000 member companies some basic information about the
law.

''We're surprised at how few questions we've gotten from companies,'' said Ms.
Lamp, who attributed the lack of queries to ignorance of the law's scope. ''It's
going to hit them all of a sudden.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Howard W. Ezell; Photo of Marvin Kroner (Black
Star/Bartholomew)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 26, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

HOUSE PANEL APPROVES A COMPREHENSIVE MEASURE ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section D; Page 22, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 831 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 25


For the third time in five years, the House Judiciary Committee today approved a
comprehensive bill to revise the nation's immigration laws and to curtail the
influx of illegal aliens.

The vote was 25 to 10. The lopsided margin concealed the deep differences within
the committee over many provisions of the bill.

The action came a few hours after the panel approved a proposal to insure that
the labor needs of American farmers would be met. Farmers in California and
other Western states have, for many years, hired illegal aliens to harvest fruit
and vegetables. They expressed concern that their crops would rot in the fields
if the supply of foreign workers was cut off.

The bill will probably go later this year to the floor of the House, where a
long and bitter debate is expected. The Senate passed a generally similar bill
last September by a vote of 69 to 30, and the Reagan Administration supports it.


Legal Status Offered

The House and Senate bills would both prohibit employers from hiring illegal
aliens. In addition, they would offer legal status to many illegal aliens
already in the United States. But the two measures differ in many important
details.

For example, the Senate bill would establish a new Government program under
which farmers could bring up to 350,000 aliens into the United States to harvest
perishable fruit and vegetables. The workers could stay for up to nine months in
any one year.

By contrast, the bill approved today by the House Judiciary Committee would
permit certain foreign workers to become permanent residents of the United
States, with most of the rights of citizens.

Under the House bill, the Attorney General would grant lawful permanent resident
status to any illegal alien who could prove that he had been working in American
agriculture for at least 60 days in the period from May 1, 1985, to May 1, 1986.
The plan calls for the admission of additional aliens if they are needed to work
on farms in subsequent years; they, too, could qualify for permanent resident
status. #10 Months of Negotiations These provisions of the bill were drafted by
Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat who led 10 months of
difficult negotiations to obtain a compromise acceptable to farmers and
organized labor. The committee today approved Mr. Schumer's amendment by a vote
of 19 to 15.

He said the compromise rested on two premises: ''First, we believe that both
growers and labor would prefer a solution to no solution. Second, we believe
that meeting the growers' needs for an adequate supply of labor and the workers'
needs for protection against exploitation are not mutually exclusive.''

Special and General Interests

''We have met the needs of the special interests without sacrificing the general
interests which propel immigration reform,'' Mr. Schumer added.

The committee has completed work on most other elements of the immigration bill,
which is sponsored by Represenative Peter W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of New Jersey.

The House bill, like the Senate measure, would prohibit employers from hiring
illegal aliens and would offer legal status to many already in the United
States.

The initial group of illegal aliens who become permanent residents under the
Schumer proposal would not be required to continue working in agriculture. But
Mr. Schumer said he assumed that ''the vast majority of them, an extremely high
percentage of them, will continue to work in agriculture.''

Eligible for Welfare Benefits

Representative Dan Lungren, a California Republican, said the Schumer proposal
was much too generous to aliens who had worked on American farms for only 60
days in the past year. He said such aliens had not demonstrated ''a long-term
commitment'' to the United States but would be eligible for welfare benefits as
soon as they became permanent residents.

Mr. Schumer said it was essential that aliens working on American farms be
eligible for welfare benefits because their work was seasonal and they earned an
average of only $4,000 a year in California.

The Schumer proposal would create a special program for farm workers in addition
to other provisions of the House bill that would offer legal status to any
illegal aliens who entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1982, and had lived
here continuously since then.

Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, a Kentucky Democrat who has been the principal
sponsor in the House of previous immigration bills, also criticized the Schumer
proposal, saying its special favorable treatment of agriculture was
''unparalleled, unprecedented and unacceptable.''

Mr. Schumer said both houses of Congress had repeatedly demonstrated a
conviction that ''agriculture warrants special consideration'' under any
immigration bill.

The Senate passed comprehensive immigration bills in 1982, 1983 and 1985. The
House passed a bill in 1984 by a five-vote margin, but the measure died when the
House and Senate could not work out their differences.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 25, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

House Panel Clears An Immigration Bill But a Fight Looms

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 277 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24


The House Rules Committee voted today to send to the House floor a long-delayed
bill seeking major changes in immigration law, paving the way for a fight over
whether it will even be considered.

The possibility that the House might refuse to consider the measure was raised
by a decision to bar the offering of a key amendment dealing with the use of
foreign workers by farmers.

The legislation seeks to stem the flow of illegal aliens crossing United States
borders by making it unlawful to hire them, while at the same time calling for
amnesty for many already living in this country.

The bill, as cleared by other committees, includes an amendment by
Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, to give legal status to
illegal aliens who worked on American farms for at least 60 days before May
1985.

The terms of Mr. Schumer's amendment were worked out with agricultural and labor
interests in an effort to help farmers who depend largely on illegal aliens to
harvest their crops.

But Representative Dan Lungren, Republican of California, planned to offer a
substitute amendment, similar to one in a bill passed by the Senate, to allow
the entry of up to 350,000 foreign ''guest workers'' to work on farms.

Committee Democrats narrowly rejected an effort by Representative Trent Lott,
Republican of Mississippi, to let Mr. Lungren offer his amendment on the House
floor.

Representative Martin Frost, Democrat of Texas, joined Republicans in warning
that failure to let Mr. Lungren offer the amendment might endanger chances for
passage of the bill. When the bill goes to the floor, the House could simply
vote against taking it up.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 10, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

HOUSE APPROVES IMMIGRATION BILL CONSIDERED DEAD TWO WEEKS AGO

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1104 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 9


In a dramatic reversal, the House of Representatives tonight approved a
comprehensive bill to overhaul the nation's immigration law and curtail the
influx of illegal aliens.

The vote was 230 to 166. Voting for the bill were 168 Democrats and 62
Republicans. Sixty-one Democrats and 105 Republicans voted against it.

The legislation, which now goes to conference with the Senate, would make the
biggest changes in immigration law in 20 years. Many lawmakers, including some
opponents of the bill, said it had a good chance of becoming law this year,
after more than five years of deliberations in Congress.

Bill Was Considered Dead

The bill was widely regarded as dead just two weeks ago, when the House refused
to take it up. Even tonight, a key provision to offer legal status to many
illegal aliens in this country narrowly survived a challenge.

The Senate passed a measure similar to the House bill in September 1985 by a
vote of 69 to 30. The Administration strongly supports such legislation in
general and the Senate version in particular.

Passage of the bill in the House was made possible by agreement on a compromise
permitting farmers to continue using foreign workers to harvest fruit and
vegetables. #7-Vote Margin on Amnesty The House bill prohibits the hiring of
illegal aliens. But it would offer legal status to illegal aliens who entered
this country before Jan. 1, 1982, and have lived here continuously since then.

By a vote of 199 to 192, the House rejected a proposal to eliminate this
section. It was an important vote because many Democrats had said they would not
support the bill without the legalization or amnesty program for illegal aliens.
The proposal was made by Representative Bill McCollum, a Florida Republican, who
called it a ''reward for lawbreakers.''

The bill contains what Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., a New Jersey
Democrat, described as a ''miraculous compromise'' on the use of foreign
agricultural workers to harvest fruit and vegetables.

Only 10 percent to 15 percent of illegal aliens work in agriculture, Mr. Rodino
said, but this part of the bill has proved the most troublesome and difficult.

On Sept. 26, the House refused to take up the immigration bill because there was
no opportunity for members to amend the provisions on foreign agricultural
workers. The vote at that time was 202 to 180.

Since then, there have been intense negotiations to work out a compromise on the
farm labor provisions of the bill. The House agreed today, by a vote of 278 to
129, to take up the bill and to consider 14 amendments.

'Back From the Dead'

Representative Trent Lott of Mississippi, the House Republican whip, said the
bill had come ''back from the dead.''

Representative Robert Garcia, Democrat of the Bronx, opposed the bill on the
ground that it might encourage employers to discriminate against Hispanic people
who were citizens or legal aliens. ''This is like Rasputin,'' he said of the
bill. ''Immigration reform refuses to die.''

Opposition to the bill came from liberal Democrats, especially Hispanic
Americans who warned of discrimination, and conservative Republicans who said
the bill was too generous to illegal aliens.

Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., a Wisconsin Republican, termed the
bill ''triple amnesty'' rather than ''true immigration reform.''

He said it would grant legal status to millions of illegal aliens living in the
United States since 1982. In addition, he said, it would legitimize the status
of illegal aliens who worked on American farms for as little as 90 days in the
year ended last May 1. Finally, he said, the bill, as it came to the floor
today, would prevent the deportation of Nicaraguans and Salvadorans for about
two years.

Passage Seen as Essential

Representative Hamilton Fish Jr., Republican of upstate New York, said passage
of the bill was essential to avoid the possibility in the future of ''a
repressive public reaction that fails to distinguish legal immigrants and
refugees from illegal aliens.''

Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat, was the chief architect
of the compromise on foreign agricultural workers. He described the immigration
issue as ''a test of governance'' and said he came to realize that if growers
were denied a source of foreign labor it could do ''untold damage to the balance
of trade of America and to my constituents, who depend on them for food.''

At the same time, he said, the bill seeks to protect foreign workers from
exploitation by guaranteeing their right to move from one employer to another.

In a major victory for farmers and their lobbyists, the House tonight adopted an
amendment, on a vote of 221 to 170, that prohibits immigration officers from
entering a farm without a search warrant or the owner's permission so as to
question a person believed to be an alien. The Reagan Administration opposed
this amendment.

Under the bill, employers in all industries would have to ask job applicants for
documents to verify that they were citizens or aliens authorized to work in the
United States. Acceptable documents include a United States passport, a driver's
license and birth certificate or a Social Security card.

An employer who hired illegal aliens would be subject to a civil penalty of
$1,000 to $2,000 for each such alien on his payroll. If there were any
subsequent violations, the employer would be subject to a civil penalty of
$2,000 to $5,000 for each illegal alien hired. However, if the bill becomes law,
no penalties would be imposed for six months, during which the Federal
Government would publicize the new restrictions.

Garcia Wins Major Concession

Mr. Garcia extracted a major concession from supporters of the bill. Under this
new provision, the penalties against employers for hiring illegal aliens would
expire six and a half years after the bill became law. The Senate bill has no
such provision.

House members have already begun informal negotiations with key Senators to
resolve differences between the House and Senate versions of the legislation.

Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming, the assistant Senate majority leader and chief
sponsor of the Senate bill, has been in touch continually with Mr. Rodino, Mr.
Schumer and other House members over the last six months.

A comprehensive immigration bill was passed by the Senate in 1982, but it died
on the floor of the House in a rush toward adjournment. A similar bill was
passed by the Senate in 1983, and the House passed a companion measure in 1984,
but the legislation died because the two houses could not reconcile their
differences.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             November 26, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

HEAD OF IMMIGRATION SERVICE URGES EMPLOYERS TO OBEY NEW ALIEN LAW

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 826 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 25


Immigration officials urged employers around the country today to comply
voluntarily with a new law that prohibits the hiring of illegal aliens.

At a news conference, Alan C. Nelson, the Commissioner of Immigration and
Naturalization, disclosed plans for enforcing the law, which President Reagan
signed Nov. 6.

Mr. Nelson said that employers should immediately declare their ''intention to
hire only legal workers'' but should not ''discharge present employees or refuse
to hire new employees based on foreign appearance or language.''

Under the law, illegal aliens may obtain legal status, or amnesty, if they can
show that they entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1982, and have resided
here continuously ''in an unlawful status'' since then. Aliens, such as foreign
students or tourists, would generally be ineligible for the amnesty if they were
in the United States legally for any part of the time after Jan. 1, 1982. #100
Offices Planned ''The legalization program will not be used as an enforcement
tool or to locate illegal aliens,'' Mr. Nelson said. ''Its sole purpose will be
to approve those who are legally qualified to remain in the United States.''

The Government will set up about 100 offices around the country to accept
amnesty applications from illegal aliens, he said. But Mr. Nelson urged illegal
aliens not to approach the Immigration and Naturalization Service now. ''No
applications will be accepted by I.N.S. until May 5, 1987,'' he said.

The information contained in amnesty applications will not be used against
aliens unless there is evidence of fraud, he said. Anyone who ''knowingly and
willfully'' makes false or fraudulent statements in an application may be
prosecuted. The maximum penalty for such a violation is imprisonment for five
years and a fine of $250,000. Prosecutors said it was unlikely the Government
would seek the maximum fine.

Mr. Nelson named two new Assistant Commissioners to supervise activities
required by the law.

John R. Schroeder, district director of the immigration service in Bangkok,
Thailand, will return to the United States to help employers comply with the new
ban on hiring illegal aliens.

New York Official to Move

William Slattery, now assistant district director in New York, will move to
Washington and supervise the legalization program, Mr. Nelson said.

The Commissioner said that employers would have to verify that all workers hired
since Nov. 6 were either United States citizens or aliens authorized to work in
this country. The employers must ask such workers as well as job applicants for
identification documents such as a passport or a birth certificate and driver's
license.

The Government will soon issue guidelines and forms that employers must use in
verifying the status of applicants and new employees. Employers are not required
to verify the citizenship status of people hired before Nov. 6.

Employers will be subject to civil penalties ranging from $250 to $10,000 for
each illegal alien hired. No penalties may be imposed on employers until May
1987.

Mr. Nelson said that the immigration service, working with business groups and
labor unions, would try to help find legal workers for employers who have
depended on illegal aliens in the past.

He also urged employers to help illegal aliens who are eligible to obtain
amnesty by providing them with summaries of their employment history.

Mr. Nelson confirmed that employers and aliens might still be responsible for
tax liabilities incurred in prior years. The new law does not erase such
liabilities.

But he said that the immigration service would not act as an arm of any other
law-enforcement agency and that there would be ''no formal cross-referencing''
of names with the Internal Revenue Service.

The new law has already led to several lawsuits seeking to define the rights of
illegal aliens.

On Monday, Lawrence K. Karlton, chief judge of the Federal District Court in
Sacramento, Calif., issued a temporary restraining order that prevents the
Government from deporting aliens who may be eligible for legal status under the
law.

Aliens Must Be Told of Law

The order requires the immigration service to inform aliens that they may have a
right to seek amnesty before they are deported. In addition to being eligible if
they lived here continuously since January 1982, they may qualify if they
performed ''seasonal agricultural services'' in the United States for at least
90 days in the year ending May 1, 1986.

In a recent telegram to immigration officials around the country, Mr. Nelson
said that aliens caught trying to enter the United States illegally were to be
expelled in the usual manner.

But he said illegal aliens caught inside the country would be questioned to
determine if they were eligible for legal status under the new law. If they
appear to be eligible, they will be allowed to remain at least until next May so
they can file formal applications.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 7, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

SUIT ALLEGES AMNESTY LAW PUTS MANY ALIENS IN LIMBO

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1055 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Feb. 6


Adalberto Garza has lived in the United States illegally since 1975, working for
most of the time as a machinist in the Houston area. He is one of an estimated
3.9 million illegal aliens who could be eligible to apply for legal status under
the amnesty provisions of the nation's new immigration law.

But, according to a lawsuit filed here, he has been caught in a vexing
contradiction of the new law in which many aliens who could gain legal status
now find themselves unable to obtain work because of it.

Number Affected Is Unclear

Immigration officials and groups representing illegal aliens have differing
views on how many aliens have been affected. But there is no question that many
of the affected aliens now find it extremely difficult to get work because of
the new law's sanctions against employers who hire illegal aliens.

The new law offers legal status to aliens who have continuously resided in the
United States since Jan. 1, 1982. Aliens can apply for legal status beginning
May 6. The law also includes penalties for employers who hire illegal aliens
after the effective date of the law, last Nov. 6.

The problems have come for aliens who will be eligible for the amnesty program
but are finding it difficult to find work in the interim.

Some of them have lost their jobs because employers have laid off illegal aliens
even though the law allows them to continue employing aliens hired before the
law went into effect. Others, such as Mr. Garza and the three other plaintiffs
in the suit filed here - Abel Rodriguez, Maria Elena Salinas de Rodriguez and
Graciela Rodriguez Salinas - have been out of work because of economic or
personal circumstances and now find it extremely difficult to get work without
documentation of legal status.

Immigration Officials Disagree

Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service say they do not believe
a great number of workers eligible for amnesty are searching for work and unable
to find it because of the new law. But they say the law was not designed to
provide employment possibilities to aliens who are still here illegally.

''The position of the I.N.S. is that the intent of the law was not to grant
everybody in the United States the right to work until some sort of judgement is
made whether they are here legally or not,'' said Duke Austin, an immigration
service spokesman.

But officials of the immigration service also said it would be inundated if it
was required to provide work permits for a broadened category of aliens. Groups
that work with aliens say many find themselves in limbo while they await the
possibility of applying for legal status in May.

''Employers are not only complying with the new law, but some are going
overboard and laying off people who have been with them for years,'' said Joe
Vail, an immigration lawyer here. ''It's very difficult to find employment in
Houston, and you can't expect people with three or four children to support to
go six months without jobs while they're waiting to apply for amnesty. It's not
realistic, and it's not fair.'' Some of those issues were raised here in the
suit filed by Mr. Vail and Cheryl Schechter on behalf of Mr. Garza and the other
three plaintiffs. The suit asked the immigration service to begin granting work
permits to those aliens with a compelling case for legal status under the new
law who were apprehended before the new law went into effect. The law offers
work permits only to eligible aliens apprehended after that date.

No Paperwork for Some Aliens

The suit did not represent aliens who are here illegally and have never been
apprehended because no immigration service paperwork exists for them. Attorneys
said they considered it unlikely that the immigration service would broaden its
procedures to include them.

Last month Federal District Judge Norman W. Black ruled that the four plaintiffs
were entitled to work permits. But he refused this week to issue an injunction
ordering the immigration service to cease denying work permits to the broader
group.

''Congress certainly does not intend for the I.N.S. to be inundated by perhaps
135,000 applications during the period when I.N.S. is gearing up for receiving
all applications,'' the judge wrote in his ruling.

Mr. Garza, who lost his job in August because of a plant closing, said in an
affidavit filed with the suit in January that the new law had made it extremely
difficult for him to find work.

''I am three months behind in my rent,'' his affidavit said. ''I owe roughly
three thousand dollars to the hospital that I cannot pay. Since I came to this
country I have always held down a job.However, since the passage of the new
immigration bill, no employers will consider hiring me even though I qualify for
legalization.''

He has since received a work permit and begun working again.

'Now Asked for Papers'

Still in limbo are others like Jose Antonio Menendez, a 28-year-old Salvadoran
who has lived in Houston since 1981. Because of the sluggish Houston ecomomy, in
August he lost the machinist's job he had held since 1981. He has struggled
since to find work.

''I have looked for work at 25 or 30 places,'' he said. ''But now they ask me
for papers to show I am able to work here legally. I am not the only one having
trouble. Several of my friends can't find work, and they have to support a big
family.''

Attorneys for illegal aliens say the situation could provide a new problem for
some aliens when they apply for amnesty. A person can be denied legal status if
that person is deemed ''likely to become a public charge.''

Immigration officials acknowledge that some problems are occurring, but they say
the law's provisions, particularly those enabling employers to continue to
employ illegal workers hired before the law went into effect, were extremely
generous. Ronald Parra, Houston district director for the immigration service,
said officials were making a major effort to educate employers in order to
minimize improper firings.

''Just as with anything else there are those few individuals who may find
themselves in an awkward position or fall between the cracks,'' Mr. Parra said.
''But the Congress has accommodated the vast majority of the situations that
could be anticipated. You just can't anticipate every scenario that could
occur.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Adalberto Garza (F. Carter Smith)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 1, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

ABUSE OF IMMIGRATION LAW FEARED BY SOME HISPANIC GROUPS

BYLINE: By ROBERT BARRIOS

SECTION: Section 11WC; Page 31, Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1024 words


A FEAR that the immigration law passed by Congress late last year could worsen
conditions - particularly working conditions - for members of the county's
Hispanic population has put many of their community groups on guard.

''We think there is going to be more abuse by employers,'' said Rosa Calderon,
coordinator of Hispanic 2001, an ad-hoc nonprofit organization started a year
ago that represents county groups, agencies and churches involved with Hispanic
affairs.

Ms. Calderon said that current abuses of the Hispanic work force included long,
grueling hours for less than the minimum hourly wage. But the situation may
beome worse, she said, because of employers' apprehensions about fines the
Government plans to impose on those who employ illegal, undocumented workers. It
is feared that some employers may demand that workers pay security money to
cover any such fines.

The employer sanctions, which would impose fines of up to $10,000 for each
illegal worker, go into effect June 1. The new law, the Immigration Reform and
Control Act, was established in part to keep illegal aliens out of the work
force. To that end, it extended legal status to many already in the work force.
It now allows illegal aliens who have been in the United States since January
1982 to seek legal status - as long as they can prove their uninterrupted
presence in this country since then. Legal status permits those workers to seek
permanent-residence status.

Even those who have not been here that long, but who are working, may be able to
keep their current jobs. Employers who have illegal workers on their staff who
were hired before Nov. 6, when the law was passed, cannot be fined for keeping
them on staff. This may make it easier for such workers to keep their jobs.
However, because they lack documented legal status they may lose their
protection when they move to another job - and thus may be forced by
circumstances into disadvantageous, as well as illegal, employment.

Members of Hispanic community groups say that most of the jobs held by illegal
workers in the county are positions no one else will take.

''They work as gardeners and housekeepers and nobody else wants to do that kind
of work,'' said the Rev. Christian Santiago of the Rock of Salvation, the
congregation housed at the First Reformed Church in Tarrytown. ''The gardeners
work 12 to 14 hours, seven days a week for about $200 a week in pay.''

Even at such low pay, some of the community groups believe that the new law will
bring further hardship to this group. ''We feel that there will be a system of
bonding going on and that employers will start to demand money from employees
they feel are 'trouble' before they will hire them,'' Ms. Calderon said.  Mr.
Santiago, who counsels a number of illegal Hispanic aliens in the Tarrytown area
- he estimates the illegal group at about 6 percent of the Hispanic population
there - said very few of the illegal population in the county would be able to
gain legal status because many of them have been in the United States less than
two years.

''They come in waves, they stay about two years and then they usually either go
back to their countries or they go to the West where they can assimilate
better,'' Mr. Santiago said.

Hispanic residents in Westchester were estimated at about 7 percent of the
county population in the 1980 census. But Hispanic community leaders said they
believe the actual figure now stands at 14 percent.

The county has been busy looking at the problems facing Spanish-speaking
residents. In 1984 County Executive Andrew P. O'Rourke established the Hispanic
Advisory Board, which was to formulate recommendations on how to improve life
for Hispanic residents of the county.

The advisory board has not issued its recommendations, but its chairman, Jorge
Castellanos, said it expected to do so by June.

''We are going to make recommendations in four basic areas: housing, employment,
health care and education,'' Mr. Castellanos said. ''We see these as the areas
where Hispanics suffer most in Westchester.''

But planning for the Hispanic residents has not been easy. Many of those
involved concede that historical and cultural differences between groups in the
community are one of the major obstacles in planning.

The county has Hispanic residents from a number of countries, including Cuba,
Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador, Ecuador, Peru and the Dominican Republic. Those
involved in Hispanic affairs said they understood that what might suit one group
would not suit another.

''They share a common language and a common immigration status,'' Mr.
Castellanos said. ''But that is as far as you can go. They stay near each other
because they can understand each other's language, not because they have some
shared experience.''

Groups like Hispanic 2001 are trying to deal with the issues they feel are
pressing. In the last six months, for example, Hispanic 2001 has held two
''education presentations'' on the new immigration law - one in White Plains and
the other in New Rochelle; it said that about 200 people attended.

''Generally we hold these meetings in churches, where we feel immigration
officials won't show up,'' Mr. Santiago said. ''If we don't do it that way our
people will not show up, for fear of being taken away by immigration
officials.''

Mr. Santiago said Hispanic 2001 expected to hold a third meeting sometime in
March in the Tarrytown area. Representative Hamilton Fish Jr., Republican of
Millbrook, held a two-part informational session last Monday at St. Mary's
College in Newburgh, N.Y.

Mike Hanratta, a spokesman for Mr. Fish, said 25 people had attended the morning
session, which was directed to employers, and about 60 people, mostly
representing Hispanic groups, attended the afternoon session on the application
for permanent residency for qualified individuals.

The discussions were moderated by Yvette La Gonterie, coordinator of the
Immigration Reform and Control Act for the New York district. William Yates,
Demetrios Georgakopoulos, James Jasey and Steven Abrams spoke for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service during the discussions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Rosa Calderon with Marcia Garcia and Sister Margo Saich; Photo
of the Rev. Christian Santiago of the Rock of Salvation congregation in
Tarrytown (NYT/Suzanne DeChillo)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 21, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

FEES FOR ALIENS SEEKING AMNESTY COULD REACH $250, OFFICIAL SAYS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 851 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 20


A Reagan Administration official said today that illegal aliens would probably
have to pay application fees of $150 to $250 if they wanted to obtain legal
status under a landmark immigration law.

The charge is higher than the $100 fee envisioned in early versions of the rules
drafted to carry out the new law.

Mark W. Everson, executive associate commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said the higher fees would probably be needed to cover
the costs of the program, which offers legal status to illegal aliens who have
lived in the United States continuously since Jan. 1, 1982.

At a news conference today, Mr. Everson said the Government expected
applications from 3.9 million to 4 million illegal aliens. Applications may be
filed from May 5, 1987, through May 4, 1988, at any of 100 special Federal
offices across the country.

The Government is considering whether to offer a discount for illegal aliens
from the same family and would welcome public comment on this question, Mr.
Everson said. $50 to $100 'More Reasonable'

Representative Albert G. Bustamante, vice chairman of the Congressional Hispanic
Caucus, said that fees of $150 to $250 would be excessive. Mr. Bustamante, a
Texas Democrat who voted for the immigration bill last year, said, ''I don't
think Congress intended the fees to be that high.'' A charge of $50 to $100
would be ''more reasonable,'' he said.

Gilbert Paul Carrasco, an immigrant rights lawyer at the United States Catholic
Conference, the social action arm of the Roman Catholic Church in this country,
said that if the fees were set too high, they would ''discourage people from
coming forward and would defeat the purpose of the law.''

Meanwhile, employers, Hispanic groups, immigration lawyers and members of
Congress reacted to another part of the proposed rules governing the procedures
that must be followed by all job applicants, including United States citizens as
well as aliens.

Sam Bernsen, former general counsel of the immigration service, said the rules
were unexpectedly complex and required employers to become ''junior immigration
inspectors.''

The regulations, which will take effect after a period for public comment and
final revision, require employers to examine certain documents to verify that
job applicants are either United States citizens or aliens authorized to work in
this country. A United States passport is sufficient by itself. Alternatively, a
job applicant must show one document indicating identity, like a driver's
license, and another document indicating work authorization, like a Social
Security card or a United States birth certificate.

Rule Could Be Retroactive

These requirements begin June 1. But the prohibition on hiring illegal aliens is
already in effect, and Mr. Everson said employers might be required to fill out
''employment eligibility certifictates'' for workers hired since Nov. 6, when
President Reagan signed the bill.

Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat, said the draft rules
were ''generally consistent with the spirit of the law.''

''The regulations on employers are justifiably tough,'' he said. ''Employers
have to realize that operating freely in a democratic society entails
responsibilities as well as privileges and rights. For more than 30 years, they
have been able to wink at the law.''

Joseph M. Trevino, executive director of the League of United Latin American
Citizens, expressed concern about a provision of the rules that gives employers
24 hours to examine a worker's documents and fill out the form verifying
eligibility to work. Employers, he said, will be tempted to circumvent the
requirement by hiring aliens as day laborers rather than creating long-term
jobs.

The rules say that employers may not use day labor ''to avoid the verification
process,'' and if they do so, they may be fined.

Stricter Rules on Amnesty

Virginia B. Lamp, a labor relations lawyer at the Chamber of Commerce of the
United States, said ''the 24-hour compliance rule is completely unreasonable.''
Many United States citizens do not carry around their Social Security cards or
birth certificates and would have to obtain them before they could start work,
she said.

John B. Trollinger, a spokesman for the Social Security Administration, said it
took 11 days, on the average, for a person to get a new card or a replacement.

For illegal aliens seeking legal status, or amnesty, the proposed rules are
somewhat stricter than earlier drafts had indicated. The rules stipulate that an
illegal alien may not have been absent from the United States for more than 30
days at a time or for a total of more than 150 days since Jan. 1, 1982.

Copies of the draft rules may be obtained at no cost by calling a Government
telephone number in Washington, D.C.: (202) 786-4764.

Martin Danziger, a former Deputy Commissioner of the immigration service, said
he saw ''no major surprises in the regulations.'' But he said he had hoped the
form to be signed by employer and employee at the time of hiring would be ''much
simpler'' than the one proposed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 10, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Put the Burden on the Borders, Not on Employers

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 388 words


To the Editor:

Armed with alarming statistics on the increase in undocumented migration
released by Alan C. Nelson, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, you call for the President to support immigration legislation
containing employer sanctions (''The President's Call on Illegal Aliens,''
editorial, Feb. 24). What you neglect to point out is that the reason this bill
has failed to pass is simply that it's a bad piece of legislation. It doesn't
stand up to conscientious analysis. Study after study from the private and
public sectors has shown that employer sanctions won't deter the flow of
undocumented aliens. Therefore, shouldn't the President, Congress and, for that
matter, the American people question the merits of this provision?

This country cannot conveniently ignore hard data that shows employer sanctions
would be ineffectual. It looks good on paper. It sounds good on television and
radio. Yet employer sanctions are merely political posturing. We need to face
the problem squarely and address the issue in all its complexities.

If the United States hopes to do something about the thousands crossing the
borders illegally, we must put the burden of border protection where it belongs:
on the I.N.S., and not on employers. Secondly, there are two sides to a border.
To be effective, we must involve Mexico and the other countries from which these
immigrants run. Without their cooperation we can't secure our borders. Surely,
our government, which so skillfully negotiates the rise and fall of numerous
politicians, can attempt a bilateral settlement on this issue. With
economic-development assistance, those fleeing from poverty, political
instability or natural catastrophe will probably choose to remain in their own
countries.

Finally, let's not scapegoat those people of color who are legal residents or
citizens of our country by asking employers to verify the status of all
''foreign-looking'' persons. Such discrimination is utterly un-American.

If the Simpson-Rodino-Mazzoli bill has enemies, if the President is quavering on
endorsement of this bill, it's for good reason. It is a bad piece of legislation
that will not solve our problems.ANTONIA HERNANDEZ President and General Counsel
Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund San Francisco, Feb. 27, 1986

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 11, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

REAGAN TO DISCUSS IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 394 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 10


President Reagan will meet Tuesday with two key members of Congress in an effort
to stimulate action on a comprehensive immigration bill, according to White
House officials.

The legislators, Senator Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming and Representative Peter W.
Rodino Jr. of New Jersey, are the sponsors of major immigration bills in the
Senate and the House.

The session is notable because it is apparently the first example of active
lobbying by Mr. Reagan on immigration legislation. In the past, he occasionally
spoke in favor of such legislation, but he refrained from the intense personal
appeals that characterized his lobbying on other issues such as revision of the
tax system or aid to rebels in Nicaragua.

'Startling' Surge of Alens

The Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, Alan C. Nelson, said last
month that there had been a ''startling'' surge of aliens entering the United
States illegally from Mexico. He said his agency expected to apprehend 1.8
million illegal aliens nationwide this year, an increase of 50 percent over the
number caught last year.

Mr. Simpson is the assistant majority leader of the Senate. Mr. Rodino, a
Democrat, is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee and has specialized in
immigration for most of his 37 years in Congress.

The Simpson and Rodino bills are both designed to curtail illegal iimmigration.
They would prohibit employers from hiring illegal aliens, would provide
additional money for enforcement of the immigration laws and would offer legal
status to many illegal aliiens already in this country.

The Senate passed similar bills in 1982, 1983 and 1985. The House passed a bill
in 1984 by a five-vote margin, but the two chambers of Congress could not work
out their differences, so the legislation died. Mr. Rodino's bill and the
Simpson bill, passed by the Senate last September, are pending now in the House
Judiciary Committee.

Among the questions likely to be discussed at the meeting Tuesday are the issues
that proved most troublesome for the Senate and House in 1984: Federal
reimbursement of the states for social welfare services provided to illegal
aliens who gain legal status; proposals to outlaw employment discrimination
against legal aliens, and proposals to admit thousands of temporary foreign
workers to the United States to harvest perishable fruit and vegetables.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 25, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. WANTS TO ENHANCE ENFORCEMENT ON ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 911 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 24


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has drafted a bill that would sharply
enhance the Government's power to prevent, detect and punish violations of
immigration law.

One of the most far-reaching provisions says that aliens for whom a final
deportation order has been issued could be arrested not just by Federal agents
but by any state or local law-enforcement officer designated by the Attorney
General.

The bill does not specify how many officers would have that authority, but a
confidential report by the immigration service says this provision would permit
the Federal Government to use a ''nationwide network of law-enforcement agencies
to assist in effecting the removal of dangerous and undesirable aliens in a
cost-effective manner.'' One-Year Ban From U.S.  Under the draft bill, aliens
who enter the United States illegally or who stay longer than authorized could
be barred from the country for one year. The immigration service says this may
be ''the most important proposal'' in the bill because it seeks to interrupt the
process by which aliens violate the law, gain a foothold in the United States,
then exploit that position to obtain job offers from employers who petition the
Government to grant legal status to the aliens. Now, even aliens caught
violating the law can obtain permanent residence or other benefits, the
immigration service says.

The draft bill is being reviewed by the Justice Department, and White House
officials said that while it had not been cleared for submission to Congress, it
was generally consistent with the Reagan Administration's approach to the
immigration issue.

The bill would require illegal aliens to pay for detention and deportation
costs. The Attorney General could seize their assets, including wages, bank
accounts and real estate, to help pay these expenses. The aliens' liability
would be limited to $45 a day for detention and $500 for deportation.

The bill would increase fines for virtually all violations of the immigration
law, more than doubling the penalties in most cases.

In addition, an alien admitted as a permanent resident to work at a particular
job would have to keep that job for at least one year or face deportation.
Current law has no such provision, and as a result, immigration officials said,
aliens legally admitted for one job often end up competing with United States
citizens for other jobs.

Administration officials said the bill was meant to complement a comprehensive
bill passed by the Senate last year to curtail illegal immigration. It would
prohibit employers from hiring illegal aliens and would offer legal status to
aliens who entered the United States illegally before Jan. 1, 1980. Similar
legislation pending in the House has been delayed by disagreements over a
proposal to admit thousands of temporary foreign workers to help harvest fruit
and vegetables.

Greg J. Leo, a spokesman for the immigration service, said the Administration
remained firmly committed to the Senate bill but would not wait for its passage
before sending Congress the new measure, which he described as ''a collection of
housekeeping proposals designed to make our operations more efficient.''

The proposed expansion of law-enforcement powers is likely to encounter
opposition from some members of Congress, especially House Democrats, and from
Hispanic groups, who have objected to other proposals on the ground that
Hispanic Americans would suffer discrimination. Local and state police officers
have cooperated in varying degrees with Federal immigration officers, sometimes
resisting out of concern that police-community relations could be hurt.

Sam Bernsen, a former general counsel of the immigration service, said the new
bill appeared to be ''very unrealistic,'' adding: ''You cannot put these kinds
of strictures on aliens. Human beings are not machines. Life and business
conditions are forever changing.''

Linda J. Wong, a lawyer with the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational
Fund, said Hispanic groups would resist any effort to enlist local police
officers in enforcement of the immigration law.

Highlights of the Bill

Here are highlights of the service's draft bill:

* The Government could revoke the legal status aliens gained by marrying
citizens if the marriage breaks up within two years. Under current law, aliens
can become permanent residents immediately after they marry citizens. The new
proposal is intended to combat fraud in which citizens are paid to enter sham
marriages with aliens or are misled by aliens who desert them shortly after the
marriage.

* Temporary workers from Canada and Mexico could be treated differently from
those of other countries. If the United States negotiated a labor exchange
agreement with Canada or Mexico, the Attorney General could waive normal
protections that bar admission of foreign workers if United States residents are
available to do the job or if the aliens would adversely affect the wages and
working conditions of people in the United States.

* Immigration officials would gain access to Social Security tax records showing
the identity and location of aliens. Social Security officials, citing a 1976
law, have sometimes refused to share such information.

In addition, the bill would restrict the distribution of immigrant visas. For
example, the visas now available to brothers and sisters of American citizens
would be limited to ''never married brothers and sisters.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 11, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

CONFEREES ON BILL IMMIGRATION PRESSING TO RECONCILE DIFFERENCES

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 831 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 10


Moving with unusual speed, House and Senate negotiators met today to start
working out their differences over a comprehensive immigration bill designed to
stem the flow of illegal aliens into this country.

The House approved its version of the bill Thursday night by a vote of 230 to
166, and many people on Capitol Hill said the legislation had enough momentum to
become law this year. The Senate passed its version of the legislation by a vote
of 69 to 30 in September 1985.

Senator Strom Thurmond, Republican of South Carolina, was elected chairman of
the conference committee, which consists of seven senators and 32
representatives.

A similar committee met for nine days in 1984 but failed to resolve differences
between the House and the Senate, and the legislation died. Today Mr. Thurmond
said: ''This time I really believe we can get the job done.''

Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of New Jersey, the leader of the
House conferees, said the chances for a new immigration law were ''much better
than 50-50.''

The 99th Congress is expected to adjourn next week, perhaps on Wednesday or
Thursday. Any bills not passed in identical form by both houses of Congress
would die at that time.

The Reagan Administration strongly supports the immigration legislation in
general and the Senate bill in particular. Alan C. Nelson, the Commissioner of
Immigration and Naturalization, attended today's committee meeting.

The House bill prohibits the hiring of illegal aliens, requires employers to ask
all job applicants for identification documents to verify their citizenship
status and offers legal status to several million illegal aliens. The Senate
bill is similar, with some major differences.

Through informal negotiations in the last two weeks, members of the House and
the Senate have reached agreement on the thorniest issue in the bill: the use of
foreign workers to harvest fruit and vegetables in Western states. Key senators,
including Pete Wilson, Republican of California, have indicated they support the
farm worker provisions of the House bill.

Several Issues to Discuss

The major issues to be addressed by the conference committee are how to prevent
employers from discriminating against legal aliens, how much the Federal
Government should reimburse states for the cost of providing social services to
illegal aliens who gain legal status, how long illegal aliens must have lived in
this country to qualify for the amnesty, whether the penalties against employers
of illegal aliens should expire after a certain number of years, and whether to
bar the deportation of Nicaraguans and Salvadorans for two years, as provided in
the House bill.

The 64-vote margin by which the House passed the bill Thursday was a major
departure from the 5-vote margin of approval in 1984.

In 1984, House Democrats opposed the bill 138 to 125, and Republicans supported
it 91 to 73. But this week House Republicans opposed the bill 105 to 62 and
Democrats supported it 168 to 61.

In the past, Hispanic Americans, including members of Congress, denounced the
immigration bill because they said it would encourage employers to discriminate
against the Hispanic. But on Thursday four Hispanic members of the House voted
for the bill. They were Esteban E. Torres, Democrat of California; Albert G.
Bustamante and Solomon P. Ortiz, both Democrats of Texas, and Bill Richardson,
Democrat of New Mexico. They said they feared that any immigration bill in a
future Congress would be even more restrictive and might omit the amnesty.

Members of the conference committee said they were focusing on these differences
between the two versions of the legislation:

* Under the House bill, an employer who hires illegal aliens would be subject to
a civil penalty of $1,000 to $2,000 for each person hired. For any later
violation, the employer would face a civil penalty of $2,000 to $5,000 for each
illegal alien hired. Penalties in the Senate bill range from $100 to $5,000.

* Under the House bill, the Government would offer legal status to illegal
aliens who could show that they entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1982,
and have lived here continuously since then. The cutoff date in the Senate bill
is Jan. 1, 1980.

* The House bill forbids employers to discriminate against legal aliens merely
because they are aliens. However, an employer could hire a citizen in preference
to an alien if the two were ''equally qualified.'' The Senate bill contains no
such prohibition but calls for a study by the General Accounting Office to
determine if discrimination resulted from the new penalties against employers.

In addition, the House bill, would eliminate the penalties for hiring illegal
aliens after six and a half years. The Senate bill says Congress would examine
the issue after three years and could repeal the penalties if they resulted in
''a widespread pattern of discrimination'' against legal aliens or citizens of
any particular ethnic group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Romano L. Mazzoli, Peter W. Rodino Jr., charles E. Schumer,
Howard Berman, Leon E. Panetta, hamilton Fish Jr. and Daniel E. Lungren
(NYT/Paul Hosefros)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 18, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

CONGRESS, WINDING UP WORK, VOTES SWEEPING ALIENS BILL; REAGAN EXPECTED TO SIGN
IT

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1984 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 17


Congress today gave final approval to a landmark immigration bill as it moved
toward adjournment.

By a vote of 63 to 24, the Senate agreed to the compromise bill, clearing the
measure for action by President Reagan. The bill would prohibit the hiring of
illegal aliens and offer legal status, or amnesty, to millions of illegal aliens
who have lived in this country continuously since before Jan. 1, 1982.

The chief sponsor of the legislation, Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of
Wyoming, said President Reagan ''awaits this bill and has agreed to sign it.''
Mr. Reagan proposed similar legislation in 1981 to tighten control of the
borders and to curtail the influx of illegal aliens.

Radical Change for Employers

The bill approved today, the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, marks a
historic change in American immigration policy. Under current law, illegal
aliens may be deported, but it is generally not illegal for employers to hire
them. Under the bill passed today, employers who hired illegal aliens would be
subject to civil penalties ranging from $250 to $10,000 for each such alien.

Itching to leave for home and the off-year elections, Congress also approved the
$576 billion comprehensive appropriations bill for 1987, after the Senate
resolved a deadlock over a plane built on Long Island. [Page 33.] Lawmakers said
they hoped that the 99th Congress, which convened in January 1985, would adjourn
Saturday.

The aliens bill, a product of nearly a decade of work in Congress, would make
the biggest changes in immigration law in at least 20 years.

Earlier Versions Died

The Senate passed similar bills in 1982 and 1983, but they died in the days just
before Congress adjourned.

In the Senate today, 34 Democrats and 29 Republicans voted for the bill. Against
it were 16 Republicans and 8 Democrats.

The Senators from New York, New Jersey and Connecticut all voted in favor.

The House of Representatives approved the same bill, 238 to 173, on Wednesday.

The Senate approved the measure today after several hours of speeches by
opponents, who acknowledged that they had no real hope of blocking the
legislation.

Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, led the opposition. He denounced the
bill's amnesty for illegal aliens. In addition, he said it was ''outrageous''
that under one section, illegal aliens who had done only 90 days of agricultural
work in this country could eventually become permanent residents.

''I want to do what the founding fathers envisioned the Senate would do,'' Mr.
Gramm said. ''I want to have a real debate on this.''

The provisions granting legal status to foreign agricultural workers were
drafted by Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn. They were
adopted by the House and accepted by a House-Senate conference committee. The
provisions were part of a delicately balanced compromise that revived the bill
after it was pronounced dead just three weeks ago.

The bill had broad bipartisan support. It was sponsored in the House by
Representatives Peter W. Rodino Jr. of New Jersey and Romano L. Mazzoli of
Kentucky, both Democrats.

Opposition on Both Sides

Liberals and conservatives also joined together in opposing the bill.

One opponent, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said:
''Whenever Congress enacts a measure with any potential for discrimination, the
full potential is relentlessly realized and virulent discrimination results.
This bill has that potential and will inevitably have that result. It is an
undeserved slap at millions of Hispanic citizens.''

The labor movement supported the bill. But the Chamber of Commerce of the United
States opposed it, saying it would impose excessive burdens on employers and
would subject them to ''countless lawsuits'' charging they had discriminated
against legal aliens.

Senator Pete Wilson, Republican of California, said the bill was ''a much needed
step in the right direction.'' But he said it ''will reduce illegal immigration
at most by only 20 percent to 30 percent.''

Ambivalent Views

Raul Yzaguirre, president of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic
organization, said he could not endorse the bill, but he described it as
''probably the best immigration legislation possible under current political
conditions.''

He said his group was particularly pleased with the ''generous'' amnesty for
illegal aliens. He also said that the bill, ''for the first time, provides full
rights and protections for both foreign and domestic farm workers.'' Some
growers of fruit and vegetables in California and other Western states have long
depended on foreign workers to harvest their crops. The bill guarantees that the
growers will have a steady supply of legal foreign workers if such workers are
needed.

Despite his opposition to the measure, Senator Gramm said: ''This immigration
bill is not a response to a fear of foreigners. We are not symbolically tearing
down the Statue of Liberty. It is not my intention ever to slam the door to
America.''

Gramm Cites Fear of Fraud

Mr. Gramm said he feared that illegal aliens would use fraudulent documents,
such as rent receipts and pay stubs, in an effort to show that they had lived
here long enough to obtain legal status. Senator Simpson said ''document fraud
is already a cottage industry in America,'' and he observed that the bill
established new penalties for the use of fraudulent documents. An illegal alien
who makes false statements in an application for legal status could be
imprisoned for five years and fined $2,000.

Senator Bill Bradley, Democrat of New Jersey, said the immigration bill was
''the most important piece of legislation'' that would emerge from the 99th
Congress. He called it ''a monumental accomplishment'' by Senator Simpson.

James A. McClure, a conservative Republican from Idaho who opposed the bill,
said, ''I agree with Hispanic organizations that say that this bill and its
enforcement will ultimately be racist.''

Senator Pete V. Domenici, a New Mexico Republican, said the bill would ''create
an administrative nightmare'' for employers, who must ask all job applicants for
documents to verify that they are eligible to work in the United States. The
bill, he said, is ''an invitation to fraud and abuse, an invitation to
disaster.'' ''It just won't work,'' he said.

Total Is Matter of Conjecture

The number of illegal aliens in the United States is not known. In debate on the
immigration bill, members of Congress consistently used higher estimates than
those made by the Census Bureau.

Jeffrey S. Passel, a demographer at the Census Bureau, said in an interview that
the bureau estimated there were 2.5 million to 3.5 million illegal aliens who
had their usual residence in the Unted States at the time of the last census, in
1980. The bureau estimates that the number of illegal aliens has grown since
then by 100,000 to 300,000 a year, so the total now probably stands at three
million to five million, he said.

These figures do not include the thousands of illegal aliens who go back and
forth across the border, working here but returning to permanent residences in
Mexico or other coutries.

The bill is a milestone in the history of American immigration policy. In
colonial times, immigration was generally encouraged. The first Federal
restriction on immigration was not adopted until 1875, when Congress barred the
admission of prostitutes and convicted criminals.

The measure approved today ranks in importance with the Quota Act of 1921, which
established the first numerical restrictions on immigration, and the Immigration
and Nationality Act of 1952, the McCarran-Walter Act, which listed dozens of
ideological and other reasons for excluding aliens.

Under the bill, aliens in this country illegally could apply for legal status in
the one-year period starting six months after the bill becomes law. Then, after
18 months as lawful temporary residents, the aliens could apply for status as
permanent residents, and after another five years they could apply for
citizenship. If the illegal aliens did not seek legal status, they would remain
subject to deportation.

Members of Congress and lobbyists said that two factors added impetus to the
drive for a comprehensive immigration bill this year. First, they said, liberals
feared that any such bill adopted by the next Congress would be more restrictive
and less generous to illegal aliens.

In addition, in the last few months, the Reagan Administration has argued that
the bill was needed to help combat drug smuggling. Immigration officials said
that many illegal aliens and smugglers of aliens were involved in illicit drug
traffic.

Main Provisions of Bill

These are the main provisions of the immigration bill:

* Employers would be forbidden to hire illegal aliens. The ban would apply to
all employers, even those with just a few employees. For a first offense, the
employer would be subject to a civil penalty of $250 to $2,000 for each illegal
alien hired. For subsequent offenses, the employer would be subject to civil
penalties as high as $10,000 for each.

* For a ''pattern or practice'' of violations, the employer would be subject to
criminal penalties, up to a $3,000 fine and six months' imprisonment.

* Employers would have to ask all job applicants for documents, such as a
passport or a birth certificate and driver's license, to confirm that they were
either citizens or aliens authorized to work in the United States. The employer
is not required to check the authenticity of the documents. The bill says it
does not authorize issuance or use of national identification cards.

* The Government would offer legal status to aliens who entered the United
States illegally before Jan. 1, 1982, and have resided here continuously since
then. For five years, they would be ineligible for welfare, food stamps and most
other Federal benefits, with some exceptions.

* The Federal Government will set aside $1 billion a year for four years to
reimburse state governments for providing public assistance, health care and
education to illegal aliens who gain legal status.

* Under a special program, illegal aliens who worked in American agriculture for
at least 90 days in the period from May 1, 1985, to May 1, 1986, could become
lawful temporary residents of the United States. After two years in that status,
they could become permanent residents, eligible for American citizenship after
five years more.

* If there is a shortage of seasonal farm workers, the Government could admit
additional aliens in the fiscal years 1990 through 1993. They would have to work
in agriculture and, after three years as temporary residents, could become
permanent residents.

* Immigration officers could not enter a farm without a search warrant or the
owner's permission if they wanted to question a person believed to be an alien.

* Employers would be forbidden to discriminate against legal aliens because of
their national origin or citizenship status. A new office would be established
in the Justice Department to investigate complaints of such discrimination.

* States would generally have to verify, through records of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, the legal status of aliens seeking welfare benefits,
Medicaid, unemployment compensation, food stamps, housing assistance or college
aid under Federal programs.

* To improve enforcement, the Immigration and Naturalization Service would
receive $422 million more in the current fiscal year and $419 million extra next
year. The agency's budget last year was $593.8 million, of which $379.7 million
was for enforcement.

The bill also envisions a 50 percent increase in Border Patrol personnel,
although there is no guarantee Congress would actually provide money for the
increase. At present, the Border Patrol has 3,694 officers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Sens. alan K. Simpson and Edward M. Kennedy conferring as the
Senate took up immigration bill (NYT/Jose R. Lopez)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 19, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

AGENCIES READY TO HELP ALIENS GET LEGAL STATUS

BYLINE: By JUDITH CUMMINGS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 26, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 865 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 18


With amnesty to be a key part of the nation's new immigration laws, social
service agencies are preparing to help an expected steady stream of illegal
aliens who will want to prove their right to remain in the United States.

Under the new law, aliens in this country illegally who can prove to the
satisfaction of the Immigration and Naturalization Service that they arrived
earlier than Jan. 1, 1982, may obtain permanent resident status and, eventually,
citizenship.

For many such people, who are mainly of Hispanic and Asian origin, it will mean
the end of an existence under a cloud of anxiety and impermanence, social
service officials say.

Opponents of the amnesty assert that the reprieve will foster increased flouting
of the immigration laws.

'They Live in Limbo'

But Elizabeth Kirsnis, director of the Catholic Immigration Service, an arm of
the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Los Angeles, said: ''We have had cases that
for years have been unable to adjust their status. They live in limbo, pay
taxes, contribute to our economy, and they never can really participate here
because they can't become citizens here.''

Religious agencies around the nation expect to play a major role in the
legalization process of the aliens. The Roman Catholic Church, which has seen
its urban congregations in particular grow increasingly toward Hispanic members,
will be in the forefront, together with such groups as the Church World Service,
a national Protestant body based in Washington, and the Lutheran Immigration and
Refugee Service.

''We will be asking each bishop in the United States to appoint a contact person
for the legalization process,'' said Msgr. Nicholas DiMarzio of the United
States Catholic Conference in Washington. ''The Church is behind it; we are
willing to devote all our efforts to make sure the program is successful.''

Monsignor DiMarzio said that of an estimated 2.5 million to 5 million illegal
aliens in the United States, about 70 percent are believed to be Catholics,
mostly from Mexico and other Latin American countries.

A Deluge of Aid-Seekers

Many agencies speak of an expected deluge of aid-seekers after the law takes
effect. But Mrs. Kirsnis's immigration counseling office, in a downtown Los
Angeles neighborhood heavily populated with Mexicans, Salvadorans and other
Hispanic residents, was nearly empty of visitors Friday. By next week, she said,
that is expected to change dramatically.

The same was true at other agencies around the country. ''We've had phone calls,
maybe 20 a day, from as soon as the bill went into conference,'' said Frank J.
Schorn, an immigration lawyer with the Diocese of Brooklyn.

Martin Needleman, of the Brooklyn Legal Services Corporation, said, ''We're
anticipating a flood of people when the bill does become law and after the six
months time has elapsed.'' Illegal aliens eligible for legal status can start
applying six months after the bill becomes law.

''My sense is that people are just starting to ask questions among themselves,''
he said. ''There's been a lot of confusion over the amnesty discussions over the
last few years.''

Although Catholic officials in Los Angeles were reported as saying they were
going to set up neighborhood counseling centers, Mrs. Kirsnis says that notion
came from a plan that existed three years ago, when another version of
immigration law changes was moving in Congress but failed to win final approval.

In addition, officials in the Immigration and Naturalization Service's Western
regional office talked recently of setting up their own neighborhoods centers
where undocumented aliens could apply for legal status. That brought protests
from immigrants rights activists here, who said they feared entrapment of
residents for deportation purposes.

John Belluardo, an I.N.S. spokesman here, termed such charges ''totally false
rhetoric.''

''No person will be arrested as a result of an interview for the legalization
program'' conducted by immigration service, he said.

The immigration service still must set regulations needed to implement the
amnesty program. A Justice Department spokesman, Joseph Krovisky, said the
department would not comment on the legislation pending its approval by
President Reagan. ---- Mexicans Assail U.S. Bill MEXICO CITY, Oct. 18 (AP)
-Legislators in Mexico said the United States immigration bill approved by
Congress Friday would not stop people from crossing the border illegally and
could endanger relations with Mexico.

In a statement approved unanimously by the legislators, Romeo Flores Caballero
of the Chamber of Deputies, who once picked cotton in the United States, said
Congress had not considered the bill's ''bilateral implications.''

''It is not unrealistic to say that the supply and demand of migrant labor,
despite the real or imagined barriers, will continue favoring the flow of
migrant workers,'' said Mr. Flores Caballero, who represents the northern border
state of Nuevo Leon.

The legislators also voted to establish a commission to study how the Mexican
Government could protect the rights of Mexicans in the United States and absorb
migrant workers who are expected to return to Mexico.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 3, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

AMNESTY: WHO IS ELIGIBLE

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 481 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Nov. 2


Under the new immigration legislation, which President Reagan has said he will
sign, legal status will be available for illegal aliens who have been
''continuously physically present'' in the United States since before Jan. 1,
1982, except for ''brief, casual and innocent absences.''

Those convicted of one felony or three or more misdemeanors are not eligible.

Applications will be taken over a 12-month period beginning not later than 6
months after the law is enacted. Aliens must submit proof of continuous
residence, preferably ''employment-related,'' although the Attorney General may
authorize other means. Documentation must be confirmed by ''independent
corroboration.'' Applicants must also demonstrate ''minimal understanding of
ordinary English'' and knowledge of American government and history, or be
studying these. Exceptions may be made for those over 65 years of age.

Five years after becoming permanent legal residents, the immigrants may apply
for citizenship.

It is uncertain just how many will apply for legal status, or how many will gain
it. Some say, on the basis of foreign experience, that the number will be much
smaller than expected. But Charles C. Foster, a leading Houston immigration
lawyer, believes otherwise. ''Once word gets out that the program is being
administered in a reasonable manner and people are not being arrested,'' he
said, ''the problem will not be too few but too many.''

Cheryl L. Schechter, a lawyer for Texas Center for Immigrant Legal Assistance,
an arm of Catholic Charities in Houston, said she feared many legitimate
applicants would have a terrible problem furnishing documentation, which they
have carefully avoided all these years to thwart detection by the authorities.
Much will depend, she said, on how the Immigration and Naturalization Service
interprets the law.

It is an sign of the lingering fears that many illegal aliens around the country
refused to have their names or pictures published when approached for
interviews. In San Francisco, Henry Der, executive director of Chinese for
Affirmative Action, advises applicants to be cautious for the moment.

Many of the aliens said they feared deportation before the amnesty program goes
into effect. Under the legislation, any alien with a prima facie case for
amnesty may not be deported by the immigration service and must be granted work
authorization if he is apprehended before the application period commences.

Ironies abound in all this. For years, illegal aliens have done everything
possible to avoid documenting their American existence and jobs; now, the
Government says that, for them to remain here, they must prove they did
everything they were not supposed to have. Moreover, to gain amnesty, one must
prove ''continuous unlawful residence''; those who maintained legal immigration
status are ineligible to be legal permanent residents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 6, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

MEXICANS EXPECTING NO GOOD OF IMMIGRATION LAW

BYLINE: By WILLIAM STOCKTON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1133 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico


As Mexican citizens gathered here recently, hovering at the edge of the area
where they hope at twilight to make an illegal crossing into the United States
for jobs, the talk has increasingly focused on the new immigration law in the
United States.

Many of these people - the Mexicans call them ''indocumentados,'' or ''the
undocumented'' - have a rudimentary knowledge of the new law, although their
understanding is often faulty because it is based on rumor, something heard on
Mexican television or an article in a Mexican newspaper.

But views expressed at the crossing area, although lacking in sophistication,
are virtually the same as those of Mexican academics and politicians who have
spoken out against the landmark immigration legislation.

Both groups doubt the law will do much to slow the flow of Mexicans across the
border. Rather there is fear that it will lead to more discrimination and to
exploitation of illegal workers once they are on the other side.

'We Will Cross,' One Says

''It doesn't matter what the law says, we will cross,'' said Ismael Medina, 42
years old, who arrived in Tijuana at the end of October after a two-day bus ride
from northwest of Mexico City. ''There are jobs on the other side, and we can
make more money than here. There will always be jobs that no American wants that
a Mexican will perform with much happiness.''

The father of seven children, Mr. Medina was earning $5 a day in his last job as
a laborer in a cement factory. He said it was not enough to feed his family.

Mr. Medina is not a man who can read newspapers easily, but had he been reading
the Mexico City daily Excelsior, he would have seen his views echoed by Jorge
Bustamante, a sociologist who is head of the Colegio de la Frontera Norte in
Tijuana. He is one of Mexico's leading authorities on illegal immigration.

A substantial change in the law, he wrote, is unlikely to ''represent a change
in the practice of hiring illegal workers, at least in the medium term.''

''The possible defenses that the employer has against accusations that he has
violated the new law are many,'' Mr. Bustamante said.  The new legislation
grants amnesty to what are estimated to be several million aliens who have been
living illegally in the United States since before 1982.

Employers Can Now Be Fined

But for the first time, employers now will be subject to fines and even prison
terms for hiring workers who cannot prove they are in the States legally.

This provision, United States legislators hoped, could dry up the sources of the
usually menial jobs that prompt a hungry and desperate Mexican to make the
sometimes dangerous border crossing.

If the law succeeds in reducing job opportunities for such Mexicans in the
United States, it will bring even more unemployment to Mexico, one economist
said.

Because of population growth, about a million people enter Mexico's work force
each year. Even the most optimistic economists doubt that in the next several
years Mexico can achieve more than 4 percent growth a year, which is not
considered enough to keep up.

Rise in Pressure Is Seen

''If the safety valve of jobs across the border is closed, or at least
restricted, the pressure that builds up here will be even greater than it is
now,'' Jose Luis Gutierrez, a private sector economist, said.

Rogelio Ramirez de la O, another economist, said: ''The economy in the United
States is such that nobody is going to stop illegal workers from coming. They
will keep employing them. So the cost of this legislation is that for the
illegal workers the salaries and working conditions will go down as the risk the
employer takes becomes higher.''

Because the law does not require the American employer to verify the
authenticity of the documents that a particular worker presents, Mexican
officials and academics predict a dramatic rise in faked papers. This was
reflected among those waiting for dark to cross the area here known as the
Soccer Field, hoping to elude the green Border Patrol vehicles waiting half a
mile away.

Xavier Sanchez, 25 years old, a mechanic from Guadalajara who repairs electrical
systems in automobiles, said he was confident about life on the other side. ''I
will find a way to have a job and avoid the new law,'' he said.

'Everyone Will Have These'

Gabriel Rocha Garcia, 26, predicted: ''Once it is known what documents an
employer will want to see, then everyone will have those documents.''

He said he had crossed into the United States and eluded the Border Patrol
''hundreds of times'' since he came to the border for the first time from the
State of Durango 12 years ago.

Mr. Rocha Garcia, who is knowledgeable about the new law, denied being a coyote,
a professional smuggler who guides people past the Border Patrol for fees of
$200 and up. Snickers from bystanders at his denial suggested otherwise, as did
statements later from others on the Soccer Field.

Mr. Rocha Garcia, in common with academics such as Mr. Bustamante and Mexican
politicians, see the law as presaging a new era of discrimination and
maltreatment of illegal Mexican workers at the hands of the American authorities
and employers.

'Rest of Us Will Be Hunted'

''The law is good for those who receive amnesty and will get legal papers,'' he
said. ''But for the rest of us, we will be hunted. The employers who are willing
to hire us will take advantage of us. They will threaten to turn us in. They
will want to pay us less because they will say they are taking a risk to give us
jobs.''

Romeo Flores Caballero, head of the committee on border matters in Mexico's
Chamber of Deputies, has been particularly critical of the law. He said that
illegal immigration from Mexico ''is not a police problem.'' Rather, he said, it
is ''a cultural, historical and social problem'' whose solutions must be found
through joint efforts rather than actions by the United States Congress.

''We are very worried about the repression of our citizens by United States
police agencies, which this law could encourage,'' he said. Note of Protest Sent
to U.S.  The Mexican Government sent a note of protest to the State Department,
and the Chamber of Deputies adopted a resolution. The deputies said the United
States was neither paying attention to nor respecting the sense of earlier
agreements between the two countries.

''Migration is an international problem and its solutions ought to be reached by
the countries involved and not by unilateral decisions of a government,'' the
resolution said.

Mexican politicians and academics do not view the immigration legislation as an
isolated event.

They see it, the antidrug bill and a toxic waste cleanup bill that places an
11.7 cent tax on each imported barrel of crude oil as part of an anti-Mexico
effort.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Mexicans waiting to cross into the U.S. (NYT); photo of
Tijuana, Mexico (NYT/Robert Burroughs)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 8, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

LAWFUL U.S. ALIENS CRITICIZE EXCLUSION UNDER THE NEW LAW

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1381 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Nov. 7


When President Reagan signed the landmark immigration bill Thursday he brought
joy to millions of illegal aliens who may now claim amnesty and remain in this
country legally.

But for some other aliens like Leila S. Reid of the Philippines it brought
nothing but frustration. Even though she has lived in the United States for 11
years, she is not eligible. The reason is that she has maintained legal
immigration status for all those years and now the Immigration and
Naturalization Service says it will not extend her visa to remain in the United
States.

Procedures Are Complicated

In one of the oddest twists of American law, the new immigration legislation
requires aliens to prove ''continuous unlawful residence'' since before Jan. 1,
1982, to be eligible for amnesty. But those like Mrs. Reid, who have assiduously
maintained lawful immigration status, must continue to pursue normal channels to
gain legal residency, a costly process that can take up to 10 years in the cases
of aliens from countries such as the Philippines.

''They have been maintaining their status, going through often very complicated
procedures,'' said her lawyer, Charles C. Foster of Houston. ''Now all of a
sudden their neighbor who did absolutely nothing is getting a tremendous
benefit. It is causing great frustration among those who came even earlier and
did what they were told was proper.''

In the case of Mrs. Reid, a surgical nurse here, the irony is all the more
pointed. Her husband, a Filipino who came here in 1977 on a visitor's visa and
never left, is an illegal alien. He will be able to claim amnesty, while she may
be forced to leave, even though both her children, born here, are American
citizens.

Mrs. Reid is among hundreds of thousands of foreigners who came here as
visitors, students or temporary workers who are now watching in anger and
frustration as millions of others who went underground and flouted American law
are being rewarded.

Hoping for Amendment

Mrs. Reid and others in her position are hoping the new Congress will ammend the
law to iron out what they see as injustice. In many cases they would have been
better off if they had simply ignored the law.

''I feel I have been treated so unjustly,'' Mrs. Reid said. ''They make it so
easy for illegal aliens and refugees, but not for we who are paying taxes, who
are not liabilities to the country. We cannot help but blend into your society -
bills, credit cards, mortgage payments. Suddenly after 11 years, they say I
cannot stay.''

According to Annie Garcy, another immigration lawyer here, most of those in Mrs.
Reid's position will obtain legal residency eventually. ''They are not in a
hopeless situation,'' she said. ''They just will not get the break of the law.
But it's just a matter of time.''

Special Skills Category

In Mrs. Reid's view, that is not a very practical option. She came to the United
States under an H-1 visa, a category used for ''temporary workers'' with special
skills, such as doctors and nurses.

She met and married her husband, a warehouseman who uses the name of an American
woman who adopted him, in 1980, and they bought a house in Houston. They have
two children.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service, which recently imposed a five-year
limit on H-1 visas, told Mrs. Reid that since she had already been in the United
States 11 years she would not receive an extension.

In light of this, her employer said her job would be terminated Nov. 15,
although her dismissal could be delayed if her case is still on appeal with the
immigration service. Her employer is willing to sponsor her as a permanent
worker, but that process can take years.

She could also apply as the spouse of a resident after her husband gains
amnesty, but that could take six to 10 years, according to Mr. Foster. She can
not gain legal residency through her children because they have to be 21 years
old to sponsor a parent; the oldest child is 3.

So. in the meantime, Mrs. Reid faces the unhappy choice of becoming a
''fugitive,'' as she puts it, or returning to her native land. The waiting list
for emigration to the United States from such countries as the Philippines is
extremely long because of the enormous number of applicants.

She Sends Money to Family

Mrs. Reid says her income is essential to maintaining the family; moreover the
monthly remittances she sends home have put three brothers and a sister through
school in the Philippines and help support her father.

Many others like Mrs. Reid came on visitor or student visas. If they maintained
those visas after the cutoff of Jan. 1, 1982, they, too, are ineligible for
amnesty, while fellow students who let their visas lapse and stayed illegally
may claim it.

Congress designed the immigration legislation to aid illegal aliens who had
roots in this country, and at the same time impose sanctions on the employers of
illegal aliens. The bill was not designed to provide relief for aliens who
entered the country legally and remained with permission from the Government,
according to Congressional aides. These aliens were not perceived to have any
particular problem with their residency status.

Some Congressional opponents of the legislation argued that it would provide a
reward for lawbreakers and was unfair to aliens who had obeyed the country's
immigration laws.

Another alien who says he will not be aided by the new law is David Chang of
Peking (the name is altered to protect his identity because he recently became
an illegal alien). He came in 1980 on a scholarship to study music; he is a
clarinetist who had played with the Peking Opera and Ballet.

Mr. Chang ultimately shifted to photography, and, somewhat to his regret now,
asked for and obtained the needed H-1 visa for one year to obtain temporary work
as a commercial photographer in Houston. Had he not done so, he would be
eligible for amnesty as an unlawful resident. His H-1 visa expired in 1984 and
his application for permanent residency was rejected, but he remained without
legal sanction, becoming an illegal alien like an estimated three million to
five million others in the United States.

''He'd have a wonderful case for amnesty,'' said Mr. Foster, the lawyer, ''But I
must tell him that because you maintained legal status you do not have this
great benefit.''

'I Was Just Unlucky'

Mr. Chang, 42 years old, has spent about $5,000 in legal fees trying to obtain
permanent residence. ''I was just unlucky,'' he said.

''When I came here, not one day did I think I'd become illegal,'' said Mr. Chang
with a chuckle. He says he wants to stay because it would be impossible for him
to succeed as a photographer in China.

''There is much freedom here - nobody tells you what do do,'' he said.

He lives alone in a small apartment on the west side of Houston and drives to
work daily in his 1983 Toyota. He is worried about being picked up by the
immigration service but has developed an abiding faith in American law and due
process.

''Since I did not do some bad thing, they cannot just deport me in one minute,''
he said. ''So I have time to find something.''

When apprehended, illegal aliens are entitled to hearings before the immigration
service and appeals to the Federal courts.

Ironies in Cases of Brothers

The inconsistencies and ironies in the new immigration law are typified by the
cases of two Nicaraguan brothers, Rene Arevalo, 28, and Bernardo Arevalo 23, of
Miami. Both came from a family who are enemies of the Sandinista Government and
both have applied for political asylum. Their applications are pending.

Rene, who came to the United States in 1979 and requested asylum a year later,
prior to the 1982 cutoff, is covered by amnesty because his visa expired and he
became an illegal alien before the cutoff date. But Bernardo, who arrived in
1981 and used a student visa until 1983, after the cutoff, is not eligible for
amnesty. So he must hope his request for asylum is approved.

''It's a technical problem,'' said Bernardo, who is the assistant manager of a
Miami condominium. ''I came before 1982, but this law won't cover me. How can
you have peace of mind knowing you might get a deportation letter any day? My
brother doesn't have to worry. He's covered all the way.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 22, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. BARS DEPORTATION OF ALIENS CLAIMING AMNESTY

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 303 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 21


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has instructed its employees to
suspend the deportation of illegal aliens who appear to qualify for legal status
under the new immigration law.

Alan C. Nelson, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, issued the
instruction in a telegram to employees around the country last week.

''Effective immediately and until further notice,'' he said, ''an alien
apprehended in the interior'' of the United States ''shall be given the
opportunity to establish a nonfrivolous claim'' to legal status, or amnesty.

To qualify, Mr. Nelson said, aliens must demonstrate that they entered the
United States before Jan. 1, 1982, and have resided here continuously in an
unlawful status since then.

In addition, he noted, there is a separate legalization program for aliens who
can show that they performed seasonal agricultural work in the United States for
at least three months in the period from May 1985 to May 1986.

The Government will not accept formal amnesty applications until next May. But
the new law forbids the Government to deport illegal aliens who are apprehended
before then and who appear to have plausible claims to amnesty.

To establish such claims, aliens must sign affidavits stating, under penalty of
perjury, the date, place and manner of their entry into the United States. After
filing such claims, Mr. Nelson said, the aliens will be given authorization to
work in the United States at least through May.

When they formally apply for amnesty next year, illegal aliens will have to
submit documents to prove that they have been living in this country.

Greg J. Leo, a spokesman for the immigration service, offered this advice to
illegal aliens: ''Sit tight. Don't leave the United States. Wait till the
application period begins next year.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 4, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION CHIEF ON WEST COAST PRESSING FIGHT ON ILLEGAL 'INVASION'

BYLINE: By MARCIA CHAMBERS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1084 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 3


Harold W. Ezell, the chief enforcer of immigration law on the West Coast, says
his mission is to stop the ''invasion'' of illegal aliens entering the United
States from Mexico and other countries.

And he contends the new immigration law will not stop his crusade.

''Our borders are out of control,'' Mr. Ezell says. This is the message he has
spent three years taking to Congress.

Mr. Ezell's border policies are being continued in the aftermath of the new law,
which was signed last month. Under these policies, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service is not allowing aliens detained near the Mexican border
in the San Diego area a right to amnesty under the new law unless the aliens
assert their eligibility.

The immigration service at first defined the border zone as the territory within
25 miles of the boundary, which included most of San Diego, California's
second-largest city. However, that has been modified and the zone is only the
immediate area of the border.

These guidelines and other immigration policies have provoked the first of what
is expected to be many lawsuits.

First Suit Has Been Filed

The first California suit was filed by a coalition in Federal District Court in
Sacramento last month, seeking to bar the Government from deporting illegal
aliens who appear to qualify for amnesty. In response, a Federal judge issued a
temporary order that the immigration service must post signs near the border
saying that illegal aliens may have claim to amnesty, a decision Mr. Ezell said
would be appealed.

A stanch Republican, Mr. Ezell expresses views about Latin Americans that have
elicited dismay and disdain from scores of critics.

Such criticism does not faze Mr. Ezell. He conducts tours, often including a
stop for the nightly border action in San Ysidro, near the Mexican border. There
he points to a ridge where hundreds of people wait for darkness. Then they run
across the border to the United States. After his guests show astonishment, he
may give them a small copy of the Statue of Liberty.

They Are Under TV Lights

Sometimes his agents arrest the Latins, some of whom are Salvadorans who fear
political persecution, some Mexicans seeking a better life. Within seconds they
are under the glare of television lights.

''He makes a show and a mockery out of human beings,'' said Antonio Rodriguez,
director of the Los Angeles Center for Law and Justice, a civil rights
organization. ''It is shocking to most of us, but it doesn't seem to shock the
Reagan Administration.''

Mr. Ezell disdains such statements, saying he is there to enforce the law. He
believes his border tours and his raids helped pave the way for the adoption of
the immigation law.

Since he became Western regional commissioner for the service in March 1983, Mr.
Ezell, who describes himself as a ''cop,'' has conducted many raids, usually
with television cameras in train, on the border, in airports, in factories, in
restaurants and on the street.

The 49-year-old commissioner, a former vice president of Wienerschnitzel
International, a fast-food franchising company, says he will continue to conduct
the raids.

Figures for Los Angeles Cited

Mr. Ezell said that for every alien who was illegally employed, many were
unemployed. ''We wind up feeding them and they wind up stealing to survive,'' he
said. ''In the areas where you find the greatest number of illegals, the police
will tell you that crime is high.''

He says his jurisdiction, covering California, Arizona, Nevada, Hawaii and Guam,
has the greatest number of illegal aliens in the country. He said he expected
his office to receive at least 40 percent of the new budget for carrying out the
law.

''Our operation will stay the same,'' he said, although he expects to get more
agents. ''We desperately need them.'' He observed that the Mexican border
touched California, Arizona, New Mexico and Texas.

Today, Mr. Ezell held the first I.N.S. ''information exchange meeting'' in the
nation, attended by more than 300 employers, union representatives, community
leaders and volunteers. ''We as an agency are doing everything we can for public
input before the regulations are drawn up,'' Mr. Ezell said.

The new law provides amnesty for aliens who have resided continuously in this
country since before Jan. 1, 1982, and prohibits employers from hiring illegal
aliens.

He Lists Areas of Impact

Mr. Ezell said the new law would have the greatest impact on the garment, hotel,
restaurant and construction industries. Agents will pay special attention to
these, he said.

Mr. Ezell came to the job of chief regional commissioner with no immigration
background. Besides his business experience, he had a management consulting
company for small businesses and had been a real estate broker.

In three years he has attained wide visibility. While his policies may have
endeared him to his staff of 3,900, he has won no friends in the immigrant
communities of southern California.

Civil rights groups say his roundups, raids and speeches are based on racial
prejudice. ''He is an anti-immmigrant zealot and we consider him a key enemy of
our community,'' Mr. Rodriguez said. ''His use of inflammatory statements - he
says 'Don't let California become a third world country' -and of stereotypes fan
the flames of racism.''

'Ignorance' Seen in Policies

Mark Rosenbaum, counsel to the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern
California, has brought half a dozen suits against the immigration service,
seeking changes in policies on raids, juveniles, asylum and legal
representation.

''His policies show an ignorance,'' said Mr. Rosenbaum, ''and insensitivity to
individuals from other cultures, especially Salvadorans, who are often fleeing
persecution. He refers to Mexicans as 'hordes,' as being part of an 'invasion.'
This is an insult.

''His idea of dealing with immigration problems is to conduct a sweep and
suggest that the aliens he rounds up are responsible for the employment and the
economic problems of poor working class citizens.''

But Mr. Ezell says that is simply not so. He says he believes that if someone is
here illegally, he or she should be ''returned to where you came from.''

''I was on TV with one of these loudmouth activists,'' he said recently. ''I
said you don't represent the Hispanic American community. You represent the
illegals. That's how earn your living. I say legal American Hispanics are just
as much fed up with illegal immigration as anyone else.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 7, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

MEXICAN BORDER ARRESTS FALL IN WAKE OF NEW ALIENS LAW

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 30, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 942 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Dec. 6


Just one month after President Reagan signed the new immigration control law,
arrests of illegal aliens along the Mexican border have dropped dramatically.

Immigration officials said they could not be sure the decline was a result of
the legislation, which for the first time imposes criminal penalties on
Americans who employ illegal migrants. But they said they could think of no
other reason that could fully account for it.

Arrests in some border areas have fallen by nearly 30 percent in comparison with
the same period last year.

''We've noticed a lack of attempted entries, a lack of movement of aliens,''
said Jerry Hicks, deputy chief patrol agent for the Border Patrol in McAllen,
Tex. His office covers 280 miles of the shallow, muddy Rio Grande, through which
millions have waded or swum to enter the United States illegally every year.

Confusing to the Smugglers

''The word our agents have now is that the alien-smugglers are confused -
they're not really sure what this new law includes,'' Mr, Hicks said. ''They're
afraid there's a lack of a market now for aliens.'' Arrests in the McAllen
sector dropped by 28 percent, from 7,780 in November 1985 to 5,599 this
November. It was the first time in three years that there had been such a
decrease for any month.

In Washington, Verne Jervis, spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said arrests along the entire Southern border, which stretches nearly
2,000 miles from Texas to California, dropped 19 percent in the first week after
Mr. Reagan signed the legislation Nov. 6, and 29 percent the next week.

''We are not quite prepared to say what the reason is,'' he said. ''But
certainly the bill had something to do with it. We don't know how long it will
last. We hope it will have a long-range effect when the law is in full force.''
Word of the new law has been given widespread publicity by newspapers and
television in Mexico.

Apprehensions of aliens are not necessarily a direct indicator of illegal
immigration. The tally varies according to Border Patrol staff levels and
priorities. But fluctuations in the number of arrests offer at least a crude
gauge.

Possible Factors Offered

Immigration officials say several factors contributed. In some areas, mainly
near El Paso, the Rio Grande has been unusually high this year and the weather
cold, making passage across the river difficult. Moreover, the new law requires
agents to obtain a warrant to search for aliens on farms and ranches, and that
has deterred enforcement in some areas.

Also, the provision offering amnesty to aliens who were in this country
illegally before Jan. 1, 1982, has made agents a little reluctant to approach
some suspects. Finally, Border Patrol efforts have been diverted to interdiction
of drug smuggling in some areas, such as McAllen.

But immigration officials say none of this fully explains the drop in arrests.
The drop is well beyond what normally occurs this time of year, when the weather
gets colder and many Mexicans go home for the holidays.

The long Mexican border, much of it crossing barren desert and subtropical
farmland, is notoriously difficult to patrol. It has long served more to bind
the United States of America to the Republic of Mexico than to separate them.
For decades millions of people, including many from Europe and Asia, have
crossed that border in search of economic opporunity and political sanctuary
without the blessing of the law.

Dramatic El Paso Contrasts

According to Mike Williams, chief patrol agent for the El Paso sector, there
were 15,553 arrests in November, as against 30,786 in October and 19,808 in
November last year. He said that, even with the high water, the new law was ''a
major factor.'' It was passed on Oct. 17.

Mr. Williams added that his agents were finding fewer illegal aliens on freight
trains going north, boarding airplanes at El Paso and passing Border Patrol
checkpoints along highways leading north.

Apprehensions of aliens in remote southwest Texas in the Marfa sector of the
Border Patrol are down to their lowest level since 1982.

An apparent exception to the trend is the San Diego area, a 60-mile-wide stretch
of the border south of that city, and crossing point for Mexicans seeking work
in the metropolitan areas of Los Angeles and San Diego.

Apprehensions of aliens in November there were down only 2 percent, to 32,411,
from last year, according to Gene Smithburg, assistant chief patrol agent. He
added that arrests were down to 807 from 932 for the first four days of
December. There was no immediate explanation why the California area differed
from the rest of the border.

An Apparent Contradiction

The new figures on arrests of aliens appear to contradict, at least for the
moment, arguments that the new law would spur illegal immigration by aliens
anticipating another amnesty at a later date.

Illegal border crossings tend to take two forms. In the border cities like
Brownsville, Laredo and El Paso in Texas, thousands of ''commuters'' cross daily
to take jobs as maids, gardeners, retail clerks and the like, returning home to
Mexico every night. Others enter hoping to stay permanently, or at least for the
season, and they usually take trains and buses to Middle Western and Northern
cities.

The entry of both types normally slows down at this time of year. Immigration
officials said the true test of the new bill would not come until January, when
a surge normally occurs. ''We'll be better able to judge after the first of the
year,'' said Mr. Smithburg of the Border Patrol in San Diego. ''January is when
we would have our huge increase.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 20, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION RULES TO ASK NEW PROOF FROM JOB SEEKERS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1331 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 19


Employers across the country will have to verify the citizenship status of all
new employees, Americans and aliens, within 24 hours after they are hired, under
rules drawn up by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The rules, to be issued this week for public comment, will carry out the
landmark immigration law signed by President Reagan on Nov. 6, which prohibits
the hiring of illegal aliens. That prohibition is now in effect, but these rules
- a final version will be issued and take effect in mid-April - specify in
detail the procedures employers must follow to demonstrate compliance with the
law.

The new law also offers legal status, or amnesty, to illegal aliens who have
lived in this country continuously since before Jan. 1, 1982, and the
regulations set forth the procedures for this as well.

Charges and Documents

A confidential draft of the rules shows the application fees that the Government
is considering charging illegal aliens seeking legal status: $100 for each
application and $50 for anyone appealing the denial of an application.

This is the first indication of what these charges would be, but immigration
officials said that they were still subject to review and that the exact amounts
would probably not be disclosed in the regulations to be issued later this week.
Some members of Congress and alien-rights groups say the $100 charge is too
steep. But the Reagan Administration says Congress intended that the fees pay
the entire cost of the legalization program.

Under the law Americans must, for the first time, present proof of citizenship
when they seek employment. The new rules specify in detail the documents that
must be presented in applying for a job. In a separate area, they also specify
the documents that illegal aliens can use to prove that they are eligible for
amnesty. [Excerpts, page A16.] Details for Each Individual The new rules
governing job applicants require that each individual fill out and sign a
Government form, designated I-9, providing biographical information and
attesting, under penalty of perjury, that the worker is a citizen or an alien
authorized to work in this country.

The rules also specify the supporting documents that can be submitted as proof.
For American citizens, a United States passport is sufficient by itself.
Alternatively, a job applicant may offer a combination of two documents, such as
a Social Security card and a driver's license bearing a photograph of the
individual.

Employers must examine these documents to make sure that they ''reasonably
appear on their face to be genuine,'' the rules say. An employer who hires
illegal aliens is subject to civil fines ranging from $250 to $10,000 for each
illegal alien hired, depending on the number of prior violations. The law
contains no exemption for small employers.

The rules generally follow the framework established by the Immigration Reform
and Control Act of 1986. However, the rules give much more detail and therefore
may seem onerous to some employers.

In addition to being signed by every new employee, the new Form I-9 must be
signed by every employer to demonstrate compliance with the law whenever a
person is hired. The employer must list the documents he has examined to
establish the worker's identity and ''employment eligibility.''

The employer must retain these forms for at least three years and may not
dispose of them, in any event, until one year after the individual's employment
ends.

The employer will be presumed in compliance with the law ''for the first 24
hours after the worker has been hired.'' However, the form must be completed
''no later than 24 hours after commencement of employment,'' the rules say.

Warrants Not Required

The forms must be produced immediately for inspection if requested by an officer
of the immigration service or the Labor Department. ''No subpoena, warrant or
advance notice will be required,'' the rules say. ''Any refusal or delay in the
presentation of each Form I-9 for inspection, after proper demand, constitutes
noncompliance'' with the law.

Mark W. Everson, executive associate commissioner of the immigration service,
said people would have until Feb. 5 to file comments on the proposed rules. The
agency will publish a revised version of the rules in the Federal Register on
Feb. 25 and, after reviewing public comments, will issue final rules in
mid-April, he said.

The rules specify the documents that illegal aliens seeking amnesty can use to
prove ''continuous residence'' in the United States since Jan. 1, 1982. The
documents include pay stubs, letters from employers, utility bills, school
records, hospital records, rent receipts, bank statements, motor vehicle
registration certificates, contracts, mortgages and deeds.

Under the rules, illegal aliens cannot qualify for amnesty if they have been
absent from the United States for more than 60 days at a time, or for a total of
more than 240 days since Jan. 1, 1982.

Illegal aliens may apply for legal status in the period from May 5, 1987,
through May 4, 1988. The Government will set up nearly 100 offices around the
country to accept applications.

Timetable on Penalties

Though the prohibition on hiring illegal aliens is in effect, no penalties will
be imposed until June.

From June 1, 1987, through May 31, 1988, employers will receive only a citation,
or warning, for a first offense. The employer could be penalized for subsequent
offenses. On June 1, 1988, the warning period ends and the law will be in full
force.

Under the law and the regulations, a job applicant may be hired if he or she
shows any one of these documents: a United States passport, a certificate of
United States citizenship or naturalization, an unexpired foreign passport
carrying an appropriate work permit from the immigration service.

As an alternative, the applicant may submit one document showing identity and
another showing work authorization. The identification document may be a
driver's license, a state-issued ID card or a notice of discharge from the armed
forces of the United States. The work authorization document may be a Social
Security card or a birth certificate from any state.

The law states that an alien seeking amnesty must show that he has maintained
''continuous physical presence'' in the United States since the measure was
signed on Nov. 6. The law permits ''brief, casual and innocent absences'' in
this period.

The rules define ''brief'' as meaning ''no more than 15 days.'' In general,
aliens will be deemed to have violated the requirement for continuous physical
presence if they make more than two trips out of the United States in the period
from Nov. 6, 1986, to May 5, 1987.

Under a longstanding immigration law, an alien may not be admitted to this
country if he appears likely to become a ''public charge.'' Under the rules,
illegal aliens of working age who seek legal status must demonstrate ''a history
of employment in the United States evidencing self-support without receipt of
public cash assistance.''

Fee Held 'Unconscionable'

Antonia Hernandez, president of the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund, said the proposed $100 application fee was ''unconscionable.''
The fees, she said, might have to be paid by several members of a family that
was also paying an immigration lawyer for assistance.

Immigration officials said the Government did not intend to waive the fees for
aliens with low incomes. Such a waiver, they said, would be inconsistent with
the provision of the law barring aliens who are ''likely at any time to become
public charges.''

In a booklet describing the new law, Alan C. Nelson, the Commissioner of
Immigration and Naturalization, said it would affect ''virtually every
American.''

Immigration officials said their initial enforcement activities would focus on
employers who had 20 or more employees, a history of hiring illegal aliens or a
history of wage and hour violations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 25, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION;
New Rules Mean Job-Hunters Need Proof of Identity

BYLINE: By Caroline Rand Herron and Martha A. Miles

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 217 words


A 1982 proposal to catch illegal aliens by giving American workers
''counterfeit-proof'' identity cards was hooted off the boards as a threat to
individual liberty. Under rules proposed last week by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service for the administration of the landmark immigration law
enacted last year, passports, driver's licenses, Social Security cards or birth
certificates will have to serve instead.

Starting June 1, all job applicants will be required to show such documents to
prospective employers. Employers will be required to insure that the papers
''appear on their face to be genuine.'' The applicant will also have to fill out
biographical details on a Government form and sign an avowal that he is a
citizen or a legal alien. Employers, who will be required to have a new
employee's form on file within 24 hours, may also have to fill out the forms for
anyone hired since Nov. 6, when President Reagan signed the bill.

The immigration service also drafted rules for another provision of the law, an
amnesty for some illegal aliens. Here, too, documents will be crucial. The
applicant must prove that residence in the United States since before Jan. 1,
1982. Proof can come in the form of rent receipts, pay stubs, school records or
a multitude of other dated records.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 8, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

ALIENS IN U.S. GAIN REFUGE IN CANADA

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 34, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 894 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 7


Illegal aliens who are not eligible for legal status under the new immigration
law are migrating from the United States to Canada in substantial numbers.

Attracted by a relatively liberal policy that protects refugees from certain
countries, hundreds of immigrants each week are seeking entry into Canada. Many
arrive at the border on buses from New York.

Under the law, which President Reagan signed Nov. 6, American employers are
forbidden to hire illegal aliens. The law allows illegal aliens to obtain legal
status if they can prove they have lived in the United States continuously since
before Jan. 1, 1982. But those who have arrived since then will generally not be
allowed to gain amnesty or employment in the United States.

'We Are Being Inundated'

Officials at the Canadian Embassy in Washington, at Canadian consulates across
the United States and at Canadian border stations report a sharp increase in
applications from aliens who wanted to leave the United States and resettle as
refugees in Canada.

''Prior to Nov. 1, we had hardly any refugees from the United States, just a
trickle,'' said Kenneth J. Traves, the senior immigration officer at Fort Erie,
Ontario, across the border from Buffalo. ''It picked up in December, and now we
are being inundated.''

At the border station in Lacolle, Quebec, just north of Champlain, N.Y., Pierre
Tremblay, an immigration supervisor, said the number of refugee applications
from aliens leaving the United States had risen from 350 in November to 1,300 in
January. This month applications have averaged 100 a day, he said. A year ago
the rate was about 50 a month.

Immigration experts and labor economists predicted that the flow would increase
further as the new immigration law took effect and illegal aliens in the United
States learned of Canada's refugee policy.

Most From Central America

Most of the migrants are from El Salvador and Guatemala. They and citizens of 16
other countries where there is civil strife or a Communist government may
receive permits allowing them to live and work in Canada. The permits are valid
for one year.

Canadian officials said the same policy temporarily barred deportations to
Afghanistan, China, Cuba, East Germany, Iran, Lebanon, the Soviet Union and Sri
Lanka, among other countries.

Under a 1980 law, aliens may be admitted to the United States as refugees if
they can demonstrate ''a well-founded fear of persecution'' in their homelands
because of race, religion, nationality or political opinion. The United States
has excluded many Salvadorans and Guatemalans on the ground that they wanted to
improve their standard of living but faced no danger of persecution.

One person well aware of Canada's policy is Jose Mauricio Gonzalez Flores, a
Salvadoran who says he sneaked into the United States on Jan. 6, 1985. He
crossed from Tijuana, Mexico, to Chula Vista, Calif., and made his way to Los
Angeles, where he worked for two years as a dishwasher, cook and cashier at
restaurants.

But this week he flew from California to New York City, boarded a bus for
Montreal and entered Canada as a refugee, with $52 in his pocket.

''I was unsure if I could live in Los Angeles under the new immigration law,''
the 21-year-old Salvadoran said in an interview at the border station in
Lacolle, Quebec. ''If I stayed in the United States, they would make me go back
to my country.''

Migrating With Her Family

Mr. Flores said his family remained in El Salvador. But another refugee, Flora
Garcia, a Guatemalan who has been living in Jamaica, Queens, for the last 18
months, migrated to Canada this week with five relatives.

Ms. Garcia, 26, said she entered the United States legally on July 22, 1985.
Although she was admitted for a two-month stay, Ms. Garcia never returned to her
homeland. She worked as a housekeeper on Long Island. But recently, she said,
two of the women who employed her in Nassau County ''told me they could not keep
me because of the new immigration law.''

Actually, the law permits the continued employment of illegal aliens who were
hired before Nov. 6. But the aliens would, in effect, be locked into the jobs
they held on Nov. 6 because they could not legally be hired for other positions.

Although Canada has not taken any major steps to reduce the flow of migrants,
concern is growing about the influx from the United States.

Christopher Taylor, Canada's director of immigration policy development, said:
''We are trying to take more immigrants because there is growing concern about
population decline, or negative population growth, in Canada in the next 15 or
20 years. But the current numbers of refugee claimants are unprecedented. We are
not used to turning away large numbers of people at our borders. So we will have
to come up with new solutions.''

The number of people arriving from foreign countries and claiming refugee status
in Canada rose from 7,113 in 1984 to 8,374 in 1985, then jumped to 18,282 last
year, according to Canadian officials. The number averaged 1,040 a month in the
first half of 1986, but jumped to 3,693 in January of this year.

Gerry Maffre, a spokesman for the Canadian immigration department, said, ''In
the past, people would go to Canada hoping they could enter the United States.''
But now, he said, the flow of migration often runs in the opposite direction.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 20, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

NEW U.S. LAW APPEARS TO DETER ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1398 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, Feb. 19


The new immigration control law appears to be having a marked and growing effect
in deterring Mexicans and other foreigners from entering the United States
illegally.

The arrests of illegal aliens along the Mexican border, the main area of entry,
initially dropped when the bill was signed in November and, to the surprise of
many Border Patrol agents, the trend has accelerated since then in many areas.

Together with indications that many illegal aliens are departing for Canada and
other countries, the arrest figures, though indirect, offer concrete evidence
that the bill is having its intended effect of deterring illegal immigration by
penalizing American employers who hire workers lacking proper documentation.
Starting June 1, the law will impose criminal penalties on the employers.

The figures vary, but the trend is similar from Texas to California. In January,
arrests were down by 40 percent from January 1986 in the sector around McAllen,
Tex., 44 percent near Laredo, Tex., 55 percent at Del Rio, Tex., 59 percent in
the remote Marfa sector of Texas, 24 percent in the El Paso area and 12 percent
along the California border.

Over all, according to the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington,
arrests along the nearly 2,000-mile Mexican border in January dropped 26
percent, to 97,704 from 131,518 in the same month a year ago.

These figures represent a dramatic and possibly historic turnaround after years
of largely futile efforts to seal the porous border against a rising tide of
foreigners seeking refuge from economic and political ills abroad. Arrests for
one month reached a peak of 167,622 last April. Immigration officials estimate
that they apprehend only a small percentage of the aliens crossing the border
illegally.

The change has come as a surprise to many Border Patrol officials. ''Everybody
speculated that once the bill passed we'd have a rush on the border to get
themselves planted for the amnesty,'' said William G. Harrington, assistant
chief patrol agent in El Paso. ''Actually the opposite happened. We were
averaging 700 to 750 apprehensions a day. Almost the next day it dropped into
the 600's and steadily went down. It shocked me.''

Employer Sanctions Credited

While other factors, such as high river waters in some places and a provision of
the new law that forbids officers to arrest illegal workers on farms without
warrants, have contributed to the decrease, immigration officials mostly
credited the employer sanctions.

''Informants tell us that it's considerably harder for the alien smugglers to
put a load together,'' said Sylvester Reyes, chief patrol agent in McAllen.
''Aliens are unwilling to pop $350 to $1,000 to a smuggler to get them to Dallas
or Denver and be unsure if they're going to get a job up there.''

Even though the employer sanctions, which would impose fines of up to $10,000
for each illegal worker, do not go into effect until June 1, the law appears
already to have deterred both classes of illegal aliens: those migrating to the
interior of the United States for permanent jobs and those who cross the border
daily to take day jobs in El Paso and other cities and return home at night.

'They Do Hire a Bit'

Residents of Juarez, across from El Paso, confirmed this. ''Employers are very
leery about the new law,'' said a 36-year-old Mexican, who identified himself as
Jesus Leon. ''They do hire a bit, but not in large numbers.''

A construction worker by trade, Mr. Leon has been earning money lately by
ferrying other Mexicans across the Rio Grande in a rubber raft.

He stood on the American side of the embankment, holding his raft against a
strong wind with a rope. What did he think of the new law? ''I don't think it's
right,'' said Mr. Leon, adding that he had lived for 14 years, illegally, in
Milwaukee, where he still has a wife and son. ''I paid Social Security and taxes
for 14 years.''

Immigration officials say that the declining trend in arrests extended to
non-Mexican immigrants. These aliens, mostly from Central America, usually
account for only about 1 percent of the illegal aliens arrested.

'Some Reluctance to Depart'

Top immigration officials attribute the decline to a variety of interacting
factors. In part, they say, the law's provision granting amnesty, or legal
status, to illegal aliens who have lived in the United States continuously since
before Jan. 1, 1982, may have altered the traditional practice of returning home
for the Christmas holidays.

''There was some reluctance to depart because if they are apprehended on the way
back they forfeit continuous residence,'' said Duke Austin, a spokesman for the
immigration service in Washington. ''They used to go back and forth a lot
more.''

In addition, immigration officials say the Border Patrol's energies had been
diverted somewhat into drug enforcement. And they say the general uncertainty in
all quarters over how to interpret the new immigration law has contributed to
hesitancy on the part of both patrol agents and their prey.

'It's Business as Usual'

Not all feel the lull will endure. Although arrests in the San Diego sector are
down, Gene Smithburg, assistant chief patrol officer there, said, ''It's
business as usual on the border.'' He attributed the recent drop in arrests
partly to lack of enforcement while the Border Patrol is waiting guidelines on
enforcing the new law.

For example, agents must take steps to be sure they do not expel aliens with a
plausible claim for amnesty under the new law.

''There are still almost as many coming across the border,'' he said. ''We're
just not arresting as many once they get here.''

Arrests in the San Diego sector fell to 47,497 in January from 53,866 in January
1986, a drop of 12 percent. That decline accelerated further in Feburary with
26,355 arrests through Monday as against 53,866 for the same period in 1986, a
decline of 51 percent.

Game at El Paso Continues

While Mr. Smithburg expects arrest of aliens to increase with the issuance of
the new rules for warrants, he concedes the employer sanctions may be working.
''Aliens don't want to pay large amounts of money to be transported up if they
realize it's illegal to get a job here,'' he said.

Indeed, the daily game of hide-and-seek with the Border Patrol continues in El
Paso, according to Gus de la Vina, deputy chief patrol agent for the area, who
supervises 550 agents covering 341 miles of border. While the number of arrests
were way down in November and December, partly because the river was very high,
they are picking up a bit again, as they usually do after Chirstmas.

But for the agents patrolling the border, the law has brought relief from an
overwhelming task. ''We were enforcing an impossible law,'' said Daniel Molina
Jr., a patrol supervisor, as he nudged his green and white van up onto the levee
over which hundreds of Mexicans cross daily into El Paso.

He drove along the chain-link fence that was supposed to stop the flow of
illegal aliens but is now riddled with huge holes, past the rail freight yards
where the aliens jump trains to Chicago and Los Angeles, past a trail forged by
generations of Mexicans on their way to jobs as maids and gardeners in El Paso.

As he drove, clumps of Mexicans waited patiently for him to pass. Mr. Molina
bantered amiably with some of them. At a railroad bridge, with a high steel wall
erected in the middle of it to stop the flow of aliens, an enterprising Mexican
had erected a ladder and was charging a toll. He complained to Mr. Molina that
his last ladder had previously been confiscated. The agent laughed.

Farther on, the agent asked a raft operator, ''How's business?''

Rules for Both Sides

Both sides knew the rules of the game: No arrests would be made until the
Mexicans made a break for the town. High above the border, cameras mounted on
poles eye all movements. In a darkened room near the main bridge to El Paso, a
patrol officer watches 10 black-and-white screens for movement.

Gordon K. Lake, a young agent, was watching the screens Wednesday as three women
and a man started to sprint from the river into a park. He radioed an agent.
Suddenly, with the agent nearby, the sprinters dropped to the grass. Moments
later, the screen showed the agent approaching the quartet, who obediently
walked to the van. Mr. Lake smiled at a job well-done.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Daniel Molina Jr. (page A14); Photo of border officer
monitoring activities of illegal aliens on closed-circuit TV (NYT/Bruce Berman)
(page A14); Graph shows the number of illegal aliens aprehended from Oct.-Jan.
1985, and in Oct. 1987 (Source: U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Services)
(page A14)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 21, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

CANADA MOVES TO STEM INCREASING FLOW OF ALIENS SEEKING REFUGE

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 535 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, Feb. 20


Canada tightened its liberal immigration procedures today to try to stem the
growing tide of aliens seeking refuge, including thousands of Salvadorans and
Guatemalans who have been living illegally in the United States.

Immigration Minister Benoit Bouchard said was abolishing a rule under which
refugees from 18 strife-torn or Communist nations were automatically admitted to
Canada and allowed to work without fear of deportation.

Under the new regulations of the Convervative Government, refugees from those 18
countries will still be admitted but, like other refugees, they will be subject
to hearings to determine whether they can remain.

In another step, Mr. Bouchard said people from 98 other countries whose citizens
need visas to visit Canada would now have to have transit visas if they were
simply traveling through Canada on their way to another country.

Thousands of citizens from these countries have in the past disembarked at a
Canadian transit point and declared themselves political refugees. Once in
Canada, they had a right to a hearing. Under the new system, Canadian consular
officials abroad can exert more control over travelers by screening those
applying for transit visas.

'Increasingly Vulnerable'

Canadian officials have estimated that about two-thirds of those who used a
transit stop in Canada to enter the country were not legitimate refugees.

Mr. Bouchard, declaring Canada's border ''increasingly vulnerable,'' promised to
propose a comprehensive legislative package next month to tighten border
control.

''We want a positive immigration program that permits the orderly entry of
immigrants, but we cannot maintain such a program if we allow abuse of our
refugee program to continue,'' Mr. Bouchard said at a news conference in Ottawa.

Under the old rule, Salvador and Guatemala were on the list of 18 countries
whose citizens were automatically allowed to remain in Canada and work. Mr.
Bouchard said the approximately 4,000 aliens from Central American countries who
have arrived since November would be allowed to stay, as the measure is not
retroactive.

However, citizens from Central American countries now in the United States who
want to come to Canada must apply for refugee status at a Canadian Consulate in
the United States. He assured opposition legislators that the authorities in the
United States have agreed not to deport the Salvadorans and Guatemalans while
their cases are pending before appeal panels.

Opposition legislators, church groups and human rights organizations attacked
the action as a betrayal of Canada's tradition of opening its doors to refugees
and immigrants.

This nation of 25 million people has taken in 5.5 million foreigners since World
War II, including 400,000 refugees. Canada admitted 17,000 refugees last year
and 6,000 in the first six weeks of 1987. But there has been a public backlash
since waves of aliens, asserting that they were refugees but whose motives were
suspected, descending on Canada last year.

The final straw for the Conservative Government was the arrival of Salvadorans
and Guatemalans at the borders of Ontario and Quebec after fleeing the crackdown
on illegal aliens in the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 16, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

ALIENS FACING $185 FEE ON AMNESTY

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1018 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 15


The Reagan Administration, under rules to be issued this week, plans to charge a
basic application fee of $185 for most illegal aliens seeking legal status under
the new immigration law.

However, the fee would be only $50 for children under 18 years of age. The
Government will offer legal status to families in a package deal for $420,
according to a confidential draft of proposed regulations signed by Alan C.
Nelson, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization.

For a family of four illegal aliens, it might cost $700 to obtain legal status
when the cost of medical examinations and other charges are included.

The fees would be part of a program, under which illegal aliens can apply for
legal status, or amnesty, that is to start in seven weeks. Aliens may file
applications from May 5, 1987, through May 4, 1988, at any of 100 special
offices to be established around the country. #4 Million Applicants Likely The
Government expects 3.9 million to 4 million applications for legal status, or an
average of 150 a day at each of the 100 offices. The rules show that there will
be 5 offices in New York State, 3 in New Jersey, 1 in Connecticut, 7 in Florida,
9 in Texas and 28 in California.

To qualify, illegal aliens must show that they entered the United States before
Jan. 1, 1982, and have resided here continuously since then, with no single
absence of more than 45 days. The cumulative total of all absences in that
period must not exceed 180 days.

Under the proposed rules, there would be a $50 fee for any alien who appeals a
decision denying legal status. Aliens would have to obtain medical examinations,
which could cost $60 to $75. In addition, many aliens might have to pay lawyers'
fees, although church groups and community organizations will offer assistance
at little or no charge.

Under the rules, there would be a limit of $420 on the application fees payable
by a family, defined as husband, wife and children under 18.

Documents Are Specified

The rules also list documents that may be submitted in support of an
application, such as pay stubs, income tax-withholding forms, utility bills or
bank statements showing residence in the United States.

The new rules retain many provisions that were criticized as unduly rigid and
restrictive by key members of Congress, including Representatives Peter W.
Rodino Jr., Democrat of New Jersey; Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, and
Jim Wright of Texas, the Speaker of the House.

The Administration says the legalization program must be financed entirely with
aliens' application fees, using no money from other sources. Lawmakers and
Hispanic lobbyists said the resulting fees were so high that they would
discourage some aliens from applying.

The Congressional Hispanic Caucus, headed by Representative Esteban E. Torres, a
California Democrat, proposed that the basic application fee should be $35 to
$50.

Smugglers Do Brisk Business

However, immigration officials, defending the $185 fee, said aliens often paid
smugglers much more than that to help them enter the United States illegally.
The new law authorized the Government to charge fees but did not specify the
amount.

The amnesty program was established by the Immigration Reform and Control Act of
1986, which President Reagan signed Nov. 6. The statute, described by the
Government as the most comprehensive revision of the immigration law in 35
years, also prohibits employers from hiring illegal aliens.

Starting in June, employers will have to ask all job applicants for documents to
verify that they are either United States citizens or aliens authorized to work
in this country.

Under the rules for the amnesty program, illegal aliens may be given a six-month
work permit while the Government reviews their applications for legal status. If
an application is approved, the alien will receive a ''temporary resident card''
authorizing employment in this country, as well as foreign travel.

Illegal aliens who do not apply or do not qualify for legal status could be
deported if they are caught.

Other New Provisions

The rules also include these provisions:

* Illegal aliens applying for legal status must show that they have maintained
''continuous physical presence'' in the United States since Nov. 6, 1986. An
absence of 30 days or less is allowed if it was authorized by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service for ''legitimate emergency or humanitarian
purposes.''

* An alien who submits false documents or makes false statements in support of
an application for legal status may be deported or prosecuted.

* If an alien entered the United States legally before Jan. 1, 1982, but
violated the terms of his visa, he might qualify for the amnesty program if his
illegal status was known to the immigration service as of that date. The
violation would be ''known'' only if it was recorded in the alien's official
file.

* Illegal aliens will be ineligible for legal status if they have been convicted
of a felony committed in any country, or three or more misdemeanors committed in
the United States.

* An illegal alien may not receive legal status if he appears likely to become a
''public charge.'' Aliens may be asked for evidence to show whether they are
''self-supporting,'' whether they have a ''history of employment'' or whether
they have been on welfare.

* Male aliens 18 to 26 must register with the Selective Service System.

First, Temporary Status

Illegal aliens who qualify for legal status will first become temporary
residents. After 18 months in that status, they will have one year in which to
apply for permanent residence. After five years as permanent residents, they may
apply for citizenship.

There is a separate, more generous program under which certain farm workers may
obtain legal status if they worked in American agriculture for at least 90 days
in the year ending May 1, 1986.

After the proposed rules are published in the Federal Register, people will have
30 days to file comments. They should be addressed to the I.N.S., 425 I Street
N.W., Washington, D.C. 20536.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 29, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

One Illegal Alien Every 35 Seconds

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 405 words


To the Editor:

While Congress struggles with the issue of immigration reform, the greatest
surge of humanity ever seen along our southern border is now clamoring to enter
through our ''back door.'' Here in the San Diego Border Patrol sector, with 66
miles of border responsibility, our apprehensions over the last six months
(October to March) have risen by an incredible 48 percent over the same period a
year ago. More than 270,000 illegal entrants were arrested. Of those illegal
aliens, 6,500 were not from Mexico, representing 55 other countries.

In the first 17 days of April, we are averaging 2,451 arrests a day, a rate that
will lead to more than 70,000 arrests for the month. We're encountering an
average of one illegal alien every 35 seconds here in San Diego County. We know
that we're locating, at best, about half the flow of illegal entrants. The rest
are making it past us, soon to join their compatriots throughout California and
the rest of the country.

How long is America willing to endure the insanity of a generous legal
immigration process being totally negated by illegal immigration? Do we truly
have to absorb the world's surplus populations until we become like the
third-world countries from which they come: overpopulated, with our resources
depleted and with massive unemployment?

Here in California, home to the highest number of illegal aliens in the country,
our own Congressional delegation cannot agree either on the need for, or the
measures to achieve, immigration reform. I look at the thousands of people
massed along just 12 miles of our border each night, waiting for darkness to
conceal their northward trek, and I ask, ''Why?'' Why, my fellow Americans, are
we so apathetic? Don't we realize what's happening? How can we tolerate an
unlimited buildup of an exploited population within our borders -a population
living outside the law, a population not participating in our democratic
process?

The message America is sending to the rest of the world says: ''Just make it
across our border, any way you can, and you're home free. You'll get a job;
we'll educate your children; we'll take care of you.'' That message is being
heard in cities and towns, in remote villages and hamlets in scores of
countries. People are responding, and they're coming in a swelling flood.ALAN E.
ELIASON Chief Patrol Agent, San Diego Sector U.S. Border Patrol San Ysidro,
Calif., April 18, 1986

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               June 18, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

At the Border: From Coolies to Demons

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 661 words


If there were a Layman's List of Favorite Demons, fruit and vegetable growers
would probably place near the top. They depend on poorly paid illegal aliens.
Worse, many people think the growers also mistreat them cruelly, refusing even
such minimal decencies as field toilets. No wonder the growers oppose the
proposed immigration reform bill, according to the demonology; it would curtail
the supply of exploitable labor.

If there were a Growers' List of Maddening Myths, first place would surely go to
all such overheated slander. Grower after grower tells of recruiting jobless
Americans by the hundreds to earn $6 an hour to pick fruit. Yet within a few
days, the hundreds have trickled away, leaving only a handful with the stamina
and skill needed now. And in an orchard at harvest time, now is now. No wonder
growers are wary of legislation that would make foreign workers harder to find.

Which vision is right? Both, very likely. It's not hard to find evidence of
exploited workers and rotted fruit. But workers and growers alike would be
served by a new agricultural compromise to the immigration bill. It was devised
by Representative Charles Schumer, the Brooklyn Democrat, and other members of
the House Judiciary Committee, which is now finally debating the bill. The
compromise is flawed, yet anyone who understands the need for immigration reform
will support it. It may be the only way.

Here's one definition of the word ''incentive'': what a Mexican farm worker
earning $4 a week thinks when he hears about American farm wages of $5 an hour.
In response, the immigration bill would create a powerful disincentive. Present
law is cute; it forbids illegals to work but does not forbid hiring them. The
proposed bill would impose sanctions on employers.

Still, since only about one in seven illegals now works in the fields, why give
special treatment to agriculture? One reason is historical. For a century, in
the Southwest and elsewhere, agriculture has been founded on plentiful cheap
labor, first by immigrant Chinese and Japanese, coolie labor. Since World War II
it has come from south of the border. Having long endorsed this system, the
argument goes, society would be cruel suddenly to slam the door shut now.

The other reason for special treatment is this variation: Try as they will,
growers claim, they cannot find Americans to work in the fields. That is both
true and false. True because many growers have indeed tried hard. False because
Americans could be found. ''People will mine coal, or pour tar on hot roofs - if
the wages are right,'' observes Prof. Philip Martin, a California agricultural
economist. But sharply higher wages might doom our agricultural system,
especially as other countries increasingly export fruit instead of workers.

So there are grounds for giving agriculture special transitional treatment. The
Senate version of the immigration bill provides for 350,000 workers for three
years. The new Schumer compromise in the House takes a different course,
legitimizing those illegal residents who could show they worked in American
agriculture for at least 20 days in the prior year. To legalize anyone who
worked only 20 days risks accepting many more workers than necessary. Still, in
principle, the Schumer proposal heeds agriculture's claims and offers protection
from exploitation. A further modification is needed; the 20-day validation could
easily be doubled. But not yet. If immigration reform were delayed again in the
House, it would bleed to death.

What the Schumer compromise offers, beyond its principle, is a vehicle that can
move immigration reform to the House floor - and then to a Senate-House
conference. That's the prudent place for a final adjustment led by Senator Alan
Simpson, the Wyoming Republican, and Representative Peter Rodino, the New Jersey
Democrat. They can be trusted to mortise and chisel together the immigration law
that America badly needs. But they need the lumber.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 1, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

NEW RESTRICTIONS ON IMMIGRATION GAIN PUBLIC SUPPORT, POLL SHOWS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 2764 words


There is strong and growing public support for new restrictions on immigration
despite widespread sympathy for both legal and illegal immigrants as
individuals.

The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll shows that 49 percent of all adult
Americans want immigration decreased, while 42 percent say it should be
increased. When the last major immigration law was adopted in 1965, eliminating
past racial quotas, 46 percent of the public in a Gallup Poll said that
immigration levels should be kept the same or increased, while only 33 percent
wanted them decreased.

The new telephone poll of 1,618 adults was taken to assess public attitudes as
the nation prepared to celebrate the centennial of the Statue of Liberty, a
beacon for millions of immigrants. It found that Americans have contradictory,
ambivalent feelings about immigration.

Ambivalent Views on Work

Even opponents of immigration said that their own neighborhoods would welcome
immigrants. Paradoxically, 45 percent of the respondents said that new
immigrants worked harder than native-born Americans, but 47 percent said that
most ended up on welfare. Further, 49 percent of those interviewed said they
believed that illegal immigration now exceeded legal immigration, which most
experts dispute.

A third of the public said that immigrants took jobs away from Americans. But a
larger group, slightly more than half of all people interviewed, said immigrants
generally took jobs that Americans did not want. Hispanic people and residents
of Western states were most likely to say that aliens took jobs Americans did
not want.

Contrasting with the 49 percent who said they believed that most of the people
who had recently moved to the United States were here illegally, 32 percent said
that most of the recent immigrants were legal. The margin of sampling error in
the June 19-23 telephone survey was plus or minus three percentage points.

Level of Flow Assessed

The Government says it does not know how many illegal immigrants there are. Some
researchers have suggested that the annual flow of illegal aliens might exceed
the flow of legal aliens. But since many of the illegal migrants come and go
across the border, experts say that the number of legal immigrants, 570,009 last
year, almost certainly exceeds the number of illegal aliens who settle here.

Officials of the Bureau of the Census said yesterday that they did not have
figures on the number of immigrants who received welfare benefits. In the 1980
census, they said, the poverty rate for families headed by foreign-born people
was slightly higher than the rate for all families: 10.5 percent as against 9.6
percent. However, the rate was only 7.6 percent for immigrant families that had
been here more than 10 years.

Northeast Views Differ

People in the Northeast were much less likely than residents of other regions to
favor restrictions on immigration. Only 38 percent of people interviewed in the
Northeast said that immigration should be decreased. However, that view was
expressed by 51 percent of people in the West and by 53 percent of those in the
Middle West and the South.

The poll was conducted just before the House Judiciary Committee finished work
on a comprehensive immigration bill designed to curtail the influx of illegal
aliens.

The survey found solid public support for the two key elements of the
legislation: penalties against employers hiring illegal aliens and a program to
legitimize the status of illegal aliens who have been here for several years.

But by a margin of 58 percent to 36 percent, the public opposed another element
of the legislation: special arrangements for farmers to bring in temporary
workers from other countries to pick crops. Western growers of fruit and
vegetables, and their allies in Congress, have insisted on such arrangements.

Senate Acted Last Year

The Senate adopted a similar bill in September. The measures would not make any
major change in the level or categories of legal immigration.

Because much current controversy and the politics of the bill involved Americans
of Hispanic origin, the poll made special efforts to ascertain their opinions. A
larger-than-usual number of Hispanic Americans was interviewed, and interviews
were conducted in Spanish when necessary. Hispanic people were much more
pro-immigration than whites or blacks. They were hostile to employer sanctions.
And they were more likely than whites to believe that most recent immigrants
were here illegally.

The findings of the poll tended to support the warnings by members of Congress
that there could be a backlash against immigration if no additional controls
were adopted. ''The American public will demand a repressive response,''
Representative Hamilton Fish Jr., Republican of upstate New York, said last
week.

'Stress on Employment' Seen

In follow-up interviews with respondents in the poll, reasons for their
seemingly contradictory answers emerged. For example, the Rev. Leroy Vickerstaff
Jr. of Detroit, a Baptist minister, said that immigrants ''helped build the
country.'' But he said his attitude to immigration had become more negative as
he perceived aliens putting ''stress on employment and housing.''

''We once were the melting pot, but other countries have abused our resources,''
Mr. Vickerstaff said. ''The welfare rolls are filled with the names of
immigrants who have little education. With the economy now, immigrants are a
greater drain than a help.''

Barbara H. Kooch of Knoxville, Tenn., said the immigrants she knew personally
were ''a blessing to our society.'' But she said the nation must be ''more
cautious and careful'' in admitting aliens. ''There is a limit to how many can
be absorbed without taking opportunities away from our own people,'' she said.

Economic concerns were cited most often as a reason for restricting immigration.
For example, Howard Jones, 61, a trucker in Ocala, Fla., said: ''Immigration
should definitely slow up till the economy improves. We still have a lot of our
own people hungry, not making a satisfactory living.''

Welcome in Area Expected

Nevertheless, 68 percent of the public said new immigrants would be welcomed
into their neighborhoods. Even among those who want immigration reduced, 61
percent said their neighborhoods would welcome newcomers from abroad.

Members of racial and ethnic minority groups are less likely than other people
to favor restrictions on immigration. Fifty-two percent of whites said that
immigration should be decreased. But only 39 percent of blacks and 31 percent of
Hispanic people favored a reduction. People who identified themselves as blacks
or whites of Hispanic origin were counted as Hispanic, and not as blacks or
whites.

Poorer people and those with less education are generally more eager to restrict
immigration. As family income and education levels rose, people expressed more
favorable views of immigrants, less support for restricting immigration and more
support for increasing it.

Thus, 55 percent of people with family incomes under $12,500 a year said that
immigration should be reduced, but only 42 percent of those with incomes over
$50,000 said that. Of those with less than a high school diploma, 55 percent
said immigration should be reduced. But only 35 percent of college graduates
wanted to reduce immigration.

'Enriching of Country'

Compared with those who failed to complete high school, the college graduates
were more than twice as likely to say that the United States should welcome
immigrants who came with few resources (68 percent versus 31 percent).

For example, Debra R. Vicharelli, a 34-year-old resident of Carlisle, Mass.,
said that immigrants had ''enriched this country'' and that immigration should
be increased. She gained a favorable impression of students from China and India
when she was doing graduate work in physics. Now, she says, she sees many ''help
wanted'' signs indicating a need for unskilled laborers in the suburb where she
lives outside Boston, and she doubts that immigrants would take jobs from
Americans.

The public's first reaction to the issue was also split. Asked what first came
to mind when they heard the word ''immigrant,'' about as many gave positive
answers - such as ''freedom,'' or ''immigrants built the country'' - as gave
negative replies like ''take jobs away''). The Northeast was decisively
favorable, the Middle West split about evenly, and the South and West were
clearly negative.

The Northeast was the only region where a majority of people (52 percent) said
the United States should welcome immigrants who come to this country with few
resources in an effort to ''make a success of their lives.'' The prevailing view
in other regions was that such a welcome was impractical, given current
conditions in the United States. The Northeast was also the only region where
people were more likely to say that recent immigrants contribute to this country
rather than cause problems.

Most Favor Employer Penalties

Here are the poll findings on specific proposals:

* Over all, 69 percent of the people interviewed said the Government should
penalize employers who hired illegal aliens. Twenty percent opposed such
penalties. Support for employer sanctions was strong among union members, who
favored them by a margin of 75 percent to 15 percent. Hispanic Americans, by
contrast, opposed sanctions by a margin of 49 percent to 34 percent.

* A solid 58 percent of Americans said that illegal aliens should not be
deported if they have lived in this country for several years without breaking
any laws. Thirty-two percent opposed this.

* Only 33 percent of the people interviewed said that the Army should be used to
stop the flow of illegal aliens from Mexico if the Border Patrol was unable to
do so. Fifty-seven percent said that using the Army was ''too drastic a step.''

* Fifty-eight percent of the people said that temporary workers should not be
brought from other countries to pick crops. Only 36 percent supported such use
of foreign workers. The proportions were reversed among Hispanic people, with 55
percent supporting the admission of foreign agricultural workers and 39 percent
opposing it.

Support Stronger in West

Support for bringing in foreign laborers was strongest, by far, in the West,
where half endorsed the idea. By contrast, only a third of the people in other
regions supported such a program.

Fifteen percent of the people interviwed said they sometimes worried that
immigrants would compete with them for jobs. This concern was expressed more
often by Hispanic people (26 percent), blacks (29 percent), people with low
incomes (23 percent of those with family incomes less than $12,500) and people
with less education (23 percent of those who did not complete high school).

Recent immigrants are much more likely to welcome new immigrants than are people
whose families came to the United States before World War II. They are also much
less likely to support further restrictions on immigration. Fifty percent of
those whose first ancestor arrived before 1776 want to reduce current
immigration; only 6 percent want to increase it; 35 percent say the rate should
be kept the same.

By contrast, among those whose families arrived after 1941, only 29 percent want
to reduce the current level of immigration; 20 percent want to increase it, and
46 percent say it should stay the same.

Wide Views in Favor of Limits

People who described themselves as conservatives were more likely than liberals
and moderates to support restrictions on immigration. Nevertheless, nearly half
of the liberals (48 percent) said that immigration should be reduced. That view
was expressed by 45 percent of the moderates and 57 percent of the
conservatives.

Immigration is apparently not a partisan issue. Equal proportions of Republicans
and Democrats (49 percent) said that immigration should be decreased.

Despite the widespread desire to restrict immigration, the poll found solid
support for admitting political refugees, especially those from Communist
countries. Over all, 43 percent of the people said the United States should
admit about the same number of political refugees as it does now, and 7 percent
wanted to increase the number. Thirty-nine percent of the public would reduce
it.

Views of Immigrants
PEOPLE WHO SAY                                       White Black Hispanic Total
Most recent immigrants                               32%   38%   48%      34%
contribute to U.S.
Most cause problems                                  46    41    33       44
New immigrants would be                              67    77    68       68
 welcomed in their
 neighborhoods
Most recent arrivals are here                        47    59    56       49
 illegally
Life today is easier for                             47    55    37       47
 immigrants than at the turn of
 the century
Life today harder for immigrants                     25    17    36       25
Immigrants today take jobs from                      34    44    19       34
 Americans
Take jobs Americans don't want                       52    42    67       52
Compared with people born here,                      44    46    52       45
 they work harder
Most new immigrants end up on                        47    48    41       47
 welfare
Government should penalize                           73    59    34       69
 employers for hiring illegal
 aliens
Should not penalize them                             17    26    49       20
Illegal aliens who have lived here                   55    65    79       58
 several years without breaking
 laws should not be deported
Army should be used to stop flow                     35    27    13       33
 of illegal aliens from Mexico
That is too drastic                                  54    65    77       57
Temporary migrants should be                         35    31    55       36
 brought in to pick crops
They should not                                      59    63    39       58
Preference in immigration should go to
Those with skills most needed                        48    54    52       50
 here
Those helped most by economy                         28    32    32       28
 and freedom of U.S.

Based on 1,618 telephone interviews conducted June 19-23. People who called
themselves whites or blacks of Hispanic origin are counted as Hispanic.
Breakdown of 1986 Figures
                                                   Percent who say immigration
                                                            should be
                                                   Increased  Kept at Decreased
                                                              current
                                                                level
TOTAL                                                     7%       5%       49%
Men                                                        7       34        51
Women                                                      7       36        47
White*                                                     5       34        52
Black*                                                    11       41        39
Hispanic                                                  25       36        31
Residents of Northeast                                     8       44        38
Middle West                                                6       34        53
South                                                      8       31        53
West                                                       8       31        51
Liberal                                                    8       36        48
Moderate                                                   8       38        45
Conservative                                               5       31        57
First ancestor arrived before 1776                         6       35        50
Born abroad or from family arriving in                    17       46        29
U.S. after 1941
Consider themselves part of ethnic                        12       40        40
group
Know recent immigrant well                                11       41        39
Many recent immigrants in                                  6       30        55
community, but don't know any well
Family income:
 Under $12,500                                             8       25        55
 $12,500-$24,999                                           5       34        53
 $25,000-$34,999                                           6       36        51
 $35,000-$50,000                                          11       36        42
 Over $50,000                                              8       43        42
Education
 Less than high school diploma                             9       27        55
 High school graduate                                      5       37        51
 Some college                                              8       34        49
 College graduate                                         10       44        35





* Excludes Americans of Hispanic descent.


HOW THE POLL WAS CONDUCTED

The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews
conducted June 19 through 23 with 1,618 adults around the United States,
excluding Alaska and Hawaii.

The sample of telephone exchanges called was selected by a computer from a
complete list of exchanges in the country. The exchanges were chosen so as to
insure that each region of the country was represented in proportion to its
population. For each exchange, the telephone numbers were formed by random
digits, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted residential numbers.

Some interviews were conducted in Spanish, and people of Hispanic origin were
sampled at a higher rate than others to insure that enough of them would be
interviewed to provide statistically reliable information about their views. The
results were then weighted so that they reflected their proper proportion of the
population.

The results have also been weighted to take account of household size and number
of residential telephones and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to
region, race, sex, age and education.

In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ
by no more than 3 percentage points in either direction from what would have
been obtained by interviewing all adult Americans. The potential error for
smaller groups is larger. For example, for either Americans of Hispanic origin
or for blacks it is plus or minus eight percentage points.

In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any
survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 2, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about a New York Times/CBS
News poll on attitudes toward immigration misstated one finding. Of those
surveyed, 42 percent said immigration should be kept at present levels or
increased.

GRAPHIC: Graphs detailing results of latest New York Times/CBS News Poll on
immigration issues (Page A21)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 7, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Vigilantes in Arizona Capture 15 Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 177 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, July 6


An Alabama-based paramilitary group caught 15 undocumented aliens in Arizona
near the Mexican border and held them at gunpoint for an hour and a half until
Border Patrol agents arrived, an immigration official said today.

Twenty members of the anti-Communist group Civilian Materiel Assistance
apprehended the aliens Saturday, about three miles north of the border in the
Lochiel Valley, 30 miles east of Nogales, said Harold Ezell, rgional
commislsioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The paramilitary
group had camped in the area for a week, armed with AK-47 Soviet assault rifles,
American M-16's and other weapons, the group said.

Mr. Ezell criticized the action as bizarre and dangerous. He said that the
United States Attorney's office had declined to file any charges because none of
the aliens was hurt, but that the Federal Bureau of Investigation was conducting
a separate investigation.

Tom Posey, head of the group, said in a telephone interview from Decatur, Ala.,
that the group was merely trying to uphold the Constitution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 31, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

REPORT SAYS U.S. FAILS TO PREVENT DEPORTED ALIENS FROM RETURNING

BYLINE: By PETER KERR

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 615 words


Deported aliens can re-enter the country under their own names because the
Immigration and Naturalization Service does not keep a record at entry points of
all illegal aliens and criminals who have been deported, a new General
Accounting Office study charges.

The study found, for example, that out of a random selection of 87 aliens who
were deported from New York City between 1983 and 1985, the names of only three
appeared in the computerized data system used by immigration inspectors to
identify undesirable aliens at airports and other points of entry.

The study of the program, the National Automated Immigration Lookout System, or
Nails, was done at the request of Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New
York.

Elsewhere, city, state and Federal law-enforcement officials joined with Mayor
Koch to demand more judges and prosecutors and the deportation of all illegal
aliens convicted of narcotics offenses. And immigration officials in Washington
said they were taking steps to speed expulsion of aliens convicted of drug
charges. [Page B3.] D'Amato Assails I.N.S.

The limitation of the immigration computer program ''underscores the failure of
I.N.S. to deal with the most pressing problem, the criminal alien,'' Senator
D'Amato said. ''You wonder, how committed are they to this or have they given
up?''

A spokesman for the immigration service, Charles Troy, said his agency could not
respond to the specific charges because it had not yet seen the report. Mr. Troy
said, however, that he was not surprised that only a few names of deported
aliens appeared in the system, because the agency's policy was to record only
those deportees convicted of the most serious crimes.

The immigration service has come under criticism from Mr. D'Amato and other
officials for not deporting more aliens convicted of narcotics offenses in the
city.

The G.A.O. report, still in a preliminary form, is one of three being prepared
for Mr. D'Amato about the immigration service in New York. It has not yet been
released to the public. But Mr. D'Amato and people involved in compiling the
study yesterday disclosed some of its main findings.

The system supplies computerized information to immigration inspectors,
including the names of people who should be kept out of the country and who are
wanted by the authorities.

Checking at Kennedy

Inspectors at Kennedy International Airport, where more than eight million
people entered the country in 1985, and other points of entry check the names of
entering aliens against those in the system. If a person is detained for further
scrutiny, the alien's name may be checked against another computerized list of
aliens, the Central Index System.

The General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress, said that it
randomly selected the 87 names of deported aliens from 981 aliens deported
between Jan. 1, 1983, and Dec. 31, 1985, and that only three appeared in the
lookout system.

The General Accounting Office staff members also sampled the Central Index
System for 249 aliens convicted of crimes in the United States and deported. The
staff members found that in more than half the cases this second system gave no
indication that the criminal aliens had been deported.

An earlier report, released by the accounting office in March, found that of 200
criminal aliens being investigated by the immigration service in New York last
November, 10 percent had previously been deported, had re-entered the country
and had subsequently been arrested.

If deported aliens attempt to re-enter the United States, Mr. Troy said, the
agency depends on its inspectors to detect their undesirable status through
interviews.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 18, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

MEESE LINKS DRUGS AND ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 13, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 752 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17


Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d said today that illegal immigration and drug
trafficking from Mexico were closely linked and urged the House of
Representatives to approve stiffer immigration controls.

Although less than 1 percent of the illegal immigrants caught on their way north
are found to be carrying drugs, Mr. Meese said, ''The uncontrolled flow of
illegal aliens gives the drug traffickers the ideal opportunity to get lost in
the crowd.''

His statements and those of Alan Nelson, Commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, at a news conference today, illustrated what the Federal
authorities call a critical weakness in the Reagan Administration's new $400
million program for enforcing drug laws at the Mexican border.

Using hundreds of additional Federal officers and new airplanes, radar balloons,
firearms and other equipment, the Administration is beginning a significant new
border program, the most ambitious and expensive in the nation's history, to
stop the increasing flow of marijuana, cocaine, heroin and amphetamines from
Mexico.

Linking of Problems

But as long as four million or more illegal aliens are pouring across the border
from Mexico each year, Mr. Meese and Mr. Nelson said today, it will be
difficult, if not impossible, to effectively slow or stop the flow of drugs.

''It's true,'' Mr. Nelson said, ''that we are emphasizing this now because the
public and the Congress are interested in drugs.''

But Mr. Meese added, ''we would not be doing this if there was not a definite
link'' between illegal immigration and drug smuggling.

The immigration service estimates it will catch about 1.8 million aliens
crossing the border from Mexico this fiscal year, and at least as many get by
undetected.

The United States Border Patrol is responsible for stopping them, and figures
made public today show that the number of drug seizures made by Border patrol
officers nearly doubled in the last two years. The agency estimates it will have
made 1,227 seizures of drugs worth about $150 million when the fiscal year ends
Sept. 30.

Traffickers Hide in Crowds

Although few of the immigrants apprehended are carrying drugs, Border Patrol
officers from east Texas to San Diego say they are increasingly caught in
machine-gun battles with drug traffickers who mingle in the crowds of illegal
aliens pouring north.

In addition, the Drug Enforcement Administration reports that drug traffickers
are increasing their use of immigrants as drug couriers. In recent Congressional
testimony, David Westrate, head of operations for the drug agency, said black
tar, the new and especially potent form of Mexican heroin that is spreading
across the country, ''is smuggled into the United States primarily by illegal
aliens and migrant workers.''

In statistics released today, the immigration service said that, as an example,
90 percent of the people arrested in recent months on narcotics charges in Santa
Ana, Calif., just south of Los Angeles, were illegal aliens.

In a letter to House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., made public today, Mr. Meese
wrote that ''50 percent of all arrestees selling crack cocaine in southern
California are illegal aliens,'' adding ''just last month, at a Border Patrol
check point in San Clemente, Calif., I.N.S. officers found 477 pounds of cocaine
in a pickup camper truck occupied by a Mexican national and an illegal alien
from El Salvador.''

Meese Plea for House Action

In the letter, Mr. Meese asked Mr. O'Neill to put the immigration bill to a
vote. The bill was passed by the Senate but has been stalled in the House Rules
Committee, and Mr. Meese wrote, ''We are running out of time.'' The most
important provision in the bill would penalize employers who knowingly hire
illegal aliens.

If the House approves the bill, it will have to be submitted to a conference
committee, which would deal with differences between the House and Senate
versions. Congress is to adjourn in about three weeks.

Congress has been debating the immigration issue for six years without
successfully passing a bill. Justice Department officials acknowledged that with
today's news conference they hoped to convince the House that illegal
immigration was linked to drugs, now one of the nation's hottest political
issues. That, the officials hope, might jar the House to act.

''One of the best ways to frustrate the flow of drugs into this country is stem
the flow of illegal aliens across our southern border,'' Mr. Meese said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 18, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

LETTER: ON IMMIGRATION;
Illegal Aliens Are Not Entitled

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 385 words


To the Editor:

Like the baseball Mets, The New York Times has a winning editorial record on
immigration. But both are entitled to lose one once in a while. You did ''lose
one'' with your editorial of Aug. 10 entitled ''Illegal Aliens' Health - and
Ours.'' While arguing that the Federal Government should pick up the cost of
medical care for illegal aliens to save money for New York and other cities, you
neglect the fact that the Federal district court ruling granting illegal aliens
access to Medicaid is a dangerous erosion of the Federal Government's ability to
control illegal immigration.

Emergency medical care should be provided to anyone. However, to open up the
Medicaid program to aliens illegally in the United States opens the door to
their participation in other welfare and entitlement programs and provides a
further attraction to immigrate or stay here illegally.

The Senate is already on record as opposing illegals drawing benefits by
including in its immigration reform bill a requirement that states and Federal
agencies participate in a system which provides for verification of an alien's
legal status before granting an entitlement benefit. The House Judiciary
Committee has taken similar action on its immigration bill.

Such a verification program, which is in effect on a voluntary basis in about 16
states and two territories, has already shown cost savings of over $100 million
in a single year and indicates savings of up to $3 billion annually if
implemented in all states and in all entitlement programs. Most important, the
verification system for benefits provides a deterrent to illegal immigration
which is parallel to other deterrents of penalizing employers who hire illegals
and strengthening border enforcement.

Although illegal aliens come to the United States primarily to obtain jobs, once
here they get into welfare and entitlement programs at approximately the same
rate as U.S. citizens. Providing benefits and encouraging their use by illegal
aliens through the granting of eligibility or through failure to verify
eligibility can only encourage greater unlawful immigration and add to a problem
that is widely recognized as being out of control.

ALAN C. NELSON
Commissioner, Immigration
and Naturalization Service
  Washington, Aug. 28, 1986

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 27, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Don't Punish Aliens With Death by Illness

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 196 words


To the Editor:

It is understandable that Alan C. Nelson, Commissioner of Immigration and
Naturalization Services, should be concerned about encouraging illegal
immigration (letter, Sept. 18). But his contention that giving Medicaid to those
aliens would cause ''a dangerous erosion of the Federal Government's ability to
control illegal immigration'' is difficult to understand.

If the Government knows a Medicaid patient is an illegal alien, steps can be
taken to deport that individual. However, while he is in our country, we cannot
as humane people allow him to die, of hunger or of illness. Even convicted
murderers in our prisons are given food and medical aid.

Our immigration laws must be obeyed, but violation of them is not punishable by
death from illness, especially illness that may spread to our own citizens if
untreated.

People who have taken all the risks of entering this country illegally must have
powerful motives to get away from their native lands. Therefore, offering them
minimal care while they are here will not result in ''a further attraction to
immigrate or stay here illegally.''

RENA G. KUNIS
  Bellerose, N.Y., Sept. 18, 1986

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 19, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IN BUREAUCRACY, ALIENS FIND ANOTHER UNPROTECTED BORDER

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 795 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


THE conventional photograph of an illegal alien shows a person wading across the
Rio Grande. To be sure, tens of thousands do so, but there are more
sophisticated ways to short-circuit the immigration process.

Moving against one such method, the House of Representatives voted late last
month to increase Federal penalties for foreigners who use sham marriages with
Americans to gain entry to the United States. The bill, which has a good chance
of approval in the Senate as well, is separate from the landmark legislation
Congress sent to the President late last week, overhauling the nation's
immigration law and prohibiting the hiring of illegal aliens. But the measures
have the same basic purpose: to bar foreigners who are not entitled to be in
this country.

The Census Bureau estimates that 3 million to 5 million aliens live here
illegally, though others put the figure much higher. Many of the aliens entered
the country legally as visitors or students and simply stayed. Most would be
deportable if the Government could find them.

But a marriage to an American citizen automatically makes an alien eligible for
the legal status of a permanent resident, because the unification of families
has long been an overriding goal of American immigration policy. The number of
aliens who gain permanent residence this way has increased dramatically, from
87,221 in 1981 to 124,093 in 1985, and it is expected to reach 140,000 this
year. The Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates that 30 percent of
the petitions filed in such cases involve marriage fraud.

''In some cases, a U.S. citizen is party to the sham marriage,'' said
Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky. ''In others, a U.S.
citizen enters the marriage in good faith, only to find out later that he or she
has been cruelly duped by a person who wanted no marriage, but permanent
residence in the United States.''

Sam Bernsen, a lawyer who worked at the immigration service for more than 35
years, said: ''Marriage to an American citizen cures many immigration problems.
You don't need to wait for a visa number, you don't need a labor certification,
and sometimes you can even get waivers of inadmissibility for such things as a
criminal conviction.''

Immigration officials also suspect extensive fraud in papers filed by employers
and aliens seeking immigrant work visas. Project Strongtree, an investigation in
progress for more than a year, has found that employers purporting to need
foreign workers sometimes did not exist or were shell companies established only
to obtain the labor certification needed for a visa. In other cases, immigration
officials said, the company existed but the job was phony.

Employers often show help-wanted advertisements to demonstrate that American
workers were not available, a condition the law requires. But sometimes the job
descriptions were tailored to the qualifications of a specific alien, or the ad
was written so as to discourage Americans applicants. ''We see all kinds of
convolutions, manipulations and creative writing,'' said John F. Shaw, assistant
commissioner of the immigration service in charge of investigations.

But Federal investigators are swamped with work, so fraudulent petitions of all
kinds - more than 40 types of applications and petitions can be filed by or on
behalf of aliens - often go undetected.

Since 1975, according to I.N.S. officials, the number of petitions the agency
acted upon rose 40 percent, to almost 2.2 million this year. In the same period,
they said, the number of investigators declined 29 percent, to 700. Congress
approved a substantial increase in the agency's budget for 1987.

Even when immigration officials suspect fraud, they often have difficulty
proving it. To win a marriage fraud case, for example, the Government must show
that an alien intended to circumvent the law at the time of the marriage. Under
the House bill, aliens could still become permanent residents by marrying
Americans, but if a marriage ended within two years the Government could revoke
the alien's status and begin deportation proceedings.

Whether they entered the country legally or illegally, aliens often prolong
their stays by using fraudulent birth certificates, drivers' licenses or Social
Security cards, according to immigration officials. In Texas and other
Southwestern states, such documents are readily available for a small price. The
comprehensive immigration bill Congress approved last week sets new penalties,
including a $2,000 fine and two years' imprisonment, for aliens caught using
false identification.

But the lure of America's prosperity and freedom is so great that officials
expect to see many ingenious types of fraud designed to circumvent the new
restrictions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Romano L. Mazzoli, Charles E. Schumer, Alan K. Simpson, Peter
W. Rodino Jr., Dan Lungren and Hamilton Fish Jr. (NYT/Paul Hosefros)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 20, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

SURGE IN BOGUS PAPERS PREDICTED IN WAKE OF CHANGE IN ALIEN LAW

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1494 words

DATELINE: DALLAS, Oct. 18


Immigration officials say they expect a huge market in bogus documents to emerge
soon to help those living illegally in the United States take advantage of or
circumvent the immigration measure that Congress passed Friday.

Already, the officials say, fake rent receipts, utility bills, income tax forms,
driver's licenses, birth certificates and the like are being tailored to the
requirements in the legislation.

In the past, fraudulent documents could make someone appear to be a legal
resident. But the new measure would be likely to create even greater demand
because aliens could use the documents to gain actual legal status and perhaps
eventually citizenship.

The immigration bill, which the White House has said President Reagan will sign,
would allow millions of immigrants who arrived or remained illegally to stay if
they can prove that they have resided in this country ''continuously'' except
for ''brief, casual and innocent absences'' since Jan. 1, 1982. Also, reflecting
an effort to slow illegal immigration, it would for the first time impose
criminal sanctions on employers who knowingly hire workers who do not have
proper documents.

Piles of Fake Documents

Vincent P. Henderson, an immigration investigator in Houston, said: ''Probably
what we'll be seeing now is a switch from just fraudulent immigration documents
to documents indicating that you have been here since whatever date.''

The effectiveness of the law would depend on verification of the documents, a
costly and difficult process.

''We are going to have a new group of individuals creating documents,'' said
Michael D. McMahon, deputy assistant regional commissioner for investigations at
the Dallas office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service for the region
that covers 13 states including Texas. ''There will be a lot more vendors, a lot
more printing of documents.''

He displayed a pile of thousands of fake and altered documents, just a fraction
of such papers seized in the region in recent years. The documents included
altered passports showing Colombian, Salvadoran, Haitian or United States
citizenship, false resident-alien cards and piles of blank forms for birth
certificates and bogus Social Security cards. Numerous official-looking state,
county and foreign seals and stamps that document-counterfeiters use were also
included.

Others believe the law would depress the market for fraudulent documents. Andy
Garza, a former organizer for the Houston Organizing Project, which has
attempted to organize aliens without legal status, said, ''As jobs become more
scarce for them, there will be less coming in, and there will be less of them
having to get ID's.''

Buying Cards at Supermarket

There has long been an open market in bogus documents used to obtain entry to
the United States, then access to public services and jobs. Only Friday, just
hours before the Senate gave final passage to the immigration bill in
Washington, a reporter bought what looked very much like a Social Security card
at the key-making counter in the Fiesta supermarket on Bellaire Boulevard in
southwest Houston. He used the name of the President of Argentina, Raul
Alfonsin, and a contrived nine-digit number and was given a laminated card on
the spot for $6.90.

More sophisticated credentials can be had for a higher price. An
authentic-looking resident-alien card can be purchased for $500 to $1,000,
according to Mr. McMahon. Although the cards are now white, they are widely
called ''green cards.'' A legitimate card allows the holder to live and work in
the United States with most of the rights accorded citizens.

For about $1,000, he said, an alien can buy a packet of documents, including
school certificates, bogus W-2 forms reporting wages paid, baptismal
certificates and such, that then allows the person to apply for legitimate
documents such as a birth certificate and driver's license. These can then be
used to obtain other credentials, like passports.

National Card Was Ruled Out

In the absence of a national identity card, explicitly ruled out by Congress as
a threat to individual liberty, immigration experts say document fraud is
inevitable. Most troublesome are what the experts term the legislation's
relatively loose provisions governing hiring.

Under the legislation, every employer must verify the status of every new worker
by demanding one or more of several documents, all of which are widely faked.
The employer is not required to verify the authenticity of the documents. He may
legally hire anyone presenting a valid United States passport, a certificate of
United States citizenship, a certificate of naturalization, a foreign passport
with a work visa, or a resident-alien card.

But even if the applicant has none of those, he can still be hired if he can
supply just a Social Security card or a birth certificate, plus a driver's
license or state-issued identity card.

Mr. McMahon called this a ''big loophole,'' noting that both Social Security
cards and driver's licenses, even real ones, are easily obtained. While he said
he believed most employers would attempt to obey the law, most cannot be
expected to detect bogus documents. ''This defeats the whole purpose of the
law,'' he said.

Charles C. Foster, a Houston immigration lawyer who was formerly chairman of a
committee on immigration formed by Gov. Mark White of Texas, said, ''If you pick
the two documents most readily available to the person this bill seeks to
discourage, the two documents they're most likely to have are the Social
Security card and a driver's license.''

More Stringent Rules on Status

The provision giving legal status to many immigrants already in the United
States appears to impose somewhat more stringent controls. Various estimates put
the number of aliens who are in the country illegally at 3 million to 12
million, but no reliable estimates are available on how many might come forward
to claim legal status.

Six months after the bill becomes law, a 12-month application period for
legalization will begin in which aliens seeking amnesty will have to prove
''continuous residence'' since Jan. 1, 1982. Congress agreed that the ''best
evidence'' of continuous residence would be ''employment-related'' forms such as
pay stubs or the Federal W-2 form, if available, but the measure authorizes the
Attorney General to add alternative criteria.

However, it calls for ''independent corroboration of the information'' from the
employment-related forms. Presumably, records can be verified through the Social
Security Administration or the Internal Revenue Service.

The means of corroboration is considered essential to eliminating fraud. Though
the immigration service is to be reinforced, the agency's officials fear they
will not have the staff to do this corroboration. There have been discussions
about getting charitable organizations such as church groups to help.

Eligible May Lack Documents

Complicating all this is the fact that for years millions of illegal residents
avoided involvement with the Government, working under the table, trying not to
leave documentary evidence of their existence in this country. Many of these are
now presumably eligible to claim legal status but will have difficulty proving
it. Thus many people fully entitled to legalization may resort to buying fake
documents.

''People haven't really needed them before'' said Prof. Donald Huddle of Rice
University in Houston, an outspoken foe of immigration who has studied illegal
aliens living in the Houston area. ''Now we're going far beyond that. My survey
shows that people fully intend to use documentation to stay here.''

As others have, he suggested a system whereby employers would telephone a
central registry to verify Social Security numbers and other documents. Congress
is studying such measures, but they are not in the immigration measure.

The illicit traffic is profitable to many Americans with Hispanic surnames. Many
such Texans, for example, request numerous copies of their birth certificates
and then resell them to aliens from Latin America at a considerable profit. In
addition, some people seeking documentation take advantage of the fact that
because midwives over the years have delivered so many babies to
Mexican-American mothers, many legitimate American citizens have no birth
certificates.

The immigration service is trying to persuade Texas to tighten its rules on
issuing such documents. But the ingenuity of the forgers knows no bounds.

Among the seized materials at the immigration office here are numerous rubber
stamps meant to lend the appearance of reality to bogus records. Some read;
''Department of State -U.S.A.,'' ''Official Business - Penalty for Private Use
$300,'' ''Declassified'' or ''Robert E. Ezelle.''

The last one is apparently an attempt to forge the name of the director of the
Western region of the immigration service, whose name is actually Harold Ezelle.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Michael D. McMahon (NYT/Phil Huber)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 5, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

MANY QUESTIONS RAISED ABOUT NEW ALIEN LAW

BYLINE: By MARCIA CHAMBERS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 654 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 4


One employer asked what happened if an illegal alien now on his payroll
qualified for legal status, or amnesty, under the new immigration law but his
wife did not. Would the couple be separated in the name of immigration reform?

Probably. But legislators are going to work on such problems in the coming
months.

Another employer wanted to know if an employee, already facing deportation
proceedings by the Government, could qualify for amnesty if he resided here
since before Jan. 1, 1982, the cutoff date set by law. Yes, the authorities
said.  And a community worker wanted to know what to tell an illegal alien who
asked if he was eligible for amnesty although he had committed a crime.

A person convicted of three misdeameanors or one felony, the worker was told, is
ineligible.

These and scores of other questions were raised Wednesday by about 350
businessmen, labor officials, lawyers and community officials who gathered at
the first Immigration and Naturalization Service conference on the landmark
bill, signed into law by President Reagan Nov. 6.

For eight hours top officials of the agency answered questions, elicited views
and sought recommendations from the audience in preparation for writing the
Federal regulations detailing the new law.

Under it, illegal aliens may obtain legal status if they can show they entered
the United States before Jan. 1, 1982, and illegally resided here continuously.
The law also prohibits employers from hiring illegal aliens and mandates
penalties if they do so.

Los Angeles was selected for the first conference on the law because the county
has the largest concentration of illegal aliens in the country. Representative
Edward R. Roybal, Democrat of California, who opposed the bill but now says he
will work to make it effective, asserted, ''If it fails in Los Angeles it will
fail everywhere.''

Harold W. Ezell, the Western regional commissioner of the immigration service,
said the purpose of the conference was to elicit recommendations and seek views
about how best to achieve a ''fair, balanced and effective implementation'' of
the new law.

The theme of the conference was ''a balanced approach,'' and agency officials
repeated the words throughout the conference.

The officials said it was essential to create a new agency image if it is to
succeed. One way the agency could fail in reaching the mandates set by Congress
is if illegal aliens, fearful of deportation or jail, refused to come forward to
find out if they qualify for amnesty.

Illegal aliens have long been the agency's primary targets. Now the agency finds
itself at the center of the effort to try to legalize many of the people it was
once trying to deport.

Representative Dan Lungren, Republican of California, who was a major force in
passage of the bill, told the audience that he understood the credibility
problem of the agency and that the law had been drafted to put some distance
between the agency and the illegal aliens seeking amnesty. Church and voluntary
agencies will assist in the legalization process Outside Groups Required Mr.
Lungren said that in an effort not to ''scare people away'' from qualifying for
amnesty, the drafters of the law specifically required that outside groups act
as intermediaries between the aliens and the immigration service. The groups are
to interview aliens to see if they are eligible for amnesty and help those who
are fill out the necessary forms. The outside groups will be paid by the
immigration service.

One fear, raised in questions, was whether the outside agencies could maintain
trust if they had to turn over sensitive information to the immigration service,
particularly information provided by an illegal alien who did not qualify for
amnesty.

''We want to make this absolutely clear,'' said Mr. Lungren. ''You are
absolutely under no obligation to bring forward information about someone who
would not be legalized.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 27, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

GROUPS PLAN DEFENSE OF IMMIGRANTS' RIGHTS

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 42, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 416 words


Representatives of more than 40 immigrant and refugee organizations and others
met at Hunter College yesterday to establish a network for the defense of civil
rights for all immigrants, including undocumented aliens, in the metropolitan
area.

The representatives agreed to set up a task force to fight against an
immigration bill that is expected to come before the House Judiciary Committee
in the next few weeks. Immigration activists fear that the bill, which calls for
sanctions against the hiring of undocumented workers, will lead to increased
discrimination against ethnic workers in general.

The representatives announced their support of the Cuban-Haitian Adjustment Act
in the House, which would legalize the presence of thousands of refugees. They
also voiced support for another House bill that calls for the temporary
suspension of the deportation of many Salvadoran refugees.

The coalition also decided to organize an education campaign on the plight of
some immigrants to coincide with the Fourth of July Statue of Liberty
celebrations.

'Blaming Immigrants'

It was proposed that during the week prior to the July 4 activities, a ''human
chain vigil'' should be held outside the Immigration and Naturalization Service
detention center in Manhattan.

''Baseball, hotdogs and apple pie, racism and blaming immigrants are the
hallmark of everyday American life,'' said William Tamayo, chairman of the
National Day of Justice for Immigrants and Refugees. Mr. Tamayo, an activist in
the Filipino community in California, delivered a keynote address on the history
of discrimination against nonwhite immigrants in this country.

Marla Kamiya, representative of the Center for Immigration Rights of New York,
said there was a ''growing anti-immigrant sentiment'' in the country. She said
immigration agency raids on working places have increased, Hispanics and
Haitians continue to be denied asylum and patrols have been increased on the
Mexican border.

The Center for Immigration Rights initiated the conference. Among the other
sponsors were the United Church Board for Homeland Ministries, Lutheran
Immigration and Refugee Service, and North Star.

City Councilman Stanley E. Michels noted that Mayor Koch had issued a memorandum
declaring that New York City would not turn over undocumented aliens who sought
city services to the Immigration and Naturalization Service. He added, however,
that the Mayor should pass an executive order in defense of undocumented
workers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 28, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION ENFORCEMENT IS ASSAILED

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD D. MAY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 953 words

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD, L.I.


Last month, Immigration and Naturalization Service agents raided two Long Island
factories, arresting 47 workers as illegal aliens. All but three of them were
from El Salvador.

Officials of the Federal agency said the raid was a routine and straightforward
affair, part of an effort to control the flow of immigrants into the United
States.

''We're predicting that we'll apprehend 1.8 million aliens this year,'' said a
spokesman, Duke Austin. ''The law is not that anybody who arrives here has a
right to be here.''

Groups concerned with refugee rights, however, argue that although such raids
may have indeed become routine, they are hardly straightforward.

Charge of Politics

They say the raids at the Long Island factories demonstrate the extent to which
the agency and the Reagan Administration are playing politics with the lives of
desperate people, discriminating against Salvadoran refugees already here and
using intimidation as a way to discourage others from coming.

''The I.N.S. has behaved ludicrously,'' said Claudia Slovinsky, an immigration
attorney who is defending 11 of the aliens. ''They are clearly trying to get
around extending to these people the rights to which they are entitled'' under
United States and international law.

Refugee-rights groups estimate that close to a million Salvadorans are living
illegally in the United States. The agency says the figure is half that.

The executive director of the Central American Refugee Center here, Joseph Azar,
said 60,000 to 80,000 Salvadorans live in a handful of Long Island towns. The
agency has no estimate for Long Island but agrees that the number is
''significant.''

Magnet for Friends and Families

Part of the explanation for the large number appears to be that jobs are
plentiful in the booming economies of Nassau and Suffolk Counties. As with many
immigrations, the flow tends to be self-sustaining. Those who find safety and
work are a magnet for friends and family, who, in turn, attract others.

As the events of last month demonstrated, however, that safety can prove
elusive. Critics of the Federal agency say its choice of which factories to raid
demonstrates an intent to harass businesses that knowingly employ illegal
aliens.

There are no laws against hiring illegal aliens in New York State although it is
illegal for an undocumented alien to take a job.

Request for Cooperation

The owners of both factories had also refused to participate in ''Operation
Cooperation,'' a Federal program in which employers are asked to provide
voluntarily information about employees suspected of living in the United States
illegally.

''We were set up as an example to others,'' said Arthur Strugatz, of Austin
Productions in Holbrook, a maker of home furnishings and reproductions of
sculpture.

Mr. Austin said that the point was not to make an example, but rather that there
was no need for raids at businesses that cooperate in screening.

''During the raid,'' Mr. Azar said, ''everybody who looked foreign was herded
into the cafeteria, and unless you could prove you were legal, you were not
allowed to leave.''

To Central Louisiana

Those arrested were taken to Manhattan, where, Ms. Slovinsky charged, they were
treated roughly, kept awake all night, given no food and denied permission to
make telephone calls. At 6 o'clock the next morning, she said, they were removed
in handcuffs and shackles to a waiting airplane and transported to a newly
opened alien detention center in Oakdale, La., 200 miles north of New Orleans.

Mr. Austin said that food was distributed and that phone calls were allowed
after arrival at the detention center.

Once in detention, an illegal alien has a choice. He can either accept
deportation or request a hearing before an immigration judge. At the hearing, he
can try to prove that he is entitled under United States law to asylum on the
grounds that he will be persecuted for political, religious or racial reasons if
he is returned to his homeland.

Unlike a criminal defendant, however, an illegal alien does not have the right
to a free court-appointed lawyer. Yet without an attorney, Mr. Azar said, few
Salvadorans can make a persuasive claim to asylum.

Distance From Lawyers

The American Civil Liberties Union charges that the Oakdale center was
specifically built to reduce aliens' access to lawyers, allowing the immigration
service to increase the speed and number of deportations. There are few lawyers
in Oakdale, a town of 7,000 people, the organization says.

Mr. Austin said construction of the $17.5 million, 1,000-bed center was
necessary to cope with a rising number of illegal aliens for whom there is no
longer adequate space in district detention centers. Federal officials said the
nearest center the night of the raid, in lower Manhattan, had 12 spaces
available.

'Where the Clients Are'

All the Salvadorans arrested on Long Island last month have posted bond, either
with the help of refugee-rights organizations or, in the case of the employees
of Austin Productions, with the help of Mr. Strugatz, who sent $22,500 in bond
payments.

Most have returned to Long Island, where they are again living and working.

Over the long run, however, most of the people stand very little chance of being
permitted to remain, according to refugee-rights advocates.

''The disapproval rate for Salvadorans is running close to 98 percent,'' Mr.
Azar said. ''It seems that while those who flee our enemies are considered
refugees, those who flee our friends are considered just illegal aliens.''

''That's just not true,'' Mr. Austin said. ''Of 171 nations in the world, El
Salvador ranks fifth in terms of numbers granted asylum.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Arthur Strugatz (NYT/Vic DeLucia)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 3, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S., ANSWERING UNUSUAL REQUEST, SEEKS ILLEGAL ALIENS IN WESTCHESTER

BYLINE: By LYDIA CHAVEZ, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1261 words

DATELINE: NORTH TARRYTOWN, N.Y.


In an unusual move, officials of this Hudson River village have called in
Federal immigration agents to help with what they perceive is a problem with
illegal aliens.

''The village of North Tarrytown is not going to be a sanctuary for any group of
aliens that want to come here,'' said Mayor Philip Zegarelli in explaining the
move taken on Aug 18.

An Immigration and Naturalization Service agent is now reviewing the town's
police records of arrests for such crimes as robbery, rape, kidnapping, drugs
and burglary.

The immigration service can move to deport legal permanent aliens convicted of
felonies, and to deport illegal aliens at any time.

Immigration officials said they usually are called in to check aliens in border
towns in the Southwest or are asked for help by local police departments in
specific cases. They said North Tarrytown - a village in the town of Mount
Pleasant, about 20 miles from midtown Manhattan -was the first municipality in
Westchester County, and possibly in the state, to ask Federal agents for such
help.

North Tarrytown officials said the village is burdened with a growing illegal
alien population that is pushing up the crime rate and drug use in the community
and taking jobs and housing that otherwise would go to legal residents.

Hispanic leaders, however, who were upset by the village's decision to call in
immigration officials, said no proof exists even to show that large numbers of
illegal aliens are living in North Tarrytown, let alone are involved in crime.

Typically, when a local police de partment makes an arrest, officers do not ask
whether the suspect is a United States citizen. So the names of suspects in
North Tarrytown crimes who are foreign born will be run through the immigration
agency's computers.

''We can see if anything is there and, maybe, help them,'' said Walter P.
Connery, the assistant director in charge of investigations for the immigration
service in the New York region, referring to village officials. Mr. Connery
represented the agency at the meeting at which village officials asked for the
help.

Any suspects turned up by the computer, however, are entitled to separate
hearings on deportation proceedings, and it is unlikely that any mass exodus
will occur, according to the immigration service.

Known for its ethnic diversity, North Tarrytown has the highest concentration of
Hispanic residents in Westchester County. The 1980 Census total of 7,994
residents included 630 blacks and 1,733 Latino residents, nearly half of whom
were Puerto Ricans or Cubans.

Relations with Hispanic residents reached a low point in June when an incident
between a black man and a Hispanic man mushroomed into a major confrontation.
Nine people were arrested, and four police officers and several townspeople were
injured, according to residents and officials.

In an effort to improve relations, minority leaders opened conversations with
village officials, according to the Rev. Christian Santiago, a community leader.
Hispanic leaders, however, were not consulted on the decision to call in the
immigration service and that seemed to indicate a mistrust of the minority
leaders, he said.

''It kind of hurt,'' he added. ''It has a racial connotation.''

Mayor Zegarelli said he realized the decision ''may have created some alarm,''
but he added, ''the Mayor and Board of Trustees is responsible to the village
and not to any constituency.''

Thomas Homan, the village administrator, said local officials set up the meeting
with the immigration service because the illegal alien population had put
strains on the village's resources and caused an increase in crime and drug
problems. He said many illegal aliens are crowded into buildings or apartments
in violation of the village's housing codes.

North Tarrytown officials said they had no specific numbers of illegal aliens
living in substandard housing or involved in crime or drugs.

Economic Concerns Stated

Representative Joseph J. DioGuardi, a Republican from Westchester County who
arranged the meeting, said ''illegal aliens are taking away jobs and housing
from U.S. citizens that need them.''

And Mayor Zegarelli said that, although the village has always run within its
budget, a tax settlement to keep a General Motors plant - the community's
largest employer - open could mean that the village will soon be strapped for
cash. ''Therein lies the problem,'' the Mayor said.

But local officials said they had no numbers to demonstrate any increase in the
5.9 percent unemployment rate listed for the village in the 1980 Census. The
number of people receiving public assistance has decreased by 12 percent, to
1,174 in 1985 from 1,340 in 1980, according to the County Department of Social
Services.

The local school district has reported an increase in Hispanic students this
year to 32 percent of the total student population of about 2,000, from 19
percent in 1981. The jump, however, has not put a strain on the budget or
damaged the district's academic reputation, according to Murray Blueglass, the
Schools Superintendent.

''There is no lack of funds in the school district,'' Mr. Blueglass said.
Moreover, he added, students in the Tarrytown schools are doing better than ever
in the statewide exams.

Mr. Zegarelli said the town needed as many as five new police officers, costing
$45,000 a year each, to deal with a growing crime problem. Despite the coming
budget crunch, he said, the village was already taking steps to hire the first
Hispanic police officer for the 25-member force. A black officer was hired two
years ago, and the force also has a Portuguese officer who speaks Spanish.

The crime statistics for this year show little change over 1985. The police made
981 arrests last year, and 533 in the first eight months of this year, according
to the Police Chief, Richard Spota. The rate of arrests is actually down this
year, to 66 a month, from 81 a month in 1985.

Chief Spota said arrests had increased during the last two years at a gradual
pace and were among the highest in Westchester County. The town, he said, has
had an increase in drug problems associated with crack, the smokable form of
cocaine.

Population Figures Differ

Chief Spota said he believed the immigration service was called in because
Hispanic leaders had said at a meeting he attended with other town officials
that the Latino population had doubled to 4,000, with half of the residents
being illegal aliens.

Hispanic leaders deny this, and Mr. Santiago estimated that, at most, 6 percent
of the Latino population was illegal.

Mr. Connery said the immigration service could do little to help North Tarrytown
combat the renting of apartments in violation of the building code.

Joseph Margotta, the building inspector, said he gets tips from neighbors, the
police or the fire department, then drops by to see if a landlord is renting an
illegal apartment. Generally, these residences are in cellars or attics and pose
health and fire hazards, he said.

''I feel free to call up the police to ask for help, but very often I will go by
myself,'' Mr. Margotta said. Generally, the renters have left by the time he
arrives, he said. During the last year, he has made ''maybe a dozen'' of these
raids, affecting some 50 to 75 individuals, primarily Hispanic residents, he
said.

Mr. Homan said that, while the consequence of enforcing the building code meant
people were dislocated, officials tried to put them in touch with the
appropriate county office for help. ''This is not a perfect world,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Mayor Philip Zegarelli (NYT/Stephen Castagneto and Marilynne
Herbert); photo of The Rev. Christian Santiago and Miguel Jimenez (NYT/Stephen
Castagneto and Marilynne Herbert); photo of Thomas Homan (NYT/Stephen Castagneto
and Marilynne Herbert); photo of Joseph Margotta (NYT/Stephen Castagneto and
Marilynne Herbert)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 7, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

MASSACHUSETTS TO HELP UNDOCUMENTED ALIENS SEEKING ASYLUM

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 50, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 869 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Sept. 6


Massachusetts is about to spend $250,000 to help undocumented aliens obtain
political asylum or prevent their deportation.

While open to aliens from all nations, the Immigration/Asylum Project will focus
on those from El Salvador and Guatemala who say they came here to escape
political violence at home, according to its sponsor, State Senator Jack H.
Backman.

''Refugees from Communist countries almost automatically get political asylum,''
he said, ''while those from equally dangerous right-wing governments of Central
America are almost automatically rejected because the Reagan Administration
supports those regimes and closes its eyes to their excesses.''

On Sept. 17, the Massachusetts Legal Assistance Corporation, the public agency
that has directed the program since its inception in July, plans to disburse
funds to nonprofit groups that have a history of giving legal aid to
undocumented aliens. In addition to providing free legal counsel to individuals
seeking political asylum, these groups are also expected to challenge the
Federal immigration policy for Central America in court.

''We intend to use the courts and the political process to test the bias of the
U.S. immigration policy, which was designed in 1980 to be neutral but which is
used as an instrument of foreign policy,'' said Senator Backman. ''The law
authorizes granting political asylum to people who can't go home because they
fear persecution based on race, religion, nationality, political opinion or
membership in a social group. But the current U.S. policy denies asylum to
Central Americans on the assumption they are here for economic reasons.''

Informing Aliens of Rights

The director of the legal assistance organization, Lonnie A. Powers, said:
''Applying for asylum is the main way to prevent deportation, but it is costly
and complex. Now we can start to fill the shortage of affordable legal
assistance and have a group of full-time lawyers who can assure that the I.N.S.
follows its own rules.''

Mr. Powers contended that some detainees across the country are not made to
understand that they have the right to legal counsel, have been strip-searched,
face unwarranted high bail and may be pressured to sign voluntary departure
forms, an admission of illegal entry that may preclude their return to the
United States.

So far, of the asylum requests decided by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service in the 1986 fiscal year, 75 percent of those from the Soviet Union have
been granted, as against 70 percent of those from Rumania, 7 percent from El
Salvador and 2 percent from Guatemala, according to Arthur C. Helton, director
of the Political Asylum project of the Lawyer's Committee for Human Rights.

Limits on Refugees Admitted

In the previous year, the Federal Government set a ceiling of 67,000 refugees -
those outside their native countries who apply for entry into the United States
- who would be accepted, with 45,500 to come from East Asia and 9,500 from East
Europe and the Soviet Union. Of the 3,000 to come from Latin America, 1,865
places were set aside for Cubans, with none for Salvadorans or Guatemalans,
according to Duke Austin, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service in Washington.

Central Americans who cannot apply for refugee status must enter the United
States and then apply for asylum.

Proving a case for asylum requires written documentation that the home country
persecutes people and that the alien in question faces such abuse upon return,
Mr. Powers said. Evidence is judged by the immigration service in consultation
with the State Department. ''Since the State Department usually asserts that
these aliens are here for economic reasons, the alien must convince the I.N.S.
administrator to accept their word above the State Department,'' Mr. Powers
said.

In Massachusetts, there are at least 20,000 undocumented Central Americans who
arrived here within the last six years, said Frank P. Sharry Jr., co-director of
Centro Presente, an aid group for Central American immigrants, which expects
financing under the asylum project. ''We're thrilled because our legal service
program is stretched beyond capacity with the caseload growing 50 percent a
year,'' Mr. Sharry said. Many of those applying for asylum will resemble a
Salvadoran who arrived in Boston in January 1985 and began to apply for asylum 2
months later. The Salvadoran, who is in this country illegally and did not want
to be identified, said in Spanish that he had managed a fishing fleet in El
Salvador. Here he does cleaning and other service jobs.

''For me coming here was a step down in my standard of living but I came to
protect my life,'' he said.

''In 1979 my roommate was killed when I wasn't home,'' he said. ''The next year
three friends were machine gunned as we left a union meeting. My last two years
home, I received five death threats. Then friends told me I was on the list of
the death squad. I left so fast I didn't have a clear idea where I was going.

''I want to stay here until I can go home because I'm not a gypsy and can't
adjust to another country, language and climate. I've made a small world for
myself here and that's enough for me.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 23, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

EAGER ALIENS ARE SEEKING DETAILS ON NEW AMNESTY LAW

BYLINE: By BETSY PERCOSKI

SECTION: Section 11CN; Page 12, Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 866 words


MANY of the illegal aliens in Connecticut, a group concentrated in Fairfield
County and estimated to number as high as 10,000, want to know how to gain legal
status under the new Federal immigration law. Experts do not yet know what to
tell them.

Myra M. Oliver, who said the number of illegal aliens in the state ''could
easily be 10,000,'' is the executive director of the International Institute of
Connecticut Inc.

''Our telephones have been ringing off the hook since the President signed the
new bill,'' she said.

President Reagan signed the bill, the Immigration Reform and Control Act, into
law this month, but it does not take effect until May 1987.

Mrs. Oliver said guidelines for administering the new program have not yet been
distributed.

When they are distributed, the International Institute will get them. It is the
only nonprofit agency in the state authorized by the Federal Board of
Immigration Appeals to represent clients before the Immigration Court.

The institute runs a central office on Clinton Avenue in Bridgeport and
satellite offices in Stamford and Hartford, with a staff of 12 full-time and 12
part-time people.

''We don't know all the parameters yet for the new law,'' Mrs. Oliver said.
''The operating guidelines will really tell us how to proceed.''

''Right now, when we get calls,'' she said, ''we are taking names and phone
numbers because we haven't received the guidelines yet. We are also planning to
work within the different ethnic communities so people understand the process.''

To gain legal status, an applicant will have to be of good moral character, not
a felon or guilty of more than three misdemeanors and not a participant in the
persecution of others, according to a preliminary fact sheet published by the
National Center for Immigrants Rights in Los Angeles. The new law also specifies
that applicants cannot have accepted public assistance money.

Mrs. Oliver said her feelings toward the new law were mixed.

''It's nice to have an immigration reform bill, but I have some concerns,'' she
said. ''The bill is very pro people who have been completely out of status. If a
person has been in legal status, they are not going to qualify.''

The law allows for temporary, followed by permanent, legal status for people who
have resided continuously and illegally in the United States since 1982.

''Basically I really feel that it's a law enforcement bill,'' Mrs. Oliver said.
''As the director of an agency, I have to abide by our laws, whether I like it
or not.''

Aliens refused legal status can appeal, she said, but those ineligible for
temporary status or who are denied permanent resident status can be deported.

Of the 490,000 immigrants legally taken into the United States each year, about
7,000 come to Connecticut.

''We really don't know how many illegal aliens are in the state,'' Mrs. Oliver
said, ''but I think it could easily be 10,000.'' A large number of Hispanic
people have moved into the Stamford area from New York City, she said. Some
people who are now considered illegal aliens may have originally entered the
country legally as a students, or on visas, she said.

The new law will allow 12 months for people to apply for legal status. Mrs.
Oliver said it was important that accurate information about the new law reach
people.

''I'm very concerned about fraudulent documents, and people getting taken,'' she
said. ''People should realize, for instance that there is only one immigration
office in our state, and that's located at 450 Main Street in Hartford. There
are some people out there trying to make money by offering to handle
legalization for illegal aliens.''

''I only speak two languages,'' Mrs. Oliver said, ''but most of our staff speak
several.''

All together, the institute's staff members can speak 15 languages, and they
have people who know a total of 42 languages, including Thai, Portuguese,
Iranian, Bulgarian and Polish.

A requirement for legal status is a working knowledge of English, or being
enrolled in English classes.

''We don't know how the applications will be administered and whether agencies
like ours will be used or if the state of Connecticut will set up one central
processing office,'' she said.

The International Institute offers a number of services in addition to
immigration counseling. In 1985, they worked with more than 1,000 refugees, and
taught English as a second language to more than 300. They charge fees based on
ability to pay to help immigrants find employment.

The institute was established in 1918 to assist immigrants and their families,
and promote cross-cultural understanding within communities.

''We're an offshoot of a very far-sighted program of the Y.W.C.A.,'' Mrs. Oliver
said, ''and we're also a member of the American Council for Nationality Service,
which is a network of immigration service agencies.''

''We keep our telephone lines open 24 hours a day, and we'll answer questions
about the bill as we have more information,'' she said.

She also said that some churches, other volunteer agencies and immigration
lawyers and the Immigration and Naturalization Service might be able to aid
illegal alien residents in the state.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 23, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

REFUGEE PROBLEM PERPLEXING CANADA

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 34, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1013 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, Nov. 19


Like the United States, which recently enacted landmark immigration legislation,
Canada finds itself wrestling with severe refugee and immigration problems.

At issue is a system often lauded as being more humanitarian than those of many
other nations but is criticized as ineffective.

More than 20,000 people, many of whom have waited for years, are now seeking
refugee status in Canada. About 50,000 foreigners are estimated to be here
illegally, and public opinion is turning against increased immigration.

Population experts say Canada, the most sparsely populated country in the world,
with 25.5 million people or about 1.5 to the square mile, needs to increase
immigration drastically if it hopes to maintain even a stable population in the
next century.

Legislation Introduced Oct. 30

The Canadian Government introduced legislation Oct. 30 to streamline its
immigration process, although not necessarily to toughen it. The number of
immigrants will increase to 125,000 next year, from 115,000, while the number of
refugees remains stable at 12,000.

Illustrating Canada's perceived humanitarianism, the country last month was
honored by the United Nations High Commission for Refugees for ''outstanding
achievement'' in aiding people fleeing oppression.

This generosity to refugees is one reason the problem of illegal immigration
appears less severe here than in the United States, experts say. But the problem
certainly exists, with estimates of the number of illegal aliens here generally
set at about 50,000.

Although penalties are on the books for hiring illegal aliens, employers say
they are seldom if ever checked. Usually a complaint, and often two or three,
must be filed before an investigation is undertaken, said Victor Malarek, who is
writing a book on Canadian immigration policy.

Partial Amnesty in 1970's

In the early 1970's Canada granted a partial amnesty to all illegal aliens who
could prove they had settled in Canada and lived productive, law-abiding lives.
Only about 5,000 came forward. A decade later, when the same thing was done
again, 3,250 appeared.

This year the authorities established a new program for what they term ''illegal
de facto residents.'' They estimate 10,000 of the 50,000 illegal immigrants
could meet the criteria, but they have deliberately not advertised it.

The situation differs from one of sharing a border with an economically troubled
country such as Mexico. Although thousands of Americans who came north to escape
the draft in the Vietnam War stayed on, most Americans come here legally for
relatively short periods, work for American companies and go home.

Rather, the problem is coping with the millions of people, primarily from third
world countries, who use modern means of transportation to escape to a safer,
better life. As the 155 Tamil refugees found in two small boats off the coast of
Newfoundland in August demonstrated, Canada is no longer able to select the
refugees it wants from camps around the world. Easier Than the U.S.  For such
people, Canada is considerably easier to enter than the United States.
Immigrants with forged or slolen documents are routinely turned back at the
American border. Canada, on the other hand, routinely admits them to begin
waiting for a final determination of refugee status, a process that often takes
five years or longer.

During this period, refugee claimants, of whom there are now more than 20,000,
are allowed to work and receive various Canadian medical and social benefits. By
the time their cases are reviewed, most have married Canadians, held long-term
jobs or otherwise demonstrated that they are so much a part of Canadian life
that they should be permanently admitted.

Still, as many as 65 percent go to the United States, according to estimates by
the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The United States authorities say an undetermined number of illegal immigrants
use Canada as a back door to the United States. This, experts such as Mr.
Malarek suggest, may be the reason that higher estimates of the number of
illegal aliens in Canada, often exceeding 200,000, are probably not true,
because so many have gone south.

Canadian Jobs Not Threatened

Employment of illegal immigrants is generally not deemed to take many jobs away
from Canadians because most of them work for far less than the minimum wage,
with no benefits, experts say.

To be hired, workers must have the equivalent of a Social Security card. If the
person has not yet been granted status to live in the country, the card has the
number 9 in front of it. In these cases, the employer must receive written
permission from the Federal Government to hire the individual.

This creates the possibility of abuse on the part of aliens sharing or forging a
card, or by employers ignoring the process altogether. Since so few cases are
prosecuted, Government officials say it is impossible to know the extent of the
problem.

But polls indicate Canadians are tiring of this leniency. A September Gallup
poll of 1,020 people showed 72 percent thought the country was doing more than
enough to help refugees, and 58 percent wanted cuts in refugee levels.

Static Birth Rate

That flies in the face of mounting belief that Canada needs more people than are
expected to naturally reproduce. A 1984 study by Ottawa, for example, suggested
that this nation's static birth rate means 275,000 immigrants, three times the
current level, are needed annually.

But that means major changes in the complexion of Canada, a country that has
systematically excluded such groups as American blacks and Jews fleeing Nazi
Germany. The English and French communities that still reflect this country's
essential demographics - albeit with significant waves of European immigrants,
such as Italians, in the immediate postwar years - would be fundamentally
altered.

''Canadians will have to realize that the vast majority of these people are not
going to come from England,'' Mr. Malarek said. ''They're going to come from
third world countries.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 18, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

2 ESCAPE FROM A U.S. CENTER

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 28, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 230 words


Two inmates, lowering themselves down bedsheets from a fourth-floor recreation
area, escaped yesterday from an Immigration and Naturalization Service detention
center in lower Manhattan, immigration officials said.

One of the inmates was captured almost an hour after escaping the center at 201
Varick Street at 2:45 P.M., according to an immigration service spokesman, John
F. O'Malley. The inmate, identified as Alfred Diaz, a 27-year-old Cuban who is a
convicted felon, was captured by New York Housing Police officers on Madison
Street, about a mile and a half away, according to a city police spokesman, Sgt.
Raymond O'Donnell.  There were no details immediately available on the crime for
which he was convicted. The other escapee was identified as Ricardo
Revuelta-Rosell, a 26-year-old Cuban who the immigration service said is a
convicted felon.

Escapes from the center have not been uncommon. Between June 1985 and early
August 1986, more than 25 detainees escaped.

The minimum-security center is used to detain illegal immigrants for deportation
proceedings, among them criminals who immigration officials have to house there
for lack of space in maximum-security centers.

On August 2, 1986, also on a Saturday, six inmates escaped, also from the fourth
floor, by sliding down sheets from a bathroom window. At least one of the
escapees has been recaptured.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 1, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

WHILE LIBERTY FETE NEARS, 219 ALIENS IN CITY FACE EXPULSION

BYLINE: By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1094 words


Roberto Navarro was sitting on a bench outside the immigration court in lower
Manhattan, an envelope pressed between his hands. As the two guards started to
bring him back to his cell, Mr. Navarro noticed a visitor, a stranger. He passed
the envelope to him.

Inside, written in pencil on high-school binder paper, was a story titled ''The
Immigrant.'' The tale was Mr. Navarro's own: a young Salvadoran sneaks into the
United States, makes his way to New York, travels to the Catskills on the rumor
of work, runs out of money and is arrested for stealing a bicycle. The story
ends where Mr. Navarro is - in the Immigration and Naturalization Service
detention center, waiting to be deported.

''I was ready for the sentence of being illegal,'' Mr. Navarro wrote in ''The
Immigrant.'' ''Hours and days were very long, and all the dreams that I wanted
to realize were beginning to crumble. Everything was lost for me. The only thing
to do was wait for the time to pass and board the plane back.''

As America prepares to celebrate the Statue of Liberty's centennial, and with it
the nation's immigrant heritage, 4,800 aliens are being detained by the Federal
Government and face a forcible return to their homelands.

Some 219 of them reside, however briefly, in the detention center at Varick and
Houston Streets in Manhattan. They are from countries from Afghanistan to Zaire.
They range from aliens charged solely with entering the United States illegally,
to those who slipped into the country specifically to deal in drugs or commit
other crimes, to those who entered correctly and then committed the acts that
may cost them a future in America.

''You have the hard-working man who's supporting his family, working two or
three jobs for $2 an hour, and gets caught in a raid,'' said the Rev. Robert
Vitaglione, a Brooklyn Roman Catholic priest who represents many of the
detainees in immigration proceedings. ''And you have people whose rap sheets
would reach from here to the World Trade Center and back. Murders, rapists,
arsonists - the scuzziest of the scuz.''

Still, after working with detainees for 11 years, Father Vitaglione finds that
his sympathies decidedly lie with the detainees. In this week, particularly, he
has felt anger and frustration.

''Outside of Liberty Weekend, the sentiment in this country is so against the
alien,'' he said. ''There's talk of new immigration laws. You hear phrases like,
'The reservoir's empty.' It's just not reflective of the spirit this country was
built on.

''America's still No. 1. I mean, nobody's trying to get into Russia. Nobody's
trying to get into Cuba. But just because we're No. 1 doesn't mean we can't be
better.''

A Job to Do

For the employees of the detention center, many of whose names bespeak immigrant
backgrounds, the issue is not moral or sentimental but legal. ''We were all
hired to enforce the immigration laws,'' said Elizabeth Herskovitz, the deputy
assistant director for deportation. ''And that is what we do.''

And so the work proceeds. The aliens are arrested and incarcerated. Their cases
go before a judge. Some get to stay, some must go.

Carmen Perralta was seized by the immigration service on June 23 at Kennedy
International Airport. He had a passport with a valid visa, but the authorities
said the document showed signs of tampering. It appeared that another photograph
had once been used instead of Mr. Perralta's.

''This is embarrassing,'' said Mr. Perralta, who worked as a truck dispatcher in
the Dominican Republic. ''It's the first time I've been in trouble. I've been a
law-abiding person. I'm 35 years old.''

'I've Been Praying'

It has also been frightening. When Mr. Perralta first entered the detention
center and got the standard yellow coveralls, he thought he would be held there
forever. Even assured that his stay would be quite temporary, he felt afraid of
the career criminals around him.

''The immigration officers warned me it was very rough,'' Mr. Perralta said.
''I've been afraid. But I haven't been hurt yet. I've been praying.''

Mr. Perralta's case remains to be heard. At this point, he said, he would gladly
take deportation over the fears and the loss of face. ''Right now,'' he sighed,
''right now.''

Ramino Soto Uribe had slightly better luck. He was able to enter the United
States from his native Venezuela on a six-month tourist visa. Then, he simply
overstayed the official welcome, working as a car painter in Paterson, N.J.

''I was looking for a future, for a chance to progress, for a place to make
roots,'' said Mr. Uribe, who is 35.

But a few weeks ago, local police and immigration officials went to the
apartment Mr. Uribe shared with several Colombian friends. They found marijuana
and a few of Mr. Uribe's pay stubs, with the address of his job. There they
arrested him. Now he faces deportation on two counts - exceeding the terms of
his visa and a charge of possession of marijuana.

Liberty on Television

Mr. Uribe is fighting to remain in the United States. ''It would be a horrible
thing to leave in such a horrible way,'' he said.

It also would be an ironic one, he noted. Inside the detention center, Mr. Uribe
said he had followed the coverage of the Statue of Liberty centennial.

''I would love to be at that celebration,'' he said. ''It's a contradiction to
be watching it on TV from this place.''

Of the detainees in the Manhattan center, Charles Alfonso is one of those who
had the greatest chance of making it in America. He arrived from Cuba in the
1980 Mariel boatlift, and after nine months in an Arkansas refugee camp, he had
legal alien status.

He made a home with several Cuban friends in Newburgh, N.Y., and he worked as a
handyman, a porter and a dishwasher. Then, in January 1984, he was arrested for
the attempted rape of a 6-year-old girl.

He served two years in state prison on the charge. On the day he was released,
he was transferred to the immigration service detention center in Manhattan to
face deportation. His case is to be heard Aug. 20.

''If I go back to Cuba, they will put me in jail because I left,'' said Mr.
Alfonso, who is 31. ''It will be worse than here.'' He considered for a moment.
''Maybe.'' In one sense, Father Vitaglione said, Mr. Alfonso is rare among the
criminal detainees. ''A lot of these guys are so used to prison,'' the priest
said, ''that remorse is not something they acknowledge.''

Mr. Alfonso does. ''I know I did something wrong, against the law,'' he said.
''So I'm not disappointed in my country. I'm disappointed in myself.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 19, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

DISTURBANCE ERUPTS AT DETENTION CENTER AFTER 2 INMATES FLEE

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 290 words


The police, firefighters and immigration officials quelled what one official
called ''a small disturbance'' yesterday involving Cuban inmates at the Federal
Immigration and Naturalization Service detention center in lower Manhattan,
where two prisoners had escaped a day earlier.

The disturbance began about 11:20 A.M. when about 70 Cuban inmates on the fourth
floor of the building at 201 Varick Street became agitated, according to a
deputy district director with the immigration service, James A. Jasey. About 90
people were being held at the center when the disturbance began.

No injuries were reported in the incident. There was only minor smoke and water
damage to the fourth floor of the minimum-security center.

Mr. Jasey, who cautioned against citing a specific cause, said the incident
might have stemmed from anxiety over a possible transfer of some inmates to a
Federal prison in Atlanta.

He also said the disturbance might have been caused by the return Saturday night
of Alfredo Diaz, 26 years old, one of two men who escaped earlier in the day by
climbing down a bedsheet from a fourth floor window. The second prisoner,
Ricardo Revuelta-Rosell, 26, had not been captured.

Senator Alfonse D'Amato has often been critical of the security at the center,
where at least 27 prisoners have escaped since June 1985. The center is used to
detain illegal immigrants for deportation proceedings. Some of the detainees are
suspected criminals for whom there is no space at maximum-security centers.

Mr. D'Amato announced yesterday that immigration officials will move 50 of the
Cuban prisoners tomorrow to the maximum-security Federal prison in Atlanta. The
remaining 20 Cuban prisoners will be moved in 10 to 14 days, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 26, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Fear Reigns at Refugee Detention Camp

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 409 words


To the Editor:

For four days last month, I worked in the offices of Ecumenical Immigration
Services in Oakdale, La., and visited the new $17 million Federal detention
center described in your news story about the refugee-detention report by the
Lawyers Committee for Human Rights and Helsinki Watch (July 1). I attended
interviews with almost a dozen refugees, as well as three court hearings, and
found the refugees as frightened as the report describes.

The disgrace about the 900-bed Oakdale facility is that it has been placed in an
extensive tract of pine forest two hours from the nearest public transportation
and four hours from trained immigration lawyers. (It is the only Immigration and
Naturalization Service facility administered by the Bureau of Prisons.) One
Palestinian was transferred to Oakdale before his New Orleans attorney could
meet him for the first time. The lawyer had driven four hours early in the
morning to represent his client, and he threatened to tie up the case for years
with demands for a jury and with appeals. If returned to Jordan, it seemed to
me, this embittered young man, shaken by the treatment he was receiving in the
United States, would be a prime recruit for terrorism.

Still, he was lucky. The Salvadorans and Guatemalans I met cannot afford lawyers
and appeals. They are not even being given the name of Ecumenical Immigration
Services staff members who are there to help them, as is required by law. Still,
word circulates around the hot and dusty recreation yard, and one lawyer,
several paralegals and an office manager work seven days a week, generally until
midnight, to keep up with the hearings that begin at 8 A.M. Ecumenical
Immigration Services is outgunned by the I.N.S. plan to have 8 judges and 16
prosecutors process 35,000 illegals a year.

A World War II memorial in Oakdale commemorates Sgt. Leroy Johnson, who died
defending, among other things, ''freedom from fear.''

Fear was the most prominent and palpable emotion in the interviews and courtroom
at Oakdale. But as I wonder what has gone wrong in North America, I shall also
spend many hours in the months ahead trying to persuade churches and synagogues
to put up the average $2,000 bond to release these confused people while their
political asylum papers are processed.
CYNTHIA BROWN DWYER
Williamsville, N.Y., July 2, 1986

The writer spent nine months in an Iranian prison in 1980-81, during the hostage
crisis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 4, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

D'AMATO, CITING ESCAPES, ASSAILS IMMIGRATION AIDE

BYLINE: By ROBERT O. BOORSTIN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 804 words


Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato called yesterday for the resignation of the city's
top immigration official after a Saturday night breakout by six immigrants from
a Federal detention center in lower Manhattan.

More than 25 prisoners have escaped since June 1985 from the center at 201
Varick Street near Houston Street. The police said the six immigrants slid down
bedsheets after climbing out of a fourth-floor bathroom window.

The escapees, an Ecuadorean charged with attempted murder and five Cubans, were
still at large, the police said yesterday.

Senator D'Amato, Republican of New York, said there had been three previous
escapes in the last nine months from the same area of the fourth floor. He
called the local immigration service operation ''absolutely deplorable'' and
called on the district director for the eastern portion of New York, Charles C.
Sava, to resign.

National Pattern Cited

Attempts to reach Mr. Sava and other local immigration officials were
unsuccessful, and immigration service guards in the lobby of the Varick Street
building refused to comment.

A spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Duke Austin, said
the escapes were symptomatic of a national pattern of trouble at Federal prisons
and detention centers caused by criminals among the group of 125,000 Cubans who
came to the United States in a 1980 boatlift from the Cuban fishing port of
Mariel.

Standing on the King Street side of the building, the broken window apparently
used by the escapees behind him, Senator D'Amato said that about 60 Marielitos,
as the Cubans who were a part of the boatlift are called, were among the
approximately 170 people held in the center. He said the Cubans should be
transferred to maximum-security prisons.

Mr. Austin said in a telephone interview from his home in Maryland that about
2,800 Marielitos were being detained. His agency has to hold about 500
Marielitos in minimum-security prisons like the one in the Varick Street
building because other prisons and detention centers are already full, Mr.
Austin said. The building also houses offices of other Federal agencies.

Detainees Held Elsewhere

About 1,800 Cubans are being held in the Federal maximum-security penetentiary
in Atlanta, which is filled to capacity, and the remaining 500 detainees are in
local, county and state jails, Mr. Austin said.

Mr. Austin said he thought that Mr. Sava, a former associate commissioner of
enforcement for the agency who has held his current position about four years,
would not want to respond to Mr. D'Amato's comments.

Mr. Austin said that the New York center, which opened in 1984, had ''had more
escapees than any other facility'' the immigration service used to detain those
awaiting deportation. The Cuban Government has refused to take back the
Marielitos in detention.

Outside the building, pieces of insulation apparently used by the escapees to
prevent cuts from pieces of the broken glass pane were still visible.
Scaffolding directly below the window was apparently used to help the escapees
get to the street.

Inside the lobby, a uniformed guard from Citywide Security Services, a private
Brooklyn concern that sup-plies guards on contract to the immigration service,
said that a guard had been posted inside the bathroom since the escape.

When Senator D'Amato, accompanied by aides and a group of journalists, tried to
enter the fourth floor of the building, he was kept waiting by guards in the
lobby of the building for more than 30 minutes. The Senator tried to contact
immigration officials but was unsuccessful.

''This is absolutely incredible; no one is in charge here,'' Mr. D'Amato said
before leaving the building.

Police Awaiting Photographs

Mr. Austin said visitors were not generally permitted to bring journalists into
detention facilities. ''The people there were certainly not prepared for
unscheduled visitors to come in,'' he added.

The police identified the escapees as Mesa Alonso, 30 years old, Silva Blanco,
29, Imedeios J. Leyua, 27, Carlos Rafael, 27, and Batista Rodriguez, 29, all of
Cuba, and Edgar Torres, 28, of Ecuador.

Mr. Torres was held on charges of attempted murder; Mr. Rafael was under arrest
on drug trafficking charges, and Mr. Blanco was being held on a burglary charge,
the police said. The charges against the other men could not be determined.

A police spokesman, Sgt. Ron Severin, and Senator D'Amato said the immigration
service had not provided the New York City police with sketches or photographs
of the escapees.

Mr. Austin said that one of the first things agency officials did when an escape
occurred was provide details to the local police. He said he could not comment
on the specific circumstances and communications between his agency and the
police about Saturday night's breakout.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Senator Alfonse D'Amato with guard (NYT/Dith Prath)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 6, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

New York Immigration Head To Keep Job, D'Amato Is Told

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 139 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 5


New York City's top immigration official will remain in his post despite a
recent rash of escapes from a Federal detention center in lower Manhattan, the
Federal Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Alan Nelson,
told Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato.

In a 90-minute meeting today, Mr. Nelson voiced his support for the official,
Charles C. Sava, according to Mr. D'Amato and a spokesman for the immigration
service. Mr. Sava is the agency's district director for the eastern portion of
New York.

Mr. D'Amato had called for Mr. Sava's resignation Sunday after six inmates had
escaped from the Federal detention center on Varick Street at Houston Street
Saturday night.

A spokesman for the immigration service, Duke Austin, said Mr. Nelson had told
Mr. D'Amato that he felt Mr. Sava was doing an excellent job.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 9, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

FOR MANY VISITORS, FIRST VIEW OF U.S. IS A LINE

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1086 words


Foreign visitors arriving at Kennedy International Airport are being forced onto
huge lines for as long as four hours to reach Immigration inspectors, according
to immigration officials and airline representatives.

Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service attribute the delays to
budget-induced shortages of inspectors, tighter security measures and increased
air traffic.

Although long lines are a seasonal hazard in many popular tourist destinations,
airport and airline officials say the congestion for incoming foreigners at the
nation's premier foreign gateway is unequaled in their experiences. American
citizens, by contrst, are waved through Immigration and must only show their
passports to Customs Service agents for usually cursory baggage inspections.

And at a time when a fear of terrorism has prompted a tourist drain in Europe
and elsewhere, Americans face little wait and sometimes even expedited
immigration procedures.

''We have never experienced worse delays anywhere in the world,'' said John
Bastable, senior vice president of the Irish carrier Aer Lingus, one of 12
European flag carriers that have protested to Federal and local officials in
recent weeks. The other airlines, acting with Aer Lingus as the European North
Atlantic Carriers, are Air France, Air Portugal, Alitalia, Finnair, Iberia, KLM,
Lufthansa, Olympic, Sabena, SAS and Swissair.

''It takes half as long to get into the United States as to fly from Europe,''
Mr. Bastable said. According to one recent complaint, an Air India flight landed
at Kennedy Airport on June 24 at 3:30 P.M., but the last passenger did not get
through Immigration until 7 P.M. Guyana Airways passengers on June 29 took from
1:30 P.M. to 4:55 P.M. to get through.

Normally, it might take a plane load of up to 500 people about half an hour to
go through immigration, in which passengers would be questioned about the
purposes and destinations of their visits. Travelers from certain trouble spots,
such as the Middle East, might be questioned at greater length.

A survey by Swissair found that their arriving passengers in May waited an
average of 1 hour and 35 minutes to reach the Immigration booth, and that some
passengers waited as long as 3 hours and 35 minutes. Peter Schertenleib,
Swissair's station manager for New York, said he had seen delayed passengers
fainting in line.

Airline officials emphasized that these were not just normal delays and that
major gateway cities outside New York did not have similar problems.

''We serve Boston and Chicago, but this mess is happening only at Kennedy,''
said Mr. Schertenleib of Swissair, which recently felt compelled to complain to
the State Department.

Jean de Reynies, Air France's station manager at Kennedy Airport, said that the
police had to be called to administer oxygen to at least one passenger and that
others had become ill waiting for processing. Many others miss their connecting
flights.

''It's creating a bad image of New York and the United States,'' he said.

Elmer Hasker, the Immigration Service's assistant regional commissioner for
examinations and inspections, said: ''There is no denying the problem. We do
have some delays of two to four hours on the extreme.''

Mr. Hasker, who is based in the regional headquarters office in Burlington, Vt.,
attributed the congestion to a combination of factors. He said the Immigration
Service had to absorb a budget cut of $25.5 million, which forced a hiring
freeze. As a result, he said, retiring inspectors were not replaced, dropping
the number of inspectors assigned to Kennedy to 120 early this year from 160
last year. Since then, he said, 29 temporary inspectors were added to the
Kennedy force.

He said additional financing had recently been made available to hire 11 or 12
more temporaries.

Meanwhile, Mr. Hasker said, air traffic was up an estimated 5 percent over last
year. Moreover, he said, many of the airlines continue to bunch their flights
for arrival here in the late afternoon to make connections easier. Carriers have
also added morning arrivals that require stretching the inspection force to be
present then as well.

Increased Security Measures

Increased security measures have placed additional demands on the Immigration
staff, he said. Arriving foreigners, who in previous years might have been waved
through with a few quick questions, are now subject to more intensive
questioning, while inspectors check to see if their names are on a list of
potential security risks.

''We realize the problems the airlines have, but the American people have made
security a top proiority,'' Mr. Hasker said. ''We do our absolute best given the
resources we have.''

At Kennedy Airport, the Immigration Service's acting area port director, Mary
Ann Gartner, said that on Monday 2,100 passengers arrived within an hour at the
East Wing of the consolidated International Arrivals Building. At the same time,
she said, passengers were also arriving at the West Wing section and at the six
other airline terminals such as Pan American World Airways and Trans World
Airlines, stretching her forces thin.

''The inspectors couldn't get out of their booths for five or six hours at a
stretch,'' she said.

But she said she sympathized with the passengers too. ''They're upset; I can't
blame them,'' she said. ''I've been referring all the complaints to the regional
office.''

Long Line of Recent Arrivals

One afternoon last week, the line of arrivals, four deep, stretched from the
glass and wood Immigration booths, down a long airport corridor and around the
corner out of sight.

''This is pretty good,'' said Ms. Gartner, noting that the wait would probably
total less than an hour.

The travelers, who had just come off a Japan Air Lines flight from Japan, waited
patiently, some accepting free cups of juice from a welcome wagon of the Port
Authority of New York and New Jersey.

''This is O.K.; last time I waited one hour,'' said Yuji Nishiyama, a salesman
for the Sharp Corporation from Osaka as he and his bride, Sae, awaited their
turn for the moment or two at the booth.

Mr. Hasker said staff shifts might make some additional inspectors available to
ease the crush, but he acknowledged it would be difficult because the shortages
were everywhere.

Alfred Graser, the Port Authority's manager of public services, said additional
inspectors were vital.

''If we can't attain the staffing level of last summer,'' he said, ''we're going
to have a serious problem.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of passengers in line at Kennedy Airport (NYT/Cyrena Chang)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 22, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

DREAMS OF CITIZENSHIP RIDE ON DELUGE OF MAIL

BYLINE: By ESTHER B. FEIN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 959 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 21


Just seconds before midnight, the countdown began Tuesday: ''Nine, eight, seven,
six, five, four three, two, one.''

And suddenly, like confetti on New Year's Eve, hundreds of letters, some
squeezed and kissed for good luck, soared through the air, floating until they
landed atop thousands of other letters in a bin outside the main post office
here.

The letters had been written by people from 36 countries or territories, each
seeking a one-time-only chance to avoid years of red tape to get a green card,
and with it the opportunity to become a United States citizen in five years.

Ten thousand citizens of countries who have been ''adversely affected'' by past
American immigration laws will receive the visas on a first come, first served
basis. The special provision was part of the immigration overhaul approved by
Congress last October.

By midday today, a spokesman for the State Department said more than 250,000
letters had been received.

Reasons for Seeking Visas

In one envelope was Olga Szymanski's wish to earn enough money here as a maid so
that her husband and son could join her from Poland. In another, was Birgit
Noh's attempt to stay in her job in New York City and not have to return to West
Germany. Still another held Budi Pramano's hopes of freeing his family from
poverty in Indonesia, and bringing them here for a fuller life.

Ordinarily, applying for citizenship is complex and cumbersome. Each year
270,000 immigrant visas are granted in seven classifications, including victims
of political torture and people with skills needed in this country. Those in the
seventh category, nonpreference, have little hope of getting permanent residence
in this country.

It is under that nonpreference category that the 10,000 visas will be allocated.
Half of the visas are to be issued this fiscal year, ending Sept. 30, and half
the next.

The State Department announced early this month that it would register, ''in
strict chronological order,'' applications received at the District of
Columbia's Brentwood Avenue post office between Jan. 21 and Jan. 27.

Eager to improve the chance that theirs would be among the first 10,000 to be
slotted in the State Department's mailbox, about 200 people waited outside the
post office for the stroke of midnight, then cast their letters and their lots
into the postal service bins.

People laden with letters drove up to the remotely located post office in
limousines, taxis and automobiles. Some came with beach chairs and thermoses
brimming with hot coffee. Others found a pay phone and ordered pizza. Heavily
accented English and the cadence of different foreign languages mingled in the
crisp night air.

Among those gathered, Michael Lalonde of Windsor, Ontario, took the volume
award, for licking, sealing and stamping 6,000 letters all on behalf of his own
application.

Thomas Ho, an attorney, took the long distance prize for traveling from Honolulu
with close to 700 letters for 35 of his clients. Keith O'Malley, an attorney,
won in the long distance category, international division, for flying in from
Ireland on Sunday, dividing the cost of his air fare among the 700 clients who
gave him letters to post.

'Why Not Try?'

The candor award went to Mohamed Talbi, a native of Algeria who is now a United
States citizen. Mr. Talbi said his brother, Abdel Krim, ''does not need to be
here'' to escape poverty or political persecution, but since the program offered
him a chance, ''Why not try?''

Even as the hour of midnight drew near, Mr. O'Malley, himself a dual citizen of
Ireland and the United States, was bent over his attache case, folding letters
and scrawling NP-5, P.O. Box 96097, Washington, D.C. 20090-6097, across the
envelopes.

The idea behind the ''grab bag visas,'' as some have dubbed the program, was to
correct imbalances in immigration patterns by issuing 5,000 visas a year for two
years - above the 270,000 annual limit - to people from countries that have
shown a decrease in the number of immigrants admitted to the United Staes.

The State Department determined that 36 countries and territories had been
''adversely affected'' by previous immigration laws. They are Albania, Algeria,
Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Bermuda, Britain and Northern Ireland, Canada,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, East Germany, West Germany, Finland, France, Gibraltar,
Guadeloupe, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein,
Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, New Caledonia, Norway, Poland, San Marino,
Sweden, Switzerland, Tunisia and the Soviet republics of Estonia, Latvia and
Lithuania.

Origin of Special Category

The provision was introduced by Representative Brian J. Donnelly, a Democrat
from Massachusetts, but it is widely believed to have been a pet project of
Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., the former Speaker of the House of Representatives, whose
concern for Ireland is well-known.

''Everyone knew Tip would smile more favorably on the immigration bill if this
were included,'' said Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat who
is on the immigration subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee.

The law, and the countries selected, have been criticized by lawyers and human
rights groups, who say the list may redress past imbalances, but that it is
blind to current ones.

Many of the letters received today were posted by several hundred people who
stood outside the post office on Brentwood Road late Tuesday night, hoping to
increase the chances that their letters would be among the first 10,000.

''All you can do is say three Hail Marys and three Our Fathers and throw the
letters in,'' said Michael Maggio, an immigration lawyer from Washington. ''God
will play a larger role in this than a lawyer.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of applications for special visas being dropped into a mail cart
(NYT/Paul Hosefros)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 21, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

NEW LAW LEAVES IMMIGRANTS CONFUSED AND FEARFUL

BYLINE: By LYDIA CHAVEZ

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 903 words


Whether Frank, a 24-year-old Salvadoran, becomes a United States citizen may
well depend on the memory and honesty of the man who employed him at a small
Bronx factory in 1980. Frank flew to New York last week from his home in San
Francisco hoping to find his former boss.

Alejandro, a 42-year-old Guatemalan who lives in Brooklyn, arrived here two
years ago. With the new immigration bill, he spends his time turning over his
options. Should he flee to Canada or take his chances here?

In Hempstead, L.I., a group of Salvadorans working for a factory gave several
hundred dollars each to a lawyer who promised amnesty for all. They became
suspicious after the lawyer returned for further payments.

Confusion and Desperation

These stories, told by social service workers and immigrants who declined to be
identified, reflect the confusion and desperation of immigrants across the
country as they attempt to come to grips with the nation's sweeping new
immigration law and escape abuses by employers and lawyers who sometimes exploit
their fears. Their task is all the more difficult because official information
on the intricacies of the new law is only now starting to appear.

Confusion is so great that even immigrants who would qualify for citizenship are
filled with anxiety, social service workers say. Monica Schurtman, coordinator
of the Central American program for the Center for Immigrants' Rights at 48 St.
Marks Place on the Lower East Side, said the lack of information on the new law
has created ''near hysteria'' in some communities. The center has been deluged
with calls since the bill became law in November, she said. The new law affects
millions of illegal aliens across the country and as many as 800,000 in the New
York metropolitan area. On May 5 illegal aliens who have lived in the United
States continuously since Jan. 1, 1982 can apply for temporary residence and
eventually citizenship under the new law. Those who entered after January 1982
are subject to deportation, and employers who hire them can be penalized.

Impact Already Felt

The new law's impact has already been felt in the workplace. Some employers,
worried they will be fined, are dismissing workers. Others are asking employees
to take wage cuts as an insurance against fines, and still others are exploiting
the fears of illegal aliens and asking workers to put in longer hours, according
to the Center for Immigrants' Rights and church officials who have been active
in immigration issues.

''Grown men call crying,'' Ms. Schurtman said. One recent caller, she said,
sobbed when he told how his boss had asked him to work longer hours and cut his
pay.

''Every conceivable abuse you can imagine is going to be happening,'' said
Father Ron Merino, who works on immigrant affairs for the Chancellery of the
Brooklyn Diocese.

Elizabeth Bogan, director of the City's Office of Immigrant Affairs, said
''legal charlatans'' have already surfaced. Also, she said, many immigrants are
going to the Immigration and Naturalization Service too soon, without sufficient
documentation.

''People should stay put and try and collect their documentation,'' she added.
Ms. Bogan and others recommend that even after May 5, immigrants work with
institutions such as the Catholic Church, some labor unions and community groups
that will process applications.

Many local churches already know where to send people for advice on the bill but
are not taking applications until May 5. For its part, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in New York began last Monday to offer information on the
new law to anyone who can get through on its phone lines.

That is often not easy. One recent caller gave up after attempting 55 times in
11 minutes to hear the recordings on 206-6500, the immigration service's
information number. The agency has asked for an 800 number to handle questions
on the new law exclusively.

When the Center for Immigrants' Rights gets complaints from immigrants about
abuses, it tries to deal directly with the employer, Ms. Schurtman said. In the
case of the caller who was working longer hours at less pay, the employer was
persuaded to rescind his demands when the center made it clear it could take the
case to court.

Some employers, immigration officials said, are acting out of ignorance rather
than maliciousness when they dismiss employees. Many are unaware that they
cannot be penalized for those employees hired before Nov. 6, when the law went
into effect. Moreover, no citations will be issued before May 31. And, until
June 1, 1988, only warnings will be given to first offenders.

For those who qualify, like Frank, the Salvadoran from San Francisco, there is
no assurance they will be able to find the needed documentation.

Frank said he has not yet been told by his former employer whether he will get
an affidavit. He could deny the request out of concern that the company will
become the target of raids by immigration agents.

Without the affidavit, Frank's case will be shaky unless he can come up with tax
or rent receipts, which is unlikely. If he is successful, he must decide what to
do about his family. Only one of his three siblings qualifies. The others, along
with his mother and father, arrived two years ago.

''This is going to divide my family,'' he said. ''Some will be forced to
immigrate to other countries. All we want is not to be deported and to work.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Felix Cardona and Monica Schurtman of the Center for
Immigrants' Rights counseling Salvadoran refugee (NYT/Marilynn K. Yee)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 16, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

STATE PANEL FAULTS ENFORCEMENT OF NEW FEDERAL IMMIGRATION LAW

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 745 words


A special task force appointed by Governor Cuomo has sharply attacked Federal
authorities for failing to enforce the anti-discrimination provisions of the new
Federal immigration law, and called for urgent action to curb abuses.

According to the 10-member task force, the Justice Department has failed to
appoint a special counsel to enforce the provisions, as required in the new law;
has not set up a mechanism for complaints of violations, and has not
sufficiently detailed the penalties faced by employers who dismiss workers
unfairly or discriminate in hiring.

More than 64 cases of discrimination related to the act have been documented, as
well as numerous threats of unjustified dismissals, according to the task force,
headed by Cesar A. Perales, Commissioner of the New York State Department of
Social Services. Several other heads of state agencies are members of the panel.

Cases of simliar dismissals and discrimination have been reported in other
states as well. ''The Federal default has had an alarming effect,'' Mr. Perales
said in a letter to Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d that accompanies the report.


Law's Impact on State

The 52-page report to the Governor, to be made public today, describes the
enormous impact that the Immigration Reform and Control Act is expected to have
on New York State, which has as many as 1.5 million undocumented aliens.

The Immigration Act, which became law in November, provides for the legalization
of undocumented aliens who can prove continuous presence in this country since
January 1982. It says that those who entered the country after January 1982 will
be subject to deportation, and employers who hire them can be penalized.

The law also specifically prohibits employment-related discrimination based on
''national origin or citizenship status'' and says that a special counsel should
enforce this provision.

Deborah Burstion-Wade, a spokesman for the Justice Department in Washington,
said that it was ''erroneous'' to suggest the department was neglecting its
duties. She said the hiring of a counsel would be announced soon, as would the
establishment of a complaint mechanism and penalties.

Recommendations Included

The task force report also includes specific recommendations from state agencies
on how to cope with these problems and indicates that substantial new financing
will be required.

In a memorandum to the Governor, Mr. Perales said that the current influx of
undocumented aliens in the Plattsburgh and Buffalo regions showed that ''the
upheavals'' resulting from the new law have already started and the task force
should continue its mission. Many of the aliens have been stopped while trying
to enter Canada to avoid deportation under the new law.

The task force will hold a public hearing at the New York City Bar Association
on April 2 to enable employers, unions, voluntary agencies and the public to
express their views about the new law. The views expressed will be forwarded to
the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington.

After noting measures already taken to inform the public and state agencies
about the provisions of the Immigration Act, the task force's report also
recommends that the state continue to advise and monitor the Federal Government
on the carrying out of the new laws, and coordinate efforts by state and local
agencies and Federal officials.

The report also includes plans made by several state agencies to oversee the
law. The Department of Education has drafted a program to assist local
educational agencies to provide services to eligible aliens and those seeking
temporary residence.

The Division of Human Rights, the report says, has presented a plan to create
the procedures and mechanisms to monitor Immigration Act-related discrimination
complaints.

The Department of Social Services will have primary responsibility for
administering cash, medical and social service benefits to newly legalized
aliens, according to the report. It suggested that additional funds would be
necessary.

Immigration specialists on an advisory committee to the task force reacted
favorably to the report.

''It's critically important that the state play a leading role in the
legalization process,'' said an advisory committee member, Phil Boneta, staff
attorney for the Puerto Rican Legal Defense Fund.

He emphasized the need for state agencies to make it easier for eligible aliens
to obtain documentation for legalization.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 29, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

To Control Aliens, Control Partisans

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 558 words


There's much in the blow that the House has just dealt to immigration reform to
be sad about, even angry. It may well sink eight years of education, thought and
political struggle. But the saddest loss is of bipartisanship, of the
recognition that immigration reform is not a conservative or liberal issue but a
national need.

House Democrats pressed their majority power imperiously Friday, to force
Republicans to swallow a bill with provisions they didn't like. Outraged, the
Republicans killed the bill entirely. Yet there remains conscientious hope for
reviving it -if the bipartisan spirit can be revived. One man can do that: the
President. There is precedent for him to appeal now for Republican support and
Democratic cooperation. If he does, he can push immigration reform over the top.

For all the jockeying over blame, there's plenty to go around. If the Democratic
leadership had been serious, it would not have let the issue drag yet again into
the closing days of the session. House Democrats, it will be recalled, voted
against reform in 1984. The bill passed only because 91 Republicans supported
it.

When the bill was derailed Friday, only 13 Republicans supported it. That change
mainly reflects change in the legislation. Now it contains a provision, devised
by Representative Charles Schumer of Brooklyn and others, to assure an adequate
supply of farm workers. Many Republicans regard the Schumer provision as
outrageously generous, an invitation to sneak across the border.

Experts guess that only 15 percent of illegals work in agriculture. Thus the
Schumer provision is arguably a tolerable price for controlling the other 85
percent. The contrary argument is that most of the 85 percent started out in
agriculture; the Schumer provision would merely legitimize the present illegal
flow.

There's every reason to think that this issue could be resolved in conference,
especially since the chief conferees would be Alan Simpson, assistant Senate
Republican majority leader, and Peter Rodino, Democratic House Judiciary
chairman. Reform could still be brought to fruition. But that probably requires
the President to intervene, to appeal for more Republican votes and to put
partisan Democrats on the spot.

A remarkably similar situation arose last December. The House defeated a rule
for the historic tax reform bill when only 14 Republicans voted yes. The
Democratic leadership promptly challenged the President to twist some arms and
get more Republicans to sign on. He did, and the rule passed. A similar effort
now could set immigration reform back on the bipartisan rails.

One need not be liberal to believe in decent treatment for low-wage workers. One
need not be conservative to believe that the country needs to control its
borders. That need, in fact, is sharpening. In the first 10 months of fiscal
1985, the Immigration Service apprehended one million illegals; this year, the
figure is 1.4 million. They come from 79 countries besides Mexico, including
Yugoslavia, Pakistan and Upper Volta.

The President and the public want to regain control of the borders. It's within
the power of House Republican members and Democratic leaders to reach that goal,
and it's within the President's power to ask them to do it. Though the
Congressional days dwindle down, there's enough time - if there's enough will.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 13, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

A Flawed Immigration Law

BYLINE: By Jorge G. Castaneda: Jorge G. Castaneda, professor of political
science at the National University of Mexico, is a senior associate at the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.

SECTION: Section A; Page 31, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 697 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


If laws could really alter market forces or curb the ups and downs of labor
supply and demand, then the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, signed
last week by President Reagan, might have worked. In reality, those flows cannot
be easily toyed with, and the legislation will not be effective - although it
may take time for this to become evident.

Illegal immigration from Mexico is nothing new, and there are serious reasons
for doubting figures that indicate vast increases - bringing the total number of
undocumented workers who entered this year to one or even two million - in
recent years. What is not in dispute, however, is that immigration from Mexico
has increased in the past few years and will continue to do so in the near and
medium-term future. The reason is simple: the continued strong demand for
low-wage, unskilled labor in the United States and the remaining large supply of
young, unemployed Mexicans willing to satisfy that demand. This is the key
issue, the one that the immigration act does not address and the Reagan
Administration clearly does not want to face.

Mexico must create one million jobs per year between now and the year 2000
merely to keep up with the population growth of the 1960's and 1970's. The
problem is that these 15 million jobs must be found at a time when the economy
has ceased to expand. Mexico's traditional growth rates - 6 to 7 percent a year
- are a thing of the past. This leaves young Mexicans without jobs and facing
only three options - delinquency, revolution or the United States.

The main reason for the slowed growth is Mexico's huge foreign debt. Since 1982,
Mexico has become a net exporter of capital. Instead of supplementing domestic
savings with resources from abroad, Mexico has been transfering out more
resources than it takes in. This has occurred partly through capital flight and
partly because of a generalized lack of confidence in the Mexican economy, but
mainly because of debt service.

This summer, the Reagan Administration exerted enormous pressure on Mexico's
creditors to stitch together a new bailout. After strenuous arm-twisting, the
creditors agreed, and they will provide nearly $14 billion in new loans between
now and the end of 1987. In principle, this should guarantee that the Mexican
economy will grow by 3 to 4 percent next year, and perhaps again in 1988. But in
reality, that economy is contracting - perhaps by as much as 6.5 percent this
year - and the purchasing power of ordinary Mexicans is falling sharply.

Even with the new package, Mexico will still transfer out some $2 billion a
year, sinking the country deeper in debt and forcing it to meet higher interest
payments in coming years. No conceivable United States legislation could do as
much to stimulate illegal immigration from Mexico, and no new law can stem the
tide arising from this dire state of affairs.

Much more effective in the long run than the immigration act would have been a
bold, new solution to Mexico's debt crisis - perhaps a 30 percent write-off over
the next decade. Such a solution would not severely affect most American banks.
But it would allow the Mexican economy to grow again and would permit badly
needed structural reforms.

As it is, the immigration act will also create new strains in Mexican-American
relations. There will probably not be any mass deportations, certainly not
before early 1989, when the employer sanctions clause of the law begins to be
enforced. Indeed, the new legislation may imply an increase in illegal
immigration, since many Mexicans will try to enter the country and find jobs
before October 1987, when hiring them becomes illegal.

But the act will undoubtedly exascerbate the racist, xenophobic sentiments that
are increasingly common in border areas and other regions with large Mexican
communities -sentiments than can only fuel growing anti-American resentment in
Mexico. This means that both governments run the risk of being overwhelmed by
rising nationalist currents. No good can come of this, and it makes an
ineffective immigration act worse than futile - one more source of friction in
an endlessly tense and combative relationship.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

TYPE: OP-ED

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 21, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

BUSINESS FORUM;
A TROUBLING DROP IN IMMIGRANT 'QUALITY'

BYLINE: By BARRY R. CHISWICK: Barry R. Chiswick, visiting professor at the
University of Chicago's Center for the Study of the Economy and the State, is
co-author of ''The Dilemma of American Immigration.''

SECTION: Section 3; Page 3, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1106 words


THE debate on the hastily enacted Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 has
seldom addressed one of the key immigration questions: What is the effect of
immigration policy on the job skills of immigrants to the United States? Under
our present, nepotistic policy, the workplace ''quality'' of immigrants is
declining steadily, putting strong pressures on our already strained welfare
system. Obviously, no one wants to return to the racist policies enacted in the
20's, and I want to emphasize strongly that talking about quality is not a
racist smokescreen. What we need is a policy that encourages admission of
immigrants from anywhere in the world who have the skills to prosper in a
post-industrial society.

Immigration quality refers to the myriad of skills, entrepreneurship, ambition
and motivation embodied in the immigrants. The question of quality is important
because immigrants receive wages and salaries in accordance with their
productivity. In an earlier era, when there was little government obligation to
the poor, there was little concern for skills. Today, with an elaborate income
transfer (or welfare) system providing benefits not only for the aged, disabled
and single parent families but also for the ''working poor,'' we cannot be so
cavalier about skills.

It is not just that low-skilled immigrants are more likely to need public
assistance than are the highly skilled. By adding to the supply of low-skilled
workers, wages and job opportunities for all low-skilled members of the labor
force are depressed. To the extent that the Federal minimum wage or
labor-management contracts keep wages up, the downward pressure of an abundant
labor supply is expressed as greater unemployment. Lower earnings and a higher
unemployment rate for low-skilled workers means not only that more Americans
will be eligible for income transfers but that current participants will receive
larger benefits.

The 1965 Immigration Amendments radically altered the way legal immigrant visas
are rationed. The act abolished the racist ''national origins'' quota systems of
the 1920's, ending the virtual prohibition of immigration from Asia. It created
a rationing system based on nepotism -most non-refugee visas are reserved for
the relatives of American citizens or resident aliens. A small number of visas
are allocated to professionals and individuals with scarce skills or who would
invest in a business.

Immigration from Asia was very small and limited largely to professionals in the
two decades prior to the 1965 amendments (see accompanying tables). The 1965
amendments expanded immigration opportunities, but initially only for
highly-skilled workers and those who had the capital to establish a business in
the United States. These new immigrants then served as sponsors for their
less-skilled relatives. As a result, more recent cohorts of Asian immigrants
have included a larger number of lesser skilled relatives.

The effects of these policy changes on the source countries and skill levels of
immigrants have been dramatic. Immigration and Naturalization Service data show
a doubling of the number of legal immigrants from the 1950's to the present. In
that time, immigration from Europe and Canada has declined while immigration
from Latin America and especially from Asia has increased (See table). Asians
composed only 6 percent of immigrants in the 1950's but 36 percent in the
1970's. Over all, the educational level of foreign-born men who came here in the
late 1970's is about the same as in the 1950's (See table). But, since schooling
levels in the United States and in the countries of origin have risen over this
period, this represents a relative decline in educational levels.

Educational levels of the growing, legal immigration from the Western Hemisphere
has been decreasing. This is partly due to deteriorating economic and political
conditions in the countries of origin and declining costs of transportation and
communication. It also arises from the greater ease of obtaining a visa based on
kinship rather than one's own skills.

The trend to poorer quality immigrants is likely to be exacerbated by the 1986
act, which granted amnesty to aliens in the country illegally. In general,
illegal aliens are low-skilled workers - with amnesty, they are more likely to
become a permanent feature of the labor market. The legislation may also
increase incentives for illegal entry. During the amnesty application period
(starting in the spring and lasting for one year), there will be a strong
incentive for illegal entry. Furthermore, the newly legalized aliens can serve
as sponsors for relatives not already in the United States.

The national origins quota system, in force from the 1920's to the 1960's,
focused on the question, ''Where do you come from?'' Current policy focuses on
the question, ''To whom are you related?'' An alternative approach for
non-refugee visas is to focus on the question, ''How productive will you be?''
Rationing visas on the basis of the applicants' skills or likely productivity
would require a point system, in which applicants would receive points for
schooling, work experience, occupational skills and other characteristics that
would enhance their productivity. Married couples could receive additional
points on the basis of a spouse's skills. Individuals or families with more than
a threshold number of points would be granted a visa, without regard to the
country of origin. The successful applicant's spouse and minor children would
also receive visas. The threshold could be raised or lowered to control the
number of immigrants.

This policy need not ignore kinship. For humanitarian reasons, the spouse and
minor children of United States citizens could still be granted visas. And for
other applicants a small number of points could be awarded if a citizen or
resident alien agrees to serve as a sponsor.

An emphasis on skills is absolutely not a back-door return to the racist,
national-origins quota system. The small number of immigrants admitted on the
basis of their skills or investor status during the past two decades have been
disproportionately from third world countries. This pattern is likely to
continue under the proposed immigration policy.

An immigration policy that favors productive applicants would have many
beneficial effects. It would ease competition in the labor market between
low-skilled natives and low-skilled immigrants, calming social tensions and
lowering the proportion of the population below the poverty line. And a policy
based on the applicant's own characteristics is closer to the American ideal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphs of where immigrants have come from and amount of schooling among
adult males (Source: U.S. Census Bureau and Immigration and Naturalization
Service)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 28, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

SCRAMBLING TO COPE WITH NEW LAW ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 787 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


LEONEL CASTILLO, the Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner under
President Jimmy Carter, spent a lot of his time last week doing what he calls
''playing the hypotheticals'' in Houston's Hispanic community.

''I'll go into a restaurant,'' he explained, ''and someone will say, 'Mr.
Castillo, if I had a cousin who came here five years ago from Mexico and doesn't
have his papers, and he's working at a restaurant, can he be fired from his
job?' People have become very good at playing the hypotheticals over the past
month or so.''

The reason for the upsurge in such speculation - actually the use of convenient
fictions that allow people to ask questions about their own situations - is the
sweeping immigration legislation that became law Nov. 6.

Many of the bill's key provisions, most notably the amnesty program for illegal
aliens who entered the country before Jan. 1, 1982, are not yet in effect. The
amnesty program begins May 5. But the new law promises such dramatic changes in
patterns of living that it has set off an extraordinary surge of apprehension
and confusion, turning the nation's Hispanic communities into rumor mills finely
attuned to pick up every report about it.

The legislation is already having clear and sometimes unintended effects.
Immigration lawyers and Hispanic groups say that employers, worried about
sanctions against those who hire illegal aliens, have laid off many workers even
though employers cannot be prosecuted for employing illegals hired before Nov.
7.

For example, Jose Huerta, a 24-year-old Houstonian from Veracruz, Mexico, lost
his factory job Nov. 7 after being unable to provide documentation. Mr. Huerta,
who supports his wife, two children, his mother and two siblings, had been
working for 11 months as a machine operator making molds for air conditioners.

He is hoping to get his job back; he said he knows two other people who were
dismissed after the law was passed and subsequently rehired. But for now neither
Mr. Huerta nor his wife have been able to find a job. ''I thought the foreman
wouldn't do it,'' Mr. Huerta said, running his fingers nervously over a faint
mustache. ''We were doing worst kind of jobs, better and quicker than the
others, so I thought I was safe.''

But for most people the current period is more like a limbo in which employers
and employees, illegal aliens who will benefit from the law and those who will
not, are doing their best to learn how it will affect their lives.

The word is getting out in various unconventional ways. This month, Fiesta Mart,
a local grocery-store chain catering to a multi-ethnic clientele, has been
sponsoring an immigration hotline, with volunteer attorneys and paralegals
available to answer questions. More than 1,500 calls poured in from employers
asking about their legal liability and illegal aliens asking about amnesty.

A Varied Mood

Mr. Castillo has spent much of the month talking to employers, employees and
business groups about the new law. He also fields telephone calls every Monday
night on Spanish-language radio station KLTA.

''The Spanish-language newspapers ran the text of the bill,'' Mr. Castillo said.
''I spoke with a group of leaders in the Anglo community, very distinguished
men, and they didn't know nearly as much as people in the Hispanic community.''

Among the most worried are Hispanic employers, the owners of small restaurants,
construction companies or janitorial concerns, who have historically depended on
illegal aliens. ''Employers are petrified,'' said Macario Ramirez, head of the
merchants association of El Mercado, a Hispanic shopping center in Houston with
64 stores. ''They say, 'Who am I going to hire?' They are caught in a dilemma.
It is complex to have to screen people, but they need people to work.''

The mood is more varied among illegal aliens themselves. Many have consulted
attorneys, and tried to obtain papers, legal or otherwise. But others, including
some eligible for amnesty and some not, have no intention of leaving the shadows
where they have lived and worked illegally for years.

''People are suspicious of authority, anything that has anything to do with the
Government,'' said Felix Fraga, director of Ripley House Community Center, a
Hispanic organization that offers legal, medical and social services. But
attendance at Ripley House English classes has doubled, as more aliens consider
filing for amnesty. And there seems to be an increasing recognition that the new
law provides an opportunity that may never come again.

''This is the most critical period, and people have to understand that,'' said
Mr. Castillo. ''The window is only open for a year. If you don't get there in a
year, you lose.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Leonel Castillo (NYT/F. Carter Smith)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 11, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CORPORATE POWER, CONT.;
Immigrants

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 273 words


To the Editor:
    Mr. Chiswick's contention that the amnesty provisions of the Simpson-Rodino
Immigration Reform Act will make ''illegal aliens ... more likely to become a
permanent feature of the labor market ...'' simply ignores the fact that the
group to which amnesty applies is already a permanent feature of the labor
market. This is so because the amnesty provisions apply only to aliens who have
been continuously in the U.S. since prior to Jan. 1, 1982, and, in addition, the
grandfather clause of Simpson-Rodino makes employer sanctions inapplicable to
any worker hired before Nov. 6, 1986.

In addition, Mr. Chiswick's enchantment with the education levels of immigrants
from different countries shows an ignorance of the fact that Congress and the
Immigration Service have a self-imposed duty to protect U.S. workers, regardless
of education level. The operating factor here is simple supply and demand.

For instance, as the supply of American doctors increased a few years ago, the
immigration regulations for foreign doctors became Draconian, while nurses,
physical therapists and nutritionists, all with far less training than M.D.'s,
can immigrate with little difficulty because of a shortage of American workers
in these areas.

Finally, while Mr. Chiswick cites statistics going back to the 1950's, all the
earlier great waves of immigration to the United States involved the ''huddled
masses yearning to breathe free,'' the overwhelming majority of whom were not
well-educated but were hard workers who did this country proud.

PETER HIRSCH
Association of Immigration Attorneys
  New York, Dec. 26

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 14, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

WASHINGTON TALK;
Turmoil and Immigrant Visas

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 875 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 13


State Department offices are passing the word these days about the high-level
official in the Irish postal service who called the high-level official in the
United States Postal Service begging to work out a deal.

What the Irish official wanted was advice on how to assure that his mail bags
would arrive here in the Post Office's District of Columbia headquarters on Jan.
21 and be deposited immediately into Box 96097.

Box 96097 has been rented by the State Department, and hundreds of thousands of
other people from three dozen countries or territories are also trying to
determine just how to get their envelopes there on Jan. 21, as early in the day
as possible.

The envelopes all contain one thing, a request for a United States immigrant
visa.

Specifically, they contain letters asking to register for a chance to apply for
10,000 nonpreference visas to be granted to citizens in 36 countries in the
fiscal years 1987 and 1988 under the immigration act Congress passed last fall.
The State Department has announced that it will register in chronological order
mail received in the post office box between Jan. 21 and Jan. 27. The first
10,000 registrants deemed eligible will be invited to file applications for a
visa.

The idea behind this provision of the law is to give citizens of countries who
have been ''adversely affected'' by previous United States immigration laws a
chance to move toward United States citizenship.

Nonpreference visas are at the bottom of seven classifications of immigrant
visas, which grant permanent residence in this country and, after five years,
the right to apply for citizenship. Above the nonpreference category are six
''preference'' categories that allot immigrant visas to professionals, people
with close relatives already in the United States and people with skills needed
in this country. With an annual limit of 270,000 available visas, the Government
usually fills its quota before it reaches the nonpreference category. The last
time the Government awarded a nonpreference visa was in 1978, State Department
officials said.

From the time the immigration law passed, the new visa provision has spawned
confusion and clamor here and abroad.

First, the State Department had to determine what countries had been ''adversely
affected.'' It came up with 36 countries where, by its calculations, the number
of people successfully applying for immigration to the United States has
decreased since 1965, when the 270,000 quota was instituted.

Then it had to figure out how to administer the law and process the
registrations. It decided that mail to one Washington post office box on a
first-come, first-served basis was the most ''equitable'' way, according to the
department's Bureau of Consular Affairs.

Meanwhile, American embassies and consulates around the world have been fielding
thousands of inquiries about how to register. In the days after the legislation
was passed, 7,000 people called the United States Embassy in Rumania and 5,000
people stood outside the Embassy in Burma seeking information about the visas,
State Department officials say. Neither Burma nor Rumania is on the list of
eligible countries.

At the same time, immigration lawyers are said to be advising clients to send in
letters of registration every day to increase their odds of winning a chance to
apply for a visa.

''It's really kind of hilarious,'' said Richard Wallen, deputy chief of the post
liaison division in the State Department's visa office. ''We've had attorneys
call and ask if they should have people stand in line at this post office to
mail their registration at 12:01 on Jan. 21.''

But Charles Gordon, a former general counsel of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service who has written a 10-volume book on immigration law,
said: ''This is a mad thing, and there will be hundreds of thousands of people
rushing to the post office. And all these people have some hope -but for 10,000
numbers out of 100,000 names . . .''

Mr. Gordon and some other immigration attorneys also felt that Mexico should be
included on the list of countries eligible for the visas.

Eligible applicants are from Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Belgium,
Bermuda, Britain and Northern Ireland, Canada, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Finland,
France, East Germany, West Germany, Gibraltar, Guadeloupe, Hungary, Iceland,
Indo- nesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein Luxembourg, Monaco, New
Caledonia, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, San Marino, Sweden, Switzerland and
Tunisia, and the Soviet republics of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania.

The provision for issuance of the nonpreference visas was introduced by
Representative Brian J. Donnelly, a Democrat from the Boston area who was said
to be interested only in helping immigrants from Ireland.

Mr. Donnelly unavailable for comment. An aide, Frank Tirrell, said: ''He felt
the whole thrust was to aid Western Europeans, mainly the Irish. Being of Irish
descent and representing the largest Irish district in the country, that was his
concern.''

He said Mr. Donnelly was slightly dismayed by the State Department's registering
system. ''But,'' Mr. Tirrell said, ''he thought it was better than nothing. He
feels it's a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 15, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on the Washington Talk page yesterday
about immigration visas incorrectly listed the three Soviet republics eligible
for such visas. The three are Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania; Liechtenstein is a
sovereign European nation outside the Soviet bloc.

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 15, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AMNESTY, SENDING FEARFUL ALIENS FOR HELP, ONLY SOME OF IT USEFUL

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1650 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Jan. 14


When Ruben Montemayor, a lawyer in San Antonio, considers the nation's new
immigration law, he does not see an open door to legal status for aliens
eligible for amnesty. Instead, he sees what most of his clients do: a
tantalizing quest full of great risks, demands and rewards.

''The immigration service has never been Santa Claus, and it never will be,''
said Mr. Montemayor, who has practiced immigration law since 1969 in San Antonio
and before that spent seven years as a lawyer with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

''This is not 'Come in and get your visa,' '' Mr. Montemayor continued. ''People
are going to have to prove their case, and I mean by documented evidence, and if
they can't, they will be out of here. A lot of people are offering advice right
now who don't know anything about immigration law, and they are going to do
people are lot more harm than good.''

Many Being Victimized

Mr. Montemayor's skepticism reflects the widespread legal and personal
uncertainties since the passage of the law, which is taxing the resources of the
immigration bar and demanding painful choices from illegal aliens willing to
apply for amnesty.

Already many aliens have been victimized by unscrupulous or untrained legal
advisors, who charge stiff fees for legal aid they cannot deliver, according to
groups that work with aliens. Others are desperately trying to document their
residence after years of trying to live invisibly. And all are weighing the
advantages of legal status against the risks of revealing themselves for the
first time to a judicial system that in the past has been responsible for
deporting them.

Immigration officials say enforcement agents will not have access to rejected
applications for amnesty, but many aliens and some of their lawyers doubt it.
Some lawyers say aliens unlikely to make it through the system safely, either
because of residency problems or an inability to show proficiency in English,
should not take the risk.

Key Part Effective in May

''If they aren't going to be able to pass the exam, I won't take their cases,''
said Ralph Garcia, an El Paso immigration lawyer. ''Otherwise, I'm just going to
be reporting them to Immigration.''

The most publicized part of the new law, the offer of amnesty to illegal aliens
who entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1982, and have been here
continuously since then, does not go into effect until May 5, and the
regulations specifying the documentation required are not expected until later
this month. The immigration service will later open 100 offices around the
country to accept applications.

Many illegal aliens, wary of getting enmeshed in a system they have tried to
evade all their lives, are not going to apply for amnesty no matter what their
chances, lawyers and immigration officials say. Some think there will be far
fewer applications for amnesty than expected.

Estimates on Aliens Vary

Alan C. Nelson, Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, said last week
that his agency estimated as many 3.9 million illegal aliens might apply for
amnesty under the new law. Officials say that estimate could be high, adding
that there was no way to reach a reliable estimate. The Census Bureau estimates
3 million to 5 million illegal aliens live in the United States. Not all of them
would be eligible under the amnesty program. The immigration service estimates
there are 6.5 million to 7 millon illegal aliens in the country.

Employers unsure of their responsibilities under the new law, aggrieved workers
who believe they have been illegally dismissed since the law's passage and
aliens curious about the options are already flocking to lawyers, legal clinics
and social service centers around the country.

But it is not just immigration lawyers who are offering advice.

In cities all over, aliens are paying stiff fees to notaries public to prepare
forms for them. In Central America, notaries are local officials of great
influence and administrative power. In the United States they generally do
little more than verify signatures for a minimal fee or none.

Immigration experts say illegal aliens are paying fees ranging from $100 to more
than $1,000 to notaries, thinking they are dealing with influential lawyers able
to aid their case.

They Get 50 Calls a Day

''It's been crazy,'' said Cheryl Little, a lawyer with the Haitian Refugee
Center in Miami. She said two lawyers and two paralegal workers were answering
calls from 50 Haitians a day, including some who had paid fees to notaries.
''The notaries are taking their money, and they're not completing the forms. We
have so many questions about what's going on.''

But notaries have no monopoly on worthless information. Lawyers in Orange County
in California say packets of bogus documents such as rent receipts and bills are
being sold on the streets for $100.

The situation is particularly troublesome on the border with Mexico, where
Mexican lawyers are advertising their services to Mexicans who work regularly on
the American side of the river. But officials say it is a problem in almost any
metropolitan area with a large population of illegal aliens.

''The immigrant grapevine is pretty quick here,'' said the Rev. Peter Zendzian,
director of the Northeast Regional Immigration Office for the United States
Catholic Conference Migration Refugee Service in New York. ''All you need is one
person to say, 'Hey, this guy can help,' and he's in business. These people have
been afraid for a long time. They've been looking for a long time to get
themselves straightened out. So they'll gladly pay the going rate for what they
think is the inside track.

''But there is no inside track. There's not even a track yet, not until they
write the regulations.''

Rise in Interest in Area

The new law is accelerating interest in immigration law, which has largely been
viewed as a high-volume, low-glamour section of the legal profession. Membership
in the 40-year-old American Immigration Lawyers Association has increased from
1,000 members in May 1979 to 2,100 members now.

In California, the immigration bar has virtually quadrupled since 1980. In 1980
there were 112 members of the immigration law section of the Los Angeles County
Bar Association. Today there are more than 425. Some of them practice
immigration law full time and others on an occasional basis, said Lawrence
Liebenbaum, who heads the immigration section.

But immigration lawyers say many lawyers with no knowledge of the field are
flocking in. Mr. Montemayor says he gets 5 or 10 calls a week from lawyers
thinking about taking up immigration practice.

Fees Will Not Be Minimal

Lawyers worry, however, whether adequate legal help will be available for those
most in need because the fees for a family with a straightforward application
will be at least $500 to $1,000. Aliens applying for amnesty will also have to
pay a fee, which has not yet been set, to the immigration service to cover the
cost of the program. Immigration lawyers expect the fee to be less than $100.
Immigration officials say they want to keep the fee low and the program
affordable, but they want the program to be financed entirely by applicant fees.

In Houston, many immigration lawyers say they are seeing a moderate increase in
business because of the new law. Jose Medina, a noted immigration lawyer, said
he saw 15 to 20 people a week as a result of the new law. He thinks that in the
city there may be 25,000 amnesty applications.

Lawyers at Carecen, the legal arm of Crecen, a Central American refugee service
center, say their work load has doubled. Margaret Burkhart, a lawyer with
Caracen, said that if the organization and other nonprofit legal centers doubled
their staffs they could handle 4,000 applications in the next year.

'A Drop in the Bucket'

''That's a drop in the bucket,'' she said. She estimates as many as 100,000
people in Houston could qualify for amnesty.

Craig H. Baab, staff director for the Coordinating Committee on Immigration Law
of the American Bar Association, said the association was hoping to set up a
nationwide network of lawyers to do volunteer work for aliens going through the
amnesty program. He said the A.B.A. was also putting together some brochures to
help people understand the law.

''People have to have access to sound legal advice,'' he said. ''Unfortunately,
we've already heard of people without any experience giving out bad advice, and
charging to boot.

''There's a lot of confusion. We want to tell people to 'Relax, calm down, don't
let anyone take you to the cleaners.' The law doesn't go into effect until
May.''

Documents a Big Obstacle

Lawyers say the biggest obstacle will be adequate documentation, which could
help prolong cases and make the legal logjam even worse. Jonathan Lamb, a
Houston immigration lawyer, estimates 80 percent of those eligible for
legalization will have ''moderate to severe document problems.''

In advance of regulations on documentation, lawyers are generally advising
clients to gather rent receipts, telephone bills, pay checks, affidavits from
neighbors and any other documents they can put together to verify their presence
in the United States.

Lawrence Durnford, an immigration lawyer in El Paso, gives all clients a list in
English and Spanish of possible documentation ranging from the standard ones
like rent receipts and utilty deposits to less likely ones like church
membership and membership in clubs, athletic teams, organizations and unions.

He said the ingenuity of lawyers and clients in finding documentation would make
the difference for many aliens.

''You get what you pay for, and the law is no different,'' he said. ''The rich
always get better legal services than the poor, and that will happen with this
law too. I'm not arguing the morality of it. It's just a fact of life.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Ruben Montemayor (NYT/Craig Stafford); Photo of Cheryl Little
with client (NYT/Susan Greenwood)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 20, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

EXCERPTS FROM REGULATIONS TO CARRY OUT NEW LAW ON ALIENS

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 3219 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 19


Following are excerpts from Part 274A and Section 245A.1 of regulations drafted
by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to carry out the Immigration
Reform and Control Act of 1986. Part 274A deals with aliens' eligibility for
legal employment. Section 245A.1 concerns the establishment of legal residency
by aliens who have been in the United States since Jan. 1, 1982. 274A.2 (a)
Aliens authorized employment incident to status. The following classes of aliens
are authorized to be employed in the United States as a condition of their
admission or subsequent change of status to one of the indicated classes, and
specific authorization need not be requested: (1) For an alien admitted or
subsequently changed to one of the followng classifications, employment
authorization is not restricted as to the specific employer or workplace while
in this status: (i) A lawful permanent resident alien; (ii) An alien admitted to
the United States as a conditional permanent resident pursuant to Sections 245A
or 210 of the Act; (iii) An alien admitted to the United States for temporary
residence; (iv) An alien admitted to the United States as a refugee for the
period of time in that status; (v) An alien paroled into the United States as a
refugee for the period of time in that status; (vi) An alien granted asylum
under section 208 of the Act for the period of time in that status; (vii) An
alien admitted to the United States as a nonimmigrant fiance or fiancee for the
period of admission to the United States . . . ; (viii) An alien granted
withholding of deportation; (ix) An alien who is a member of a nationality group
granted extended voluntary departure. (2) For an alien admitted or subsequently
changed to one of the following classifications, employment authorization is
restricted and limited as to the specific employer or workplace: (i) A foreign
government official (A-1), or (A-2). An alien in this status may only be
employed for the foreign government agency. (ii) An employee of a foreign
government official (A-3). An alien in this status may only be employed for the
foreign government official. (iii) A nonimmigrant visitor for business (B-1). An
alien in this status may only be employed for the foreign employer. (iv) A
nonimmigrant crewman (D-1). An alien in this status may only be employed on the
vessel or aircraft of arrival, or on a vessel or aircraft of the same line. (v)
A nonimmigrant treaty trader or investor (E-1), or (E-2). (vi) A nonimmigrant
(F-1) student. An alien in this status may only be employed, without permission
of the Service, for part-time on-campus employment. (vii) A representative of an
international organization (G-1), (G-2), (G-3), or (G-4). An alien in this
status may only be employed by the foreign government or the international
organization. (viii) A personal servant of an employee or representative of an
international organization (G-5). An alien in this status may only be employed
by the employee or representative of the international organization. (ix) A
temporary worker or trainee (H-1), (H-2) or (H-3). An alien in this status may
only be employed by the petitioner and for period during which the petition is
valid. (x) A temporary agricultural worker (H-2A). An alien in this status may
only be employed by the petitioner and for the period of time during which the
petition is valid. (xi) An information media representative (I). An alien in
this status may only be employed for the foreign news agency or bureau. (xii) An
exchange visitor (J-1). An alien in this status may only be employed within the
specific program and time period for this admitted. (xiii) An intra-company
transferee (L-1). An alien in this status may only be employed by the petitioner
and for the period during which petition is valid. (b) Aliens who must apply for
work authorization. Any alien within a class of aliens described in this section
may apply for work authorization to the district director in whose district the
alien resides: (1) Any alien maintaining a lawful nonimmigrant status in one of
the following classes may be granted permission to be employed: (i) Alien spouse
or unmarried dependent son or daughter of a foreign government official . . . or
the dependent of an employee of a foreign government official. . . . ... (ii) A
nonimmigrant (F-1) student as provided in Sec. 214.2(f) of this chapter.
(Off-campus employment is prohibited during the first year of study in the
United States.) ... (iii) Alien spouse or an unmarried dependent son or daughter
of an officer or employee of an international organization (G-4) as provided in
Sec. 214.2(g) of this chapter. (iv) Alien spouse or minor child of an exchange
visitor (J-2) as provided in Sec. 214.2(j) of this chapter. (v) A nonimmigrant
(M-1) student may only be authorized employment for practical training as
provided in Sec. 214.2(m) of this chapter. (Practical training may only be
authorized after completion of the student's course of study.) ... (2) Any alien
who has filed a nonfrivolous application for asylum pursuant to Part 208 of this
chapter may be granted permission to be employed. (3) Any alien who has properly
filed an application for adjustment of status to permanent resident alien may be
granted permission to be employed. (4) Any alien paroled into the United States
temporarily for emergent reasons or for reasons deemed strictly in the public
interest: Provided, the alien establishes an economic need to work. (5) Any
alien who has applied to an immigration judge under Sec. 242.17 of this chapter
for suspension of deportation pursuant to section 244(a) of the Act may be
granted permission to be employed: Provided, the alien establishes an economic
need to work. ... 274.3 (b) Individual's Application for Employment. Form I-9
must be prepared by individuals entering employment, and by individuals
recruited for a fee or referred for a fee prior to recruitment or referral for
employment in the United States. (1) An individual must provide biographical
information on the Form I-9 and attest under penalty of perjury that he/she is:
(i) a citizen or national of the United States; or (ii) an alien lawfully
admitted for permanent residence or an alien who is authorized under the
Immigration and Nationality Act or by the Attorney General to work in the United
States. (2) An individual must provide documents identified in subsection (c) to
the employer, recruiter or referrer for the purpose of establishing his/her
identity and employment authorization. ... (c) Acceptable Documents. The
individual may present either a document which establishes both employment
authorization and identity as defined in Sec. 274A(b)(1)(B) of the Act, or an
original document which establishes employment authorization as defined in
274A(b)(1)(C) and a separate original document which establishes identity. . . .
(1) The following are acceptable documents to establish both identity and
employment authorization: (A) United States passport. (B) Certificate of
Citizenship, issued by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service. (C) U.S.
Citizen Identification Card, issued by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service. (D) Certificate of Naturalization. (E) An unexpired foreign passport
which: (a) contains an unexpired stamp therein which reads, ''processed for
I-551. . .'' or (b) has attached thereto a Form I-94 in the same name (with
identical biographic information) on which is an employment authorization stamp
so long as the period of endorsement has not yet expired and the proposed
employment is not in conflict with any restrictions or limitations identified on
the Form I-94. (F) An Alien Registration Card, provided that it contains a
photograph of the bearer. (G) An unexpired Work Permit, issued by the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service. (2) The following are acceptable
documents to establish employment authorization: (A) Social Security account
number card . . . (other than such a card which specifies on the face that the
issuance of the card does not authorize employment in the United States). (B) A
certificate of birth in any state. . . . (C) Report of U.S. Citizen Birth
Abroad. . . . (D) Form I-94 with employment authorization stamp. (3) The
following are acceptable documents for the purpose of establishing identity of
the individual: (A) An original driver's license issued by any state which (i)
bears a photograph of the individual, or (ii) contains personal identifying
information which, at a minimum, includes his/her full name, date of birth,
height, weight, color of eyes, and residence address. (B) An original identity
document issued by any state for the purpose of identification which either (i)
bears a photograph of the individual, or (ii) contains personal identifying
information which at a minimum includes his/her full name, date of birth,
height, weight, color of eyes, and residence address. (C) In the case of
individuals residing in a state which does not provide for issuance of an
identification document (other than a driver's license). the following: (i)
Notice of discharge from the U.S. Armed Forces. (ii) Document evidencing active
duty or reserve status in the U.S. Armed Forces. (d) Examination of documents
and attestation of employer, recruiter or referrer.

An employer, or any person or entity recruiting for a fee or referring for
employment for a fee must prepare a Form I-9 prior to the hiring, recruiting for
a fee, or referring for employment for a fee of an individual in the United
States, and he/she must: (1) Examine the portion of the Form I-9 completed by
the prospective employee to insure that it is legible, properly completed, and
bears a signature; (2) Physically examine the documents provided by the
prospective employee and insure that they (i) reasonably appear on their face to
be genuine, and (ii) are sufficient to meet the requirements of 8 CFR 274A.3(c);
(3) Complete the employment verification portion of Form I-9 by recording the
required information from the documents presented by the prospective employee;
(4) Verify and attest that, based upon an examination of the documents
presented, the prospective employee is eligible for employment signing the Form
I-9. ... (e) Presumption of compliance with verification requirements. (1) In
the case of any hiring of any individual, the employer shall be presumed to be
in compliance with the paper work and verification requirements for the first 24
hours after the worker has been hired to allow the worker time to produce the
required documents. The individual will be required to complete the front side
of Form I-9 and attest to his/her eligibility for employment. If the individual
does not have the required documents prior to commencement of employment, he/she
must produce the documents and the employer must complete the reverse side of
the form no later than 24 hours after commencement of employment. (2) Nothing in
this section authorizes an employer or entity to utilize day labor to avoid the
verification process. . . . (g) Maintenance and inspection of records. . . .
Each employer shall keep the Form I-9 required by the regulations safe and
accessible at the place of employment or at one or more established cental
recordkeeping offices where such records are customarily maintained. . . .

Forms I-9 shall be open to inspection by any Immigration Officer as defined in 8
CFR 103.1(q) or any officer of the U.S. Department of Labor. ... (l) Grandfather
clause. (1) For the purposes of the Grandfather provision of the Act, an alien
who is hired prior to Nov. 7, 1986, and continues to be employed by the same
employer after Nov. 6, 1986, shall be considered to have terminated that
employment if at any time after Nov. 6, 1986, he/she either: (i) is terminated
from employment by the employer, unless he/she is subsequently reinstated due to
wrongful termination; (ii) is excluded or deported from the United States or
removed from the United States under an order of voluntary departure. (2) When
an exemption from the certification requirement is claimed under the Grandfather
provision of the Act, the burden of proof shall be upon the employer, recruiter
or referrer to establish that an individual was hired, recruited or referred
prior to Nov. 7, 1986. ... 245A.1 (a) Application for Temporary Resident. An
alien who has resided unlawfully in the United States since Jan. 1, 1982, who
believes that he/she meets the eligibility requirements of Section 245A may
apply for adjustment of status to that of a person admitted for temporary
residence to a legalization office under the district director having
jurisdiction over his or her place of residence in the United States. Such
application must be filed within the 12-month period beginning on May 5, 1986,
and ending on May 4, 1988. (b) Eligibility:

The following categories of excludable aliens who are otherwise admissible under
Section 212(a) of the Act are eligible to apply for status to that of a person
admitted for temporary residence: (i) An alien (other than an alien who entered
as a nonimmigrant) who establishes that he or she entered the United States
prior to Jan. 1, 1982, and who has thereafter resided continuously in the United
States and who has been physically present in the United States from Nov. 6,
1986, until the date of filing the application. (ii) An alien who establishes
that he or she entered the United States as a nonimmigrant prior to Jan. 1,
1982, and whose period of authorized admission expired prior to Jan. 1, 1982,
and who has thereafter resided continuously in the United States and who has
been physically present in the United States from Nov. 6, 1986, until the date
of filing the application. (iii) An alien who establishes that he or she entered
the United States as a nonimmigrant prior to Jan. 1, 1982, and whose unlawful
status was known to the Service as of Jan. 1, 1982, and who has thereafter
resided continuously in the United States and who has been physically present in
the United States from Nov. 6, 1986, until the date of filing the application.
(c) Documentation: Documents to support an alien's eligibility for the
legalization program will generally fall into one of three categories: proof of
identity, proof of residence, and proof of financial responsibility. Acceptable
supporting documents for these three categories are discussed below. (1) Proof
of Identity: Evidence to establish identity is listed below in descending order
of preference: (i) Passport; (ii) Birth Certificate; (iii) Driver's license;
(iv) Baptismal Record/Marriage Certificate; (v) Social Security Card; and (vi)
Affidavits. An applicant may submit an affidavit from persons who have known
him/her over an extended period of time and can testify that they knew the alien
was in the United States during that time. Affidavits should be submitted in
support of other documentation. An applicant's claim should not be supported
only by affidavits. (2) Proof of Residence: Evidence to establish proof of
continuous residence in the United States during the requisite period of time
may consist of any combination of the following: (i) Past employment records,
which may consist of pay stubs, W-2 Forms, letter from employer or, if the
applicant has been in business for himself/herself, letters from banks and other
firms with whom he/she has done business. In all of the above, the name of the
alien and the name of the employer or other interested organization must appear
on the form or letter, as well as relevant dates. Letters from employers must
also include: (A) alien's address; (B) exact period of employment; (C) periods
of layoff; (D) duties with the company; and (E) whether or not the information
was taken from official company records. (ii) Utility bills (gas, electric,
phone, etc.), receipts, or letters from companies showing the dates during which
the applicant received service are acceptable documentation. (iii) School
records (letters, report cards, etc.) from the schools that the applicant or
their children have attended in the United States must show name of school, name
and address of student, and periods of school attendance. Hospital records
should contain similar information. (iv) Churches, unions, or other
organizations may attest to the applicant's residence by writing a letter which:
(A) is signed by an official; (B) shows inclusive dates of membership; (C)
states the address where applicant resided during membership period; and (D)
includes the seal of the organization impressed on the letter. (v) Additional
documents that could show that the applicant was in the United States at a
specific time are: (A) Money order receipts for money sent out of the country;
(B) Passport entries; (C) Birth certificates of children born in the United
States; (D) Bank books with dated transactions; (E) Letters of correspondence
between applicant and another person or oganization; (F) Election records; (G)
Social Security card; (H) Selective Service card; (I) Automobile license
receipts, title, vehicle registration, etc.; (J) Deeds, mortgages, contracts to
which applicant has been a party; (K) Tax receipts; (L) Insurance policies,
receipts, or letters; and (M) Any other document that will show that applicant
was in the United States at a specific time. ... (f) Continuous residence:

For the purpose of this Act, an applicant for temporary resident status shall be
regarded as having resided continuously in the United STates if, at the time of
filing of the application: (1) no single absence from the United States has
exceeded sixty (60) days, unless the alien can establish that due to emergent
reasons, his or her return to the United States could not be accomplished within
the time period allowed; (2) no aggregate absences total more than two hundred
and forty (240) days between Jan. 1, 1982, though the date the application of
temporary resident status is filed; (3) the alien was maintaining a residence in
the United States; and (4) the alien's departure from the United States was not
based on a final order of deportation.

No applicant under this Section shall be considered as having resided
continuously in the United States if any absence during the qualifying period
was the result of a departure under an order of deportation. ... (k) Continuous
Physical Presence Since Nov. 6, 1986. (1) An alien applying for adjustment to
temporary resident status must establish that he or she has been continuously
physically present in the United States since Nov. 6, 1986. (2) Brief, casual
and innocent absences from the United States shall not be considered to
interrupt the continuous physical presence required. A brief, casual and
innocent absence is defined as a departure that is short in duration, occurring
without regularity and lawful or beyond the alien's control.

''Short in duration'' means no more than fifteen (15) days unless the alien can
establish that due to emergent reasons, return to the United States could not be
accomplished within the time period(s) allowed.

''Occurring without regularity'' means no more than two (2) authorized trips
between Nov. 6, 1986, and May 5, 1987.

''Innocent'' means departure for lawful purpose authorized pursuant to O.I.
212.5 or a departure beyond the alien's control.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Alan C. Nelson (AP); photo of Sen. Alan Simpson (AP); photo of
Rep. Romano Mazzoli (The Caspar Star-Tribune)

TYPE: Text

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 21, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Concerns on Immigration Law

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 423 words


Business executives and immigration lawyers expressed concern yesterday about
the ability of small companies to comply with the new immigration law and
proposed rules for its enforcement.

Under the rules, employers would have to verify the citizenship of all new
workers within 24 hours after they are hired.

''The big corporations won't have much trouble, but the majority of New York
businesses are small and the new rules will mean a tremendous financial burden
for them,'' said a spokesman for the New York City Chamber of Commerce, James
Vlasto.

A staff member of the United States Chamber of Commerce, Kathleen Fish, agreed.
''It's the small family-run enterprises that don't have an attorney and do their
own bookkeeping that will be in violation because they don't comply,'' she said.

Meanwhile, Immigration and Naturalization Service officials held their third
meeting yesterday with immigration lawyers and representatives of volunteer
agencies in the New York area to explain details of the new law and receive
suggestions for the final draft of the regulations.

A representative of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, Ann Ritter,
told the officials she had received many calls from employers worried about what
would happen if they could not find replacements for undocumented workers.

''They're asking if they will have to go out of business,'' Ms. Ritter said.

An associate general counsel of the immigration service in Washington, Ann
Aries, said she would bring such concerns to the attention of the officials
drafting the regulations.

Ms. Aries said that verification of workers would be like the verification for
cashing a check. ''When you take a check,'' she said, ''you look at a couple of
pieces of identification and if it looks reasonable, you accept it.''

Legal Status

The new law offers legal status to illegal aliens who have lived in the United
States continuously since before Jan. 1, 1982.

During the meeting the director of the New York district of the immigration
service, Charles Sava, said the New York area is to have three centers to
process illegal aliens' applications under this provision of the law.

Two such offices in New York City will be the largest in the country, according
to Mr. Sava. A third office is to be on Long Island.

A site has already been selected for the Manhattan office in the Veterans
Administration Building on 23d Street between Seventh and Eighth Avenues, he
said. The second office in the city is to be established in Brooklyn or Queens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 6, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

GREATER ACCESS TO TERRORISM DATA IS SOUGHT FOR IMMIGRATION AGENCY

BYLINE: By STEPHEN ENGELBERG, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 965 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 5


The Reagan Administration is preparing plans to identify and deport aliens with
links to international terrorism who could support or plan violence inside the
United States, according to Administration officials and documents.

One of the proposals recommended by immigration officials would for the first
time provide the Immigration and Naturalization Service with broad access to
data gathered abroad by the Central Intelligence Agency.

A document describing the formation last September of an Alien Border Control
Committee says the Administration is reviewing ''contingency plans for removal
of selected aliens from the U.S. and sealing of the borders.'' It also suggests
expelling from the United States ''activists'' who are in this country
illegally, a suggestion that brought quick condemnation from civil liberties
groups.

Another document says visa restrictions are being studied for aliens ''likely to
be supportive of terrorist activity within the United States.''

Conflict Over Aliens' Rights

The planning draws attention to the longstanding conflicts in immigration law
between guarantees of constitutional rights for aliens and the ability of the
Government to arrest or expel aliens deemed a threat to national security. The
paper written by investigators at the immigration service says it is unlikely
that new laws dealing with the issue will be approved by Congress. It suggests
instead that changes be put into effect immediately, bypassing the normal
procedures for rulemaking, which involve long delays for public comment.

Jerry Berman, chief legislative counsel of the American Civil Liberties Union,
said he was concerned by what he had learned about the planning because ''it's
putting the I.N.S. in the intelligence business, which we don't think they
belong in, and it's selectively enforcing the laws, potentially on the basis of
people's religious beliefs, and we're suspicious of that kind of enforcement.''

David Sadd, executive director of National Association of Arab-Americans, said:
''This document confirms that the I.N.S.'s recent trampling on the rights of
Palestinians in California is part of a larger anti-Arab frenzy and a broad
government assault on the rights of Arabs. If the I.N.S. had its way, ethnic
internment is right around the corner.''

Jordanians Charged in California

Mr. Sadd's comments were a reference to a Government move last month in
California to deport seven Jordanians said to be linked to a pro-Palestinian
group. They were charged under a section of the immigration law that makes it a
crime to distribute or publish materials relating to world communism.

Administration officials stressed that the planning relating to terrorism and
aliens was still in progress and that no decisions have been made.

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the immigration service, said, ''There is ongoing
contingency planning involving the I.N.S. and the other security agencies for
terrorism in general and specific incidents.'' Relatively few terrorist acts
have been carried out in this country, and Federal officials have reported a
declines in such incidents in recent years.

A May 1986 study by by the investigations division of the immigration service
begins with the assumption that the Government may some day face a situation
similar to the Carter Administration's request in 1979 to expel all Iranian
students who were in the United States without legal status.

The study notes a number of flaws in that attempt to deport thousands of
Iranians simultaneously. In many instances, the report says, the immigration
agency was later left with insufficent evidence to support cases for
deportation.

Alternatives for Targeting

According to the study, ''the service will likely be required to concentrate its
counterterrorism efforts against particular nationalities or groups known to be
composed primarily of certain nationalities, most probably those citizens of
states known to support terrorism.''

The document says the immigration officials would face two choices if asked to
react to a terrorist threat: It could register all of the aliens in the United
States without legal status, and then expel those who represent a threat. Or the
service could ''target'' specific individuals ''based upon information received
from other Government agencies or intelligence sources.''

Under present regulations, the immigration agency receives limited amounts of
information from the C.I.A. and other intelligence agencies. The Federal Bureau
of Investigation has the main assignment for keeping track of foreign
counterintelligence activities inside the United States. The C.I.A. is barred
from operating inside the United States.

Mr. Berman of the civil liberties group said it would require a significant
change in the Presidential executive order governing intelligence actvities for
the immigration agency to have access to the files or conduct its own
intelligence operations nationwide.

The agency's study suggests the executive order be rewritten to provide the
service with ''lists of names, nationalities and other identifying data and
evidence relating to alien undesirables and suspected terrorists believed to in,
or likely to enter the United States.''

Other proposals under study would give the immigration service the legal
authority to introduce into evidence at deportation hearings classified data
that could be given to an immigration judge in closed sessions. Administration
officials have complained that in some cases, they have been forced to give up
deportation cases because they could not disclose the sources of their
information in public.

The Administration has already taken some steps to make entry into the United
States more difficult for aliens from some of those countries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             February 18, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

JUDGE FREES 8 ALIENS BY U.S. TO RADICAL PALESTINIAN GROUP

BYLINE: By JUDITH CUMMINGS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 817 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 17


A United States immigration judge, saying that eight aliens could not be held
solely on the basis of their purported affiliation with a radical Arab group,
today ordered them released until a deportation hearing April 28.

Defense lawyers hailed the judge's action at today's bail hearing as a key
victory for freedom of speech.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is seeking to deport the seven Arab
immigrants and the Kenyan wife of one, accusing them of of subversive activities
aimed at overthrowing the American and Israeli Governments. But the Government
presented no evidence today that any of the eight had been personally involved
in any illegal violence, stressing instead the contention that they were
affiliated with the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, which gained
notoriety for terrorist acts in the 1970's.

Rejecting Government arguments that lawyers said had been approved by Attorney
General Edwin Meese 3d, Judge Roy J. Daniels of the United States Immigration
Court here ordered five of the aliens released on their own recognizance.
Relatively low bail of $500 to $3,000 was set for the others.

All Denied Ties to Group

Their arrests raised protests by civil liberties groups that the Reagan
Administration was using the guise of national security interests, and employing
a McCarthy-era law, as a pretext to deport people with no personal history of
violent acts. Organizations ranging from the American Civil Liberties Union to
the American Jewish Committee have come to the defense of the immigrants'
freedom of speech.

The eight aliens, most of whom were admitted to this country on student visas,
all denied membership in the Popular Front. Seven, including 32-year-old Khader
Musa Hamide, who the Government contends is the Southern California leader of
the Popular Front, were arrested Jan. 26; an eighth was arrested last Thursday.

Judge Daniels said he was freeing the detainees because of the Government's
failure to show that the immigrants, through any actions of their own, ''engaged
in violent activity or espoused the violent overthrow of the United States
Government.''

Lawyers for the immigrants asserted that they were peaceful residents active in
Palestinian cultural and community causes, not in espousing the overthrow of any
government.

Released on their own recognizance were Mr. Hamide, who was said by his lawyer
to work in a family-run business; his wife, Julie Nyangugi Mungabh, 29, a Kenyan
immigrant employed as an accountant; Ayman Obeid and his brother, Amjan,
students at California State University in Long Beach, and Michel Shehadeh, who
attends college and works at a liquor store. Bond was set at $3,000 for Basher
Amer, a college student, after a showing that he had tried to evade agents. A
$2,000 bond was set for Nadim Sharif and $500 for Aiad Khaled Barakat.

Secret Testimony Barred

Melainie Fitzsimmons, the the prosecutor for the immigration agency, argued that
all presented a risk of flight. She said all were affiliated with the Popular
Front and ''espouse the overthrow of the U.S. Government by force and violence''
and espouse the spread of communism ''throughout the world by these same
methods.''

Pressed by the judge for concrete evidence, Ms. Fitzsimmons asked for a closed
session to present information from witnesses, ''a reliable source in the
Government'' and one or more others who she said were fearful of appearing in
open court.

Judge Daniels rejected that request and said he could not deny bond on the basis
of the immigrants' purported ties to an onerous organization. ''You're right,
this group is bad people,'' he said of the Popular Front. ''But I get people who
come before us, members of Hell's Angels, a bad group, but that doesn't help me.
I ask counsel, have these individuals done anything?''

IMMIGRATION CHIEF COMMENTS

WASHINGTON, Feb. 17 (Special to The New York Times) -
    Alan C. Nelson, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, told
members of the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee today that he did not
know of the existence of a ''contingency plan'' for meeting potential terrorist
activity in the United States until a copy of the report was presented to him
this morning by the committee.

Documents made available to news organizations earlier this month indicated that
the Administration was drafting plans for the identification and deportation of
aliens linked to terrorist organizations, and Arab-American leaders have charged
that Arabs in the United States were to be targets of a vast round-up and
deportation.

Greg Leo, a spokesman for Mr. Nelson, said the plan, which calls for the
identification and deportation of aliens linked to terrorist groups, was not
departmental policy. ''It is a mid-level draft,'' he said. ''Nothing in the
report has been reviewed, considered or approved by the Commissioner.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 28, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

REFUGEE WAVE CREATES A CRISIS IN BORDER CITY

BYLINE: By LYDIA CHAVEZ

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1241 words

DATELINE: PLATTSBURGH, N.Y., Feb. 25


At 4 A.M. today, as her Greyhound bus drove up Interstate 87 past snow-covered
apple orchards and fields to arrive at the Canadian border, Rosa Funes was as
far away as she had ever been from the home she had left in Sonsonate, El
Salvador.

By 11 A.M., she had been turned away by the Canadian authorities and was told to
return in five weeks for an immigration hearing.

Ms. Funes, her husband and her brother walked away from the ''bonjour'' sign
welcoming visitors to Canada to join nearly 100 other refugees in this small
city, as well as thousands elsewhere along the Canada-United States border.

They have been stopped while trying to enter Canada to avoid deportation under
the new United States immigration law.

New York as Transit Point

As with Ms. Funes, most of those caught in the bind are from Central America.
They recently flew from such cities as Los Angeles, Houston and Dallas to New
York, where they went to the Port Authority Bus Terminal in midtown Manhattan
and boarded buses for Montreal.

But when they arrived here, they discovered that they would have to wait up to a
month to enter Canada - a month in American communities where the foreign
language is French, the spiciest food is Italian, and the weather colder than
most had imagined possible.

The rush to Canada started last November, when the new United States immigration
law went into effect. Refugees awaiting entry to Canada are beginning to gather
in such border areas as Plattsburgh, Buffalo and Detroit, according to United
States immigration officials.

There are no firm numbers, but United States officials said Canada had turned
back several thousand refugees to await hearing dates. The hearings are
generally set for a month after arrival at the border. Under the new immigration
law, all illegal aliens who cannot prove that they have continuously lived in
the United States since January 1982 are subject to deportation, and employees
who hire them can be penalized.

Generally, United States border agents issue deportation orders with delayed
dates.

For Plattsburgh, known largely for its Air Force base and a string of discount
shopping centers that attract Canadian tourists, the flood of refugees has been
the biggest crisis in years, according to officials.

''We're kind of a rural town that has ended up with an urban problem,'' the
Clinton County Social Services Commissioner, Rose M. Pandozy, said.

Last Friday, the problems for the refugees worsened. Until then, the Canadian
Government had granted immediate entry to refugees from 18 countries, including
El Salvador. Now, these refugees, along with the others, must wait for hearing
dates.

Canadian officials said their new policy was intended to achieve a more orderly
flow of people into the country.

Surge in Numbers

''Through November, we started to get one, two or three refugees a week,'' the
executive director of the Plattsburgh Community Crisis Center, Brian M. Smith,
said. ''Then we got up to 12 a week, and then the Canadians changed their policy
on Friday. And we filled up two motels with people.''

In October, a month before the new immigration law was signed, the Canadian
border station near here processed 300 refugees, according to an agent at the
border, Bernadette Blain. In November, the number climbed to 400, 1,200 in
December, 1,300 last month and 50 a day this month.

The number has slowed since Friday, Ms. Blain said. However, she acknowledged,
it could pick up when the aliens realize that the waiting period is one month.

Most of the refugees said it was worth waiting for a hearing. Despite the delay,
Ms. Blain said, the Canadians have not denied anyone here a hearing.

In Salvation Army Building

Local officials have not decided whether to ask Governor Cuomo to declare their
town a disaster area, according to Ms. Pandozy. The officials, she added, are
uncertain whether the refugees could be considered a disaster problem and
whether such a designation would create bureaucratic problems.

Up to now, the officials - from government, social agencies and church groups -
are caught up in a series of meetings and seem to be containing the crisis.

The crisis center, at 29 Protection Avenue, is more accustomed to handling
suicide-prevention calls than refugees. Nonetheless, as early as November, Mr.
Smith, together with the Red Cross and the county's social services bureau,
began to plan for the influx.

At the beginning of last week, Mr. Smith and others moved the refugees from the
motels to a Salvation Army building. In the one-story brick building, the
travelers sleep on cots and eat in the kitchen; they shuttle by bus to a
Y.M.C.A. for showers.

Offers of Work

As the numbers increased, Mr. Smith was anticipating having to send people back
to the two motels, on Route 9. ''We're desperately seeking more space,'' he
said.

Church groups have invited the refugees for meals, and donations of clothing,
toys and money have gone ''from trickling in to flowing,'' according to Mr.
Smith.

Mr. Smith said some nearby employers had called to offer jobs. But, he pointed
out, immigration laws prohibit the refugees from working.

So far, the refugees have not ventured far from their shelter, and most
townspeople have yet to encounter their temporary guests.

At the Salvation Army, the chapel looks more like a park these days, with men in
shirt-sleeves reading their newspapers on the benches, children playing on the
expanse of blue carpet, and women trying to sort clothes from suitcases stuffed
to capacity.

'We Need Work'

Capt. Jack Holcomb, who runs the shelter, said the only problem had been with
the heat. ''Basically, they turn the heat up, and I turn it back down,'' he
said.

Most of the refugees are from Central America, and they said they believed that
their lives would be in danger if they returned to their homelands. Ms. Funes
had been working in Los Angeles as a live-in housekeeper for three years and
decided to leave for Canada after her husband and brother had lost their jobs.

''We need to work and send money to my family,'' Ms. Funes said. She added that
recently, a cousin, Noel Mendez, had disappeared in El Salvador.

Rojer Narvaez, a 33-year-old mathematics teacher from Nicaragua, arrived here
with his wife and two children three weeks ago and is scheduled to have his
Canadian immigration hearing March 10.

He said he has been in the United States a year and has always wanted to live in
Canada, where his children will live in a culture ''that is American, but also
European.''

'It Means No Future'

He said he saw no hope in Nicaragua. ''You live there and see a future that is
difficult and not going to change for a long time,'' he said. ''Our Government
is doing what all Governments would do if there were a military problem in their
country. But for us it means no future.''

At the building's main door, a group of Salvadorans who had missed immediate
entry into Canada by 24 hours last Saturday sat on the floor playing a card game
called perro, or dog.

Manuel Navarretete, 25, and Antonio Umanzor lived in Houston three years,
working at restaurants. With the new immigration law, they feared immigration
agents would send them back to El Salvador, so they picked up and headed for
Canada.

Although they had become good friends in Houston, Mr. Umanzor said, they are
willing to split up and ''go anywhere'' the Canadian Government sends them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of refugees awaiting immigration hearings in Canada passing time
in a Salvation Army chapel in Plattsburgh, N.Y. (NYT/Nancie Battaglia); Photo of
Capt. Jack Holcomb talking with a group of refugees in a Salvation Army chapel
in Plattsburgh, N.Y. (NYT/Nancie Battaglia) (Page 34)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 15, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION POLICY;
MEXICO FEARS THE LOSS OF AMERICA AS A SAFETY VALVE

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 880 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


WITH just two months remaining before the main provisions of the new United
States immigration law go into effect, Mexico is preparing for what many here
fear will be a huge influx of returning workers. A tidal wave of reverse
migration would strain public services and exacerbate the country's worst
economic crisis in 50 years. No one knows exactly what to expect when penalties
for employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens take effect June 1. There is ''a
climate of concern and uncertainty,'' said the Rev. Florencio Rigoni, secretary
of the Roman Catholic Church's Episcopal Commission on Migration.

The questions begin with Mexico's inability to predict how many of its citizens
will have to return. Estimates of the number of Mexicans in the United States
illegally range upward from 1.5 million. While no reliable figures exist on how
many of them will fail to qualify for permanent residency, said Martin Brito
Hernandez, the Mexican consul general in Chicago, 200,000 in the Midwest alone
could be forced to leave.

The press here, traditionally suspicious of the United States, has raised the
specter of large-scale expulsions, adding to the general nervousness. The
Government, however, does not appear to take that likelihood seriously. In an
interview with the official newspaper El Nacional in December, President Miguel
de la Madrid said he thought ''the greatest effect of the new law will not be
caused by massive deportations of workers to Mexico, at least at levels
significantly higher than the present.''

What the President and other authorities do anticipate is a significant decrease
in the number of people heading northward. United States employers are expected
to try to stop hiring people without legal papers. Border surveillance has been
tightened and the price of the trip has consequently gone up. Because its
population is increasing rapidly, Mexico must create at least one million new
jobs a year just to accommodate young workers entering the labor force. And
since the start of the economic crisis in 1982, that goal has not been met.

As a result, the importance of the American economy as an escape valve for
surplus labor has been growing. Mr. de la Madrid also said that ''any reduction
in the flow of migration toward the United States can be a serious element in
the development of Mexico, since this factor has served as a mechanism of
adjustment in regard to employment.''

The most immediate effects are expected along the border. Jorge Bustamante,
director of the College of the Northern Border in Tijuana, talks of temporary
''floating populations'' in Mexican border towns, people who will be without
jobs, housing and money as they wait for developments on the American side.
Already, the Catholic Church reports a doubling of ''emergency cases'' at its
Migrant Assistance Centers in Tijuana, Ciudad Juarez and Matamoros. The church
has issued an appeal for financial help on both sides of the border.

Foreign Minister Bernardo Sepulveda Amor has called for the coordination of
state and federal authorities to assist ''the border states, which may suffer
from the phenomenon of re-immigration, with the labor force concentrating itself
in the border strip.'' He announced a task force of officials from the Interior,
Budget and Labor and Social Welfare Ministries. But an official said efforts had
not advanced beyond ''the planning and study stage.''

Some here believe that many returning farm workers may go back to their rural
homes. Factory workers, however, are expected to head for cities such as Mexico
City, Guadalajara and Monterrey where they can use their skills. Both trends are
likely to create pressure on housing, transportation and social services. Church
leaders have renewed appeals for a program of rural development ''so that the
countryside can retain its people.''

Other anticipated effects include a decrease in the millions of dollars in
remittances sent home by workers in the United States. In southern states such
as Guerrero and Michoacan, whole villages have come to rely on money from
relatives working in the American Southwest. The money was spent in Mexico on
construction of new homes, on vehicles and on consumer goods. In addition, many
returning workers have complained of ''extortion'' by Mexican border police who
strip them of money or goods after arbitrarily decreeing such items to be
''contraband.''

Because of the increased risks and costs involved in crossing the border, the
type of migrant already seems to be changing. Studies by the College of the
Northern Border indicate that those now leaving Mexico have ''higher levels of
income and skills'' than in the past and that the so-called safety valve is
turning into a ''flight of human capital'' at a time when Mexico sorely needs
skilled workers to help lift the country out of its deep recession.

No one here, however, believes that the new law and stepped-up patrolling will
halt the migratory flow altogether. ''There are too many expectations on both
sides of the border,'' Dr. Bustamante of the college said. ''On the Mexican side
there is the fear of a massive return. On the American side there is the
illusion that the new law will put an end to the problem of undocumented
workers. Both are exaggerated.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 16, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION;
Reagan Takes Up The Cudgel for Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By Michael Wright, Caroline Rand Herron and Alan Finder

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 238 words


Ronald Reagan has not been shy about lobbying for such matters as cuts in
domestic spending and aid to the rebels in Nicaragua; now, for the first time,
the President has apparently decided to twist a few arms on behalf of
immigration legislation.

Last week he had a few key members of Congress over and personally underscored
his interest in doing something to curb the flow of illegal aliens into the
United States, deficit reduction notwithstanding. Said Peter W. Rodino Jr., the
New Jersey Democrat who heads the House Judiciary Committee and was one of the
President's guests: ''He understands that the bill is going to take a certain
amount of money, $1 billion a year for four years.''

It is not altogether certain that Mr. Reagan's involvement will make a
difference. The Immigration and Naturalization Service warned last month that
there had been a ''startling'' surge of aliens pouring across the Mexican
border. But experts in and out of Government have been sounding such alarms for
years and have yet to startle Congress into resolving its differences.

The Senate passed its version of a comprehensive immigration bill in 1982, 1983
and 1985. The House, more cautious and tending to bicker bitterly over allowing
aliens into the country temporarily to harvest fruits and vegetables, cleared
its own bill in 1984 by a whisker. Mr. Rodino's committee has tentative plans to
take up a 1985 model on April 8.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 17, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

KEY FEDERAL AIDE REFUSES TO DEPORT ANY NICARAGUANS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1098 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 16


The chief official of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Florida said
today that he would not send any Nicaraguans back to their homeland because he
was concerned they might be persecuted by the Marxist Sandinista Government.

The official, Perry A. Rivkind, is the only one of the 33 district directors of
the immigration service to adopt such a policy. But it is significant, Federal
officials said, because at least three-fourths of all asylum applications by
Nicaraguans come from Florida. Mr. Rivkind stated his policy in an interview
after stopping the deportation of eight Nicaraguans this month.

Justice Dept. Drafts Change

The new policy in Florida is being put into effect as the Justice Department
drafts procedures that would make it easier for citizens of Poland and other
Communist countries to gain asylum in the United States.

Administration officials said the procedures would establish a presumption that
aliens fleeing ''totalitarian'' countries had ''a well-founded fear of
persecution'' and therefore met the statutory standard for obtaining asylum in
this country. Aliens granted asylum may not be deported and are usually allowed
to work in the United States.

Justice Department and immigration officials raised no objection to Mr.
Rivkind's decision. Indeed, they appeared to acquiesce in it. ''If it were that
objectionable, he wouldn't be doing it,'' said Patrick S. Korten, a Justice
Department spokesman.

Most Applications Denied

The immigration service denied 91 percent of the 4,771 asylum applications by
Nicaraguans on which it ruled last year. And in a case before the Supreme Court,
the Justice Department is pressing efforts to deport a Nicaraguan who says she
would be persecuted by the Sandinista Government if she returned. The key
question in the case is the legal standard for granting asylum.

Mr. Rivkind, a former associate commissioner of immigration and naturalization,
said: ''I would personally - not just as a Government official, but personally -
have trouble sending people from a Communist country back to that country.
Morally and ethically it would be wrong to send people back to Nicaragua when we
are at great odds with that Government.

'I Have the Authority'

''By law,'' Mr. Rivkind said, ''I have the authority and discretion to do what I
did.'' He said he did not consult with Government lawyers or with the
Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, Alan C. Nelson, before acting.

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the immigration service in Washington, said
granting asylum was ''a matter of discretion that's fully within the authority
of the district director.''

In the interview, Mr. Rivkind said it would be ''ludicrous and reprehensible''
to deport Nicaraguans when they might benefit from a change in policy. The
change being drafted has been under consideration for months by aides to
Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d. It is not clear when he might issue a formal
directive.

Dwayne E. Peterson, deputy district director of the immigration service in
Florida, said Mr. Rivkind's decision did not affect the deportation of
Salvadorans or Guatemalans. ''Nicaragua is the only Communist regime in power in
Central America,'' he said.

When the draft policy on asylum was disclosed last month, it caused anger and
dismay among church workers who have provided sanctuary to illegal aliens from
Central America, particularly El Salvador and Guatemala. The decision by Mr.
Rivkind is likely to cause further anger among sanctuary workers, who contend
the Government has not administered the Refugee Act of 1980 in even-handedly.

'A Well-Founded Fear'

Under the 1980 law, an alien may qualify for asylum if he has ''a well-founded
fear of persecution'' in his homeland ''on account of race, religion,
nationality, membership in a particular social group or political opinion.''

The 1980 law eliminated ideological and geographical restrictions that
previously favored refugees from Communist countries and the Middle East. It
brought the United States into conformity with its international treaty
obligations and United Nations agreements, which set an ideologically neutral
standard for asylum.

State Department officials have tried to follow that standard, even though they
acknowledged that it was somewhat inconsistent with the Reagan Administration's
antagonism to Communism in general and to the Sandinista Government in
particular.

Rodino Expresses Concern

Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of New Jersey, chairman of the
House Judiciary Committee, expressed concern today about the handling of asylum
claims.

''For some time,'' he said, ''I have been urging the Justice Department to halt
the deportation of Haitians and Salvadorans because of the intolerable
situations in those countries. In my judgment, nationals of El Salvador and
Haiti are deserving of relief, and it seems inconsistent to provide relief to
Nicaraguans without providing identical treatment to Salvadorans and Haitians.''

The House Judiciary Committee will soon consider a bill that would temporarily
bar the Attorney General from deporting Salvadorans who entered the United
States before Nov. 7, 1985. The panel's Subcommittee on Immigration, Refugees
and International Law sent the measure to the full committee today without a
recommendation. The vote was 5 to 5.

Administration Opposes Bill

The Reagan Administration has opposed the bill as unnecessary because, according
to the State Department, ''Salvadorans returning to El Salvador are not singled
out for persecution.''

Edward H. Wilkinson, director of the State Department's Office of Asylum
Affairs, said it would not be appropriate for him to comment on the action by
Mr. Rivkind. ''It's his business, not ours,'' he said.

Decisions on asylum requests are made by the Justice Department, of which the
Immigration and Naturalization Service is a part. The State Department provides
advisory opinions. ----Jury to Get Sanctuary Case TUCSON, Ariz., April 16 (AP)
-Weeks of closing arguments in the conspiracy trial of 11 church workers accused
of aiding illegal aliens ended today, and Judge Earl H. Carroll of Federal
District Court is to instruct the jurors Thursday.

Two priests, a minister, a nun and seven lay church workers, who are part of the
movement to give sanctuary to Central American aliens, have been on trial for
nearly six months, charged with conspiracy to smuggle Salvadorans and
Guatemalans into the United States. The defendants contend the aliens were
fleeing political persecution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 24, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 956 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 23


The Federal Government today proposed to bar aliens with AIDS from immigrating
to the United States.

In a proposed regulation published in the Federal Register, the Government would
also give American consular officers the authority to require aliens who seek
temporary visas to undergo tests for the ailment, acquired immune deficiency
sydrome.

The Public Health Service proposed to add AIDS to the official list of
''dangerous contagious diseases.'' Under Federal law, an alien with one of the
diseases ''shall be excluded from admission into the United States.''

The proposed regulation would allow the Immigration and Naturalization Service
to deny admission to aliens with AIDS.

In its announcement, the Public Health Service said that medical examinations
were already required for aliens seeking permanent resident status, or immigrant
visas; for aliens engaged to marry American citizens, and for refugees. But
under current regulations AIDS is not listed as a ground for automatically
excluding aliens.

Under current rules, an alien seeking admission to the United States on a
student, tourist or other temporary visa may be required to undergo a medical
examination at the discretion of a consular officer overseas or an immigration
officer at a port of entry, if there is reason to suspect that he or she has
''an excludable condition.''

At present, the Government recognizes seven contagious diseases as grounds for
barring aliens. They are chancroid, a form of venereal ulcer; gonorrhea;
infectious leprosy; active tuberculosis; certain types of syphilis, and
lymphogranuloma venereum and granuloma inguinale, both venereal diseases.

The Public Health Service said, ''It would be anomalous to have diseases such as
chancroid and lymphogranuloma venereum on such a list and not include AIDS.''

Shirley Barth, a spokesman for the Public Health Service, said that under the
proposed regulation, AIDS would be treated like other dangerous communicable
diseases. ''The physician conducting the examination will look for a clinical
manifestation or medical history'' that might suggest AIDS, she said, ''and if
that leads him to believe there may be AIDS infection, he'll do a blood test.''

She said tourists would not generally be required to have medical examinations
unless they appeared to be ill. And if they look ill, she said, they can already
be asked to undergo examinations.

Federal health officials said that the presence of antibodies to the AIDS virus
would not, by itself, be a basis for excluding aliens. To be excluded, they
said, an alien would have to meet the strict clinical definition of AIDS, which
is usually marked by the presence of other serious diseases, such as Kaposi's
sarcoma or an unusual form of pneumonia.

Dr. James W. Curran, director of the AIDS program at the Centers for Disease
Control, said that homosexuals accounted for about 73 percent of AIDS cases
reported to date in the United States. But, he said, they account for smaller
proportions of AIDS cases in most other countries.

But he said the proposed regulation ''is not meant for the harassment of
homosexuals, nor is that likely to be the outcome.''

Nevertheless, Caitlin Ryan, president of the National Lesbian and Gay Health
Foundation, said she feared that the proposed rule might be ''misused to
discriminate against anyone who is perceived as being in a high-risk group for
AIDS.'' She said she was concerned that some immigration and consular officers,
''because of their personal biases and prejudices, might routinely order medical
examinations'' for homosexuals.

The foundation represents doctors, nurses and other health-care professionals
who are homosexual.

Under Federal law, homosexuality is one of the grounds for excluding aliens from
the United States. But physicians in the Public Health Service say that
homosexuality is not a disease and cannot be medically diagnosed.

Therefore, according to an official of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, the Government generally does not exclude aliens on this ground unless
they make an unambiguous declaration of homosexuality. #10,000 Deaths From AIDS
The Centers for Disease Control, a unit of the Public Health Service, has
recorded more than 19,000 cases of AIDS and more than 10,000 deaths from the
disease, which destroys the body's ability to fight infection. Almost one-third
of the reported cases were in New York City.

The Defense Department is screening all 2.1 million active duty military
personnel for infection by the virus that causes AIDS. But the Public Health
Service has recommended against routine screening of civilian workers to check
for exposure to AIDS.

Screening is often done by means of a blood test. The test indicates whether a
person has antibodies to the AIDS virus. Government doctors say the antibodies
indicate that a person has been infected with the virus. A person with
antibodies may never develop symptoms of AIDS, but is presumed to be capable of
transmitting the virus to other people, the doctors said.

The Public Health Service emphasized again today that AIDS was ''not transmitted
by casual, nonintimate forms of contact'' or by food, air or water. Rather, the
Government said, the disease is ''transmitted by sexual contact, by sharing
needles with an infected person'' or, in rare cases, through transfusions of
blood or blood products.

People have until June 23 to file written comments on the new proposal. Comments
should be addressed to Dr. Laurence S. Farer, director, Division of Quarantine,
Center for Prevention Services, Centers for Disease Control, Atlanta, Ga. 30333.
The agency must take account of all comments before issuing a final rule, which
would have the force of law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 9, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

PETER RODINO AND SPECIAL INTERESTS

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 473 words


Immigration reform, says Brooklyn's Representative Charles Schumer, is a
''metaphor for governance . . . Can the general interest transcend the specific
interest?'' And how! is the answer Senate Finance Chairman Bob Packwood has just
given for tax reform. The same could still be true for immigration reform -
except that the movement is backward. This was the week the bill was supposed to
go to the House. What it produced instead was five suspicious weeks of more
delay.

This balanced, bipartisan bill embodies the general interest. It would enable
America to be just in deciding which of the clamoring millions around the world
it will admit. It would enable America to be humane in its treatment of those
who, having sneaked in, now live under a cloud of exploitation. Yet the bill
remains pinned between growers determined not to run short of farmhands to pick
their crops and union leaders who fear that poor foreign workers will undercut
wages.

As tax reform came finally to depend on a Senate Republican chairman from the
West, immigration reform now depends on a House Democratic chairman from Newark:
Peter Rodino.

Peter Rodino, child of Italian immigrants, a Congressman for 37 years and
chairman of the Judiciary Committee, knows the importance of immigration reform
better than anyone. In the 1970's, he twice won House passage of reform bills
only to see them die in the Senate. Now the dragging shoe is on the other foot.
The Senate has passed reform three times and the House has repeatedly dithered.
Reform finally passed once but died in conference.

Would Mr. Rodino let that happen again? No, he said, not if President Reagan
personally reaffirmed his commitment. The President did that, in March. Okay,
said the chairman; we'll mark up the legislation in early May and get the bill
to the floor. This was to be the week.

Now, Mr. Rodino has again gone along with a request for more time.
Representatives Schumer and Leon Panetta and Howard Berman of California are
trying to negotiate agreement between growers and labor. Their delay may mask
shrewd tactics, avoiding torpedoes later. But the negotiators have already been
at it for five months. Considering how dyspeptic the House's Democratic leaders
have been about this bill, a five-week delay this late in the session is cause
for alarm.

If Mr. Rodino wants immigration reform to curdle and die, he is, like Speaker
O'Neill and Majority Leader Wright, a canny parliamentarian who knows how to
strangle without leaving fingerprints. But if he wants it to pass, he also knows
what to do. In his 19 terms in the House, Peter Rodino has traveled some
historic paths; he chaired the Nixon impeachment hearings in 1974. Now
immigration reform may be his biggest remaining milestone. How he'll be
remembered depends on which way he is headed when he goes by.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 23, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Immigration Policy in the Light of a New Torch

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 377 words


To the Editor:

As the nation prepares for the rededication of the Statue of Liberty on the
Fourth of July, it is appropriate to recall that just over two decades ago,
another special ceremony took place there. On Oct. 3, 1965, at the base of the
statue, in the presence of members of Congress, other Government officials and
representatives of voluntary agencies serving immigrants and refugees, President
Lyndon B. Johnson signed into law the Immigration Act of 1965.

This legislation, first recommended by President Kennedy, finally eliminated the
notorious national-origins quota system. That shameful law, signed by President
Coolidge in 1924, deliberately discriminated against migrants from eastern and
southern Europe and the Far East, because Congress considered them inferior to
northern or western Europeans. The 1924 legislation had been further reinforced
by the McCarran-Walter Act of 1952, which was passed over President Truman's
veto.

The law signed by President Johnson at Liberty Island not only abolished this
racist policy, but also established preferences for family reunion; for
professional, skilled or unskilled workers needed in the United States, and for
refugees.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, as acting chairman of the Senate Judiciary
Subcommittee on Immigration, had led the effort in the Senate for support of
that legislation. In the House, Representative Emanuel L. Celler provided
leadership. Republicans also gave their support, especially Representative Arch
A. Moore of West Virginia. Decisive in convincing Congress to vote for this
legislation was the strong support by Roman Catholic, Protestant (Lutheran
particularly), Jewish and nonsectarian voluntary agencies, which worked with
Attorney General Nicholas deB. Katzenbach, and Assistant Secretary of State Abba
P. Schwartz.

Now, Congress is struggling with proposals to solve the complicated migration
problems of the 1980's and 90's. Perhaps a renewal of that partnership of
Government and voluntary agencies would help to maintain the best American
traditions of fairness and compassion, which are symbolized by our beloved
Statue of Liberty. JAMES P. RICE Chicago, June 11, 1986 The writer was director
of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society from 1956 to 1966.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 20, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Travelers' Raid

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 487 words


More foreigners enter the United States through New York's Kennedy International
than any other airport, and lately they've had to stand in line for as long as
four hours. The lines have gotten so bad that the Immigration Service has
finally agreed to provide more inspectors. That's obviously welcome but the
proposal for paying for them is not. The idea is to charge the travelers,
through a $2.50 head tax on each entrant.

That's a petty, provincial notion in the first place. The practice of extracting
tribute from travelers should have died several centuries back. It is made yet
more offensive by the fact that travelers' pockets are already being raided by
head taxes.

Kennedy is crowded and getting more so. An advisory committee headed by former
Mayor Lindsay pointed out last March that the terminal's immigration halls
handle 50 percent more passengers than anticipated when they opened 30 years
ago. Staffing by the Immigration Service hasn't kept pace. Worse, the staff has
just been reduced, because of the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings balanced-budget law.

The full-time inspection staff at Kennedy is now 10 percent smaller than a year
ago, and the number of peak-season temporaries had been cut even harder until
Washington started rehiring. Now Representative Charles Schumer of Brooklyn
proposes a $2.50 per capita surtax. He rightly believes immigration controls
should be paid for out of general revenues. But faced with the new law's
undiscriminating ax, an earmarked tax seems to him the only possible source of
funds. Applied at all airports, it would yield an estimated $73 million a year.

A charge of $2.50 would not, alone, add much to the high cost of travel. But
$2.50 is not the half of it. The Customs Bureau has just imposed a new $5
customs tax. Foreigners commonly have to pay a departure tax before they leave
home, and the United States then hits them for $3 when they want to get out. And
airlines now impose a $5 surcharge for antiterrorist security. Where will it
end? It's not hard to imagine a trunk tax, a sanitation surcharge, a clean-air
assessment.

Fees have their place. When Washington provides services exclusively for the
benefit of identifiable users, it may properly charge them. But immigration
control is no ''service'' to foreigners. It is a vital national function.

Adding staff isn't all that can, and should, be done about crowding at J.F.K.
The Immigration Service has also agreed, after much prodding by Mr. Schumer and
Mr. Lindsay, to try fast-track clearance for business people and others who come
here frequently on special B-1 visas. And the service is extending its
pre-clearance experiment at Shannon Airport in Ireland, where inspection is
completed before boarding.

But justly, these and like Federal costs should be borne by the Federal
Government. Taxing foreign visitors and immigrants is not only the wrong way to
pay; it's downright abusive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              August 20, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION SERVICE DELAYS DEPORTATION OF JAPANESE STUDENT

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD D. MAY

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 342 words


Immigration officials yesterday granted Choichiro Yatani, the Japanese graduate
student accused by the State Department of subversive activities, a few more
days in which to attempt to seek a hearing to disprove the charges against him.

He was due to be deported yesterday but Scott Blackman, the assistant district
director for deportation for the United States Immigration and Naturalization
Service, granted an extension until Friday. ''This gives him further time to
pursue his case,'' Mr. Blackman said.

Mr. Yatani, 39 years old and a resident of Port Jefferson, L.I., was arrested by
immigration officials July 7 upon his return to the United States from the
Netherlands, where he was attending an academic conference. Since his arrest,
Mr. Yatani, who is married and has two children, has been held without bail at
the Immigration Service's detention center on Varick Street in downtown
Manhattan.

Evidence Is 'Classified'

Government officials have said that Mr. Yatani was or is ''a terrorist or
engaged in other subversive activities.'' James Callahan, a spokesman for the
State Department, said yesterday that the evidence against Mr. Yatani was
''classified'' and therefore could not be disclosed.

Mr. Yatani denies that he is now or has ever been a member of the Communist
Party or other radical organizations. He said he was arrested once, in Japan in
1968, for taking part in a protest against the Vietnam War.

Mr. Yatani, who has lived in the United States for nine years, is completing a
Ph.D program in social psychology at the State University of New York at Stony
Brook, where he also teaches both psychology and Japanese.

Theodore Ruthizer, one of several attorneys who late last week volunteered to
represent Mr. Yatani, said that immigration officials ''appear to be looking for
a way to solve this.'' He added, ''The State Department has not shown a similar
attitude.''

Mr. Ruthizer argued that, under the law, any individual is entitled to
''understand the evidence against him and to reply to that evidence.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 30, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

HOUSE ACTS AGAINST ALIENS' SHAM MARRIAGES

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 540 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 29


The House of Representatives voted today to stiffen Federal penalties for
immigrants who use sham marriages with Americans to gain entry into the United
States.

Also by voice vote, the House agreed to allow the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to hold swearing-in ceremonies for newly naturalized citizens, sharing
that ceremonial role with overworked Federal judges.

The House approved and sent to the Senate a series of miscellaneous immigration
bills. The House had refused last week to take action on the first major
overhaul of immigration laws governing illegal aliens.

With Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, declaring that ''we
ought not to have people defrauding their way into this country,'' the House
increased the criminal penalties for fraudulent immigrant marriages to a
$250,000 fine and five years in prison.

Members also approved requiring a conditional two-year award of permanent
resident status for certain newly married aliens. Toward the end of the two-year
period, the couple would have to prove that their marriage was legitimate or
risk deportation and sanctions.

One-Third Are Questionable

In addition, ''fiance'' visas would be denied to aliens who have not personally
met their intended American spouses.

Representative Bill McCollum, a Florida Republican, said that between 1978 and
1984, the number of immigrants entering the country as the spouse of an American
citizen rose 46 percent. It was estimated that about one-third of all
marriage-related immigration petitions involve questionable marriages.

Typically, a would-be immigrant pays an American upwards of $10,000 to enter a
marriage to qualify for a visa. Shortly after the immigrant arrives in the
United States, the marriage is annulled.

The citizenship bill was intended to eliminate the long periods that otherwise
qualified aliens must wait to take the oath as American citizens because of a
growing backlog at Federal courts, especially in such major metropolitan areas
as New York and Los Angeles.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service estimated that 213,744 aliens were
awaiting court swearing-in ceremonies as of June 30. Under the House bill, the
I.N.S. could conduct swearing-in ceremonies itself.

Other Measures Adopted

Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., the New Jersey Democrat who heads the House
Judiciary Committee, said he hoped the bill became law soon so that ''many
thousands'' of new citizens could be sworn in and cast their votes in the Nov. 4
elections.

The bill would also grant special immigrant status to dependents of employees of
the World Bank, the United Nations and other international organizations who
choose to remain in the United States.

The House also approved counting custody time toward meeting the current law's
requirement that a child be formally adopted for two years before becoming a
permanent resident.

The House postponed until Tuesday a roll-call vote on a separate proposal to
admit as special immigrants a limited number of lay workers employed by
nonprofit religious organizations, and to place a 10-year statute of limitations
on certain offenses for which someone can be denied entry into the country,
including prostitution or fraud.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 8, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

The Place to Restart Immigration Reform

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 263 words


To the Editor:

Like The Times (editorial, Sept. 29), we regret the demise of the Rodino
Immigration Reform Act and the collapse of bipartisan support for it. For the
future, we need to stress that the bill contained all the necessary elements of
constructive immigration reform. These include:

* No change in our current system for legal entry, which emphasizes family
unification.

* Strong measures to assure that new regulations to control illegal inflow do
not result in discrimination against American minorities.

* Legal status to undocumented persons now a part of our society.

* Relief for those who fear deportation to war-torn homelands.

* Assurance that people brought to the U.S. to work in agriculture are not
subject to exploitation.

The bill was defeated not only by partisan rancor but by forces that want legal
protection neither on our borders nor for our workforce.

The Rodino bill represented a real advance over immigration reform as passed in
the Senate, whose version provided inadequate protections for agricultural
workers and domestic minorities, ignored Central American refugees and left in
legal limbo many now here in undocumented status.

Unless the issue is miraculously revived now, the next Congress needs to make
immigration reform an urgent priority. The provisions of the Rodino bill are the
right place to start.

GEORGE M. SZABAD
  GARY E. RUBIN
  New York, Sept. 29, 1986

The writers are, respectively, chairman and a member of the American Jewish
Committee's Center on Im migration and Acculturation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 12, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Congress Jump-Starts a Corpse

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 478 words


Eight years and five days after a Presidential commission began studying the
subject, the remarkable thing about the immigration reform bill is nothing about
its contents but the fact that it is still alive at all. When the bill, having
again been given up for dead, passed the House Thursday night, Alan Simpson, its
calm Senate sponsor, said, ''I guess we just jump-started a corpse.''

The reason for that achievement and the reason the bill may yet pass before
Congress staggers to a conclusion lies in the word ''center.'' The immigration
reform bill, sponsored by a broad bipartisan coalition, teeters so precariously
on the center of American opinion that small shifts right or left send the
seesaw flying. Now, in the closing hours, the seesaw will fly again unless both
the right and left move, steadily, to the center.

The starting place for liberals to yield is the unjust heart of present
immigration law, the ''Texas proviso,'' inserted in 1952. The proviso sternly
made it illegal for aliens in this country to work. But it smugly did not make
it illegal to hire them. Growers got all the labor, aliens all the risks. The
new bill would finally make it illegal to hire, applying sanctions against
employers who do so.

Yet House Democrats have just inserted a ''sunset'' provision calling for
employer sanctions to expire after six and a half years. That comes close to
eviscerating the bill. The Senate bill presumes effectiveness but provides a
review commission as a sensible protection. On this point, the Senate version is
indisputably preferable - a judgment that the House Democratic conferees appear
commendably willing to accept.

The House bill also includes an incendiary provision, championed by Joseph
Moakley, Democrat of Massachusetts, to grant temporary haven to Central
Americans. On the merits, it's a superb proposal that deserves enactment - but
not at the expense of overloading this bill.

There's just as much room for compromise on the other side. A principal feature
of the reform bill would give amnesty to hundreds of thousands of illegals who
have lived here for years, exploited and afraid. How many years must they have
been here to qualify? The Senate bill says seven, but why should that be such a
sticking point? It's not as if the House bill, which says five years, will throw
open the gates.

Another issue for the right concerns lawyers. Temporary workers admitted under
new provisions of law would be entitled to assistance from Legal Services
lawyers - but not those admitted under another section. Rectifying that is not
just an exercise in symmetry; there are few groups potentially more in need of
legal assistance.

Some of these positions will be hard to budge, and there are only precious hours
left. That's time enough, though, for the expiring Congress to breathe life into
this warm and worthy corpse.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 11, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

FEARS PROMPTED HISPANIC VOTES IN BILL'S SUPPORT

BYLINE: By LYDIA CHAVEZ, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1441 words

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO


Many Hispanic leaders, who for years viewed immigration legislation as offering
many possibilities for repression, had a greater fear this year that helped
enact the new law: that job competition and growing concern about unbridled
immigration would produce a backlash of discrimination.

Here in San Antonio, where 46 percent of the city's 900,000 residents are
Mexican-Americans, both the pressures that prompted Hispanic leaders to support
the legislation signed by President Reagan and the concerns they have about its
enactment, are readily apparent.

At dawn one recent morning near this south Texas city, young Mexican-Americans
and Mexicans emerged along West Commerce Street to wait for the trucks of
contractors that cruise by daily for laborers.

Mexican-Americans and Mexicans can not be distinguished physically, but they are
different. The Mexicans work for less than the minimum wage of $3.35 an hour and
the Mexican-Americans generally refuse to. When jobs are plentiful, this does
not matter, but now, with work difficult to find, more of the Mexican-Americans
can be found on the street when the day's hiring is done.

'Texas Is Being Invaded'

''They're all right,'' said Raul Cerda, an American citizen, motioning toward a
group of Mexicans. ''There's just an awful lot of them, and they work for
less.''

Last month, residents listening to the radio could hear a paid announcement
accompanied by the sound of waves, a babble of foreign languages, babies crying
and bottles being broken. ''Texas is being invaded,'' a voice warned. ''Texas is
about to become a third-world state.''

The commercial was sponsored by Americans for Immigration Control, which is
opposed to any citizenship provisions for illegal aliens.

These two phenomena, competition for jobs and the perception that immigration is
uncontrollable, prompted 5 of 11 Hispanic Congressman and some of their
constituents and major Mexican-American lobbying organizations to support or try
to change the immigration bill rather than adamantly oppose it, as they had in
the past, according to legislators and lobbyists.

The new law would permit the millions of aliens who entered the country
illegally before Jan 1, 1982, to become citizens eventually, and provides
penalties for employers who hire illegal aliens.

Although illegal aliens arrive in the United States from all over the world, the
largest number by far, an estimated 50 percent, are from Mexico and other Latin
countries. As a result, Hispanic-American Congressmen, many of them voted into
office by Mexican-American constituents, have a big stake in immigration
legislation.

Discomfort for Leaders

Many Hispanic leaders supported the bill with great discomfort. They know many
illegal aliens like those who gather on West Commerce Street will neither
qualify for citizenship nor return to Mexico. There there is no work for them
there. And the leaders fear that this will fan anti-Hispanic sentiment and
result in discrimination against Hispanic citizens and new immigrants.

In 1984, at the Democratic National Convention in San Francisco, Hispanic
leaders came out strongly in opposition to that year's version of the
immigration bill, proposed by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming,
and Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky. Their opposition
effectively killed the bill.

But the realities in their home districts and Congress changed dramatically over
the next two years. Representative Albert G. Bustamante, a Democrat from
south-central Texas, ran for election in 1984, and opposed the Simpson-Mazzoli
bill. But economic conditions changed in his district, which includes San
Antonio as well as the border towns of Del Rio and Laredo, and so did his tone.

''We must begin to gain control of our borders and shores,'' he said recently.
''If we don't begin to do that, Hispanics will be the victims of harsh
repression and discrimination.''

A major factor in such warnings is jobs. In September, unemployment in Del Rio
rose to 20.3 percent from 11.8 percent in September 1984. In San Antonio
unemployment was at 7.7 percent, as against 5 percent in September 1984.

'Don't Want to Hurt Anyone'

Typical of what Mr. Bustamante's constituents were facing was the experience of
Esevio Trujillo, the manager of Mi Tierra, a Mexican restaurant here. Two years
ago, he said, 50 people a week came in seeking a job; this year it has been
about 100.

Mr. Trujillo, the son of an immigrant, said, ''We don't want to hurt anyone,''
referring to the new law. ''But God knows how many people would come into this
work force.''

While unemployment was rising, conservative groups began a campaign to convince
Americans that illegal aliens were invading the country at an unprecedented
rate, according to Hispanic leaders. They said the campaign focused on
characterizing the migration from Mexico as one that included drug dealers and
criminals.

Oscar Moran, the president of the League of United Latin American Citizens, one
of the oldest Hispanic organizations, said that over the last year conservative
groups have worked hard to ''convince people that we were being invaded.''

Not only had developments in their districts given pause to the Hispanic
leaders, but since 1984 they had also lost the support of such allies as blacks
and organized labor over the issue of jobs.

'Some Were Just Worn Out'

Antonio Gonzalez, who works for the Southwest Voter Registration Education
Project here, said the country's mood was palpable in the Mexican-American
leadership. He said several marches were staged to fight the Simpson-Mazolli
bill in 1984, but this year people ''were just worn out.''

Rick Swartz, president of the National Immigration, Refugee and Citizenship
Forum, which played a key role in lobbying for changes in the bill, said, ''We
could see that you could not do a bill without sanctions.''

Mr. Swartz said that without the votes to defeat the bill, his group and others
that had opposed previous legislation decided to work toward limiting the
penalties for employers of illegal aliens and to make the citizenship provision
more liberal. They succeeded to some exent.

Strategy Shift Backed

Charles Kamazaki, the director of policy analysis for La Raza, a major Hispanic
organiazation, said that although his group eventually opposed the bill, it had
adopted Mr. Swartz's strategy of trying to improve it. Mr. Kamazaki said La
Raza's shifted its strategy because ''we believed that the longer this issue was
around the more it would hurt the Hispanic community.''

Representative Esteban Edward Torres, Democrat of southern California, whose
constituency includes a number of union workers, along with Representative
Robert Garcia, Democrat of the Bronx, successfully sought to change the
legislation as it moved through Congress, Hispanic leaders said. Mr. Torres
voted for the bill, Mr. Garcia against it.

Whether those Hispanic Congressman who voted for the bill will suffer
politically in their heavily Hispanic districts will be unclear until the bill's
effects are felt.

Mr. Bustamante said the reaction to his vote has been less critical than he
expected. He said he had received only a few calls about it. However, some of
the bill's inherent problems are already evident here.

La Raza estimates that 30 percent of what it estimates are 3 million to 5
million illegal aliens in the country are elgible for eventual citizenship. The
problem is how many of these people will have the documents to prove they have
resided in this country continuously since before 1982, which they must do to
qualify for citizenship.

Meanwhile, procedures for enforcing the new law have not been worked out, and
John A. Abriel, the deputy district director for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in south Texas, said he was still operating under the old
law.

''At present, absent any orders, I intend to enforce the law that is in
effect,'' Mr. Abriel said. ''We don't plan on stopping apprehensions but if we
apprehend someone who appears to be eligible we might wait.''

Rudy Sandoval, president of the San Antonio Mexican Chamber of Commerce, said
that in the short term the new law's sanctions against employers will have a
''chilling'' effect on hiring, but then ''that will taper off as people see it
is impossible to enforce.''

Even Representative Bustamante, who said competition for jobs prompted him to
vote for the bill, doubts the law will be effective. ''It will stop some of
it,'' he said, referring to illegal immigration. ''But if I was in Mexico under
those conditions I would be wading the river.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 23, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

To Overhaul the Rules on Lookout Procedures for Foreigners

SECTION: Section 4; Page 24, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 410 words


To the Editor:

''Why Fear Foreigners' Free Speech?'' (editorial, Nov. 13) properly calls for
Congress to revise those sections of our immigration law that bar admission to
persons who engage in activities deemed prejudicial to the United States. But
legislative change, especially on an issue as politically charged as the grounds
for exclusion, is likely to be some time away.

Meanwhile, the executive branch could and should overhaul its procedures for
handling the lookout system. Guidelines exist, of course, for how names are
entered into the system, but they are not rigorously administered, and review,
once names are listed, is virtually nonexistent.

The following should be done:

* An interagency review panel of three or five representatives of the
Departments of State and Justice, to include the Immigration Service, should be
established to rule on the recommendations of the intelligence agencies to list
names. Standards guiding the type, quality and sources of information that lead
to a recommendation to list should be established and upheld. In emergencies
-for example a suspected terrorist -names could be posted immediately and then
reviewed by the panel.

* Names currently listed should be reviewed. Those for which available
information does not conform to the standards should be removed or proper
justification supplied.

* A systematic review of all names should be made regularly, perhaps every three
years, to re-authorize or drop names.

* Persons who learn they are listed as excludable should be allowed to refute
the designation. Aliens do not have due process rights and should not be
admitted into the U.S. for this purpose. However, individuals should be allowed
to present information to an impartial, non-litigative authority, such as the
panel, for review.

Immigration officials have struggled with arcane exclusion provisions for years.
In other troublesome and controversial areas, e.g., marijuana use and
homosexuality, government agencies have administratively devised procedures that
observe both the law and changing realities. Rigorous management of lookout
procedures and a commitment to simple fairness would go a long way toward
righting some of the more obvious wrongs.

 DORIS M. MEISSNER
   Washington, Nov. 18, 1986

 The writer, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace,
was formerly acting commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 23, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION LAW SET OFF DISPUTE OVER JOB RIGHTS FOR LEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 939 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 22


A dispute has erupted over a key provision of the new immigration law, which for
the first time prohibits employers from discriminating against legal aliens.

In signing the bill on Nov. 6, President Reagan issued a statement saying that
people filing complaints under this section must prove that employers had a
''discriminatory intent.''

His contention has generated protests from members of Congress, Hispanic groups
and civil rights advocates, who say he is reading the law much too narrowly.

Interpretation Termed Appalling

The civil rights protections for legal aliens were inserted into the bill as a
compromise to assure its passage.

Representative Esteban Edward Torres, a California Democrat who is chairman of
the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, voted for the bill, but said he was
''appalled at the President's interpretation of the antidiscrimination
provisions.''

The law substantially expands the civil rights of legal aliens, prohibiting
employers from discriminating against them merely because they are not citizens.
Nothing in prior law forbade employers to discriminate on the basis of
citizenship or ''alienage,'' and the Supreme Court ruled in 1973 that such
discrimination was permissible.

But Congress this year prohibited such discrimination because it feared that
employers, in their desire to avoid the new penalties for hiring illegal aliens,
would reject anyone who appeared to be an alien, legal or illegal.

The dispute over interpretation of the civil rights guarantees is apparently the
first to arise from the Reagan Administration's new practice of issuing detailed
policy statements when the President signs a bill. The purpose is to shape
''legislative history'' and to influence the courts. In the past, legislative
history was drawn almost entirely from Congressional debates, reports and
hearings.

Labor lawyers said the new civil rights guarantees would be more significant for
most employers than the prohibition on hiring illegal aliens.

Verifying Legal Status

Employers can comply with the prohibition by asking job applicants for documents
to verify that they are either United States citizens or aliens authorized to
work in this country. In addition, employers must fill out a Government form
confirming that they have satisfied these requirements for each person hired.
But even when they follow these procedures, they may still be accused of
discriminating on the basis of citizenship or national origin.

G. John Tysse, former director of labor law for the Chamber of Commerce of the
United States, said, ''The nondiscrimination provisions of the law are likely to
be more troublesome to employers than the verification requirements.''

The law sets up a new office in the Justice Department to investigate complaints
of employment discrimination. A group of specially trained administrative law
judges will hear the complaints.

In signing the bill, Mr. Reagan said ''the employer need not offer any
explanation'' for employee selection procedures unless there is evidence that he
intended to discriminate.

For example, Mr. Reagan said, an employer could require English language skills
or a minimum score on an aptitude test, even if he could not show that these
skills were needed for the job in question.

Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat who wrote this portion of
the law, said Mr. Reagan's interpretation was ''intellectually dishonest,
mean-spirited'' and incorrect. Mr. Frank said, ''A pattern or practice of
discriminatory activity would violate the law even if you cannot prove an intent
to discriminate.''

Supreme Court Position

The Supreme Court has said that an employee-selection procedure might result in
discrimination even though the employer had no discriminatory intent.

Arnold H. Leibowitz, a former Senate counsel on immigration, said: ''The
President has construed this provision extremely narrowly, and that's
unfortunate.

''By suggesting that companies can adopt employee-testing procedures that are
completely unrelated to employment qualifications, the President is setting a
dangerous precedent for civil rights law. The effect is to say that normal civil
rights protections against job discrimination don't apply to aliens, resulting
in an unequal, dual system of enforcement.''

Under the Civil Rights Act of 1964, employers generally may not use an
employee-selection procedure that tends to exclude women or members of minority
groups unless they can show that it measures a skill or attribute necessary for
successful performance of the job.

Opposition to Program

Congress established the new civil rights enforcement program despite strong
objections by William Bradford Reynolds, the Assistant Attorney General for
civil rights. Mr. Reynolds testified last year that there was no demonstrated
need for the program and that it would duplicate the work of another Federal
agency, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.

However, Mr. Reynolds said this week that the Justice Department would carry out
its responsibilities under the new law.

The ban on hiring illegal aliens applies to all employers. Those with three or
fewer employees are exempt from the antidiscrimination provisions.

E. Richard Larson, vice president of the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund, said, ''The President's interpretation of the law would
severely undercut the protections against discrimination that Congress
provided.''

It is often easier to show that an employer's practices have a discriminatory
effect than to prove that they were motivated by a discriminatory purpose, he
said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 1, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

ABROAD AT HOME;
Is There No Decency?

BYLINE: By Anthony Lewis

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 740 words

DATELINE: DALLAS


It was a small thing, as the arrogance of power goes in Washington these days.
But it was so nasty, and so revealing.

Columbia University held a dinner in October for winners of the Maria Moors
Cabot Prize, given to Latin American journalists and publications for advancing
''inter-American understanding and freedom of information.'' Among those invited
was Patricia Lara, a reporter for El Tiempo, the leading newspaper of Bogota,
Colombia.

When Miss Lara arrived at Kennedy Airport in New York, she was taken into
custody by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. She was held for five
days, the latter part of that time in a maximum-security cell. Then she was put
on a plane for Bogota.

Immigration officials gave Miss Lara no reason for imprisoning and excluding
her, and they held no hearing. An I.N.S. spokesman mentioned to reporters a
section of the immigration law barring visitors who are likely to ''engage in
subversive activities.'' But officials said disclosure of the charges would be
''prejudicial to the public interest.''

Miss Lara had a valid U.S. visa and had visited here earlier in the year. State
Department officials said the visa had been issued in error. They revoked it
while she was in detention.

The Government of Colombia protested and asked that Miss Lara be released in its
ambassador's custody just long enough so she could attend the dinner. The United
States said no.

There matters stood for a month: Miss Lara out, Washington giving no reasons, a
friendly government irritated. It looked like one more in the string of
embarrassments caused by the exclusion of foreign visitors on political grounds
under the McCar-ran-Walter Immigration Act of 1952. Then it got much worse.  On
Nov. 16 Elliott Abrams, Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs,
appeared on the television program ''60 Minutes.'' He charged that Patricia Lara
was a high-ranking member of the Colombian terrorist organization, M-19.

''She's been a member of some of the ruling committees'' of M-19, Mr. Abrams
said. He added that Miss Lara was ''an active liaison'' between M-19 ''and the
Cuban secret police.''

M-19 terrorists stormed the Palace of Justice in Bogota last year and
assassinated more than half the Colombian Supreme Court. Mr. Abrams said Miss
Lara ''obviously thought that was a terrific idea.''

For all this Mr. Abrams offered no evidence. Miss Lara denied the charges,
calling them ''the biggest lie I have heard in my life.'' She said she believed
that ''violence has no place in a democracy.'' The Government of Colombia also
said it had no evidence that she was a member of M-19 or a Cuban agent.

Miss Lara has published a book on M-19. In it she condemns the assault on the
Palace of Justice. There is a foreword by the former President of Colombia,
Belasario Betancur, who calls her ''intellectually honest'' and ''professionally
dedicated.''

The exact truth about Miss Lara is not the point. No one can tell that without
evidence, without a hearing.

The point is that the United States Government would not tell Miss Lara the
reason for her exclusion, saying that to do so would be against the public
interest. And then Elliott Abrams produced charges - on a television program,
with no evidence.

They were devastating charges. To be called an M-19 terrorist in Colombia is to
be a target for assassination. Miss Lara's lawyer, Arthur Helton of the Lawyers
Committee for Human Rights in New York, cited that danger in writing Mr. Abrams
and asking for the factual basis of his extraordinary attack. To date Mr. Helton
has had no reply.

The Lara case sends an unmistakable message. Those who now hold power in
Washington are afraid to let one foreign reporter into the country for one night
to attend a dinner. They are afraid to tell her why. But they are ready to
attack her afterward, without a hearing where charges could be tested.

It is especially nice that the charge of terrorist activity against Miss Lara
comes from Assistant Secretary Abrams. For he has been a leading figure in the
Reagan Administration's campaign to support the contras, with their bloody
record of terrorism in Nicaragua.

There is a word for Elliott Abrams: coward. Joe McCarthy made hit-and-run
attacks from the sanctuary of the United States Senate. To make them as a high
official of the State Department is even more contemptible. The State Department
is supposed to speak for America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 21, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CUMOM FORMS PANEL ON U.S. IMMIGRATION LAW

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 53, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 593 words


Governor Cuomo, responding to widespread confusion over the new Federal
immigration law, has formed a special panel to inform New Yorkers about the
legislation and protect them from discrimination.

The panel, according to its chairman, will develop safeguards against potential
discrimination, evaluate how state agencies respond to the changes and prepare a
plan within 90 days to inform New York residents and businesses of the law's
provisions.

''We need to make sure that in carrying out the legislation, we protect all
affected individuals from possible discrimination in both private and public
sectors,'' the Governor said in announcing the creation of the panel last week.

New York is the first state to set up a group to deal with the new, long-debated
law, which prohibits the hiring of illegal aliens and offers legal status to
undocumented workers who can prove ''continuous residence'' in this country
since Jan. 1, 1982. The panel will be headed by the State Social Services
Commissioner, Cesar A. Perales, and will be made up of the heads of several
other state agencies. The Federal Government has said it will not accept
applications for legalization until May 1987.

Need to Protect Desperate People

''The task force could play a very positive role if it educates people as to
their rights and helps ensure them,'' said Darlene Kalke, director of the Center
for Immigrants Rights, a nonprofit advocacy organization in Manhattan. She
emphasized that there was an urgent need for information and that some notaries
and lawyers were ''taking advantage of desperate people.''

The center, Ms. Kalke said, has received thousands of telephone calls from
people asking what the new legislation means and does not mean. The questions
focus on two major issues: employer sanctions and legalization.

In an interview, Mr. Perales emphasized that many employers did not know that
sanctions apply only to workers hired after the law was enacted last Nov. 6.
Because of this misunderstanding, Mr. Perales and leaders of immigrant-rights
groups said, some employers, afraid of fines, were dismissing workers
needlessly.

Only two days after the law was passed, Ms. Kalke said, the Federal Immigration
and Naturalization Service raided a handbag factory in Manhattan, and 15 people
were taken into custody. Since then, all of the workers, most of them Hondurans,
have been dismissed.

Some Seek Legalization

In addition, she said, aliens have begun turning themselves over to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service in hopes of legalization.

Besides Mr. Perales, the Task Force will include the Commissioners of the
Departments of Labor, Commerce, Agriculture and Markets, Taxation and Finance,
Education, and the division of Human Rights. It will also include the Executive
Director of the Office for Hispanic Affairs.

The Task Force is to coordinate its efforts on information with the Justice
Department and the immigration service, the communique said.

Furthermore, Mr. Perales has asked New York immigration and the human rights
lawyer Arthur Helton to organize an advisory group of immigration experts. Mr.
Helton is former Chairman of the Immigration and Nationality Law Committee of
the New York City Bar Association.

''New York being a major ports of entry has one of the largest and most diverse
immigrant populations and will be greatly impacted by the new immigration law,''
Mr. Helton said. For this reason, he noted, the state has a special need to
respond to ''the challenges and opportunities'' under the new law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 30, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

WASHINGTON TALK: BRIEFING;
Immigration Battles

BYLINE: By Wayne King and Warren Weaver Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 288 words


Backers of the immigration bill that President Reagan signed into law only last
month are already gearing up for what they believe will be protracted battle in
both Congress and the courts over its provisions and enforcement.

The Washington-based Federation for American Immigration Reform, the major
lobbying organization behind the bill, has spun off a new group, the Immigration
Reform Law Institute, to fight legal challenges to the bill. ''The battle has
just begun,'' said Dan Stein, executive director of the new litigation group.

At least one lawsuit has been filed. It seeks to prevent the Immigration and
Naturalization Service from deporting illegal aliens, including those
apprehended at the Mexican border. Just six days after Mr. Reagan signed the
bill, a group headed by the National Center for Immigrants' Rights filed the
suit in California, maintaining that the aliens might qualify for amnesty and be
allowed to stay under the new law.

Another coalition that includes the Mexican-American Legal Defense and Education
Fund, the American Civil Liberties Union and the National Council of Churches
has said it will file suit if it feels the law is being applied improperly.

A Congressional battle is likely over attempts to amend some provisions of the
bill, almost certainly involving a section allowing up to 350,000 undocumented
seasonal workers to stay in this country if they can show that they worked at
least 90 days in agriculture during specified periods. Critics say the provision
is far too liberal, while powerful growers' groups - including some from the
home state of the incoming Speaker of the House, Jim Wright of Texas - say it is
necessary to insure an adequate pool of farm workers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 17, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

ARREST OF PALESTINIAN ALIENS IN LOS ANGELES TO BE REVIEWED, U.S. AIDE SAYS

BYLINE: By JUDITH CUMMINGS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2015 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 16


The top investigations official of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
has requested an inquiry into the arrest of eight immigrants here, purportedly
affiliated with the radical Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, and
their planned deportation on the ground of subversive activity.

Their lawyers say that the eight immigrants, seven Jordanian Arabs and the
Kenyan wife of one, are the victims of political persecution by the Reagan
Administration. They say the Administration is reviving a McCarthy-era law in an
effort to deport the aliens not on the basis of any of their activities, but on
the charge that they are affiliated with an organization that, in the language
of the 1952 law, ''advocates world Communism.''

Charge Involves Literature

The immigration agency says it has evidence that the Arabs and the Kenyan
distributed literature advocating the overthrow of the United States Government.

According to Robert Moschorak of the Immigration Service's regional office,
there are 31 situations under the McCarran-Walter Immigration Act in which an
immigrant can be told he or she is ''excludable,'' including, for example,
advocating anarchy. If the alien then enters the country anyway, Mr. Moschorak
said, the alien is subject to deportation at any time.

The case, which began with the arrest here of seven aliens on Jan. 26 -the
eighth was arrested last week -has brought charges that constitutional rights
are being abused and police-state tactics used, to which the Government replies
that national security interests are at stake. All eight immigrants have been
detained in the Federal prison at Terminal Island for a deportation hearing on
Tuesday.

Initiative Was on West Coast

Both headquarters and local Immigration Service officials said that the Los
Angeles arrests had been initiated by the Los Angeles district office in the
agency's Western region, headed by Harold W. Ezell, the Western Regional
Commissioner.

John F. Shaw, the assistant Immigration Service commissioner for investigations
in Washington, said he had had no prior knowledge of the arrests. ''Our regions
can go ahead and exercise judgment based on factual information,'' he said in an
interview from Washington. ''That wasn't orchestrated from here.''

Mr. Shaw said he had asked the Office of Professional Responsibility in the
Immigration Service to review the circumstances of the arrests.

The seven Arabs have been described by an immigration official and by members of
the Los Angeles Arab community as Palestinians with Jordanian passports. Most
are students at universities in Southern California and all are in their 20's
and 30's. One is described by the Federal Bureau of Investigation as the leader
of the Popular Front in Southern California, Khader Musa Hamide, a 32-year-old
resident of Glendale, a Los Angeles suburb.

Front Is Linked to Hijackings

The Popular Front, which calls itself a Marxist organization, is considered to
the left of the Palestine Liberation Organization, headed by Yasir Arafat. Under
its Syrian-based leader, Dr. George Habash, the Popular Front gained worldwide
attention through airplane hijackings in the 1970's, most notably the 1976
hijacking of an Air France jetliner with 103 passengers and crew. It was flown
to Entebbe airport in Uganda. All seven hijackers were killed by Israeli
commandos when they stormed the airport.

Those arrested with Mr. Hamide were his Kenya-born wife, Julie Nyangugi Mungai,
a 29-year-old accountant; Aiad Khaled Barakat, 26, of Glendale; Ayman Mustafa
Obeid, 24, and his brother, Amjad Mustafa Obeid, 22, both engineering students
at California State University at Long Beach; Naim Nadim Sharif, 28, of suburban
Northridge, and Michel Ibrahim Nasif Shehadeh, 30, also a student at the Long
Beach campus.

Last Thursday another Jordanian Arab, Bashar Hasam Amer, 24, of Alta Loma, was
arrested by Federal agents on the campus of Chaffee Community College in Rancho
Cucamonga.

Two others, Ghabah Hawari, 24, and her 19-year-old brother, Haitham Hawari, were
arrested late last month but were released.

The eight have denied affiliation with the Popular Front or advocating terrorist
activities.

Lawyer Describes Charges

''They are charged with being members of an organization which distributes
literature that advocates world Communism,'' said Mark Van Der Hout, a lawyer
for the aliens. ''The Government is not charging them with doing anything
themselves, or with thinking anything, but with belonging to an organization
which distributes literature that advocates world Communism.''

Dan Stormer, the lawyer heading their defense, said the first seven people had
been arrested at gunpoint at their homes in the early morning, were ''shackled
hand and foot'' for meetings with lawyers or relatives and were intially denied
medical treatment. Mr. Stormer said they had been ''locked in a security section
of Terminal Island under conditions more strenous than for murderers and
rapists.'' Mr. Amer was seized on campus ''while he was taking his chemistry
final,'' Mr. Stormer said.

''It's a political charge stemming from the alleged political beliefs of other
persons,'' Mr. Stormer said. ''It's clearly a violation of their First
Amendment-protected rights. You can't exclude people from this country based on
what someone else thinks.''

Visa Status Not Discussed

Mr. Stormer would not provide information about the visa status of any detainee,
student or otherwise, nor whether any had been in violation of the status,
whatever it was.

Mr. Stormer said that the detainees had been active in Palestinian community
activities here and that ''some were involved in organizations like the
International Students Association, organizations like that.'' He said they had
been accused by the immigration agency of possessing ''certain magazines''
including Democratic Palestine, the Palestine Bulletin and Palestine Focus, but
that ''you can get these magazines legally at the U.C.L.A. and University of
Southern California bookstores and certain newsstands.''

Last week in The New York Times, the columnist Anthony Lewis said that a
22-year-old woman, a Jordanian-born American citizen, had said she was served
with a subpoena at a San Diego college campus by an armed agent on the night of
Jan. 28, was handcuffed and taken to a location unknown to her, where she was
questioned about a Palestinian friend and tethered to a metal pole before being
released.

Mr. Stormer declined to provide further information about the woman, who has not
been identified, nor to confirm the account in the column. ''She and the other
members of the team have received threats on their life,'' he said. Mr. Lewis
said that he did not know the woman's name.

Community Has Been Shaken

The case has shaken the Arab community in Southern California. A year and a half
ago one of its leaders, Alex Odeh, the West Coast regional director of the
American-Arab Antidiscrimination Committee, was killed in a bombing that the
Federal Bureau of Investigation initially attributed to the militant Jewish
Defense League. There have been no arrests in the slaying and no suspect has
been identified.

Documents made available to news organizations earlier this month indicated that
the Reagan Administration was drafting plans for the identification and
deportation of aliens linked to terrorist organizations, using provisions of the
1952 McCarran-Walter Act.

Disclosure of the memorandums on this plan and other documents in the newspapers
led many in the American Arab community to charge that Arab alien residents and
Arab citizens of the United States were the targets of a round-up and
deportation of a size unseen in the United States since the detention of
Japanese-Americans in World War II.

Immigration officials acknowledge the existence of ''contingency planning'' for
meeting potential terrorist activity in the United States, but deny that such a
plan has been made final or endorsed.

Lawyer Sees a Connection

Mr. Stormer contended there was a definite connection between the memorandums
and the California arrests.

One of the documents described the formation last September of a border control
committee and said the Administration was reviewing ''contingency plans for
removal of selected aliens and sealing of the borders.''

It advocated the expulsion of ''activists'' in the country illegally and
recommended starting to give the Immigration Service access to information of
the Central Intelligence Agency.

In addition, a May 1986 study by the Immigration Service says, ''The service
will likely be required to concentrate its counterterrorism efforts against
particular nationalities or groups known to be composed primarily of certain
nationalities, most probably those citizens of states known to support
terrorism.''

Arabs Counsel Calm on Issue

But some Arabs in California now caution against ''hyping'' the meaning of the
documents.

''They have lots of contingency plans, any administration has some kind of
contingency plans,'' said Dr. George Irani, the director of international
student advisement at the University of Southern California, who was born in
Lebanon. ''If you read it carefully, you see that the major target group is
Libyans - Muammar Qaddafi, '' Dr. Irani said.

Many leaders in the Arab community here see the Los Angeles arrests as revenge
for the recent taking of three American hostages in Lebanon. Dr. Irani added
that the Los Angeles arrests ''picked the most vulnerable group, Palestinians,
because they don't have a government behind them, a state.''

Mr. Shaw in Washington said the arrests were not related to the contingency plan
given in the internal documents. He acknowledged the existence of the
contingency plan but said it had not been endorsed or disseminated in the
agency. ''The senior enforcement people will review it,'' he said.

Response to 'Concerns,' He Says

Mr. Shaw said contingency planning had been undertaken in response to
''concerns'' of the Justice Department about ''acts planned in foreign
countries, so we would be fully apprised and take the proper precautions.'' He
did not use the word terrorism.

He said that the request for the planning had not come directly from Attorney
General Edwin Meese 3d but that he did not know if it had come from the White
House. The Immigration Service is part of the Justice Department. He would not
say whether the Central Intelligence Agency had been involved.

Mr. Shaw said that the Immigration Service had the right to act upon all
provisions of the McCarran-Walter Act with certain reservations.

''There are many provisions of the McCarran-Walter Act that would be very
reluctantly or gingerly implemented today,'' he said. ''There's a general
feeling that the passage of time warrants substantial rewriting of parts of the
act.'' These provisions, he said, ''could result in situations unacceptable to
the American public at large.''

When the act was first passed during the anti-Communist scare of the McCarthy
era, President Truman vetoed it, saying that although the immigration laws
needed changing to eliminate their basically ''restrictive spirit'' the
McCarran-Walter Act intensified and reinforced this spirit. The veto was
promptly overridden by a two-thirds majority of Congress.

'It's the Law of the U.S.'

Despite reservations about certain provisions of the law, William Odencrantz,
who as Western regional counsel is the top Immigration Service lawyer in this
part of the country, said, ''It's the law of the United States that if a person
belongs to certain proscribed organizations or commits certain acts they can be
deported from the United States.''

''The attorneys,'' he went on, speaking of the lawyers for the detainees, ''can
dislike the statute all they like, but the I.N.S. is charged with enforcing the
law Congress wrote and that's exactly what we're doing.''

Thomas Gaines, the acting district director for the service's Los Angeles
district said, ''The Government is prepared to go forward.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 7, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Funds Given for Refugee Aid

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 95 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 6


Clinton County received $177,000 today from Governor Cuomo for emergency care
for Central American refugees awaiting sanctuary in Canada. About 150 refugees
are stranded in Plattsburgh, 30 miles south of the Canadian border, because of
new immigration laws in both countries. The United States immigration law
provides tougher penalties for employers who hire illegal aliens, and Canadian
officials now require a hearing for entry. The money, from the State Department
of Social Services, would be used for food, shelter and other services, the
county officials said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 10, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Immigration Service Plays Thought-Police Role

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 253 words


To the Editor:

The arrest and detention of Palestinian nationals in California by Immigration
and Naturalization Service officials is reprehensible (news story, Feb. 18). The
deportation charges against these persons appear to be based not on their
actions, but rather on what books and pamphlets they read and distribute and
which organizations they belong to.

It is one thing to be concerned about stopping terrorism, but quite another to
stifle such basic civil rights as freedom of speech and freedom of association.

Unfortunately, this incident doesn't seem to be an isolated one. The deportation
order recently entered against the author Margaret Randall is further evidence
of ideological policing by the Immigration Service.

In that case, the Immigration Service argued for Ms. Randall's deportation based
solely on the political content of her writings, some of which are almost 20
years old.

As the Margaret Randall case is still on appeal and as the deportation case
against the Palestinians is just getting under way, awaiting a hearing in April,
the Immigration Service has time to re-evaluate its position and to retreat from
this misguided policy. The real issue here is not whether the McCarran-Walter
Act permits these deportation proceedings, but whether the Immigration Service
has the good sense not to pursue them.

THEODORE RUTHIZER
New York, Feb. 18, 1987
  The writer is a director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association and
former chairman of its New York chapter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 15, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION POLICY;
IN CANADA, NEW IMMIGRANTS AROUSE ETHNIC TENSIONS

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 806 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


WHEN the Canadian Government moved last month to head off a rush of
self-proclaimed refugees arriving at the country's airports and border posts,
many of them Central Americans coming from the United States, it set off a
highly charged debate.

Organizations that assist new arrivals used phrases like ''a black mark,''
''immoral and irresponsible'' and ''a rejection of everything the country stands
for'' in criticizing Immigration Minister Benoit Bouchard's actions. But radio
stations from Halifax to Vancouver were swamped with approving calls, some
couched in blatantly racist language.

It seemed like a rite of passage for a country facing an issue that the United
States has wrestled with for years. Many Canadians base their sense of
nationhood in perceived distinctions from their southern neighbor - Canada's low
rates of crime and urban decay, enviable systems of public schooling and medical
care, and the absence, hitherto, of major racial problems. Looking south, the
tendency has been to think that righteousness or good fortune has reserved for
Canadians a less blighted quality of life.

Lately that confidence has been shaken, as demonstrated in the refugee
controversy and a wider debate over immigration. Since a major overhaul of the
immigration laws in 1967, wholesale change has occurred, altering the nature of
the country in ways that many long-established Canadians resent.

In Vancouver department stores, Calgary restaurants and Toronto shopping
arcades, the evidence is plain. A country that was overwhelmingly white and
middle class is evolving into a multiracial society. People born in Asia, South
America or the Caribbean, more than 50 percent of the immigrants in recent
years, have little attachment to old European ties. What's more, many of them
look to the United States, not as a warning of how things could deteriorate, but
as a social and political ideal.

The battle has now been joined over a refugee issue that, until recently,
stirred little debate. The 60,000 Hungarians and 40,000 Czechoslovaks who
arrived since the late 1940's were mostly middle class, many from the
intelligentsia, and they were widely welcomed for their talent and flair.

Matters began to change in the 1970's, when the Vietnamese ''boat people''
arrived, the first of a tide of more than 100,000 Asians in a decade. Until last
year, there was little to compare with the heavy influx from Central and South
America to the United States.Immigration controls saw to it that many of the
Hispanic people who did arrive were readily able to make new lives.

In 1980, Canada accepted barely 1,600 refugees, but the numbers increased
sharply as political tensions in Latin America worsened; more than 18,000 were
registered last year. But it was not until President Reagan signed the new
immigration law in November that the issue came to a head.

Tightening Regulations

Tough new penalties facing American employers who hire illegal aliens propelled
more than 6,000 people northward to Canada in the first six weeks of this year.
Last month, the Government stanched the tide by tightening regulations and no
longer permitting many of the people arriving to gain temporary entry and work
permits while their claims for refugee status were reviewed.

A backup at border posts developed as Canadian officials questioned the new
arrivals and sent them back to await rulings in church basements and similar
refuges in nearby American towns. Front-page newspaper photographs showed
families from El Salvador and Guatemala, some with as many as 10 children, who
were said to have little English or formal schooling. Waiters from Chicago,
laborers from El Paso, office cleaners from New York told stories of the
repression facing them if they were sent back to their original countries.

The Canadian Government promised that a new immigration law this spring would
take account of its critics' concerns for the would-be immigrants. But the case
for compassion was not helped by some widely publicized abuses. In Montreal,
dozens of Turks refused an offer of dormitory accommodations and demanded
Government-paid accommodations in expensive hotels. And a shipload of Tamils
found in lifeboats off the East Coast aroused misgivings when officials
discovered that they had embarked in West Germany, not India as they claimed.

The Government says it is planning a publicity campaign to remind Canadians of
the economic and cultural riches brought here by immigrants. And regardless of
the refugee dispute, Mr. Bouchard, the Immigration Minister, has said that the
country, with a population of 26.5 million and a natural growth rate of close to
zero, will need new generations of immigrants. But who they will be, and how
they will affect the country's culture, seems certain to remain a matter of
contentious debate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of illegal aliens (Sygma/J. P. Laffont); drawing

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 15, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION POLICY;
COURT RULING MAY OPEN WAY FOR MORE POLITICAL REFUGEES

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3, Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 896 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


THE Supreme Court decides relatively few cases involving immigration, and in
even fewer does it uphold the rights of aliens. But last week, aliens won a big
victory as the High Court ruled that the Government must relax its standard for
deciding if they are eligible for asylum.

Asylum, defined as a place of refuge, shelter or protection, is what thousands
of people fleeing persecution seek in the United States. Under the Refugee Act
of 1980, aliens may qualify if they have ''a well-founded fear of persecution''
in their homeland ''on account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a
particular social group, or political opinion.'' Prior law, reflecting Cold War
attitudes, explicitly favored refugees from Communist countries. The 1980 law
was intended to eliminate ideological restrictions.

There has been a furious debate about whether the Reagan Administration has
applied the standard in an evenhanded manner. Critics on the left and the right
say the Administration tailors its decisions on asylum to fit foreign policy
goals or ideological preconceptions. Liberals say the Immigration and
Naturalization Service has looked unfavorably on applications from Salvadorans
because El Salvador is an ally. Conservatives complain bitterly about rejections
of Poles and other Eastern Europeans.

Even as President Reagan has denounced the Sandinista Government, the
immigration service has rejected thousands of Nicaraguans, saying they could not
show that they would be singled out for persecution at home. The Supreme Court
decision involved a 38-year-old Nicaraguan who said she faced torture because of
her brother's political activities. The Administration had argued that aliens
must demonstrate ''a clear probability of persecution'' to qualify for asylum.
But the Court, in a 6-to-3 decision, said the ''plain language'' of the 1980 law
indicated that Congress had established a ''more generous'' standard.

An alien may be eligible for asylum if he can show that ''persecution is a
reasonable possibility,'' Associate Justice John Paul Stevens suggested in the
majority opinion. A person with ''a 10 percent chance of being shot, tortured or
otherwise persecuted'' might qualify, he added. Since the statutory test is ''a
well-founded fear of persecution,'' the alien's ''subjective mental state'' is a
key factor, Justice Stevens said, but the standard will be given ''concrete
meaning'' only as the Government rules on individual cases.

Gilbert Paul Carrasco, associate director of migration and refugee services for
the United States Catholic Conference, said it will now be ''easier for aliens
to prove their eligibility for asylum.'' He predicted increases in applications
for asylum and in numbers approved, because ''the Court has sent a clear
message.'' Paul W. Schmidt, acting general counsel of the immigration service,
said thousands of people, ''virtually everybody who has had asylum denied and is
still in this country, will file a motion to have his or her case reopened and
reconsidered under the new standard.'' But Verne Jervis, an immigration service
spokesman, predicted that most aliens still will not qualify because they cannot
show a well-founded fear of persecution.

A recent study for Congress by the General Accounting Office said that only 2
percent of aliens denied asylum were actually deported from the United States.
Some are waiting for hearings before immigration judges, and many are in an
''uncertain status''; there was no evidence they had left the country. The
immigration service does not have the money or personnel to locate and deport
them. The Government received 18,889 applications for asylum last year, granted
3,359 and denied 7,882. Some are pending. The G.A.O. found a much higher
approval rate for some countries, such as Iran and Poland, than for others, such
as El Salvador and Nicaragua. The Government, it noted, ''generally does not
document the reasons why applications are approved or denied.''

While approval rates may rise as a result of the Supreme Court decision, aliens
fearing persecution will still not have an absolute right to asylum. For, as the
Court said, ''the Attorney General is not required to grant asylum to everyone''
who passes the statutory test for eligibility. Under the 1980 law, the decision
is subject to ''the discretion of the Attorney General.'' Mr. Schmidt said
people who met the standard could be rejected if, for example, they used
fraudulent documents to get to this country.

Wade J. Henderson of the American Civil Liberties Union said that ''from a
symbolic point of view, the decision is a significant victory for human rights
advocates, civil libertarians and workers in the sanctuary movement,'' who
assist migrants from Central America. ''In practical terms, it will not be a
panacea because the Attorney General retains discretion to decide when asylum
should be granted.'' He urged Congress to pass legislation temporarily
suspending the deportation of Salvadorans and Nicaraguans while the G.A.O.
studies conditions in their countries. Senator Dennis DeConcini of Arizona and
Representative Joe Moakley of Massachusetts, both Democrats, have championed
such legislation. The Administration strongly opposes it, contending that many
of the intended beneficiaries are not victims of persecution but ''economic
migrants'' seeking a better life.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 10, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

DETAINING CUBANS EXACTS RISING TOLL

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1510 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, March 8


The increasing number of Cubans imprisoned indefinitely by United States
immigration officials to await deportation is exacting a growing toll on the
Government and on the prisoners.

At the Federal penitentiary in Atlanta, where 1,860 of these Cubans are held,
overcrowding and violence are so severe that a Congressman who oversees Federal
prisons said that the Cubans were being kept ''like animals in cages.''

Because the Federal Bureau of Prisons has no more room for Cubans in the Atlanta
prison, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has had to scramble to find
space for another 700 in other jails and prisons, and officials say the cost is
rising steadily.

The imprisoned Cubans were among more than 125,000 who arrived in Florida in
1980 from the Cuban fishing port of Mariel. A group of dangerous criminals and
mentally incompetent people were ruled ineligible for immigration and detained
when they arrived, and others have since been convicted of violating American
laws. They are being held pending deportation, but Cuba refuses to take them
back.

The situation facing immigration officials has worsened since last May, when
Fidel Castro, the Cuban leader, abruptly canceled a five-month-old agreement to
take back more than 2,700 of the men. Mr. Castro said he was protesting the
Reagan Administration's decision to begin beaming into Cuba propaganda
broadcasts from a new Government radio service, Radio Marti.

At that time only 201 men had been returned to Havana under the agreement, which
also sought to normalize immigration from Cuba to the United States.

Most of the other Mariel emigres have adjusted peaceably to American society,
but those who have been arrested across the country for crimes or violations of
immigration laws are being added at the rate of 80 a month to swollen Federal
detention rolls.

Since they rioted 16 months ago in the Atlanta penitentiary, which has been
turned over almost entirely to the detention of Cubans, most of the Cubans there
have been locked for 23 hours a day in cells that hold up to eight inmates each.

Representative Robert W. Kastenmeier, who toured the maximum-security prison
last month, said in an interview that the ''intolerable'' conditions were
putting severe stress on inmates and staff.

''There are tensions that don't exist in any other Federal prison,'' said Mr.
Kastenmeier, the Wisconsin Democrat who is chairman of the House Judiciary
Subcommittee on Courts, Civil Liberties and the Administration of Justice. ''To
maintain people in conditions like these is beneath us as a society.''

Violence in Atlanta Prison

According to reports furnished to Mr. Kastenmeier, there have been nine
homicides, seven suicides, 400 serious but unsuccessful suicide attempts and
more than 2,000 serious incidents of self-multilation since 1981 among Cubans
detained in the prison.

Prison officials say the nature of the imprisoned men, rather than the
conditions of their imprisonmment, is responsible for the violence.

Although Mr. Castro has denied it, United States officials say the Cuban leader
emptied jails and mental hospitals of inmates, and added them to the exodus from
Mariel.

About 5,000 of the Marielitos are in Federal, state or local jails, convicted of
criminal offenses or immigration law violations that make them subject to
expulsion as ''excludable aliens.'' This includes 300 to 400 who were deemed
excludable when they arrived and have been held for six years.

A Legal Limbo

The refusal by the Cuban Government to accept these people has left them in a
legal limbo, since immigration authorities cannot send them back to Cuba and,
with few exceptions, the Government is not willing to release them because it
says they represent a threat to American society.

The increasing number of Marielitos in Federal custody has put a financial
strain on the Government. The Bureau of Prisons says it costs more than $25
million a year to keep the 1,860 Cubans in the Atlanta penitentiary, and an
average of $55 a day each for Cubans held in other jails. Some Congressional
sources believe the cost in the Atlanta prison alone may be more than $40
million.

Since last May, 700 Mariel Cubans have been added to Federal rolls for
deportation and have had to be put in other Federal detention facilities and
local jails.

Hugh Brien, the immigration agency's assistant commissioner for detention and
deportation, said the number of new detainees will climb to 1,200 by this fall,
costing taxpayers an additional $7.5 million for the year. ''It causes problems
for us, because we have limited detention space in our own facilities,'' he
said.

There are about 2,500 Mariel Cubans now being held across the country on state
and local charges. When such men finish serving their sentences in state and
local jails for criminal convictions or other acts that violate the strict terms
of their admission to the country, they are being taken into indefinite Federal
custody.

To help relieve the pressure on the system, Mr. Brien said that about 225 of the
Cubans in custody have been screened by agency officials and released to halfway
houses over the last six months. At most, he said the Government would send 400
to 500 Cubans to halfway houses this year, and fewer next year.

Cubans' Fate Hotly Debated

Over the last five years the issue of the Cubans' freedom has been hotly debated
in the Federal courts.

Federal District Judge Marvin H. Shoob of Atlanta has ruled on several occasions
that because President Carter ''invited'' the Cubans, most have some
constitutional rights and should be entitled to individual hearings.

But Federal appellate courts have generally reversed him, ruling that the
detainees have no constitutional rights and upholding the Government's broad
authority to detain them indefinetely pending expulsion.

As a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th
Circuit was hearing arguments here last year, Robert S. Vance, the presiding
judge, told a lawyer for the Cubans that ''the Government can keep them in the
Atlanta pen until they die.''

Jurors 'Ashamed' of Policy

But last month the jurors in a criminal case against two of the Cubans accused
of inciting riots in the prison in November 1984 acquitted the men, and after
the trial issued sharp public statements saying that they were embarrassed by
the Government's policy toward many of the Cubans in the prison.

One juror, Mel Magidson, an insurance salesman from suburban Atlanta, said the
jurors ''were somewhat ashamed of our Government and the ways things are going
for these people.''

Prison officials say that although the Cubans in Atlanta make up barely 5
percent of the total number of inmates in the Federal prison population
nationwide, they account for more than half the reported inmate-to-inmate
assaults, and at least one-third of all the assaults by inmates on guards.

''This is a pretty violent bunch of people,'' said Duke Austin, a spokesman for
the immigration service. ''That's why we'd rather keep them there.''

The decision by prison authorities to keep more than 1,000 of the inmates
confined to their cells to preserve discipline is one of several issues being
challenged in another suit in Federal court, said Gary Leshaw, a lawyer here who
has argued that the prison is overcrowded and badly staffed.

Arguments for Release

Except for the 300 to 400 who were taken into custody as undesirable aliens when
they arrived in Florida in 1980, the 1,860 Cubans in the Atlanta pentitentiary
are men who ran afoul of the law after their arrival and have had their paroles
revoked for what Judge Shoob has described as ''offenses ranging from relatively
minor infractions to serious crimes.''

Attorneys working in behalf of the Cubans argue that while some of those in the
Atlanta prison are dangerous criminals who ought not to go free, others pose no
serious threat and some have families in the United States.

''What is most unfair is that men who have served their time for state offenses
are now sitting in the Atlanta pentitentiary with no hope of release except a
return to Cuba,'' said Dale Schwartz, an Atlanta lawyer. Mr. Schwartz has also
argued that detainees returned to Cuba could face persecution and torture.

Julius Debro, a professor at Atlanta University who helped run a halfway house
for Cubans that was recently closed by the Government, said he believed that at
least a quarter of the inmates in the Altanta prison could be let out under
supervision.

He said those who remain in custody tend to be able to speak little or no
English and have an eighth-grade education or less. They are typically in their
20's, he said, and dark skinned.

Representative Kastenmeier said he would urge the Reagan Administration to shut
down Radio Marti and reopen negotiations with Mr. Castro for the return to Cuba
of as many of the undesirable aliens as possible.

A State Department official says the Castro Government has refused several
entreaties to reinstate the immigration accord.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 12, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

COURT REJECTS WIDE U.S. POWER TO BAR ALIENS

BYLINE: By STUART TAYLOR Jr., Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 660 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11


A divided Federal appeals court here rejected today the Reagan Administration's
assertion of unfettered power to bar aliens from visiting the United States
solely because of associations with Communist organizations.

The three-judge panel's 2-to-1 ruling, although narrow and technical, was hailed
by civil liberties lawyers as a victory in their battle against the Government's
frequent denials of visas to left-leaning foreign political and literary figures
who want to exchange views here.

If the State Department has no reason other than Communist affiliation for
excluding an alien, the panel's majority said, it must ordinarily recommend that
the visa be granted or certify to Congress that the alien's visit would threaten
the national security.

The panel said such certifications by the State Department were required under
certain conditions by the 1977 McGovern Amendment to the Immigration and
Nationality Act.

At the same time, the appeals court said the Government had broad latitude to
exclude aliens without any certification to Congress if they had ''affiliations
with hostile governments'' independent of any Communist Party affiliations, or
would engage in activities ''prejudicial to the public interest'' while in this
country.

Basing its ruling on the various provisions of the immigration statute, the
panel said further proceedings were necessary to determine the precise scope of
the Government's powers to exclude aliens, and the legality of the exclusions of
the four aliens in the case before it.

They are Thomas Borge, Nicaragua's Interior Minister; Nino Pasti, a former
Italian Senator and general who belongs to a peace group that the State
Department says is controlled by the Soviet Union, and Olga Finlay and Leonor
Rodriguez Lezcano of Cuban, experts on women and family law in their country,
who the department says are affiliated with Cuba's Communist Party.

The Reagan Administration has said it has broad legal authority to exclude
aliens on foreign policy grounds without making any certification to Congress
that their presence would threaten the national security.

A secretary to Richard K. Willard, head of the Justice Department's civil
division, said he would have no immediate comment on the decision or on whether
the Government would appeal.

Steven R. Shapiro, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union who
represented various United States citizens and groups as plaintiffs in the case,
said today that the ruling would make it far more difficult for the Government
to bar foreign speakers from this country.

His clients, including some members of Congress, had invited Mr. Borge, Mr.
Pasti and the two Cuban women to visit this country to make speeches and
exchange views on various issues. They sued to challenge the visa denials.  Over
many years the Reagan Administration and prior Administrations have given
various reasons for denying visas to prominent left-leaning foreigners.

Expression of Disapproval

The State Department said in proceedings in the case that denial of visas to
foreign officials such as Mr. Borge may be a legitimate way of expressing
disapproval of the polices of their governments.

The majority opinion, written Judge Ruth Bader Ginsburg and joined by Judge
Harry T. Edwards, said, ''The executive has broad discretion over the admission
and exclusion of aliens, but that discretion is not boundless.'' She said the
Government had not demonstrated its actions in the case were within its
''statutory and constitutional authority.''

Judge Robert H. Bork dissented, saying the visa denials were clearly proper and
that the majority opinion was a ''cautious'' but unwarranted step down the road
of ''judicial incursion into the United States's conduct of its foreign
affairs.''

The decision reversed a ruling in favor of the Government by Federal District
Judge Harold H. Greene, and sent the case back to him for more detailed legal
and factual arguments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 14, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

VERMONT CHURCH JOINS DEBATE ON ALIEN REFUGEES

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1010 words

DATELINE: STRAFFORD, Vt., March 12


The debate over who should be allowed into the United States and who should pick
them came into sharp focus here tonight when a Federal official asked a church
not to meddle in immigration policy by sheltering a refugee family.

The session was held at the request of the immigration official, Norman H.
Henry, who said such forums might stem the church-based movement to provide
sanctuary to Central American refugees.

Mr. Henry, the officer in charge of the immigration service in Vermont, told the
congregants they would be commiting a felony if they provided shelter to aliens
who entered the United States illegally, a step many in this town of 800 people
are advocating.

Such a move would be legal, said J. Stephen Dycus, a professor from the Vermont
Law School. Advancing the argument that has been used by sanctuary advocates
around the country, he said that Central Americans fleeing political persecution
had unfairly been denied asylum in this country.

Mr. Henry and Mr. Dycus debated with the congregation of the United Church of
Strafford and other town residents for three hours, amid calls to conscience,
appeals to logic and an occasional thump of a fist on the back of a pew.

''We get applications for asylum from people in 110 countries,'' Mr. Henry said.
''Those people come from situations that are nasty. People are being killed
there, bombs are falling.''

Asking for 'Open Door'

But, he added, the United States admits 570,000 people a year, about the
population of Vermont. ''How many people would like us to have an open door?''
he asked. Of the 75 people present, 2 raised their hands.

''There are 10 million refugees in the world,'' he told the group, which has
been debating since August whether to join a growing number of churches around
the nation that have sheltered families from El Salvador and Guatemala who say
their lives are threatened by civil strife. The Administration maintains that
the vast majority of the aliens entering the country are fleeing economic, not
political, hardship.

Since the United States cannot accept all the people who want to leave countries
torn by strife, Mr. Henry said, Federal law, not individual congregations,
should decide which of the world's refugees can enter the country.

Mr. Henry and his two agents supervise 17 ports of entry and made 50 arrests
last year, he said. Almost all of those arrested were Europeans, Israelis and
Canadians, who, Mr. Henry said, would not attract attention in Vermont, where
less than one-half of 1 percent of the population is Hispanic. He said that in
his five years in the state he had received a few applications for asylum from
Central Americans but had not granted any of them.

Statistics Tell Story

Figures given by Mr. Dycus and not disupted by Mr. Henry showed that nationally
in 1984 asylum was granted to almost half the 374 Poles who applied and to a
high proportion of those from other Communist counties but to less than 3
percent of the 13,373 Salvadorans and less than 1 percent of the 761 Guatemalans
who applied. Mr. Dycus said the difference was the ideological position of
President Reagan.

He reflected the concerns of many among those in the somber, attentive audience,
who asked more about individuals who face pressing dangers than the possibility
of 10 million new immigrants.

Elizabeth Hart, a member of one of five church subcommittees studying the
sanctuary question, said that a 17-year-old Guatemalan being sheltered in a
Weston priory had told her he had been forced to watch his father's hands being
chopped off and had seen people being skinned alive.

''I'd like to know if the protection of human life and the minimization of
suffering isn't the basis of justice,'' she said. Others in the audience said
they had heard other stories of murders committed by soldiers or guerillas.

How Policy Is Built

''I'm not saying there aren't atrocities,'' answered Mr. Henry. ''I'm saying
that that can't be the basis for a legal process, the basis for a policy
decision. You cannot build a policy based on anecdotes.''

The debate here is expected to continue for months. Some proponents of sanctuary
say that they are not sure that the town can afford to shelter a family, which
might cost tens of thousands of dollars. The congregation is considering
alternatives, such as ''adopting'' a church in one of the countries torn by
civil strife.

The Reagan Administration has so far declined to enter churches to arrest
illegal aliens, but Federal prosecutors have charged 11 Arizona church workers
with conspiracy and other crimes in aiding families from El Salvador and
Guatemala. They are now on trial in Tucson.

Seeking a Consensus

The threat of prosecution did not seem to be a major consideration here. A
concern that was expressed by many was that the decision to give sanctuary
should be as near unanimous as possible. At the moment there is at least some
vocal opposition.

Joseph T. Maclay, who said he entered this country from Canada in 1927 by paying
$8 for a visa, said he had read of a study predicting that at the turn of the
century, Hispanic students would make up most of the public school population of
the United States.

''That's something to think about when you talk about letting in 18,000
Guatemalans,'' he said.

John Magee, a Strafford resident, said: ''Our schools are overcrowded and many
of us are faced with high taxes. For God's sake, doesn't anybody think of the
poor people of this country, flooded out by the thousands, destitute, hungry, no
jobs? I say charity should begin at home.''

But others in the congregation were more concerned with the politics of the
issue. ''It is well-known, and not disputed by our Government, that tens of
thousands of Guatemalans have been killed,'' said Herbert A. Goertz. ''I wonder
why, if the death rate is so high, only 1 percent is admitted. Fifty percent of
the Poles get admitted, and very few people get killed in Poland.''

Mr. Henry replied, ''You're not going to be satisfied by anything I say about
that.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: map of Vermont highlighting Strafford; photos of speakers at meeting on
sheltering Central American refugees (NYT/Joyce Dopkeen)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 1, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

NICARAGUAN DEPORTING STAYED

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 253 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 31


The Immigration and Naturalization Service today delayed the deportation of a
Nicaraguan immigrant who said he would be drafted by the Sandinista Government
to fight rebels backed by the Reagan Administration.

The deportation of Marcos Perez-Roblero, a 28-year-old Nicaraguan who came here
in 1979, was scheduled for this morning. He was declared deportable last month
when he failed to appear for a hearing.

This morning, an hour after Mr. Perez appeared, as ordered, at the immigration
service office here to be put aboard a flight to Nicaragua, the deportation
order was stayed. Mr. Perez was told that Joan Arrowsmith, an immigration
appeals judge, acting on a motion filed last Thursday by lawyers representing
him, had stayed the deportation to allow him to reopen an application for
permanent residency.

Robert A. Remes, one of Mr. Perez's lawyers, said the stay was granted because
the immigration service's own records contained no proof that Mr. Perez had been
notified of the February hearing at which he was declared deportable in
absentia.

Mr. Remes said Mr. Perez's request for permanent residency might be granted
under immigration regulations that allow the admission of the next of kin of a
family member already given permanent status. Mr. Perez's mother was granted
permanent residence in 1983.

Had the deportation order been carried out today, Mr. Remes said, Mr. Perez, as
a deportee, would have been ineligible for five years to apply for readmission
to the United States on any basis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 22, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

NICARAGUANS IN MIAMI HOPING FOR A FUTURE AS LEGAL RESIDENTS

BYLINE: By GEORGE VOLSKY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1215 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 21


An immigration official's decision to stop sending Nicaraguans back to their
country has raised modest hopes for a stable new life among exiles struggling to
get a foothold here.

The official feared that people sent back would be persecuted by the Marxist
Sandinista Government, and that feeling is widely shared here. But the daily
concerns of the exiles often have little to do with such things as the politics
of the Government at Managua or American aid to the anti-Government rebels, the
contras.

Like the first wave of Cubans who fled when Fidel Castro came to power, many of
the estimated 70,000 Nicaraguans in the Miami area are professional and
middle-class people. Most are working at relatively menial jobs and strongly
hoping to obtain legal immigration status and eventually become legal residents
of the United States.

Some believe that their chances were furthered with the announcement last week
on deportations by Perry A. Rivkind, district director of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Miami, but they remain cautious.

''While very few people talk about the contras, this apparent change of policy
has made our people a little less apprehensive now,'' said Nancy I. Rodriguez, a
Nicaraguan lawyer who works as a paralegal here and is studying to revalidate
her degree.

Longing for Permanence

''But this is just one small first step,'' she said. ''Nicaraguans will not be
completely reassured until their status is legalized and they have the right to
become permanent U.S. residents. As of now, thousands do not even have work
permits.''

Jorge A. Sacasa, a Nicaraguan architect and part owner of a small restaurant, La
Carne Asada, agreed.

''The longing of everybody I speak to in my place is to be a permanent
resident,'' he said. ''Should this happen, we could obtain better jobs and
finally be able to plan for the future.''

La Carne Asada is, in a way, a microcosm of the Nicaraguan exile community in
the Miami area. The restaurant, whose title means broiled meat, employs 12
people, including the owners' families.

The patrons discuss just about every subject except politics. ''We are all
anti-Communists here,'' said Mr. Sacasa. ''But over the years we have become
apatheic about politics. Our main worry is how to find jobs, how to make ends
meet, how to survive.''

Mr. Sacasa, who is 48 years old, keeps regular office hours selling real estate,
then works in the restaurant until 11 P.M. His partner, Mario Fernandez, 37, was
trained as a zoologist. The cook, Glenda Rojas, has a degree in business
administration. One part-time waitress is a plastic surgeon; two others, a young
married couple, have masters degrees in economics.

Constant Fear of Deportation

The restaurant helps eight other Nicaraguans to make a living. They supply
home-made desserts and other foods. Friends who visit from Managua bring
Nicaraguan specialties unavailable here and with the proceeds purchase clothing,
shoes, cosmetics and electronic goods. All these are in very short supply in
Nicaragua.

There are thousands of Nicaraguans who have entered this country illegally, like
many other Central Americans, usually by crossing the border from Mexico. The
illegal aliens and others who work with false documentation live in constant
fear of being detained and deported.

According to Silvio Arguello, a Nicaraguan who is a lawyer, an economist and a
civic leader here, about 160,000 Nicaraguans live in the United States, and most
of them came here after the downfall of the Government of President Anastasio
Somoza Debayle in July 1979.

The second largest concentration of Nicaraguans, some 30,000 people, is in
Southern California, and the third, 15,000 refugees, in the San Francisco area.

Only a small percentage, Dr. Arguello said, are permanent residents. Most have
applied for political asylum, which is difficult to obtain: Last year the
Government denied 91 percent of the 4,771 applications for asylum filed by
Nicaraguans.

Work Ethic Is Praised

Mr. Rivkind, the district immigration commissioner, said in an interview: ''For
me it is agonizing to have to reject their applications, because their asylum
claims under the present regulations are very difficult to prove. Nicaraguans
are escaping Communism. They are very decent, hard-working people who have not
given our authorities here any problems.''

Judge Seymour Gelber, chief of Dade County's Juvenile Court Division, concurs.
''I don't recall having seen any Nicaraguan youngster in my court in the last
five years,'' he said. ''Nicaraguans seem to be very law-abiding and have a
strongly ingrained work ethic.''

Law-enforcement officials in California made the same point. ''Nicaraguans have
never made themselves known as a group with criminal activities,'' said Officer
Fabian Lizarraga, a spokesman for the Los Angeles Police Department Despite hard
work, the process of economic and social adjustment has been very slow for most
Nicaraguans in this country because only a few speak English. This has forced
many to seek low-paying jobs where the knowledge of English is not essential. In
Miami these days, it is mostly Nicaraguans who make night-time home deliveries
of newspapers. Thousands more work as security guards at night, which allows
them to hold second jobs by day.

Tamales on Weekends

Women, many of them formerly well-to-do Nicaraguans, work as baby sitters, maids
in hotels and private homes, or take care of the sick. Luz Maria Blandon, who is
paid $4 per hour as a food store clerk, makes about 50 large Nicaraguan tamales
on weekends and sells them at $2 each to a growing clientele. Luisa Emilia
Montalvan, whose husband, Alvaro, owned a large cotton plantation and a cattle
ranch confiscated two years ago by the Sandinistas, makes leather and fabric
belts that she sells to local department stores.

A number of Nicaraguans interviewed in the last several weeks said they felt
that social and economic problems had added to a sense of political malaise.

Several, while stressing their opposition to the Sandinista Government and their
endorsement of the Honduras-based contras, expressed doubt about the long-range
American commitment to fight the Government at Managua.

''In my college every Nicaraguan supports the contras, but few have faith in
their victory without direct intervention of the American troops,'' said Cesar
Rivas, a 24-year-old Nicaraguan who works by day and studies electrical
engineering at night. ''I have not heard anyone say that he liked to go to
Honduras and join the contras. Most of the Nicaraguans I know plan to stay in
the United States even should the contras win.''

According to Mrs. Rodriguez, the lawyer, there is also a ''floating population
here of between 5,000 and 10,000 Nicaraguans who travel between the United
States and Nicaragua and who are either apolitical or politically on the
fence.''

''In the long run,'' said Mr. Sacasa, ''the United States will benefit from the
Nicaraguan migration. There is a disproportionate number of professionals and
skilled workers among us. We came here because under Communism there is no
future for our children. Slowly, despite difficulties, we shall get ahead, as
this restaurant has been able to survive and now even to make a decent profit.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Jorge Sacasa, Glenda Rojas and Mario Fernandez (NYT/Ray
Fairall)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 1, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. DROPS CASE AGAINST IMMIGRATION LAWYER

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 25, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 471 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 30


A Federal district judge in North Carolina today dismissed criminal charges
against a prominent immigration attorney who had been accused of mail fraud and
making false statements to the Government on behalf of a British businessman
seeking an American visa.

The judge, David B. Sentelle of Asheville, dismissed the charges against Dale M.
Schwartz, who is president-elect of the American Immigration Lawyers'
Association, the national organization for immigration attorneys.

The United States Attorney in Asheville, Charles R. Brewer, asked that the
charges be dismissed. He said that the general counsel of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service believed the statements in question would not support the
prosecution of Mr. Schwartz and did not have a ''material'' influence on the
Government's decision to issue a visa to the British businessman.

Efforts for British Businessman

Federal officials said last October that they were investigating ''a substantial
number'' of lawyers who specialized in immigration as part of a wide inquiry
into fraudulent schemes to obtain visas, work permits and other documents for
aliens. Officials of the Immigration Service declined to give the specific
number of cases under investigation other than to say there were ''several
dozen.''

Mr. Schwartz, an Atlanta lawyer, was indicted last September by a Federal grand
jury on eight counts of mail fraud and false statements on behalf of the British
businessman, who came to the United States in 1980 to work for an American
aerospace company. Mr. Schwartz pleaded not guilty in October.

In the last five years, he has become prominent by representing Cubans who
resisted deportation. As a result of his efforts, more than 3,000 Cubans have
been released from the Federal penitentiary in Atlanta.

'No Criminal Offense'

Sam Bernsen, a former general counsel of the Immigration Service, testified that
''there would be no criminal offense'' even if the facts of the case were as
described by the Government in the indictment of Mr. Schwartz. The Government
asserted that the British businessman intended to live here permanently even
though he was seeking a temporary visa.

''Under the law,'' Mr. Bernsen said in an interview, ''an alien can have the
dual intent of coming to the United States temporarily and permanently so long
as he is willing to comply with provisions of the law relating to temporary
workers.''

Reached at his home in Atlanta tonight, Mr. Schwartz said: ''I feel elated. The
system of justice has worked. All over the country, immigration lawyers have
been suffering at the hands of renegade Government investigators in a
bureaucracy run amok. We in the American Immigration Lawyers' Association have
urged Federal officials in Washington to use their powers to stop these
investigations.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 3, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

BACKERS SAY GUILTY VERDICTS AID ALIEN SANCTUARY DRIVE

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 846 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, May 2


The nationwide movement to help Central Americans enter the United States and
harbor them here will grow, not diminish, because of guilty verdicts Thursday
against church workers charged with conspiring to smuggle aliens icans into the
country, movement workers said here today.

But Government officials said the verdicts should serve notice that the
nationwide movement was operating illegally and such illegal conduct will not be
tolerated.

The four-year-old movement, which has been endorsed by about 300 churches,
approximately 20 cities and the State of New Mexico, has been active in helping
people fleeing El Salavador and Guatemala.

Supporters of the movement say those they help are fleeing persecution and have
unlawfully been denied entry to this country. The Government says the Central
Americans are coming here for economic reasons and the sanctuary movement
violates immigration laws.

Workers 'More Committed'

''Above all, this case has demonstrated that no group, no matter how well
meaning or highly motivated, can arbitrarily violate the laws of the United
States,'' Alan C. Nelson, Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, said
after the conviction of 8 of 11 church workers charged in the case.

''Perhaps now that this case is behind us, those of the sanctuary movement can
redirect their energy in a manner within the law,'' he said.

But sanctuary officials, both here and in other parts of the country, said the
verdict would not deter supporters.

''It's only going to make people more committed,'' said Philip Willis-Conger, 28
years old, a Methodist lay worker from Tucson who was among those convicted
Thursday. ''Historically, people of faith who have been persecuted for doing
what was right have in the long run won out. I'm sure that will be true here.''

Defense Plans an Appeal

Defense attorneys said they would appeal the verdict. Six of the 11 defendants
were convicted of the smuggling conspiracy charges. Two other defendants were
found guilty of lesser charges and three others were found not guilty on all
counts. Federal District Judge Earl Carroll, who presided over the trial, has
set July 1 for sentencing.

The verdict capped a long, rancorous trial that never addressed issues at the
heart of the sanctuary debate.

Donald M. Reno, the Federal prosecutor, contended throughout that it was a
routine smuggling case. But the defendants said they were acting on moral and
religious grounds, citing United States immigration laws providing haven to
those with ''a well-founded fear of prosecution.''

In rulings in the trial and in his instructions to the jury, Judge Carroll said
questions of international conditions or religious faith had no bearing on the
case. Mr. Reno, in a news conference after the trial, said the verdict would
have been the same if those issues had been included. He complained the
prosecution had been unfairly characterized as overly vindictive.

He asked: ''Was the United States Government supposed to turn their back and
indicate to the public that because of the ostensible religious issues, the
political issues in this case, that the United States government is faint of
heart when it comes to enforcing the law with all persons?''

Assistance to Movement

Mr. Reno and other Government officials declined to speculate whether the
conviction would lead to more cases against the sanctuary movement.

''The Department of Justice will continue to prosecute alien-smuggling cases as
they are submitted and as there is credible evidence regardless of who is doing
the smuggling and transporting,'' Mr. Reno said.

But sanctuary supporters here and elsewhere said the Government's prosecution,
estimated to have cost $2 million, could only help the movement and increase the
resolve of those involved.

The defendants said they planned to continue their activities and Gov. Toney
Anaya of New Mexico, who has declared his state a sanctuary, compared them to
Martin Luther King and the civil rights movement.

''Even Martin Luther King had to spend time in jail,'' Governor Anaya said. ''He
was charged with wrongdoing, but history proved him right.''

'A No-Win Position'

Several of the defendants appeared surprised at the verdict Thursday. But today
they appeared relaxed and confident the trial would work to their advantage.

''The Government was in a no-win position,'' said Mr. Willis-Conger. ''If they
took us to trial and lost, they would have looked foolish. If they won, they
spent $2 million to publicize our movement. People of faith won't be intimidated
by the verdict.''

Warren McDonald of Fort Worth, a member of the St. Francis Presbyterian Church,
one of approximately 300 churches that have declared themselves sanctuaries,
said he thought the movement would continue to grow.

''This is a middle-class church,'' he said. ''I work and travel for an insurance
company. My wife is a nurse. This isn't like something from the 60's. We feel
it's a part of the church's ministry.

''I don't think the Government has any understanding of that,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Darlene Nicgorski speaking at new conference (NYT/Cyrena
chang)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 25, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

FOLLOW-UP ON THE NEWS;
Living a 'Dream' On the Run

BYLINE: By Richard Haitch

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 45, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 212 words


FOR 40 years, a German soldier who escaped from a prisoner-of-war camp in New
Mexico during World War II lived, as he put it, ''my own version of the American
dream.'' He assumed a new name, married and became upwardly mobile as a ski
instructor, tennis pro and contractor.

Last September, the former P.O.W., Georg Gaertner, alias Dennis Whiles, gave up
to Federal authorities. Demonstrating that he had learned the American way, he
timed his surrender in California to coincide with the publication of a book he
had collaborated on, ''Hitler's Last Soldier in America,'' an account of his
exploits.

Mr. Whiles - the name he borrowed from a migrant worker and uses legally today -
lives in Boulder, Colo., with his wife, Jean. Immigration authorities have
granted him permanent residence in this country.

''We defined it that his entry was lawful - the Army brought him into the
country,'' says the head of the Immigration and Naturalization Service office in
Denver, James Hardin.

Last week, the 65-year-old Mr. Whiles was in Braunschweig, West Germany, winding
up a reunion with relatives who thought he had died.

He plans to become a United States citizen, Mrs. Whiles says. Now that his name
and immigration status are clear, ''he's a real person,'' she says.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 17, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

A War Crimes Suspect Loses High Court Plea

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 154 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 16


The Supreme Court rejected today the appeal of Boleslavs Maikovskis of Mineola,
L.I., paving the way for his deportation to Latvia, where he has been sentenced
to death for war crimes.

The justices refused to hear arguments from his attorneys, who said the
Immigration and Naturalization Service had deprived Mr. Maikovskis of due
process when it declared him deportable under immigration law.

During World War II he was chief of the second police precinct of the Rezekne
District for the Nazi-created police force in Latvia. He was found responsible
for ordering the mass arrest of the residents of the village of Audrini and the
burning of the town. The villagers eventually were murdered.

It later was learned the attack had been ordered because the Germans suspected
that most of the Orthodox Jewish residents supported communism.

The 82-year-old Mr. Maikovskis has been living in the United States since 1951.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 6, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

SANCTUARY TRIAL LEAVES A POLITICAL AFTERTASTE

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 702 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, ARIZONA


THE timing was striking. As the nation prepared to celebrate Liberty Weekend and
the country's historic status as a haven for immigrants and refugees, a Federal
judge here suspended sentences and imposed probation on eight church workers
convicted May 1 of participating in an conspiracy to smuggle Central American
aliens into the United States.

Few cases provide so stark a reminder of how complicated, emotional and
troubling immigration issues have often been. The eight were among 11
defendants, including two Roman Catholic priests, a nun and a Protestant
minister, charged with violating Federal immigration laws. They faced jail terms
ranging from 5 to 25 years. Judge Earl H. Carroll placed them on probation from
three to five years.

On one level, the issues in the case can be simply stated - though they were not
argued this way in court, because Judge Carroll had ruled that they were not
relevant to the question of whether immigration law was violated. The defendants
had repeatedly contended they were aiding Guatemalan and El Salvadoran refugees
fleeing persecution in war-torn Central America. Such people, they said, are
entitled to a safe haven here under the terms of United States and international
law. In public statements, immigration officials contended that the vast
majority of the Central Americans are coming to this country for economic, not
political, reasons. In the courtroom Donald M. Reno, the Federal prosecutor,
argued that the defendants' religious and moral feelings did not justify
circumvening the law.

On another level, the case's ambiguities were only highlighted by the trial. The
eight defendants were convicted as felons, but none will go to jail. They acted,
Judge Carroll said last week, ''in the main, because of humanitarian concerns
and because they perceive an unfair application of the law,'' though that, he
said, gave them no right to break it. But the judge also chastised immigration
service practices, saying ''one could certainly find fault with the
procedures.''

The defendants said they would refrain from violating immigration laws in the
future, but they pledged to continue working with organizations aiding Central
Americans trying to enter this country. ''I have been told that in most
sentencings people, that is the defendants, are supposed to understand the
errors of their ways and express remorse for them,'' said Peggy Hutchison, a
Tucson church worker. ''I am remorseful, but only for the plight of the Central
American refugees and the fact that our immigration laws are not administered
fairly.''

Raising Consciousness

Mr. Reno and William Inman, chief counsel for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, have said they hoped the trial would serve as a deterrent to people
considering involvement in what has come to be called the sanctuary movement.
But church workers said that the trial had dramatically raised public awareness
and that the number of churches that have declared themselves sanctuaries has
more than doubled. According to church groups, 307 churches, 22 cities and the
state of New Mexico have taken that step.

The case also reflected political differences that have become an increasing
part of the immigration debate. I.N.S. director Alan Nelson, noting that
sanctuary workers have not been working with refugees from the leftist
Government of Nicaragua, has said the movement is as based on opposition to
American policies as on anything else. Sanctuary workers, pointing to such
actions as a recent Reagan Administration policy statement making it easier for
those fleeing Communist countries to achieve refugee status, counter that it is
the Administration which has politicized the immigration process.

Looming over the issues of sanctuary is a growing uneasiness about immigration
in general. The latest New York Times/CBS Poll showed that 49 percent of all
adult Americans want immigration decreased, up from 33 percent in 1965, the year
the last major immigration law was adopted. With pressures on the Mexican border
growing, and several cases involving Central American refugees pending, the
six-month-long sanctuary case seems more likely to mark a beginning than an end
to the debate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 13, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE RISKS OF PROVIDING AID AND COMFORT

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 801 words


SINCE June 1984, Alejandro Gomez and his family have been living in sanctuary as
refugees at the Downtown Presbyterian Church in Rochester. On May 23, Mr. Gomez
, a trade union activist from El Salvador, was arrested by agents of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service as he walked with his wife, Leticia, on
Main Street and was taken to jail in Buffalo. Released on $50,000 bail, Mr.
Gomez returned to the church to await an immigration hearing next month that may
end in his being deported to his war-torn homeland.

The issue of sanctuary for refugees fleeing political turmoil in Central America
is hitting increasingly closer to home in the Northeast. Although national
attention has recently been focused on the Arizona trial of religious activists
accused of smuggling aliens into the country, more than a score of churches and
synagogues in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut have declared themselves
sanctuaries. The city councils of Rochester and Ithaca have taken similar
actions, and last month the New York State Assembly passed a resolution
declaring the state ''a region of sanctuary for Guatemalan and Salvadoran
refugees.''

The issue is political, but the members of the growing regional sanctuary
movement say the impulse that moves them to protest and even defy Federal
immigration policy is primarily humanitarian. They complain that the Reagan
Administration is not properly implementing the United States Refugee Act of
1980, which says political asylum may be granted to any refugees who can
demonstrate ''a well-founded fear of persecution'' at home. The critics also
contend that the Administration is discriminating against refugees fleeing
Central American countries friendly to the United States.

''We feel our Government is mistaken when it labels political refugees from
Central America as economic,'' said Arlene Goodman, president of the
congregation at Temple Beth Tikvah in Wayne, N.J., which last month voted to
declare itself a sanctuary for Guatemalans and Salvadorans fleeing political
violence. ''We also feel very strongly a kinship with any political refugee,
since most of us here have our roots in Europe, where before World War II,
millions of Jews could have been saved had the United States allowed them to
enter.''

Mrs. Goodman's congregation has yet to take in a refugee family. But St.
Michael's Episcopal Chapel on the Rutgers University campus in Piscataway, N.J.,
has been harboring the Flores family of El Salvador since mid-1984, and the
Hartford Meeting of the Society of Friends opened its doors in January to a
Guatemalan family headed by a former labor union organizer.

The immigration agency has responded cautiously to these calculated violations
of law; significantly, immigration officials waited until Mr. Gomez was on a
city street before they arrested him. ''We are not going out into churches to
apprehend illegal aliens,'' said Steven Abrams, district counsel for the New
York City office of the immigration agency. ''There are enough illegal aliens
out in the judicial system and the workplace, and these are where our priorities
lie.''

Nevertheless, sanctuary advocates have complained of what they call
''intimidation'' by the agency. For instance, State Assemblyman Jose Serrano,
sponsor of the state resolution, says an immigration agency lawyer called a
member of his staff and warned ''that I was committing a felony by doing what I
was doing.'' Mr. Abrams said ''no such comments were made,'' though he said Mr.
Serrano and others have been told that ''giving aid to illegal aliens could be
construed as harboring'' and that the immigration agency will ''have to look and
see what state employees are being asked to do and see if that falls under the
harboring statute.''

In part because of the legal issues involved, many of the resolutions passed
regionally are more general statements of solidarity with Central American
refugees than pledges of resistance. The Rochester resolution, approved in May,
is ''not a law in the sense that we are directing anyone to do anything,'' said
one of its sponsors, Councilman Tim O. Mains. ''It is really a symbolic
gesture.'' But at the same time, Mr. Mains said, ''We don't want people working
for the city to go out of their way to aid, abet and assist what we consider an
unfair refugee policy.''

The Federal immigration agency argues, however, that even statements of moral
support send the wrong message. ''When you pass something similar to a
resolution, you give tremendously false aspirations to aliens coming to New York
State,'' Mr. Abrams said. ''You are telling them that once they reach here they
will be given sanctuary, and in fact that is not the case. These resolutions
have no weight, and if the service apprehends an illegal alien he will be
prosecuted.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Guatemalan refugee family living in Hartford (NYT/Steve
Miller)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               July 16, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

EXTRA INSPECTORS WILL BE ADDED AT IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section B; Page 5, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 488 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service agreed yesterday to add extra
inspectors at Kennedy International Airport, where arriving foreigners have been
subject to processing delays as long as four hours.

The Federal agency, which has been criticized by some New York City
representatives and international airlines, also said it would study other
measures, including a ''bypass'' immigration line for business travelers,
diplomats and other regular visitors. The agency had previously rejected the
proposal.

Despite more inspectors, Immigration officials said delays were likely to
continue into the busy summer travel season.

Representative Charles E. Schumer, the Brooklyn Democrat who helped reach the
agreement yesterday, said the additional inspectors ''should eliminate the 3- to
4-hour waits and cut the average processing time from 75 minutes to 50 to 60
minutes.''

The agreement came at a meeting in Mr. Schumer's office in Washington and was
attended by the Immigration Commissioner, Alan C. Nelson, and several aides;
Mayor Koch's Washington lobbyist, Judy L. Chesser; and two aviation officials of
the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, Robert J. Aaronson, director of
aviation, and Richard L. Rowe, general manager of Kennedy Airport.

Hiring 'Almost Immediately'

Duke Austin, a spokesman for the Immigration Service, said the agency had agreed
to hire another 25 temporary inspectors ''almost immediately.'' Others had
previously been added. He said there would also be some extension of overtime to
make other inspectors available.

Immigration officials at Kennedy Airport said budget cuts and attrition had
reduced the number of inspectors to 149, from 160 last year. Meanwhile, foreign
travel to the United States is up. The Immigration controls are only for
foreigners; Americans are checked by employees of the United States Customs
Service.

Mr. Schumer, a member of the House Judiciary Committee, said that the
Immigration agency had agreed to add 11 more temporary inspectors by July 28,
and that another 16 would be hired and trained shortly. Seventeen others were
added earlier.

Mr. Schumer also said the Immigration agency had agreed to add nine extra
inspectors on overtime duty on Sundays, when incoming travel is heavier. Recent
legislation allows Immigration to pass the cost for such weekend and holiday
overtime to the airlines.

In addition, Mr. Schumer said, Immigration would allow more day-shift inspectors
to work evening overtime and would start more inspectors on noon to 8 P.M.
shifts.

He said the agency was also seeking by August to replace its cumbersome
''lookout'' listings of security suspects with a computer system already in
place at Newark International Airport.

Mr. Schumer said he planned to introduce legislation that would allow
Immigration to levy a $2.50 charge on some arriving foreigners to raise $73
million a year to defray processing costs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               July 23, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

FORMER AIDES TO GURU IN OREGON PLEAD GUILTY TO NUMEROUS CRIMES

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 9, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 694 words

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., July 22


Three former top leaders of an Oregon commune were sentenced to Federal prison
terms today on a variety of state and Federal criminal charges ranging from
immigration fraud to attempted murder.

The morning court appearances of Sheela P. Silverman, Katherine J. Elsea and
Dianne Y. Onang culminated criminal proceedings that began shortly after the
three women, with about a dozen other leaders of the sect, fled the 64,000-acre
commune headed by Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh last September.

The Indian guru's accusations that the women had committed attempted murder,
arson and other crimes set off an investigation that resulted in their arrest in
West Germany last October. Mr. Rajneesh has since pleaded guilty to Federal
crimes and left the country, and the commune at Rajneeshpuram has disbanded.

In Federal District Court here this morning, Mrs. Silverman, also known as Ma
Anand Sheela, was sentenced to four and a half years in prison on Federal
charges of setting up an extensive wiretapping network at the sect's commune in
Wasco County, 100 miles southeast of here, and for causing a salmonella epidemic
in The Dalles, the Wasco County seat.

Under the plea agreement, Mrs. Silverman also pleaded guilty to immigration
fraud, admitting that she conspired with other members of the sect to arrange
sham marriages and otherwise defraud the Government so that the guru and his
followers could settle in the United States.

Arson Among State Charges

In state court, Mrs. Silverman, who is 36 years old, pleaded guilty to the
attempted poisoning murder of the guru's personal physician, Dr. Swami Devaraj,
or George A. Meredith, and to poisoning two county officials. She was also
convicted of causing a fire that destroyed the Wasco County Planning Office in
January 1985.

Mrs. Silverman received the maximum prison sentence, 20 years, for each of the
charges, and was fined $400,000. She will also be expected to pay almost $70,000
in restitution for the fire.

But state and Federal officials said that with credit for time served, and with
all the sentences running concurrently, Mrs. Silverman would probably spend
about three and a half years at the Federal medium-security prison at
Pleasanton, Calif., where Miss Onang and Mrs. Elsea are also expected to be
jailed. The women spent three months in jail in West Germany after their arrest
there last October, and have been in jail in Oregon since extradition.

Federal District Judge Edward Leavy further ordered that Mrs. Silverman, a
native of India who gained permanent resident alien status with marriage to a
United States citizen, must leave the country after serving her sentence.

Miss Onang, or Ma Anand Puja, 38, who headed the Rajneesh Medical Corporation,
will serve four and a half years for involvement with the salmonella epidemic
and the wiretapping; she also was sentenced to serve maximum terms for the
attempted murder of Dr. Devaraj and for the assault on the county officials. $1
Million Saved Mrs. Elsea, who used the name Ma Shanti Bhadra, was sentenced to
10 years on the attempted murder charge. She allegedly injected Dr. Devaraj with
adrenaline, provided by Miss Onang, in July 1985.

Attorney General David Frohnmayer of Oregon, in a news conference after the two
court sessions, said the plea bargains saved a million dollars that the state
would have spent on trying the three women.

The United States Attorney for Oregon, Charles Turner, defended the way the
Federal Government handled the guru's departure from the United States last
fall. Mr. Rajneesh pleaded guilty to immigration fraud and paid a $400,000 fine
but was not prosecuted on charges of any other crimes that may have been
committee at the commune.

Mr. Rajneesh also agreed he would not reenter the country without the permission
of the Attorney General, and, as Mr. Turner put it, has since spent most of his
time on an airplane. The guru has been ejected from Greece, France, Uruguay and
Jamaica and his current whereabouts is unknown.

Mr. Turner said that Mr. Rajneesh's departure had led to the breakdown of the
movement. Only a handful of the 1,500 or more Rajneshee remain at the ranch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of former aids to guru, arriving in Oregon (AP)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               July 30, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

MOVES TO DEPORT ALIENS FOR DRUGS ARE NOT PRESSED

BYLINE: By PETER KERR

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1090 words


Law enforcement agencies have given up pressing for the deportation of most
aliens arrested for selling drugs in New York City because, officials say, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service is unable or unwilling to investigate the
cases.

The issue is of growing concern, law enforcement officials say, because up to
half of the hundreds of people the police arrest each month for selling crack
are aliens. The use of crack, a potent form of cocaine, has spread rapidly in
the past year.

Under Federal law, foreigners convicted of narcotics violations may be expelled
from the country, even if they are not illegal aliens. If they are not deported,
prosecutors say, most of them wind up back on the street. #81 Investigators in
New York But the immigration service's assistant commissioner for investigation,
John F. Shaw, said immigration authorities could not be expected to deport all
the aliens convicted of drug charges if the courts are too overwhelmed to send
them to jail. The immigration service, he said, is trying to do the best it can
with only 81 investigators in the New York office.

In recent interviews, however, District Attorney Robert M. Morgenthau of
Manhattan and Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New York, described the
New York office of the immigration service as not only understaffed but also
disorganized and reluctant to pursue drug dealers.

The officials, along with other prosecutors and law enforcement officials who
have been critical of the agency, cited a recent study by the General Accounting
Office that found that even after the agency in New York identified criminal
aliens as legally deportable, the majority of the aliens continued to live in
the United States and were arrrested again for additional crimes.

''I.N.S. is following up against very few of those aliens,'' Mr. Morgenthau
said. ''I think deportation proceedings can be a very effective weapon in the
fight against drugs.''

According to Mr. Morgenthau, the New York City police arrested 2,291 noncitizens
on drug charges in the first three months of this year, up 28 percent from the
corresponding period last year.

The Federal Drug Enforcement Administration's special agent in charge of the New
York region, Robert M. Stutman, estimated that up to half of the people arrested
on crack charges in the city were foreigners and that in certain neighborhoods,
such as the Washington Heights section of Manhattan, the proportion might be
higher.

The city's Police Department has arrested more than 700 people on charges of
possessing and dealing in crack in the last two months.

No Jail Time for Many

Because of the large numbers of drug arrests and the backlog within the judicial
system, most of those arrested are sentenced to probation and do not go to
prison.

In Manhattan, three out of four people convicted of drug misdemeanors -selling
or possessing small quantities of drugs - got no jail time beyond that served
between arrest and arraignment, according to a study by Mr. Morgenthau's office
earlier this year. Though most defendants had previous misdemeanor arrests and
88 percent were convicted, only one in four got jail time beyond the day or day
and a half between arrest and arraignment.

But under Federal law, aliens who are in the United States legally but who are
convicted of a drug offense are subject to deportation. Illegal aliens are
subject to deportation even if they are not convicted of a crime.

''If a foreigner is caught here dealing drugs,'' Mr. Morgenthau said, ''I think
he should be made to leave and should be kept out.''

Of the 81 criminal investigators in the immigration service's office in New
York, 19 investigate cases of aliens charged with criminal offenses.

Must First Face a Hearing

Aliens who are deported must first face a hearing before an administrative
judge. The process can range from several weeks to years, depending on whether
the alien disputes the charges.

The March 1985 study, which was made by the General Accounting Office, the
investigative arm of Congress, at Senator D'Amato's request, found that of 200
people the immigration service identified last November as criminal or illegal
aliens who met the legal criteria for deportation, 77 percent were arrested
again for committing another crime, 45 percent were arrested more than once
after their first release, and 11 percent were arrested five or more times.

According to Senator D'Amato, the Immigration and Naturalization Service was
pursuing illegal aliens who were not suspected of serious crimes because those
cases were easier to handle. The agency, he said, was avoiding the more
difficult cases of drug dealers and other potentially violent criminals.

''They are making a sham of the system,'' Mr. D'Amato said.

A Low Priority

The General Accounting Office study found that immigration service investigators
were following up only a small fraction of the cases of criminal aliens referred
to them and that the agency chose to pursue only the cases of aliens who
remained in jail. Yet, the report said, seven out of eight aliens arrested for
felony offenses never went to prison.

The report also found that in 1985 the service's New York office gave criminal
aliens a low priority of only 16.5 percent of its investigative time. The report
said most investigators were assigned to cases involving employers of illegal
aliens and fraud schemes.

The agency's New York office had nearly 800 people deported last year on charges
ranging from overstaying entry visas to fraud, assault and murder, according to
James Farris, chief of the agency's employers entitlement section.

He said the office did not know how many of those aliens were convicted of drug
charges or how many aliens convicted of drug charges were in prison in New York.

But Mr. Shaw, who oversees national enforcement efforts for the agency, said it
had lost 38 percent of its staff in the last decade and had seen its
investigators decline to 700 from 900 nationwide. As a result, he said, the
immigration service can only be expected to investigate a limited number of
cases of criminal aliens, and the agency, charged with many other duties, cannot
track down and arrest most alien drug violators.

''We are as interested as anyone in getting these problems under control,'' Mr.
Shaw said.  The General Accounting Office study, he said, was ''lacking in
clarity, reliability, specificity and underlying data.'' Since its release in
March, the office has begun improving its operations, he added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 31, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. PLANS TO SPEED DEPORTATION OF DRUG OFFENDERS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 572 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 30


Immigration officials said today that they would begin holding deportation
hearings at New York prisons to speed the expulsion of aliens convicted of
narcotics offenses and other crimes.

This, they said, is one of several steps they plan to take in response to
growing concern by law-enforcement officials in New York City over the failure
to deport many aliens being held for drug offenses. The problem of alien
criminals, the immigration officials said, is not limited to New York but exists
in many other parts of the country.

Raymond M. Kisor, associate commissioner for enforcement at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, emphasized that the Federal Government could not deport
aliens merely because they had been arrested.

Under Federal law, officials said, an alien is deportable if he has been
convicted of a narcotics violation at any time or if he has been convicted of a
''crime involving moral turpitude committed within five years after entry'' into
the United States. But, the officials said, the arrest of an alien without a
conviction is not ordinarily, by itself, ground for deportation.

Hearings at State Prisons

Mr. Kisor and other officials listed these steps:

* Immigration judges will start holding deportation hearings at New York State
prisons so that aliens now incarcerated can be expelled as soon as they complete
their sentences. Such hearings will begin at the state prison in Ossining, N.Y.
''We hope that project will be successful and we would like to extend it
nationwide,'' Mr. Kisor said. But it is not clear if the Government will have
enough money to do so, he said.

* The immigration service has advised the Manhattan District Attorney, Robert M.
Morgenthau, that it would arrange for the immediate departure of aliens if the
District Attorney waived prosecution and if the alien agreed to depart
voluntarily.

* The Federal Government is making arrangements to get additional records from
New York courts as soon as aliens are convicted of drug offenses.

* The immigration service recently assigned agents to the New York State prison
system to interview aliens as they arrive and to file papers to detain them for
future deportation.

The agents work at the Downstate prison at Fishkill, N.Y., where inmates from
the New York City area enter the state prison system. A spokesman for the State
Correctional Services Department, James B. Flateau, said that in the absence of
a warrant or papers filed by the immigration agency, the state might release
aliens on parole after they had served the minimum sentences specified by state
law.

'Completely Inadequate'

Jessica de Grazia, first assistant district attorney in Manhattan, confirmed
that the immigration service had made a commitment in February to expel certain
aliens arrested in New York. But she said the arrangement was ''completely
inadequate, given the scope of the problem.''

The arrangement, she said, ''depends entirely on the willingness of the alien to
leave the United States voluntarily,'' and many criminal aliens are unwilling to
go.

Meanwhile, immigration officials said they were drafting legislation that could
enhance the Government's power to expel aliens convicted of crimes. Under
current law, a judge sentencing an alien for a crime of ''moral turpitude'' such
as larceny, burglary or murder may make a recommendation to the Attorney General
opposing deportation of the alien.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 3, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

AUTHOR HELD DEPORTABLE BECAUSE OF WRITINGS

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 434 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, Sept. 2


A United States immigration judge has ruled that Margaret Randall, an author and
advocate of women's rights, is subject to deportation because of her
pro-Communist writings, officials said today.

David Cole of the Center for Constitutional Rights in New York said the decision
by the judge, Martin F. Spiegel of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
would be appealed.

Al Giugni, director of the El Paso sector of the immigration service, ruled last
year that Ms. Randall should not be permitted to regain the American citizenship
she renounced in 1967 when she was living in Mexico. Mr. Giugni ordered that she
be deported because she overstayed a six-month visitor's visa.

Judge Spiegel, who conducted the deportation hearing in March, issued a 35-page
opinion Thursday that was mailed to lawyers in the case. In upholding Mr.
Giugni's deportation order, Judge Spiegel based his decision on the author's
writings.

Judge Spiegel set Dec. 1 as the deadline for Ms. Randall to leave the United
States but said that as long as appeal of his order was in progress he would not
move to deport her. The judge's order can be appealed to the Board of
Immigration Appeals in Washington, a process that could take six months, Mr.
Giugni said. If that appeal failed, she could take case to the Federal courts,
he said.

Ms. Randall, a professor at the University of New Mexico who lives in
Albuquerque, is the author of more than 40 books, most of which deal with the
problems of women in third world nations. She was born in New York City and in
1961 moved to Mexico, where she married a Mexican national and renounced her
citizenship. Ms. Randall and her Mexican husband divorced.

She testified at the deportation hearing that denouncing her citizenship was ''a
big mistake.''

Judge Spiegel's opinion cites Ms. Randall's advocacy of Communism in ''Spirit of
the People,'' a book critical of United States involvement in Vietnam, ''Cuban
Women Now,'' a series of interviews, and two other books.

Mr. Giugni said Ms. Randall returned to the United States in 1984. She took a
job at the University of New Mexico and married an American citizen. Mr. Giugni
said in October 1985 that she had overstayed her visitor's permit and was in the
United States illegally.

''Randall has never advocated world Communism,'' Mr. Cole said, speaking by
telephone from New York. ''The ruling is on dangerous grounds. We will appeal
the case and expect it to be ruled unconstitutional.''

''The Government ruled there was no evidence to show Randall had ever been a
member of the Communist Party,'' Mr. Cole said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 5, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

'ASYLUM' MYSTERY AT CAPITOL BEGINS WITH A FAMILY PLEA

BYLINE: By BEN A. FRANKLIN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 366 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4


A family of 11 Rumanians made what appeared to be a dramatic appeal for
''political asylum'' today at the United States Capitol.

As it happened, however, Federal immigration officials said that the exiles had
already been living in California for four years and that some members of the
family have permanent resident status in the United States. With that status,
the Rumanians ''can stay here forever,'' according to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Agency officials who interviewed seven of the family members said they were
dissatisfied with their lives in Fullerton, Calif., near Los Angeles, and wanted
to emigrate to Sweden.

''I don't know whether they are ungrateful or confused,'' said Bradley Stevens,
the deputy director of the Washington district of the immigration service, which
along with the State Department, declined any official response to the pleas for
''asylum.''

Initial police reports said that the Rumanians, 63-year-old Augustine Timar and
members of his family, had emerged at midmorning today from two taxicabs at the
Capitol's north security barricade and appealed to a patrolman in broken English
for ''permanent political asylum.''

Ernest E. Garcia, the Senate Sergeant at Arms, said one family member had handed
a policeman a letter containing a reference to ''bombardment'' of their house in
California ''by radiation'' that the letter said was ''affecting their health
and well being.''

The first arrivals at the Capitol included Mr. and Mrs. Timar, the elderly
parents of one of them and three children aged 12 to 18. Later arrivals included
a 7-year-old boy and ''a young man,'' the police said. Officials said two other
members of the family arrived at National Airport this afternoon.

By nightfall, officials had decided they could do no more than refer the family
to a social service agency to help them find accommodations.

Rumanian embassy officials said they knew nothing of the Timars.

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the immigration service, said the Timars entered
the United States legally at Los Angeles in July 1982 as Rumanian displaced
persons and would be eligible to apply for citizenship in the United States in
1987.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 7, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION AIDES SEEK MONEY TO STOP TERRORISTS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 15, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 627 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 6


The Immigration and Naturalization Service is proposing major new programs in
two areas: to prevent terrorists from entering the United States and to capture
and expel aliens who sell illegal drugs or commit other crimes in this country.

The proposals were outlined in budget documents prepared by the immigration
service, in a report to be submitted to Congress by the agency, and in
interviews with officials of the immigration service and the Justice Department.

The report says that in recent years ''76 percent of all aliens under final
orders of deportation failed to surrender when directed to do so,'' and it
describes this figure as ''alarming.'' Nationwide, according to the report, the
immigration service has the names of 42,200 aliens convicted of crimes and
92,800 aliens suspected of crimes, obtained from Federal, state and local
law-enforcement agencies.

Fewer than 8,500 criminal aliens were deported in the last two years, the report
said. All aliens, even those convicted of serious crimes, are entitled to a
series of administrative hearings and judicial appeals before they can be
deported, the report notes.

The immigration agency is seeking $17 million and 290 new employees for its
effort to ''stop international terrorists before they set foot on American
soil,'' according to the confidential budget documents. The request marks the
first time that the Government has explicitly invoked terrorism as a reason for
stepping up enforcement of the immigration laws.

Some of the proposals are subject to approval by Congress; others can be carried
out by the immigration service alone.

Despite the general climate of fiscal austerity in Washington, the Justice
Department's component agencies, including the immigration service and the Drug
Enforcement Administration, have proposed to increase spending on drug
enforcement by 29.5 percent, to $745 million in the fiscal year 1988, which
starts in Oct. 1, 1987.

'A Threat to Well-Being'

Justice Department officials said the proposals were part of President Reagan's
campaign against the use of illegal drugs.

In the report, the immigration service says a ''growing number of criminal
aliens pose a threat to the well-being and security of citizens throughout the
United States.''

The report says that despite the ''staggering'' workload of criminal alien
cases, the immigration service has 26 percent fewer investigators today than in
1976. The number declined to 690 from 935.

In its budget request, the immigration agency said it was ''in a unique position
to combat terrorism because it is the single agency in the Federal Government''
best equipped to keep foreign terrorists from entering.

''Immigration inspectors at ports of entry and Border Patrol agents between
ports are the nation's first line of defense against terrorism,'' it said.

The immigration service is seeking 110 additional inspectors, at a cost of $4.7
million a year, for its antiterrorist program. In addition, it is seeking $4.3
million in additional funds for the Border Patrol, $3.9 million to fight alien
smuggling rings, $1.7 million for intelligence and $1.6 million for computer and
communications equipment.

The immigration service currently does not have any resources specially
earmarked for combating terrorism, nor did it count the number of terrorism
suspects among the 1.2 million illegal aliens apprehended last year. Verne
Jervis, a spokesman for the immigration agency, said the number was probably
''no more than 20.''

The number of terrorist incidents in the United States has declined for several
years, according to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, after rising from 42 in
1981 to 51 in 1982. They declined to 31 in 1983, 13 in 1984 and 7 in 1985, the
bureau said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 27, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

BELGIAN WRITER HELD AT NEWARK AIRPORT AS A SUSPECTED COMMUNIST

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 562 words


A correspondent for a Socialist newspaper in Belgium was detained overnight
Thursday after immigration officials found Communist documents in his baggage
when he arrived at Newark on a flight from Brussels.

The reporter, Tom Ronse, was placed in the custody of officials from People
Express, the airline on which he had flown. Airline officials were ordered to
return Mr. Ronse to the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service yesterday
morning. He was then released pending an investigation.

An official at the Belgian Embassy in Washington said the case seemed ''a bit
curious,'' but has not caused ''any tension'' between Belgium and the United
States.

A spokesman for the immigration service, Duane Austin, said Mr. Ronse, who has
worked in the United States for six years, ''had a journalist's visa,'' but when
officials ''asked him for press credentials he could not produce them.''

Carried a Booklet

''So they sent him to secondary,'' Mr. Austin said. ''That's where, when they
don't want to hold up the line and they're not sure something is kosher, they
take him for a more in-depth look. They called for his baggage and they found
materials that indicate he may be affiliated with a Communist organization.''

The deputy director of the immigration service in Newark, James Puleo, said Mr.
Ronse was carrying a booklet entitled, ''Revolutionary Perspective Journal of
the C.W.O.'' - the Communist Workers Organization. And, he said, ''There was
some typewritten stuff in English which espoused Communist doctrine.''

Mr. Ronse, a correspondent for the newspaper De Morgen, said last night, ''It
was a bunch of material that was passed to me by a colleague in the context of a
project I am working on about what they call, in Dutch, 'the small left' -that
is all left groups that are outside of the traditional Social Democratic and
Communist parties.''

Mr. Ronse said immigration service officials ''were kind of harsh on me on the
day that I was detained.'' He added, ''However, I was able to telephone my
newspaper and they immediately contacted the U.S. Embassy, so that by the time I
was brought back to the immigration office any doubts about my status as a bona
fide journalist were removed and I was treated in a polite way.''

Mr. Austin, the immigration service spokesman, said, ''We told him to return on
Oct. 3. By that time we will have looked at the material to determine whether
there are grounds for denying him admission to the United States.''

'A Bit Curious'

Immigration law, Mr. Austin said, ''stipulates that if you are or ever have been
a member of the Communist Party you may be denied admission to this country.''
But, he said: ''About 33,000 times a year someone is questioned on these
grounds. Almost always they receive a waiver.''

The Soviet news agency, Tass, apparently viewing the situation in light of the
international dispute over Moscow's detention of Nicholas Daniloff, a U.S. News
& World Report correspondent, issued a statement on the Ronse case, saying:
''This incident demonstrates anew the real worth of 'freedoms' in the United
States and the readiness of Washington to attack even a citizen of an allied
country if he professes views not to the Administration's liking.''

But the political minister at the Belgian Embassy, Alex Reyn, said, ''It's
probably some kind of misunderstanding.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 4, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Belgian Reporter Freed After Customs Review

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 221 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Oct. 3


Immigration officials said today that they have decided not to send home a
Belgian reporter they had ordered held after finding leftist literature in his
luggage as he entered the United States.

The reporter, Tom Ronse, who covers the United States for two socialist dailies
- Belgium's De Morgen and the Dutch Het Vrije - was detained at Newark
International Airport the night of his arrival Sept. 25.

He was released the next day and was told to be at the Newark offices of the
United States Immigration and Naturalization Service on Thursday. Immigration
officers returned his passport today.

The 36-year-old Ronse, who has worked as a journalist in the United States for
six years and lives on Staten Island, said he was disturbed that a Federal law
allowing his detention exists. That law, the 1952 McCarran-Walter Act, has been
cited in excluding prominent foreigners ranging from Colombian novelist and
Nobel laureate Gabriel Garcia Marquez to former NATO general and Italian senator
Nino Pasti, a critic of nuclear missiles.

The agency's deputy district director, James Puleo, said that the immigration
officers detaining Mr. Ronse followed standard procedure.

''He had an American Social Security card, no proof of foreign support, not
enough money to sustain himself and a one-way ticket,'' Mr. Puleo said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 5, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

ART IN BROOKLYN REFLECTS IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By RICHARD F. SHEPARD

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 66, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 990 words


THERE is a central question that bedevils both the curator of an art exhibition
and the administrator of an immigration law: Who should be admitted and who
should be left out? The title of the new exhibition that opens opens Tuesday at
the Museum of the Borough of Brooklyn, ''Tides of Immigration: Romantic Visions
and Urban Realities,'' betokens a relationship in this instance between the
policies of art and government.

Choices of admission and exclusion are a heavy, often depressing chore for
immigration officials, who shape the lives of millions, as well as the makeup of
the nation. They were less far-reaching and more felicitous, though no less
perplexing, for Shelly Mehlman Dinhofer, director and curator of exhibitions at
the museum, ''There are more than 90 pieces of art in the exhibition,'' Ms.
Dinhofer said as the works were being mounted in the 1,000-square-foot room that
is the museum. It is on the second floor of Boylan Hall on the campus of
Brooklyn College, Campus Road and Bedford Avenue in the borough's Midwood
section. ''I wanted an upbeat exhibition and I sought art that expressed the
optimism that people brought with them to America as well as art that described
what they found here. But it all is based on the quality of the art.''

The museum, which is not related to the large Brooklyn Museum on Eastern
Parkway, has filled its limited quarters with a treasure of art -paintings,
drawings, photographs, sculpture - that not only salutes the immigrant but also
the City of New York, where so many immigrants remained after their ships
docked. The show is a tribute to the Statue of Liberty and includes several
watercolor studies of the statue by its builder, Frederic Auguste Bartholdi.

The painters and photographers represented here contribute to the top-drawer
cachet of the show. They span nearly a century and a half in time and style.
Among them are Milton Avery, George Wesley Bellows, Romare Bearden, Stuart
Davis, Arthur Fellig (Weegee), William Glackens, William Gropper, Chaim Gross,
George Grosz, Lewis W. Hine, Edward Hopper, Jacob Lawrence, David Levine, Jack
Levine, Jacob Riis, John Sloan, Raphael Soyer, Saul Steinberg, Joseph Stella,
Alfred Stieglitz and Paul Strand.

A 'Harbor' Entrance

The imaginative exhibition starts at the threshold, where John Stachowicz, the
exhibition designer, has adapted a print from an 1889 Harper's Weekly
illustration to be the entranceway. It is 20 feet by 9 feet and depicts the
great bay of New York with the Statue of Liberty as its centerpiece, as viewed
by crowds at the Battery.

There is an order to the display inside. The visitor begins with early scenes: a
view of Jasper Francis Cropsey's almost bucolic 1851 painting ''Castle Garden,
N.Y.C.,'' depicting the elegant harbor adornment four years before it was
enlisted as an immigrant station. As one moves along, the immigrants catch the
eye, seen as individuals and as masses. One perceives the currents in the tide
that caught the artistic eye.

For instance, George Henry Story's 1877 portrayal of an Italian organ grinder,
''Street Musician,'' is a bright and sunny painting of a newcomer who has an
inner serenity. Edward Hopper's early 20th-century ''Polish Mother and Child''
is more stark, a picture of a woman of determination and strength. William
Gropper's 1940 ''Tailor'' is a painting of a Jewish craftsman, eyes intent on
the needlework involved in making a shirt.

There are portraits of Russians, Czechoslovaks, Italians. One may see vivid
re-creations of the pushcart markets, photographs of the life under the Lower
East Side elevated, drawings of the tenements and the parks and, always, the
street - a sort of village square for the paesani, often from the same hamlet in
Europe, to group together in New York. A recent bronze sculpture by Bruno
Lucchesi almost does for the Lower East Side what Remington did for the Far
West. His ''Orchard Street,'' a foot and a half long, gives us a clothing
merchant, yarmulke on his head, wares on the street, with a man trying on a coat
and a woman doing the same off to the side.

Not everything is representational. Saul Steinberg's 1951 ''Passport Photos'' is
an eloquently ironic concept: inked fingerprints pressed on paper, appearing as
smudged faces atop bodies drawn below. Ms. Dinhofer is also proud of the photo
she found in the Municipal Archives. It was taken by M. L. Jacobs in 1937 and
shows workers preparing Edward Laning's mural for the dining room on Ellis
Island. Next to it is Laning's own study of the mural, ''Passage to India,
Building the Pacific Railroad,'' painted in 1935.

Looked for the Unusual

''I looked for works of art not readily available in New York institutions,''
Ms. Dinhofer said. ''I looked for things in museum storerooms. I am a collector
myself and the institutions from all over do lend us their objects. The museum
has no collection of its own. We were founded in 1981 as our own institution.
Brooklyn College gives us the space and pays the curator's salary. We are a
thematically based museum, mostly themes of Brooklyn, where there is no end of
artistic themes to draw on. We are not an elitist museum but believe it should
be open and interesting to all people, not necessarily primarily those only
interested in art.''

The exhibition is open, free, through Dec. 2 from 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. Mondays
through Thursdays (until 8 on Tuesdays), and from noon to 4 P.M. on Fridays,
Saturdays and Sundays. Information: (718) 780-5152.

Ms. Dinhofer said the museum would move across campus in the spring to La
Guardia Hall, where it will have three times the space it now has. The opening
exhibition in April will be about baseball.

''It will be called 'The Grand Game of Baseball,' '' said Ms. Dinhofer, who is
nothing if not a Brooklyn booster. '' 'The Grand Game of Baseball and the
Brooklyn Dodgers.' What happened to them after that doesn't really concern us.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of William Gropper's ''Tailor''

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 18, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

REPORTER, ANGRY OVER EXPULSION, TAKEN TO PLANE

BYLINE: By JESUS RANGEL

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 573 words


A Colombian reporter who had been detained here for five days by immigration
authorities was escorted onto an airplane at Kennedy International Airport
yesterday and expelled from the country.

Saying she was angry at the United States Government, the reporter, Patricia
Lara, left for Bogota at 10:30 A.M. on an Avianca flight after being transported
by immigration officials from the Metropolitan Correctional Center, a Federal
prison in Manhattan, where she had ben confined in maximum security.

No specific reason was given for her detention, but immigration authorities
cited three sections of the immigration law, including one that bars aliens who
might ''engage in subversive activities.''

''She has asked us to press forward and find out the basis for the government
action,'' said Arthur Helton, Miss Lara's lawyer. ''As far as she and we are
concerned, this matter is not over.''

'Disappointed and Angry'

Mr. Helton said Miss Lara was not sure she would return to the United States but
''reserved the right to do so even though she believes she was terribly wronged
by the authorities.''

He said he would request information under the Freedom of Information Act on why
Miss Lara was detained upon arrival, excluded without a hearing and held in a
maximum security jail without any explanation.

''She was disappointed and angry,'' Mr. Helton said. ''She said she looked
forward to ending this nightmare and returning to Colombia.''

Miss Lara, 35 years old, is a freelance reporter for El Tiempo, Colombia's
largest newspaper. She was taken into custody at Kennedy Sunday night after she
flew to New York to attend, as an invited guest, a dinner for recipients of the
Maria Moors Cabot Prizes at Columbia University.

'Considered a Leftist'

Rafael Santos, the news editor of El Tiempo, said in a telephone interview from
Bogota that Miss Lara was hired a year ago as a freelance writer covering
''peace'' issues.

She wrote articles critical of the Reagan Administration policy toward Central
America, especially Nicaragua, and a book profiling Colombian guerilla leaders,
Mr. Santos said.

''She is considered a leftist,'' Mr. Santos said. ''At one time she considered
moving to Cuba because she is a profound admirer of Fidel Castro. I don't know
why she did not go.''

Mr. Santos said Miss Lara also has a financial interest in a leftist monthly
magazine called Sona.

Pro-American Newspaper

El Tiempo is owned by the Santos family and is identified with the Liberal Party
in Colombia, Mr. Santos said.

In its editorials, El Tiempo is ''very pro-American, anti-communist and very
traditional,'' he said.

The Maria Moors Cabot Awards recognize journalists and publications ''for
distinguished contributions to the advancement of inter-American understanding
and freedom of information.''

On Wednesday, the State Department revoked Miss Lara's visa and on Thursday it
rejected a request by the Colombian Government to release her into the personal
custody of Ambassador Francisco Posada.

Immigration officials said Miss Lara's name appeared in the agency's ''Look-out
book,'' which lists people who are not to be admitted.

Yesterday, Charles Troy, an Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman,
continued to refuse to release any specific information on why Miss Lara had
been expelled.

''We really can't because the information on which the expulsion was made is
classified,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 25, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Deported Writer Files Claim

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 103 words


A Colombian journalist who was jailed in New York City and deported as a
subversive filed a $5 million claim yesterday against immigration officials,
saying she was ''injured in the deprivation of her liberty.'' The claim on
behalf of Patricia Lara, 35 years old, a reporter for Colombia's leading daily,
El Tiempo, said last week's five-day ''detention, transfer and segregation was
without any legitimate reason and consitutes unlawful imprisonment.'' An
administrative claim is the first step toward a Federal lawsuit. The Immigration
and Naturalization Service must be given a chance to settle out of court.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 30, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

An Immigration Act That Shames Us All

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 299 words


To the Editor:

In ''McCarran-Walter Lives'' (editorial, Oct. 16), you call upon Congress to
repeal the provision of the Immigration and Nationality Act that requires the
exclusion of any alien thought likely to engage in ''subversive'' activities.
You note that it bars visitors ''on the basis of advocacy as well as action.''

This section is an antiquated remnant of the McCarthy era. It is an
embarrassment to all Americans who believe in the principles underlying the
First Amendment to the Constitution. But there is another category of
excludables in the Immigration and Nationality Act that is ripe for repeal: the
prohibition against aliens ''afflicted with . . . sexual deviation.''

Under this section, any homosexual man or woman is ineligible to receive a visa
into the United States, even as a tourist, regardless of character, background
or achievement. If enforced to the letter, it would have barred such
distinguished foreigners as Benjamin Britten, Rainer Fassbinder, Virginia Woolf
and Dag Hammarskjold.

The exclusion for ''sexual deviation'' is even more intrusive than that for
''subversive'' activities because it punishes not for a statement or act, but
merely for personal identity. It is out of place in any society that believes,
as ours does, in individual freedom and equality of treatment as fundamental
principles of government.

Now that Congress has approved legislation to deal with illegal immigration into
the country, it should turn its attention to reforming the entire list of
excludable aliens under the Immigration and Nationality Act, erasing forever
those provisions that are incompatible with the spirit of the Bill of Rights.

THOMAS B. STODDARD
Executive Director, Lambda
Legal Defense and Education Fund
  New York, Oct. 21, 1986

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 13, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Why Fear Foreigners' Free Speech?

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 537 words


Though it bears the names of others, the spirit of Joseph McCarthy lives in the
McCarran-Walter Immigration Act, specifically that section that forbids letting
people, even visitors, into the country if they hold offensive views. It's high
time for Congress, having finally reformed the law by barring illegal workers,
to strike from it the fear that America might be infected by foreign ideas.

McCarran-Walter, passed in 1952, lists 33 grounds for excluding alien visitors
or migrants. Some grounds are sensible, like former membership in the Nazi Party
or previous criminal convictions. Some, like ''sexual deviation,'' are outmoded.
Others are harmful.Most notable is the broad provision that allows the
Government to exclude any alien who might ''engage in activities which would be
prejudicial to the public interest, or endanger the welfare, safety or security
of the United States.'' Two other provisions permit barring people who would
advocate, as well as those who would engage in, terrorist, Communist and
subversive activities.

Over the years, the law's targets have included political figures like
Bernadette Devlin of Northern Ireland and Roberto d'Aubuisson of El Salvador,
artists like the Italian playwright Dario Fo, and even Nobel laureates like
Carlos Fuentes and Gabriel Garcia Marquez. In 1984 Gen. Nino Pasti, a former
member of the Italian Senate, was denied a visa. General Pasti, an opponent of
U.S. nuclear missiles in Europe, was barred despite having been stationed at the
Pentagon during the 1960's.

The United States is strong enough to hear dissenting views, even Communist
views; it's stronger for hearing them. But the Reagan Administration has been
particularly narrow-minded.

Two months ago Choichiro Yatani, a Japanese citizen who has lived in this
country for nine years, was nearly deported because Federal authorities
concluded he had lied about a previous Communist affiliation. Last month
Patricia Lara, a distinguished Colombian journalist, was declared excludable and
deported because it was believed she might engage in subversive activities.

Her case points up a particularly odious aspect of the law. When she sought to
enter, she was immediately detained because her name appeared on a ''lookout''
list of excludables maintained by the Immigration and Naturalization Service and
the State Department. Her visa was then revoked and an immigration commissioner
ordered her out of the country. Yet she was never allowed to see - or challenge
- the Government's case. That information from unknown sources should
permanently bar entry insults fairness.

Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat, has worked to exorcise
the McCarthy ghost from the McCarran-Walter Act. He proposes legislation to
limit national security restrictions on entry to persons who could be shown to
be ''likely to engage'' in espionage, subversion, terrorism or criminal
activity.

In the Congress just ended, this and other worthy proposals took a back seat to
those relating to illegal workers. When the new Congress convenes in January, 35
years will have passed since McCarran-Walter burned a fear of free speech into
law. It's past time to make America fearless again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 16, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

WRITERS PROTEST DEPORTATION CASE

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 27, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 873 words

DATELINE: ALBUQUERQUE, N.M., Nov. 15


A deportation order against a writer here because of her political writing has
stirred a group of prominent American authors to action and has intensified
debate over the country's immigration law.

The writer, Margaret J. Randall, who teaches at the University of New Mexico,
was born in New York but gave up her American citizenship in the 1960's. Her
request for permanent resident status was turned down by an immigration officer
in 1985, and in August an immigration service judge in El Paso upheld that
decision.

Ms. Randall, who is 50 years old, is now appealing to the Board of Immigration
Appeals in Washington. She can remain in this country through that appeal and
any court appeal she may make thereafter.

On Oct. 29, 1985, under the aegis of the American chapter of the writers' group
PEN International, Norman Mailer, Kurt Vonnegut, William Styron, Arthur Miller,
Grace Paley and others filed suit in support of Ms. Randall in the Federal
District Court in Washington, challenging the decision to deport her on several
constitutional grounds.

Discussion of the Law

Ms. Randall's effort to remain has received attention in dozens of newspapers,
and her case and others like it have intensified discussion about changing the
law permitting the exclusion of aliens for political reasons. Ms. Randall has
also prompted heated debate because she gave up her United States citizenship,
lived in Cuba and Nicaragua from 1969 to 1984 and has written extensively and
strongly against United States policies in Vietnam and Latin America. Ms.
Randall returned to the United States in 1984 as a visitor.

PEN American's suit attracted wider attention this August with the action of an
immigration judge in El Paso upholding the 1985 decision to deny a permanent
residency visa to the writer. The judge, Martin Spiegel, said that Ms. Randall
deserved the visa on the basis of family ties: Her elderly parents, estranged
husband and a sibling, who live in Albuquerque, as well as two of her four
children are all United States citizens.

Also, Judge Spiegel noted, Ms. Randall contributes to the academic community at
the University of New Mexico here. She has produced dozens of works in women's
history, politics and cultural and oral history and teaches in the University's
Women's Studies Program.

McCarran-Walter Act Cited

But Judge Spiegel denied her appeal, citing as the sole reason a clause in the
McCarran-Walter Act that permits the Government to bar aliens whose writings or
teachings ''advocate the economic, international and governmental doctrines of
world Communism.''

Judge Spiegel ordered Ms. Randall, who grew up in Albuquerque, to leave the
country by Dec. 1 or face deportation, a decision now under appeal in
Washington.

While aliens have been kept out of the United States because of their writing,
Ms. Randall would be the first actually to be deported, if she ultimately loses
her fight, according to David Cole, a lawyer at the Center for Constitutional
Rights. This organization is handling Ms. Randall's appeal and the PEN American
suit. Mr. Cole argues that First Amendment protection extends to anyone living
in the United States, citizen or alien.

She Will Appear in New York

Editorials in a number of newpapers have supported Ms. Randall, but others have
opposed her. About 25 committees for her defense have sprung up. She has
maintained a brisk pace of speaking engagements, and PEN American will sponsor a
reading, discussion and press conference for her at its New York headquarters on
the evening of Dec. 8.

Opposition has sometimes been bitter. A group of conservative University of New
Mexico students demonstrated at a Federal office building here, displaying a bus
ticket to El Paso and a $5 bill for taxi fare from El Paso to Juarez, which they
later gave to Ms. Randall. A national conservative student newspaper, Sequent,
published an article saying that Ms. Randall, because of articles supporting the
leftist governments in Vietnam, Cuba and Nicaragua, should be treated like a
World War II collaborator.

The course of Ms. Randall's citizenship is also attacked by her opponents. She
says she acquired Mexican citizenship in 1966 because she was married to a
Mexican, had three small children and could not find a good job in Mexico under
stringent laws covering jobs for aliens. In 1969 she began the paperwork, which
she never completed, to regain her United States citizenship.

Immigration Matter, Foes Say

The Immigration and Naturalization Service argues that Ms. Randall renounced her
citizenship as a political statement. Without commenting on that, Judge Spiegel
disputed Ms. Randall's assertion that she had become an expatriate involuntarily
and under economic duress; he affirmed her deportability.

Ms. Randall's opponents view her case as an immigration matter. ''The question
is not whether Ms. Randall is free to express her views or to visit her family,
but whether Ms. Randall is entitled to the privilege of emigrating to the United
States and of becoming an American citizen,'' said Senator Pete V. Domenici,
Republican of New Mexico, in rejecting a request from the president of the
University of New Mexico to support Ms. Randall.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 18, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

MARIEL BOATLIFT FIGURE ORDERED DEPORTED TO CUBA

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1084 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Nov. 17


The man who touched off the Mariel boatlift from Cuba six years ago by ramming
the bus he was driving through the gates of the Peruvian Embassy in Havana has
been ordered deported from the United States by a Federal immigration judge
here.

The judge gave as his reason the fact that the man ran down and killed a Cuban
military guard who was trying to stop the bus. The driver came to the attention
of the immigration authorities after he was arrested several times in Texas.

The case presents a curious footnote to the episode at the embassy, which soon
led to Cuba's release of about 125,000 people to the United States. Many were
political dissidents, but there were also criminals and mentally deranged
people, some of whom are still being detained in the United States.

The former Havana bus driver, Jose Antonio Rodriguez-Gallegos, now 43 years old,
is being held by the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Houston while his
lawyer presses an appeal to the Board of Immigration Appeals in Washington. He
maintains that the death of the guard was an accident in a desperate attempt to
escape political persecution in Cuba.

'Serious Nonpolitical Crime'

But the judge, Robert Brown, held recently that the act amounted to a ''serious
nonpolitical crime'' that, under American law, bars Mr. Rodriguez from remaining
here.

''Despite the fact that the guard wore a uniform, that did not give the driver
the right to run him down or to jeopardize the safety of his passengers,'' Judge
Brown said in an interview Friday. ''He was unable to show he would be
persecuted for political reasons, as opposed to prosecuted for murder.''

Mr. Rodriguez, a short man with a neat beard, states that he regrets the guard's
death but that there was no alternative. ''In human terms, I committed a sin,
but he would have killed me if I had stopped the bus,'' he said. ''He was
defending Communism. I was defending my liberty.''

Mr. Rodriguez was interviewed at the immigration service's jail near Houston
Intercontinental Airport in the presence of his lawyer, Patrick W. Dugan of
Tindall & Foster, a Houston firm that specializes in immigration law, and an
interpreter. In more than six years in this country, mostly in Texas, Mr.
Rodriquez has learned almost no English.

Act of Self-Defense Alleged

Mr. Dugan contended that his client had committed a political act of
self-defense while trying to gain political asylum at the embassy, and said that
he would almost certainly be executed if he was returned to Cuba.

By his own account, Mr. Rodriguez, born in 1943, the son of a carpenter and a
seamstress, took part in no formal political activity before his fateful
decision. But he says he chafed under the rule of the Government of Fidel
Castro.

Mr. Rodriguez said he had incurred the wrath of his supervisor at the
government-run bus line when he refused to ''volunteer'' to drive young people
to the countryside to do farm work on his day off. His supervisor, he said,
called him a ''worm,'' jargon for counterrevolutionary in Cuba. At one point, he
added, he applied to emigrate to the United States, but feared the normal route
by small boat.

So on April 1, 1980, he said, he took his bus out at 6 A.M. as usual and,
telling his passengers that a detour was required because of roadwork, drove
near the Peruvian Embassy on President Avenue.

Events at the Embassy

He suddenly swerved toward the embassy, and the guard in front of the gate
started shooting in the air. ''I hit the guard and he fell down,'' he said. ''A
lady screamed, 'You hit the guard.' I said to everybody in the bus, 'Get in the
embassy if you want or go out in the street.' '' A few passengers joined him in
seeking asylum with the Peruvians; most left.

In the next few days the Cuban Government, in what was later widely interpreted
as a maneuver to embarrass the United States by getting rid of what Cuba
considered undesirable elements, took down its guard at the Peruvian Embassy and
about 7,000 Cubans crowded in, asking asylum. President Carter acted under
emergency powers and agreed to accept some of those at the embassy. Soon
afterward President Castro released them and thousands more in the boatlift from
Mariel, the port from which they traveled to the United States. According to Mr.
Rodriguez, the Peruvian Ambassador protected him, driving him in his own car to
the airport for a flight to Florida.

There is no documentation, apart from his own assertion, that Mr. Rodriguez was
the bus driver. But in a letter to Judge Brown, the State Department's Bureau of
Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs said that ''we do not doubt'' the
contention and ''we also find credible the applicant's statement that he ran
into a guard in front of the gate who was shooting into the air, killing him.''

In his six years in this country, Mr. Rodriguez has not been a model resident.
After briefly working for a north Texas rancher, who, he said, refused to pay
him, he moved to Abilene, Tex., and later to Dallas. He was convicted of
stealing a battery from a car in Dallas, burglarizing a building in Abilene,
both felonies, and has been charged with several misdemeanors, such as theft,
possession of a prohibited weapon and marijuana.

Years in Texas Prisons

He has spent about half of his six years here in Texas prisons, and was
delivered to the immigration service by the Texas Department of Corrections
under a program whereby aliens who have been imprisoned face deportation
hearings.

But none of these Texas crimes figured in the judge's decision. Under law, a
refugee must be granted ''withholding of deportation,'' which permits him to
remain here until political conditions change in his country, if he can show a
''clear probability'' of persecution -unless he has been convicted of a
''particularly serious crime'' in this country or committed a ''serious
nonpolitical crime'' before arriving in the United States. Judge Brown held that
the Texas crimes were not serious, but that the death in Havana was. He denied
both the request for withholding and for political asylum.

Thus far the Castro Government has refused to repatriate the Mariel refugees, If
the appeal is lost, Mr. Rodriguez could be incarcerated ''till he rots,'' said
Mr. Dugan. The immigration service may parole him if it wishes, however. The
Cuban Interest Section at the Czechoslovak Embassy in Washington did not give
any immediate indication of what how the Castro Government would act in this
case.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Jose Antonio Rodriguez-Gallegos (NYT/F. Carter Smith)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 30, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

VERMONTERS TRY TO HELP FAMILY STAY IN U.S.

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 65, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 455 words

DATELINE: LEICESTER, Vt., Nov. 29


A family of Mexican immigrants facing deportation has won a battle in a fight to
stay in the United States.

Mario Marquez and his family were given a seven-month stay of deportation
because Mr. Marquez may qualify for resident status under a section of the new
immigration law, said Norman Henry, Vermont chief of the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The section pertains to aliens who harvest perishable crops and have lived in
the country for 90 days from May 1, 1985, to May 1, 1986. Mr. Marquez works as a
hand on a dairy farm.

Mr. Marquez and his family arrived in the United States more than two years ago.
They settled in Leicester, where Mr. Marquez found work on the farm and his
children found a place in school, on soccer teams and in the community.

Since then, the people of Leicester have rallied around the Mexican family in
its efforts to stay in the country.

Earlier this year, townspeople helped Mr. Marquez draft a petition for resident
status. The petition said he was an executive of a foreign company hoping to
expand his business in Leicester. Mr. Marquez was a diesel mechanic in Mexico.

In September, the immigration service rejected the petition and ordered the
family to leave the country, a move that prompted a farewell party and a town
petition that asked for help from Vermont's Congressional delegation.

New Law Prompts Extension

Last month, due to changes in the immigration law, the family was granted a
30-day extension. That extension, which expired last Sunday, then was expanded
to the seven-month stay, to expire on June 30, 1987.

Mr. Henry said Mr. Marquez visited the immigration office Monday to file the
necessary paper work for his new residency application. He said the immigration
service will begin processing applications under the new law on June 1.

''We will give him the benefit of the doubt,'' Mr. Henry said.

''He is working harvesting a crop which is arguably a vegetable or is arguably a
perishable commodity,'' he said, referring to the provision of the immigration
law that may allow Mr. Marquez to stay in the country.

Mr. Marquez said the immigration decision would allow two of his sons to remain
in school. His wife said the children would not have been able to enroll in
school in Mexico until September.

''My boys are in school now. They are very happy,'' Mr. Marquez said.

Ellie Holsman, Leicester Central School principal, said teachers at the school
were delighted that the Marquez children could stay.

''Everyone had been hoping all this time,'' she said, speaking of the community
support for the family. ''We have been optimistic since we heard of the
immigration bill, although we didn't know if it applied to them.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 30, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CHINESE CRIME NETWORK REPORTED MOVING INTO AREAS OF U.S.

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 30, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1465 words


A small but growing underworld organization with bases in Taiwan and Hong Kong
is beginning to move into areas of crime in the United States that were once
controlled by the Mafia, Federal law-enforcement officials say.

To combat an increase in Chinese organized crime involving narcotics,
prostitution, gambling, extortion and murder, the agencies are trying to hire
more Chinese-speaking agents.

''With all the pressure on La Cosa Nostra, we're looking down the road several
years and wondering if the Asians may replace them,'' William F. Weld, the new
head of the criminal division of the Justice Department, said in a recent
interview.

Among agencies recruiting Asian-American agents, Mr. Weld said, are the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Immigration
and Naturalization Service and the Customs Service.

Law-enforcement officials readily acknowledge that the vast majority of Chinese
in the United States are law-abiding. But they say the gangs have taken
advantage of the large influx of Chinese immigrants from Taiwan, Hong Kong and
the Chinese mainland since a change in the immigration law in 1965 ended a
virtual ban on Asians.

From 1970 to 1980, according to the Census Bureau, the number of Chinese in the
United States jumped 85 percent, to 806,027 from 435,062. Chinese now make up
the second-largest group of legal immigrants, after Mexicans.

New York Trial Yielded Insight

Some of the first insights into the workings of Chinese organized crime in the
United States have emerged from the racketeering trial in New York last summer
of 11 members of the United Bamboo, a Taiwan-based underworld gang, as well as a
series of arrests of Chinese accused of running prostitution rings around the
country with women brought in from Taiwan.

The United Bamboo claims 15,000 members in Taiwan, including a number of movie
stars, senior government officials and military officers. The trial in New York
heard one of its leaders describe the scope of the group's operations in the
United States.

If you drive from Los Angeles to Florida on Interstate 10, he said in a recorded
conversation, ''every town where you see a Chinese restaurant, you walk in and
tell them you are with the United Bamboo, they will take care of you.'' Along
the entire route, a member can expect to receive money, gas, food and lodging,
said the gang leader, Chen Chih-yi, known as Yellow Bird.

Mr. Chen was convicted of racketeering, conspiracy to distribute cocaine and
marijuana and forging a passport. He is now awaiting sentencing, scheduled for
early December, along with the 10 other gang members, who were also convicted.

From the taped conversation, it is difficult to tell whether Mr. Chen was merely
boasting, as some other gang members assert.

Group Tied to a Murder

But, in any case, the United Bamboo is particularly worrisome to the Federal
authorities. Three members, including its top leader, Chen Chi-li, have admitted
the murder of a Chinese-American writer, Henry Liu, in San Francisco in 1984
after he published a criticial biography of Taiwan's President, Chiang
Ching-kuo.

They contend they were acting under orders from senior Taiwan officials. On
tapes played at the New York trial, gang leaders said that President Chiang's
son, Chiang Hsiao-wu, ''probably'' ordered the murder because of outrage over
defamatory remarks made in Mr. Liu's writing.

On the tapes the gang leaders also said the Chiang family had been especially
upset by a report that Mr. Liu was going to write that a former Governor of
Taiwan, K. C. Wu, had been a lover of Madame Chiang Kai-shek, who was the wife
of the Taiwan President's father. In their taped conversations, the gang members
said they doubted President Chiang himself had been involved in the killing, but
they repeatedly said that the President's half-brother, Chiang Wei-kuo, was a
close friend and ''sworn brother'' of Mr. Chen, the gang's senior figure.

Last June, Chiang Wei-kuo, an army general who had previously maintained a low
profile, was promoted to be secretary-general of Taiwan's National Security
Council, a powerful umbrella organization that oversees several secret police
agencies.

Fear Among Chinese-Americans

President Chiang's brother and son have denied any role in the killing, which
created a political crisis in Taiwan and aroused widespread fear among
Chinese-Americans about the possibility of violence against those who disagree
with the Chinese Nationalist regime on Taiwan.

Anne T. Vitale, an assistant United States attorney in Manhattan who prosecuted
the United Bamboo defendants, noted that allegations of the Chiang family's
involvement in the slaying were only hearsay and not admissible in court as
evidence. But they do provide a fuller picture of the background of the killing
than has emerged elsewhere, she contended.

After the shooting, Mr. Chen and another of the killers, Wu Tun, fled to Taiwan,
where they have been sentenced to life imprisonment, as has the former head of
Taiwan's Defense Intelligence Agency, Adm. Weng Hsi-ling, who was accused of
ordering the killing.

Whether Admiral Weng acted on his own or under orders from a more senior
official has never been determined. The third man, Tung Kuei-sen, was found by
an F.B.I. undercover operation in Brazil and convicted of drug smuggling in the
New York trial. After he is sentenced, Mr. Tung is scheduled to be extradited to
California to stand trial for Mr. Liu's shooting.

''One of the things that has us very much concerned is the access the gang had
to drugs in the Golden Triangle,'' said Ms. Vitale, referring to the area of
opium and heroin production where Thailand, Burma and Laos intersect.

Lack of Distribution Network

One of the gang members convicted in New York was Ah Min, a Thai citizen of
Chinese descent whose brother is a major grower of opium poppies, Ms. Vitale
said. On one of the 95 hours of tapes made by two undercover police detectives
and an informer, Ah Min described how he had bribed officials at the airport in
Bangkok not to search his baggage and managed to smuggle 660 pounds of heroin
first to Taiwan and then to New York, she added.

The United Bamboo gang ''has the network to buy and bring the drugs to the
United States,'' Ms. Vitale contended. ''What they don't have, according to our
investigation, is a well-organized distribution network in the United States.
But we've seen that they are trying to hook up with a network here and have
talked about working with the Mafia and some Koreans.''

Chang An-lo, known as White Wolf, another of the gang members convicted in New
York, asserted in a telephone interview from Federal prison that the F.B.I. had
greatly exaggerated the United Bamboo's capability in America. ''I was a gang
member in Taiwan,'' said the 38-year-old Mr. Chang, a former graduate student at
Stanford University and the owner of a restaurant in Monterey Park, a suburb of
Los Angeles.

'We Came as Individuals'

''But when gang members like me came to the United States, we came as
individuals, to be students or businessmen, not with a criminal purpose,'' Mr.
Chang said.

Moreover, argued Mr. Chang, who was convicted of conspiracy to distribute
heroin, ''we cannot survive in the United States as a gang because wherever
there are Chinatowns, like San Francisco or New York, they are controlled by
Cantonese-speaking groups'' as opposed to the Mandarin-speaking Nationalists.

Geoffrey A. Anderson, head of the Federal Organized Crime Strike Force in San
Francisco, acknowledged that there was not yet ''an accurate way of measuring
the extent of the activity'' of Chinese gangs in the United States and that
Chinese organized crime was ''much less well-understood than the traditional
groups,'' like the Mafia.

But he cited raids on seven brothels last April in San Francisco, Denver and New
York as an example of the growing influence of the Chinese gangs. The brothels
were run by Hsiao Pao Shih, a 48-year-old woman from Taiwan, her daughter, and a
Chinese movie director, Hung Chang Wang. The three have since been convicted on
a variety of criminal charges in separate trials in New York and San Francisco.

According to a sentencing memorandum in the trial of Mr. Wang, he was a member
of the Ying Ong, the West Coast branch of the Ong Leong Tong, a Chinese
benevolent organization in New York that was said to have links to Chinese
organized crime.

Mr. Wang was also said to have ties to the United Bamboo and the Yakuza, the
Japanese underworld. Mr. Wang was said to have deposited $300,000 in a San
Francisco bank account as earnings from the West Coast brothels alone in six
months, and to have paid a Chinese youth gang, the Wah Ching, $600 a week in
protection money.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 24, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

HEADLINERS;
On Second Thought

SECTION: Section 4; Page 9, Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 134 words


Rather than say exactly why they wanted to deport Choichiro Yatani, Federal
officials decided last week to let him stay. Mr. Yatani, a Japanese student who
first came to America in 1977, was detained by immigration officials on July 7,
when he returned from an academic conference in the Netherlands, and was to have
been deported. The agency said it had secret evidence that Mr. Yatani, a
doctoral candidate at State University of New York at Stony Brook, was a
Communist-affiliated subversive. Mr. Yatani denied the charges and sued the
agency for attempting to deport him without a hearing.

Last week, in return for Mr. Yatani's dropping the suit, officials dropped their
attempt to deport him. John H. Marburger, the president of Stony Brook, said
this was ''a wise and thoughtful gesture.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Choichiro Yatani

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 11, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Couple From Polish Ship Seek Asylum in Cleveland

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 114 words

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, Sept. 10


A Polish sailor and his new wife jumped ship in Cleveland today and were seeking
political asylum, United States officials said.

Christopher and Deata Nowakowska, both 27 years old, of Gdynia, Poland, spent
several hours petitioning for asylum with officials of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Ladd Anthony, an aide to Senator Howard M. Metzenbaum, Democrat of Ohio, said
the Senator's office was helping the couple in their petition.

They were met at a Cleveland dock by a cousin, Andrew Pawlowski of Southbridge,
Mass. The couple left the ship, Ziemia Chelminska.

It was the third time in the last nine months that Polish citizens had sought
asylum in Cleveland.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             November 19, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Topics: Democracy at Work;
Prejudicial

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 267 words


Patricia Lara, a reporter for Colombia's largest newspaper, El Tiempo, was
denied entry to the United States last month under sections of the
McCarran-Walter Immigration Act that exclude persons likely to behave
prejudicially to American interests. During five days in Immigration Service
custody, she demanded to know the reasons for the charges but received none. Now
she has an answer of sorts from Elliott Abrams, Assistant Secretary of State. He
went on the CBS ''60 Minutes'' show to brand Ms. Lara ''a Cuban agent'' and a
member of a violent Colombian guerrilla group.

That's a serious charge made in an unusual way. But it wasn't the only unusual
thing about the handling of Ms. Lara's case. For weeks, the Administration
claimed that explaining its action would damage national security. Now it
appears that national security is advanced by public accusation. The State
Department says it took time to win intelligence agency and other approval for
this answer, thus giving Ms. Lara more than she is entitled to under the law.

Ms. Lara most vigorously denies the charges and publicly renounces political
violence. She insists she is a professional journalist and ridicules the notion
of working for any government, including her own. She says the denial was based
on her criticism of United States policy toward Latin America. We hope she has
the chance to test those assertions and Mr. Abrams's evidence - as well as the
McCarran-Walter Act - in an American court. Whether her presence would be
prejudicial to the U.S. is arguable. The damage done by this fearful law is
beyond argument.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 3, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

3 MORE ARE GIVEN PROBATION IN ALIEN SMUGGLING

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 749 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., July 2


A Federal district judge today suspended the sentences of the remaining three
defendants convicted of illegally smuggling Central American aliens into the
country.

As a result, none of the 8 church workers convicted in the case May 1 will go to
jail. The judge, Earl H. Carroll, declined to impose prison terms Tuesday on the
five others convicted. Three other defendants were found not guilty.

The eight church workers who were put on probation for three to five years by
Judge Carroll said they were pleased that he had not ordered jail terms. But
they said they felt they had not violated any laws and that they would continue
to support the movement of church groups providing aid to alients fleeing El
Salvador and Guatemala.

Leader Sees No Change

The church workers say the aliens are fleeing political persecution while the
Government contends that the aliens are coming to this country for economic
reasons and those who aid them are members of a smuggling ring breaking United
States immigration laws.

''I don't think the trial has changed anything,'' said the Rev. John Fife, a
co-founder of the movement to give sanctuary to illegal aliens, who was put on
five years probation here today.

''After the Government spent $3.5 million and two years of time on this case,''
he said, ''the only effect has been that the sanctuary movement has doubled and
redoubled in strength.''

But the prosecutor, Donald M. Reno, saying a jury had found the church workers
to be felons, said the trial would serve as a deterrent to those who might be
considering participation in the movement.

Judge Sees Humanitarianism

Judge Carroll gave his views on the case for the first time after completing the
sentencing.

He said the defendants were clearly motivated by humanitarian instincts, and he
said the case indicated there were delays and shortcoming in immigration
procedures that should be corrected.

But, speaking in the cool, unemotional tones he used through most of the case,
he disputed one of the central assertions of the church workers aiding Central
American aliens: that helping them find refuge in this country is the only
response available.

He said that Federal immigration laws, although at times slow, provide more than
enough legal outlets and options.

''I believe the kinds of activity that are available are the key to a legal
system that has been the best and fairest in the world for the past 200 years,''
he said.

He encouraged the defendants and their attorneys to work within the legal system
on behalf of Central Americans.

Suspended sentences were also given today to the Rev. Tony Clark, a Roman
Catholic priest in Nogales, Ariz., and the Rev. Ramon Dagoberto Quinones, a
Roman Catholic priest from Nogales, Mexico. Mr. Clark was put on three years
probation and Mr. Quinones was given five years probation.

Judge is Upbraided

As it was Tuesday, the sentencing hearing was an emotional, at times angry,
review of the case in which the defendants raised many of the issues of
international law and conditions in Central America that Judge Carroll ruled
were not germane at the trial. Several upbraided the judge, who listened
impassively, as they accused him of refusing to allow testimony of political
persecution, on which they wanted to base their defense.

All three defendants recounted stories of tortured, terrified people who had
fled Central America in fear of their lives.

Mr. Fife, citing the United States Refugee Act of 1980 and interntional law
dealing with refugees, said the Government was acting illegally in denying entry
to people fleeing from Central America.

Facing the judge, he told of a 15-year-old boy he said made his way to Mr.
Fife's church here after the rest of his family had been killed by Death Squads
in El Salvador. Mr. Fife said the boy made him think of his own son who was
about the same age.

'We Had No Choice'

''The haunting thought that came to me was if that was my boy what would I want
the church to do,'' he said. ''We had no choice. None of us ever had a choice.
Our only choice was whether we wanted to sell our own souls.''

The probation terms require that the defendants follow immigration laws,
including refraining from illegally bringing aliens into the country,
transportating them or harboring, concealing or shielding them.

The defendants said they expected to be able to comply with those terms but
would still support activities of church workers aiding Central Americans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 19, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Smuggling of Aliens Laid To Air Force Family

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 131 words

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO, Sept. 18


An Air Force officer, his wife and two children were charged in a Federal
indictment today with conspiring to smuggle illegal aliens from the Dominican
Republic into the United States.

The officer, Lieut. Col. Joe Garcia, 51 years old, chief of the Air Force branch
of the military science division of the Academy of Health Sciences at Fort Sam
Houston, was arrested here Wednesday with his wife, Delfina, 48; their son,
Joseph, 28, and daughter, Yvette, 19.

The United States Attorney's office said the Garcias smuggled the aliens across
the border near Eagle Pass and Laredo, starting in January 1985. ''The
Dominicans paid $4,000 to $6,000 each to be smuggled through the Garcias'
pipeline - documents reflect the Garcias received over $80,000,'' the
prosecutor's officer said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 10, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

NEW PLAN OFFERED ON ALIEN WORKERS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 479 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 9


Representative Charles E. Schumer of Brooklyn said today that he had a plan that
might resolve an intense dispute over the admission to the United States of
foreign agricultural workers, under a comprehensive immigration bill.

The House Judiciary Committee is to take up the immigration bill this week. The
treatment of foreign agricultural workers has been one of the most hotly
contested issues blocking agreement on the legislation. The bill, like a
companion measure passed by the Senate last September, would prohibit employers
from hiring illegal aliens.

Under the proposal by Mr. Schumer, a Democrat, the Attorney General would grant
lawful permanent resident status to any illegal alien who could prove that he
had been working in American agriculture for at least 20 full days from May 1,
1985, to May 1, 1986. Aliens admitted to work on farms in subsequent years could
also receive permanent resident status.

Interests of Farmers and Unions

Mr. Schumer said the proposal would guarantee farmers a ready supply of labor,
but it seeks to prevent exploitation of the foreign workers by making them
permanent residents with most of the rights of citizens. Permanent residents may
apply for American citizenship after living here continuously for five years.

The proposal was worked out by Mr. Schumer and Howard L. Berman and Leon E.
Panetta, both California Democrats.

Many farmers in the West have for years hired illegal aliens to harvest fruit
and vegetables, and Mr. Panetta has stressed that the growers' needs must not be
forgotten in any bill to curtail illegal immigration.

Illegal aliens who became permanent residents under the Schumer proposal would
not be required to continue in farm work, and could bring in their spouses and
unmarried children.

Each year the Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of Agriculture would
determine if there was a ''shortage of labor'' for farms producing fruits and
vegetables, and the Attorney General could admit enough foreign workers to
''alleviate the shortage.''

These ''replacement workers'' would be admitted as permanent residents, but they
would have to work in agriculture at least 40 days in each of their first two
years in this country -otherwise, they could be deported. To qualify for
citizenship, they would have to reside in the United States for five years, and
would have to work in agriculture for at least 40 days a year.

The bill passed by the Senate last year would establish a new program under
which the Government could allow up to 350,000 aliens at a time to harvest fruit
and vegetables in the United States as temporary workers, not permanent
residents.

Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of New Jersey, the chairman of the
Judiciary Committee, has adamantly opposed the Senate's foreign worker program,
but aides said he tended to support Mr. Schumer's plan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 14, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

HOUSE PANEL IS SETTING TERMS FOR DEBATE ON ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 31, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 653 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 13


The House Rules Committee is preparing the way for the full House of
Representatives to debate a comprehensive immigration bill that would prohibit
employers from hiring illegal aliens.

A member of the committee, Representative Anthony C. Beilenson of California,
predicted, ''Immigration reform is going to pass this year.''

Mr. Beilenson, a Democrat, said, ''Things have changed radically in the last two
years.'' He said Congress was likely to pass a bill to control illegal
immigration even if it was not supported by growers of fruit and vegetables or
by the farm workers' union. He said those groups no longer had ''the kind of
political strength they did two years ago,'' when a similar bill died in a
House-Senate conference committee.

The Rules Committee heard testimony Wednesday from more than two dozen House
members proposing amendments to the bill. The committee is expected to vote
Tuesday on a resolution setting the terms for debate on the bill, which is
expected to come to the floor of the House later this month.

Some supporters of the bill said they feared changes would upset its delicate
balance, and they urged the committee to issue a rule barring amendments to key
provisions of the legislation.

Major Elements in Bill

The bill, as approved by the House Judiciary Committee on June 25, has three
major elements: penalties against employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens,
legal status for many aliens already illegally in the United States and
permanent resident status for foreigners who can prove that they were
agricultural workers in this country for at least 60 days in the period from May
1, 1985, to May 1, 1986.

The Senate passed a similar bill by a vote of 69 to 30 in September 1985. The
House approved another version of the legislation by a 5-vote margin in 1984,
but the 98th Congress adjourned before negotiators from the two houses could
agree on a bill.

Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, the House minority whip, said the ''most
controversial issue'' in the bill was the treatment of illegal alien farm
workers who could become permanent residents and eventually citizens of the
United States.

This provision of the bill was drafted by Representative Charles E. Schumer,
Democrat of Brooklyn, working with two California Democrats, Howard L. Berman
and Leon E. Panetta.

Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr. of New Jersey, chairman of the Judiciary
panel, told the Rules Committee Wednesday that the Schumer proposal was ''a
compromise very, very delicately arrived at.'' At first, he said, ''I considered
that compromise to be somewhat unpalatable,'' but he later concluded that ''it
is the only political reality that will bring together all the forces'' fighting
over the bill.

Issue of Schumer Amendment

''We could not pass an immigration bill on the floor of the House without such a
compromise,'' he said. Mr. Rodino, a Democrat, said he supported the bill,
including Mr. Schumer's amendment, which was adopted by the Judiciary Committee.
But he said he would not object if the Rules Committee allowed the full House to
vote on a motion to delete the Schumer proposal.

In an interview, Mr. Schumer said that 250,000 foreign workers could qualify for
permanent residence under his proposal. The bill approved by the Senate would
allow up to 350,000 temporary foreign workers into the country at any one time,
but they would not be eligible for permanent residence or social welfare
benefits.

Mr. Schumer urged the Rules Committee to protect his amendment by preventing any
House member from offering a motion to kill it.

Representative Dan Lungren, Republican of California, said the Judiciary
Committee had made a ''drastic mistake'' by approving Mr. Schumer's proposal,
which he called ''an abomination.'' He said he feared that this provision was so
generous to illegal aliens that it could ''kill the bill'' on the floor of the
House.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 7, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

PRESIDENT SIGNS LANDMARK BILL ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1138 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 6


President Reagan today signed a landmark immigration bill that prohibits
employers from hiring illegal aliens and offers legal status to many illegal
aliens already in the United States.

In a brief ceremony in the Roosevelt Room of the White House, surrounded by
Administration officials and members of Congress who were instrumental in
passing the legislation, Mr. Reagan hailed the bill as ''the most comprehensive
reform of our immigration laws since 1952.''

''Future generations of Americans will be thankful for our efforts to humanely
regain control of our borders and thereby preserve the value of one of the most
sacred possessions of our people, American citizenship,'' the President added.

Reagan Has Some Reservations

Mr. Reagan issued an unusually detailed four-page statement listing his
reservations about parts of the bill and his interpretation of key provisions,
including one that outlaws job discrimination against legal aliens. He said he
understood this provision to require proof that the employer had a
''discriminatory intent.''

The author of this section, Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts
Democrat, said in an interview that Mr. Reagan's interpretation was
''intellectually dishonest, mean-spirited'' and incorrect. ''A pattern or
practice of discriminatory activity would violate the law even if you cannot
prove an intent to discriminate,'' Mr. Frank said. Under the new law, employers
who hire illegal aliens will be subject to civil penalties of $250 to $10,000
for each such alien. Mr. Reagan described this provision as ''the keystone'' of
the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. ''It will remove the incentive
for illegal immigration by eliminating the job opportunities which draw illegal
aliens here,'' he said.

The new law offers legal status, or amnesty, to aliens who can show that they
entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1982, and have resided here
continuously ''in an unlawful status'' since then. Aliens, such as foreign
students or tourists, would generally be ineligible for the amnesty if they were
in the United States legally for any portion of the time after Jan. 1, 1982.

Duane Austin, spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said the
agency would start accepting applications from illegal aliens next May. It will
set up 90 to 100 offices around the country to handle such applications, he
said.

'Headed Into Uncharted Waters'

Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat who emerged as one of the
bill's staunchest supporters in Congress, said: ''The bill is a gamble, a
riverboat gamble. There is no guarantee that employer sanctions will work or
that amnesty will work. We are headed into uncharted waters.''

However, Mr. Schumer and others said the current situation was unacceptable. The
Government caught 1.8 million illegal aliens in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30,
an increase of about 30 percent from the previous year. For every alien who is
caught, officials say, several enter undetected.

There is no way to know how many illegal aliens are in the United States, how
many are eligible for legal status or how many will apply. The Census Bureau
estimates that there are three million to five million illegal aliens now in the
country, but members of Congress often use higher estimates.

Bill Seen as 'Humane Approach'

Senator Alan K. Simpson, a Wyoming Republican who was the chief sponsor of the
bill in the Senate, expressed confidence that most employers would comply
voluntarily. ''I don't know what the impact will be,'' he said, ''but this is
the humane approach to immigration reform.''

He and other lawmakers said they would closely monitor how the law was carried
out by the immigration service and other Federal agencies. A coalition of
national groups said they, too, would monitor enforcement. The coalition
includes the American Immigration Lawyers Association, the National Council of
La Raza, the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, the American
Civil Liberties Union and the United States Catholic Conference.

With the President's signing of the bill shortly after 10 A.M. today, it became
unlawful for employers to hire illegal aliens. But the law says no penalties may
be imposed for six months. In this time, the Justice Department will
''disseminate forms and information to employers,'' as the law says.

Legislators in Mexico have said the new law will not stop illegal immigration
and could endanger relations between their country and the United States. But
Mr. Reagan said today that illegal immigration should not be seen as ''a problem
between the United States and its neighbors,'' adding, ''Our objective is only
to establish a reasonable, fair, orderly and secure system of immigration into
this country and not to discriminate in any way against particular nations or
people.''

The major components of the bill, employer sanctions and amnesty, were proposed
by President Carter in 1977 and again by Mr. Reagan in 1981. Similar bills were
passed by the Senate in 1982 and 1983, but died amid political wrangling and
well-organized lobbying by Hispanic groups, farm organizations and business
groups.

Compromise on Farm Workers

Mr. Schumer broke a deadlock over the bill this year when he negotiated a
compromise to assure farmers a steady supply of foreign workers while protecting
the workers' rights. The final version of the bill was approved last month in
the House of Representatives by a vote of 238 to 173, and in the Senate by a
vote of 63 to 24.

When the application period begins next May, illegal aliens will have one year
in which to seek legal status. They would first become lawful temporary
residents. After 18 months in that status, they could become permanent residents
if they demonstrated a ''minimal understanding'' of the English language and
some knowledge of the history and government of the United States.

After five years as permanent residents, aliens may apply for United States
citizenship.

The new law also includes these provisions:

* An employer who shows a ''pattern or practice'' of hiring illegal aliens would
be subject to criminal penalties, up to a $3,000 fine and six months'
imprisonment.

* For five years after gaining legal status, aliens would be ineligible for
welfare, food stamps and most other Federal benefits. There would be some
exceptions for the aged, blind and disabled and for pregnant women.

* The Federal Government will set aside $1 billion a year to reimburse state
governments for the costs of providing public assistance, health care and
education to illegal aliens who gain legal status.

Congress envisions a 50 percent increase in Border Patrol personnel, who now
number 3,687. But there is no guarantee that Congress will provide money for the
increase.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of President Reagan after signing immigration bill (NYT/Paul
Hosefros)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 2, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

RODINO DELAYS IMMIGRATION BILL TO SEEK COMPROMISE ON FARM ISSUE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 461 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 1


Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., chairman of the House Judiciary Committee,
today postponed action on a bill to curtail illegal immigration. The move
appeared to reduce chances for adoption of the measure in this session of
Congress.

The committee had been scheduled to take up the legislation next week. Mr.
Rodino, a New Jersey Democrat, said he was deferring it until the second week of
June at the request of 16 of the 21 Democrats on the committee.

He said the delay would permit key lawmakers to continue efforts to find a
compromise on the issue of temporary foreign workers.

Representative Dan Lungren, a California Republican who is a strong supporter of
the comprehensive legislation, said in an interview: ''This delay just about
kills the bill. I am disappointed and stunned.''

Scheduling Problems Seen

He said that in view of the House schedule for the rest of this year, an
election year, it would be difficult to find time for consideration of the bill
by the entire House even if it was approved by the Judiciary Committee.

The committee's Subcommittee on Immigration, Refugees and International Law
approved the bill last November but delayed a decision on how to treat
agricultural interests, which have historically relied on illegal aliens to
harvest certain crops.

The Senate passed comprehensive immigration bills in 1982, 1983 and 1985. The
House passed a bill in 1984 by a 5-vote margin, but the measure died when the
two houses of Congress could not work out their differences.

The bill passed by the Senate last September includes a provision under which
farmers could bring up to 350,000 aliens into the United States to harvest fruit
and vegetables. Farmers said this provision was necessary to keep crops from
rotting in the fields, but labor unions said it would permit exploitation of
foreign workers.

Compromise on Foreign Workers

Among those requesting the postponement were two Democrats, Charles E. Schumer
of Brooklyn and Howard L. Berman of California, who have been trying to
negotiate a compromise on foreign workers.

In a letter to Mr. Rodino this week, the 16 Democrats said that the 1984 bill
failed because of ''passionate differences'' on the agriculture issue and that
they had to work out a ''consensus'' on the issue before proceeding.

Both the Senate and the House bills would prohibit employers from hiring illegal
aliens. They would also provide additional money for enforcement of the
immigration laws and offer legal status to many illegal aliens already in the
United States.

The compromise under study by Mr. Schumer and Mr. Berman would establish a
special procedure for granting legal status to illegal aliens who have worked
recently on farms and ranches in the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 29, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

'GREEN CARD,' A 2-YEAR WAIT

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 1; Home Desk

LENGTH: 808 words


FOR working parents - or people responsible for their own ailing and elderly
parents - finding the right domestic help may be a matter of survival.

And in the New York area, that often means hiring an illegal alien.

''When my daughter was 4 months old, and I was getting ready to go back to work,
we advertised for a live-in housekeeper, and we didn't get a single response
from an American citizen,'' said a Manhattan businesswoman who preferred to
remain anonymous. ''We hired a wonderful woman from the islands, who came here
as a tourist and stayed illegally when her visa expired. We are completely
dependent on her now, and I live in fear that something will happen and she will
be deported.''

As thousands do every year, the housekeeper has applied to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service for a ''green card,'' the immigrant visa that allows the
holder to live and work in this country indefinitely.

Even with an employer's backing, the process of getting a green card usually
takes at least two years, and costs about $2,000 in legal fees. Still, many
illegal aliens think the process is worth it. Employers may find it increasingly
important, too, if Congress passes legislation proposed by Representative Peter
W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of New Jersey, that would make it illegal to hire
illegal aliens, a measure expected to stem the rising tide of illegal
immigrants.

To apply for a green card, applicants must show they are qualified for the job
by producing evidence that they have had at least a year's experience performing
the specific duties needed by the employer. That requirement can be met either
by a letter from a former employer, either locally or in the worker's native
country, or by showing that the applicant has already been doing the job for a
year. In such a case, immigration lawyers say, the applicant's history of
working illegally poses no obstacle.

However, if an ongoing job is used to meet the experience requirement, the
employer must demonstrate that a skilled worker is necessary.

''You have to show that circumstances have changed since you hired and trained
that worker,'' said Carole Mosco, an immigration lawyer in the law firm of Allan
H. Wernick. The mother may have returned to work and cannot take time off to
train a new housekeeper, making the worker needed, she said.

Immigration lawyers said that because letters from a worker's native country are
often forged, an ongoing job may be a better choice.

Of the two legal steps involved in getting a green card, the first is having the
United States Department of Labor certify that there are not enough Americans
available and qualified for the work. Secondly, the employer must petition the
Immigration and Naturalization Service for green card approval.

''For baby-sitting or housekeeping, it's only live-in jobs where you can show
that there aren't enough Americans who want the job,'' said Allen E. Kaye,
another New York immigration lawyer.

Other Federal requirements are that the worker must have her own room and be
paid the prevailing wage, about $200 a week, in addition to free room and board.
The employer must demonstrate that having the domestic worker live in is not
merely convenient but what the regulations term a ''business necessity.''

The live-in worker can either be necessary for running the household, as may be
the case with an invalid employer, or for allowing the employers to meet their
own business needs, as may be the case with an employer who has children and
travels.

Though baby-sitters and housekeepers need live-in jobs to get certification, Mr.
Kaye said, workers looking after an elderly person may get a green card without
living in.

According to Michael Dougherty, a manpower development specialist at the Labor
Department, about 50 percent of the domestic workers applying for green cards
were in the category the department calls ''household workers,'' doing both
housework and baby-sitting. He said that about 25 percent of the applicants were
home attendants who look after the elderly, 20 percent were ''child monitors''
who only took care of children. In fiscal 1985, Mr. Dougherty said, the New York
regional office, which covers New York and New Jersey, approved 3,843
applications from household workers in those four categories and denied 162.

After Labor Department certification, the next hurdle is for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to investigate the application. Employers may be required
to send in tax returns to prove they can pay the prevailing wage. Then comes a
long wait.  Eventually, a United States consul in the worker's home country
tells her to come in for an interview -which means that a worker who has already
been in he United States must return home. And if all goes well, she can pick up
her green card and enter the United States - legally.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 9, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

NEW COMPROMISE REACHED ON MOVE TO REVIVE IMMIGRATION MEASURE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 651 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8


Members of Congress today reported progress in efforts to revive a comprehensive
immigration bill, which many lawmakers considered dead last month.

Senators and representatives said they had worked out a compromise on foreign
agricultural workers that would permit the bill to come to the floor of the
House before Congress adjourned. The exact date of adjournment is not known, but
Congress is expected to be in session for at least several days next week.

Late today the House Rules Committee approved the compromise bill, and House
members said it had a good chance of passage in the waning days of Congress.
''The factions that were very much opposed to each other have been reconciled,''
said the committee chairman, Representative Claude Pepper, Democrat of Florida.

The Senate passed its version of the immigration legislation in September 1985
by a vote of 69 to 30. The House refused to take it up two weeks ago because of
bitter disagreement on whether to let farmers continue using illegal aliens as
fieldworkers.

The basic bill prohibits employers from hiring illegal aliens. Under the new
plan, farmers could still use foreign laborers for up to seven years.

Modification of Earlier Plan

Illegal aliens who could prove they had worked in American agriculture for at
least 90 days in each of the last three years could become lawful temporary
residents of the United States. After one year in that status, they could become
permanent residents, eligible for American citizenship after another five years.

No more than 350,000 aliens could become lawful residents in this manner. After
gaining legal status, they would not have to work in agriculture. But farmers
could bring in more aliens if the Secretaries of Labor and Agriculture concluded
that there would otherwise be a shortage of farm workers.

The new proposal is a modification of one devised by Representative Charles E.
Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, to satisfy the competing interests of farmers and
farm workers. Many farmers in California and other Western states have depended
on illegal aliens to harvest fruit and vegetables, and they say their crops
would rot in the fields if they did not have a ready supply of labor.

Supporters of the bill said it could come to the House floor this week and
differences between the two chambers could be resolved in a quick conference
next week.

Representative Dan Lungren, a California Republican who strongly objected to Mr.
Schumer's original proposal, said he found the new version more acceptable.

''I won't be perfectly satisfied, but it is something I can accept,'' Mr.
Lundren said. ''I am more optimistic about the bill now than I have been in
eight years.''

Under the Senate bill, farmers could bring up to 350,000 aliens into the United
States as temporary workers to harvest fruit and vegetables. But the aliens
could not remain in this country for more than nine months in any year.

These provisions were drafted by Senator Pete Wilson, Republican of California.
William D. Livingstone, a spokesman for Mr. Wilson, said the Senator ''would not
support'' the latest version of Mr. Schumer's proposal on foreign agricultural
workers. ''It could not pass in the Senate,'' Mr. Livingstone said. ''But if the
House passed it, the differences could perhaps be worked out in conference so
that ultimately the bill would pass.''

Mr. Schumer said the bill had a 50 percent chance of becoming law this year.
Whiile acknowledging that there were ''many unforeseen pitfalls,'' he added that
''we are back on track.''

The Senate passed a comprehensive immigration bill in 1982, but it died later
that year on the floor of the House. The Senate again passed a comprehensive
bill in 1983 and the House passed a similar bill by a five-vote margin, but the
two chambers could not reconcile their differences, so the legislation died when
Congress adjourned in 1984.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 15, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

CONFEREES AGREE ON VAST REVISIONS IN LAWS ON ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1535 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 14


House and Senate negotiators agreed today on the terms of a landmark immigration
bill that would prohibit the hiring of illegal aliens and offer legal status to
several million illegal aliens already in the United States.

The agreement, reached after five hours of intense negotiations at a closed
meeting, reconciles all differences between bills passed by the Senate last year
and by the House of Representatives last week.

The compromise bill now goes back to the House and then the Senate for final
clearance. If approved, as expected, it would then be submitted to President
Reagan, who has repeatedly expressed support for such legislation.

Biggest Changes in 20 Years

The bill would make the biggest changes in immigration law in at least 20 years
and would affect virtually every employer in the United States.

Under the bill, employers would be subject to civil penalties ranging from $250
to $10,000 for each illegal alien they hired. The bigger penalities would be
imposed for a third or subsequent offense. The number of illegal aliens who
might qualify for legal status under the bill is unknown; estimates range from
one million to five million.

The Government would offer legal status to illegal aliens who entered the United
States before Jan. 1, 1982, and had resided here continuously since then. Aliens
would not be disqualified because of ''brief, casual and innocent absences from
the United States'' in that period.

As Congress worked toward adjournment, a separate group of House and Senate
negotiators agreed on a military budget of about $290 billion for the current
fiscal year. [Page A20.] 'This Is Miraculous'

Approval of the immigration bill was made possible by a delicately balanced
compromise on foreign agriculture workers.

''This is miraculous,'' Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr. said, referring to
the agreement on a measure that includes many provisions he first proposed in
1972. ''I feel great, but I will feel greater when the bill is on the
President's desk and has been signed into law.''

Mr. Rodino, a New Jersey Democrat who was the chief sponsor of the House bill,
said, ''This bill will regularize our immigration policy and shows the big heart
of America.''

Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, chief sponsor of the Senate
bill, said that ''one or two people could stall the bill even at this point'' by
filibustering against the conference report. ''I hope you'll assist me in
crushing knuckles'' to line up support for the bill, Mr. Simpson told the other
conferees.

If the immigration bill passes, it will be one of three pieces of landmark
legislation from the 99th Congress, which is now coming to an end. The other
measures require a balanced Federal budget by 1991 and overhaul the Federal
income tax code.

The last obstacles to the immigration bill were removed when conferees reached
agreement on two contentious issues. They agreed to drop a provision of the
House bill barring deportation of Salvadorans and Nicaraguans, but urged the
Reagan Administration to defer deportation of the Salvadorans in view of the
earthquake in San Salvador last Friday.

The conferees also agreed to permit lawyers who work for agencies financed by
the Legal Services Corporation to represent aliens admitted as temporary workers
to harvest fruit and vegetables on American farms. But the legal assistance
would be limited to cases involving the aliens' wages, housing, transportation
and other matters specifically covered by their employment contracts.

Senate Passed Bill in 1965

The Senate passed its version of the immigration bill by a vote of 69 to 30 in
September 1985. The House version was adopted by 230 to 166 last Thursday.
Similar bills died on the House floor in 1982 and in a House-Senate conference
committee after long negotiations in 1984.

Joseph C. Krovisky, a Justice Department spokesman, said the Administration had
no comment on the action by the conference committee today. Mr. Simpson, the
assistant majority leader in the Senate, said he expected the Administration to
declare its support for the bill, and immigration officials said they would urge
the White House to do so.

Under the compromise bill, aliens in this country illegally could apply for
legal status in the 18-month period starting six months after the bill becomes
law. After one year as lawful temporary residents, the aliens could apply for
status as permanent residents, and after another five years they could apply for
citizenship. If they did not apply within the 18-month period, they would remain
aliens subject to deportation.

To become permanent residents, they would have to demonstrate a ''minimal
understanding of ordinary English'' and a basic knowledge of the history and
government of the United States.

In the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service arrested 1.8 million aliens as being in this country illegally, an
increase of 31 percent from the prior year. The Census Bureau has estimated that
there are 3.5 million to 6 million aliens illegally in the United States. Some
members of Congress say the number is higher.

Compromise on Farm Workers

The conferees adopted a provision of the House bill drafted by Representative
Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, to insure that farmers and ranchers
would have enough foreign workers to harvest their crops.

This provision, which embodied the compromise crucial to agreement on the bill,
creates a special amnesty program for foreign agricultural workers. Illegal
aliens who worked in United States agriculture for at least 90 days from May 1,
1985, to May 1, 1986, could become lawful temporary residents of the United
States. After two years in that status, they could become permanent residents,
eligible for American citizenshp after another five years.

If the supply of seasonal farm workers was inadequate, the Government could
admit additional aliens in the fiscal years 1990 through 1993. They would have
to work in agriculture and, after three years as temporary residents, could
become permanent residents.

Under the bill, employers would have to ask all job applicants for documents,
such as a passport or a birth certificate and driver's license, to confirm that
they were either citizens or aliens authorized to work in the United States. The
President could later impose additional requirements if necessary to establish
''a secure system to determine employment eligibility.'' But the bill does not
authorize the issuance or use of national identification cards.

Penalties After Six Months

If the bill becomes law, the Government would publicize its provisions and would
not impose any penalties on employers for six months.

In general, an employer who hires illegal aliens would be subject to a civil
penalty of $250 to $2,000 for each such alien. If there was a second offense,
the employer would be subject to a civil penalty of $2,000 to $5,000 for each
illegal alien. In a subsequent offense, the employer would be subject to a civil
penalty of $3,000 to $10,000 for each illegal alien.

There would be criminal penalties for an employer convicted of engaging in a
''pattern or practice'' of such violations. The maximum penalty would be a fine
of $3,000 and a prison term of six months.

The bill would make it unlawful for employers to discriminate against legal
aliens merely because they were aliens. It would set up a new office in the
Justice Department to investigate complaints of such discrimination. However, an
employer could hire a citizen in preference to an alien if the two were
''equally qualified.''

The conferees dropped a provision of the House bill under which the penalties
against employers of illegal aliens would automatically have expired after six
and a half years.

However, the General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress, would
study the operation of employer sanctions and the new civil rights guarantees
for legal aliens. The office would report to Congress every year for three
years. If the sanctions led to a ''widespread pattern of discrimination,'' or if
the Justice Department agency created undue problems for employers, Congress
could re-examine the issue and revise or repeal this portion of the law.

The legislation would provide $1 billion a year in Federal funds to reimburse
state governments for the costs of supplying public assistance and medical
benefits to illegal aliens who gain legal status. The Federal aid would be paid
for four years. The Federal share of Medicaid benefits and the cost of
Supplemental Security Income, a Federal welfare program, would be deducted from
the amount available to the states.

The legislation would also provide additional money for enforcement of the new
immigration laws. Supporters of the bill said they did not know how much the
measure would cost.

The latest bill was pronounced dead by Mr. Rodino and other lawmakers after the
House refused to take it up on Sept. 26. The bill was revived by the efforts of
conservatives who felt it was essential to halt the influx of illegal aliens and
liberals who feared that any bill adopted in the future would be far more
restrictive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Rep. Charles Schumer, Rep Hamilotn Fish Jr., Alan Nelson and
Grege Leo (NYT/Paul Hosefros) (page B11)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 16, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

REACTION TO IMMIGRATION BILL IS SHARPLY SPLIT

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 789 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Oct. 15


As Congress prepared today to vote on a landmark immigration bill in Washington,
Judge Pat O'Rourke, the county executive of El Paso more than 2,000 miles away
on the Mexican border, was unimpressed and cynical.

''After the initial shock it will be business as usual on the border,'' he said,
adding that he believed the amnesty provision in the bill would only encourage
more immigration by illegal alients hoping for another amnesty and that
unscrupulous employers would find a way around employer sanctions to hire cheap
Mexican labor.

But the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Los Angeles eagerly greeted the bill and
was preparing to open eight special centers to assist aliens eligible for the
amnesty to gain legal status. About half the nation's illegal aliens may reside
in California. Fruit growers in the West welcomed the bill's special provision
for farm workers.

However, leaders of Mexican-Americans from Texas to California, likely to be the
ethnic group most affected by the bill, were deeply divided. Some welcomed the
legislation as offering their people protection against losing jobs in
construction and other fields to low-paid foreign workers, but others felt the
provisions penalizing employers who hire illegal aliens would cause widespread
discrimination against American citizens who seem foreign.

An Imperfect Answer

Thus, the reaction to the bill is as complex and contradictory as the bill
itself. There was wide agreement that the legislation was an imperfect answer to
an impossible problem, but not on much else. Some said the legislation would
have a devastating effect on hotel, restaurant, manufacturing and other
industries in which large numbers of illegal aliens are employed. But others
said it would be difficult to enforce, given the easy availability of bogus
identification documents.

Nonetheless, the bill ''sends a signal to employers that the day of employing
illegal aliens is over and hopefully, a signal to potential illegal immigrants
all over the world to come here legally or there will be no job,'' said Roger
Conner, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform in
Washington.

Throughout the Southwest, and to a lesser extent in such Northern cities as New
York and Chicago, illegal aliens have become an integral part of the economic
fabric. They bus tables and wash dishes in restaurants, work in foundaries,
empty bedpans in hospitals, mow lawns, clean houses and make shoes in Los
Angeles.

Linda J. Wong, an attorney for the Mexican-American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund in Los Angeles, said the group expected discrimination against
Mexican-Americans as a result of the bill. Already, she said, the organization
has had several complaints from employees with Hispanic surnames who say they
have been compelled by their employers to prove they are legal residents of the
United States residents or face dismissal.

It was difficult to gauge the impact on employers, but many fear they will not
be able to find enough help.

''Unfortunately, most Americans look upon a kitchen or housekeeping job as below
them, so we're forced to take people who are new to our country,'' said Steve
Zimmerman, owner of La Columbe D'Or, a restaurant and hotel in Houston. ''I have
to run a business and if I'm penalized if I give someone a job who doesn't have
the right papers, I'm going to be afraid to hire anyone who isn't American.''

But the Texas Association of Businesses, while agreeing that some businesses
might be hurt by the sanctions, nonetheless supported the bill in light of the
depressed Texas economy. ''At this point an American worker might take stoop
labor, whereas when times were better people were refusing to accept
lower-paying work.''

'Hire Anglos to Avoid Problems'

Many Mexican-Americans believe, however, that this same factor will lead to
discrimination against them. ''In this tight economy in Texas, employers will
now take the path of least resistance and hire Anglos to avoid any problems,''
said Al Luna of Houston, chairman of the Mexican-American caucus in the Texas
House of Representatives.

Representative Matthew G. Martinez, a California Democrat whose district in
suburban Los Angeles County is considered a Mexican-American district, opposed
the bill in part because of the inequities in the amnesty provisions. ''How
about all the people who waited in line all these years to come in legally?'' he
asked.

But Representative Albert G. Bustamente, a Texas Democrat whose district
includes San Antonio, backed the bill. ''If we are to protect our borders, we
must begin now,'' he said, adding that his mostly Mexican-American constituents
complained bitterly that Mexicans were taking their jobs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Representatives celebrating passage of immigration bill
(NYT/Paul Hosefros)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 21, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

WASHINGTON TALK;
The Immigration Bill: Step by Step

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 884 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 20


In passing a comprehensive bill to curtail illegal immigration, the 99th
Congress overcame obstacles that had blocked its predecessors for more than a
decade. Now, in a final step down this long legislative road, President Reagan
has indicated he intends to sign the landmark measure.

Congress has only a few experts on immigration, but they have been persistent
and, from the start, have shared certain key objectives: To prohibit employers
from hiring illegal aliens and to legitimize the status of illegal aliens who
had established roots in this country.

Whenever the legislation seemed dead in the long struggle, several members of
Congress would inevitably step forward and try to revive it. In the process,
they usually would re-vise the bill slightly to attract broader bipartisan
support.

Here is a list of events that led to Congressional approval of the bill:

Sept. 12, 1972: The House of Representatives, by voice vote, passes a bill to
impose penalties on employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens. The bill is
offered by Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of New Jersey, as a way
to prevent exploitation of illegal aliens by employers. The Senate takes no
action.

May 3, 1973: The House, by a vote of 297 to 63, again approves a bill forbidding
employment of illegal aliens. Again, the Senate takes no action. Aug. 4, 1977:
President Carter asks Congress to prohibit the hiring of illegal aliens and to
give legal status to illegal aliens living here since 1970.

October 1978: Congress establishes the Select Commission on Immigration and
Refugee Policy, which includes eight members of Congress and four members of
President Carter's Cabinet.

April 1980: Cuba allows the first of 125,000 ''boat people'' to sail for
Florida, heightening concern in the United States about illegal immigration.

Feb. 26, 1981: The Select Commission, headed by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh,
recommends a one-time amnesty for most illegal aliens, penalties for employers
who hire illegal aliens and a ''modest increase'' in legal immigration.

July 30, 1981: The Reagan Administration announces its immigration proposals,
which resemble the Hesburgh commission's.

March 17, 1982: Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, and
Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, introduce a
comprehensive immigration bill incorporating many proposals of the Hesburgh
commission, including one-time amnesty for illegal aliens.

Aug. 17, 1982: The Senate approves the bill, 80 to 19.

Dec. 18, 1982: The immigration bill dies on the floor of the House as time runs
out with nearly 300 amendments pending. Hispanic groups, blacks, labor unions,
business organizations and farm groups all objected to parts of the bill.

May 5, 1983: Starting over in a new Congress, the House Judiciary Committee
approves the immigration bill, 20 to 9.

May 18, 1983: The Senate, by a vote of 76 to 18, approves the Simpson-Mazzoli
bill again.

Oct. 4, 1983: Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., Speaker of the House, blocks action on the
immigration bill for the rest of 1983, saying he can find ''no constituency''
for the bill. His action is, in part, a response to Hispanic lawmakers who fear
that employer sanctions would encourage job discrimination against Hispanic
Americans.

Oct. 19, 1983: President Reagan, at a news conference, reaffirms support for
immigration legislation.

Nov. 22, 1983: Speaker O'Neill says that he will bring the bill to the floor
soon after Congress reconvenes in January and that he has received assurances
Mr. Reagan will not veto it.

Jan. 13, 1984: David A. Stockman, director of the Office of Management and
Budget, expresses concern about the cost of the Simpson-Mazzoli bill.

May 2, 1984: At the request of the Presidential contender Walter F. Mondale,
Speaker O'Neill postpones action on the Simpson-Mazzoli bill until after the
California Democratic primary June 5.

June 20, 1984: The House passes comprehensive immigration bill, 216 to 211,
after seven days of debate.

Oct. 9, 1984: A House-Senate conference committee breaks down in disagreement
after 10 days of negotiations on a compromise immigration bill. The key
unresolved issue is Federal reimbursement for cost of providing social services
to illegal aliens who gain legal status.

Sept. 19, 1985: The Senate, 69 to 30, passes a comprehensive immigration bill
for the third time. It includes an amendment admitting up to 350,000 aliens as
temporary farm workers. Labor unions and many liberal legislators had said this
provision was unacceptable.

Sept. 26, 1986: After the House votes, 202 to 180, not to take it up,
Rep-resentative Rodino says the immigration bill is dead.

Oct. 9, 1986: The House approves the bill, 230 to 166. A special program
designed by Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, offers
legal status to illegal aliens working in agriculture. The program appears to
meet farmers' needs while protecting workers' rights.

Oct. 14, 1986: A Congressional conference committee agrees on a compromise
immigration bill reconciling differences between the House and the Senate.

Oct. 15, 1986: The House approves the compromise immigration bill, 238 to 173.

Oct. 17, 1986: The Senate approves the immigration bill, 63 to 24, clearing it
for action by President Reagan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawings

TYPE: Chronology

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 26, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

WHAT ALIEN LAW WILL MEAN: SOME QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1952 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 25


The passage of the landmark immigration bill has created confusion and
apprehension among illegal aliens and among employers, who for the first time
will have to check the citizenship status of all new workers.

Employers will be forbidden to hire illegal aliens, and some illegal aliens can
obtain legal status, or amnesty. But the Justice Department and other agencies
must issue regulations to clarify many of the details after President Reagan
signs the bill.

Mr. Reagan has indicated that he will sign the measure. He will probably not
receive the final bill, printed on imitation parchment, until late next week, so
he is not expected to sign it until after the election Nov. 4.

Here are some of the key questions and answers, gleaned from the bill itself,
Congressional reports and interviews with Federal officials:

Q. What are the penalties for hiring illegal aliens?

A. An employer is subject to a civil penalty of $250 to $2,000 for each illegal
alien hired. On a second offense, it is $2,000 to $5,000. For later offenses,
the employer may be required to pay $3,000 to $10,000 for each illegal alien.

Q. Do these penalties apply to people who hire illegal aliens before the bill is
signed into law?

A. No. The penalties apply only to newly hired workers. They would not apply to
the continuing employment of illegal aliens who were hired before the bill
becomes law. In practice, no penalties will be imposed for at least six months
after the bill is signed into law.

Q. If a person hires an illegal alien as a maid, a yard worker, a baby sitter or
a carpenter, even on a one-time basis, would the person be subject to a $2,000
fine?

A. The legislation contains no exemption for small employers. But the House
Judiciary Committee said it did not intend the penalties to apply to ''casual
hires.'' Thus, a person would probably not be required to verify the citizenship
status of a baby sitter or a carpenter hired once for a particular task. A
person could probably be penalized for regularly employing an illegal alien as a
maid, especially if the maid lived in the home.

House and Senate negotiators who drafted the final bill said the Immigration and
Naturalization Service should ''target its enforcement resources on repeat
offenders'' and consider ''the size of the employer.'' Immigration officials
said they would not harass families hiring household workers.

Q. If an employer hires a legal alien who later becomes illegal, because he
remains in the United States beyond the authorized time, for example, is the
employer subject to penalties?

A. Yes, if he knows the alien has become illegal. But the penalties would not
apply if the alien was hired before the bill was signed into law.

Q. When does the legislation take effect?

A. The prohibition on hiring illegal aliens would take effect as soon as the
bill is signed by the President. However, there would be a six-month education
period in which the Government would disseminate forms and information to
employers, labor unions and the public. No penalties could be imposed on
employers in this period. In the next 12 months, an employer would receive only
a citation, or warning, for a first offense. He could be penalized for a
subsequent offense in this 12-month period.

Q. What is the employer's responsibility?

A. He must ask all job applicants for documents to verify that they are either
United States citizens or aliens authorized to work in this country.

Q. Does the employer have to check the authenticity of the documents?

A. No. He fulfills his responsibility if he examines the documents and each
document ''reasonably appears on its face to be genuine.''

Q. What documents must an employer examine before hiring a person?

A. Any one of these documents is sufficient: a United States passport, a
certificate of citizenship or naturalization, an unexpired foreign passport
carrying an appropriate work permit from the immigration service or a resident
alien card that shows a photograph of the alien and certain ''personal
identifying information.''

Alternatively, the job applicant must show one document indicating identity,
such as a driver's license, and one document indicating work authorization, such
as a Social Security card or a United States birth certificate. The Justice
Department will issue regulations specifying other documents that may be used.

Q. Do citizens have to show these documents? A. Yes.  Q. Is there any penalty
for an employer who fails to ask job applicants for identification documents?

A. Yes. The employer is subject to a civil penalty of $100 to $1,000 each time
he fails to verify the status of a job applicant.

Q. Is the employer subject to such penalties even if the person he hires is a
United States citizen? A. Yes.  Q. How will the Government know if an employer
has complied with these requirements?

A. Employers must sign a Government form certifying that they have examined the
required documents. In addition, each person hired must certify, on the same
form, that he is a citizen or an alien authorized to work in the United States.
The employer must retain these forms for at least three years and may not
dispose of them, in any event, until one year after the individual's employment
ends. The forms must be made available, on request, for inspection by officers
of the Labor Department and the immigration service.

Q. Does an employer have to keep the paperwork for people not hired?

A. The bill does not require the employer to keep such paperwork. Some employers
may do so voluntarily, to show that they were not discriminating against
Hispanic people or other groups.

Q. What if an alien uses fraudulent documents to get a job in the United States?

A. He could be fined $2,000 and imprisoned for up to two years. The fines could
be much higher under guidelines to be issued next year by the United States
Sentencing Commission, a new independent agency in the judicial branch of the
Government.

Q. Could the Government require new documents, such as national identification
cards?

A. The immigration bill states that it does not authorize ''the issuance or use
of national identification cards.'' The President could impose additional
requirements ''to establish a secure system'' of determining if people were
eligible to work in the United States, according to the bill. Any such system
''must protect the privacy and security of personal information,'' the bill
says.

Q. Can an employer appeal if he is fined?

A. Yes. The employer could seek a formal hearing before an administrative law
judge. His decision could be modified or overruled by the Attorney General. The
employer could then ask for review by a United States Court of Appeals.

Q. What if an employer simply refuses to hire people who, in his eyes, appear to
be foreigners?

A. It is already illegal for an employer to discriminate on the basis of
national origin. The immigration bill would make it illegal for employers to
discriminate against legal aliens because of their citizenship status. A new
office would be established in the Justice Department to investigate complaints
of such discrimination. If there was a finding of discrimination, the Government
could impose a civil penalty of $1,000 and could order the employer to hire a
specific person with back pay.

Q. Are all illegal aliens eligible for legal status under the bill?

A. No, only those who entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1982, and have
resided here continuously since then.

Q. What does ''continuous residence'' mean?

A. The bill does not define this term. The Attorney General will define it in
regulations.

However, the bill does say that an alien must be physically present in the
United States from the time the bill is signed until he files an application for
legal status, except for ''brief, casual and innocent absences,'' such as trips
home to see a sick relative.

Q. How can an illegal alien show that he was here for five years?

A. He would have to submit documents, such as pay stubs, income tax withholding
forms, rent receipts, utility bills or bank statements. The Government prefers
what the bill calls ''employment-related documents'' if they are available and
may demand ''independent corroboration'' of any documents. An alien may submit
''affidavits of credible witnesses'' as evidence. Q. If an alien entered the
United States legally as a tourist in February 1981 and has remained in this
country since then, could he qualify for the amnesty?

A. Yes, if the time authorized for his stay as a tourist expired before Jan. 1,
1982. Q. If an alien entered the United States legally as a student in February
1981 for a two-year course of study, but took a full-time job in September 1981
in violation of the terms of his visa, could he qualify for legal status?

A. Only if his violation was known to the Government as of Jan. 1, 1982.

Q. What happens to illegal aliens apprehended after the bill is signed into law?

A. They would not be deported before or during the application period if they
appear to have a reasonable chance of qualifying for legal status. They would
have to file applications like other illegal aliens.

Q. When does the amnesty program start?

A. There would be a one-year application period starting within six months after
the bill becomes law. Illegal aliens who qualify would first become lawful
temporary residents. After 18 months in that status, they could apply for
permanent residence. After five years as a permanent resident, an alien could
apply for United States citizenship.

Q. What happens to illegal aliens who do not apply for legal status in the
application period?

A. They could be deported if they are caught, as under current law.

Q. Will the Government check the background of illegal aliens seeking legal
status?

A. Immigration officials said they would probably check with the Federal Bureau
of Investigation and the Central Intelligence Agency to see if the alien had a
criminal record or was regarded as a security risk.

Q. Can illegal aliens who have been convicted of crimes obtain legal status?

A. No. An alien could not obtain legal status if he had been convicted of a
felony or three or more misdemeanors committed in the United States. In general,
an alien would also be ineligible if he had been convicted anywhere of a ''a
crime involving moral turpitude.''

Q. How do illegal aliens submit applications?

A. They can apply at offices of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, or
with church and community groups designated by the Attorney General. These
groups will advise aliens and screen applications before submitting them to the
Government. They would protect the aliens and would not tell the Government
about applicants who were ineligible for legal status. The immigration service
has 33 district offices around the country and may set up nearly 100 special
offices to handle applications.

Q. Will illegal aliens be held liable for taxes on wages earned while they were
working illegally in the United States?

A. The immigration bill does not waive the aliens' liability for taxes. The
Internal Revenue Service says it does not plan to conduct ''a special
enforcement program'' aimed at illegal aliens who qualify for legal status. But
''neither will we ignore them,'' said Philip E. Coates, an associate
commissioner of the revenue service.

Under the bill, information submitted with an alien's application for amnesty
must be kept confidential by the Justice Department. ''This fact should assure
illegal aliens that they will not be singled out'' for tax investigations, Mr.
Coates said. However, he emphasized that there would be no general tax amnesty
for illegal aliens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 6, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

President Set to Sign Bill on Aliens Today

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 159 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 5


President Reagan on Thursday will sign a comprehensive immigration bill that
prohibits the hiring of illegal aliens and offers legal status to many such
aliens already here, the White House said today.

The chief sponsor of the bill, Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming,
said last month that the President was willing to sign the measure. But the
White House did not confirm the President's plans until today.

Various forms of the bill have been under consideration in Congress since 1981.
The final version was approved last month in the House of Representatives, by a
vote of 238 to 173, and in the Senate, 63 to 24.

The bill would offer legal status to aliens who could show that they entered the
United States before Jan. 1, 1982, and have resided here continuously ''in an
unlawful status'' since that date. Employers hiring illegal aliens would be
subject to civil penalties ranging from $250 to $10,000 for each illegal alien.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 9, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

PRISON FOR ALIENS OPENS IN LOUISIANA

BYLINE: By FRANCES FRANK MARCUS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 905 words

DATELINE: OAKDALE, La., April 7


Forty-six illegal aliens arrived at the new Federal Detention Center tonight,
the first of nearly 1,300 who will be kept there behind a 12-foot-high fence
topped with razor wire.

Once known mainly for its piney woods and cotton fields, for its lumber industry
and, after the paper mill shut down, for the highest unemployment rate in the
state, this isolated rural region entered another era with the center's opening.
It is the largest alien detention center in the nation and the first one built
to be run jointly by the United States Bureau of Prisons and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

The first aliens here were from Mexico, Central America and South America. The
300-acre facility, which cost $17.5 million, will eventually house almost 1,000
aliens who have no known criminal record and 300 more who do, to be jailed in
separate, high-security quarters not yet built.

Oakdale's new prison is a ''rather unique institution,'' said Ray Rowe, special
assistant to the warden. In the past the Federal Government has had smaller
alien-processing centers in such places as El Paso, along the border, and
elsewhere. Oakdale's prison has the capacity for more aliens than the rest of
the facilities combined. A tent city, to be built within the fence should the
need arise, would accommodate 5,000 more.

Many Detention Facilities

There are 3,025 aliens now detained in this country in immigration facilities
and elsewhere, some in county jails and some in facilities owned by the
Corrections Corporation of America, a private business that runs prisons, said
Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Washington.

Mr. Jervis said the numbers of aliens being picked up had been increasing
because of the ''deterioration of the economic situation in Mexico and Central
America and because of one-third additional personnel along the border.'' In
recent months detention facilities run by the immigration Service have been
''near capacity,'' he said.

Oakdale politicians and business people eagerly sought the center as a partial
solution to high unemployment, which at one point reached 31 percent. The Mayor,
Dr. George B. Mowad, has called the center ''a recessionproof industry.''

Others, including the American Civil Liberties Union, sued unsuccessfully to
block its construction. The lawsuit said Oakdale's ''remote'' location and the
area's scarcity of lawyers would interfere with the aliens' right to counsel. A
Federal judge dismissed the lawsuit last year as premature.

A lawyer involved in the lawsuit, Arthur C. Helton, director of the political
asylum project of the Lawyers' Committee for Human Rights, asserted that the
Oakdale prison had been built as part of a Reagan Administration effort to deal
with a flood of refugees from Cuba and Haiti in the early 1980's.

Dispute Over Purpose

''Oakdale was built,'' he said, ''so that border facilities did not become just
collections of refugees detained on a long-term basis, which would interfere
with their use as a base for field sweeps or factory sweeps. In fact, as
refugees began being detained in greater numbers, they began taking up space
that was needed for enforcement.''

Leonard E. Rowland, an official with the immigration service in Oakdale,
disputed that view. ''We are overwhelmed with illegal aliens in the United
States,'' he said, ''and to apprehend and detain them we need additional bed
space to be able to house them humanely and properly.''

He said detainees would normally be held for one week to six months. The aliens
will include those who are picked up along the border and others already in this
country too poor to post cash bonds while fighting deportation.

Mr. Helton came to New Orleans last week to recruit and train volunteer lawyers
to represent Oakdale's aliens. He said he had found ''a handful of lawyers
willing to go to Oakdale,'' three and a half hours by automobile from New
Orleans. ''Obviously, a handful of lawyers is not the solution,'' he said.

New Center Is Planned

A center to help with the aliens' legal, spiritual and social needs will soon be
opened in Oakdale by Ecumenical Immigration Services, said the Rev. Ted Keating,
a staff lawyer with the group who is a Roman Catholic priest.

''In a sense,'' Mr. Keating said, ''these people are utterly abandoned, innocent
people ripped off the streets and put into a prison in the middle of Louisiana.
This will create tremendous social needs. These people are not criminals. It's
called a detention center, but it is a United States prison.''

The aliens, 30 men and 16 women, arrived in Oakdale tonight after a plane ride
from El Centro, Calif., and Mr. Rowland said 20 were from El Salvador. They were
led into the handsome new prison, fingerprinted, told to shower, given new
prison garb and taken to their quarters, doorless cubicles with bars on the
windows. Outside the fence, two armed vehicles patroled.

In an interview, Mr. Rowe, the warden's assistant, said the aliens would be
offered a recreation program, such as soccer and basketball, and for some there
would be prison work, such as landscaping and cleaning, for 11 to 38 cents an
hour. There will also be Spanish lessons, he said, because ''many times in their
own country they are not proficient in the language.''

''We will not give them lessons in English,'' Mr. Rowe said. ''That only equips
them to be better aliens.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of Jarauld Parks, corrections officer at Federal Detention
Center (AP); Map showing location of Oakdale, Louisiana

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 3, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

6 Illegal Aliens Escape From Detention Center

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 28, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 207 words


Six illegal aliens, all of whom were charged with crimes and were awaiting
deportation, escaped from a Federal detention facility in lower Manhattan last
night by sliding down bedsheets from a fourth-floor bathroom, the police said.

The six men were all believed to be Cubans, according to a police spokesman,
Sergeant Raymond O'Donnell.

''We have our emergency service and police dogs searching for them,'' the
sergeant said.

The men were being held at the Federal Immigration Detention Facility at 201
Varick Street, between King and West Houston Streets when they escaped at 10:07
P.M.

''We have witnesses that saw them come down from the fourth-floor men's room on
bedsheets and come out on the King Street side of the building,'' Sergeant
O'Donnell said. ''They were last seen going south on Hudson Street.''

The sergeant said that inmates at the facility wear yellow uniforms. ''But these
guys got into civilian clothes. I don't know where or how,'' he said.

The identities of the six men could not be learned last night, but the sergeant
said, ''They're not just immigrants waiting to be deported, they are
criminals.'' Sgt. O'Donnell could not specify the nature of the charges against
them or whether they had gone to trial.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 12, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

REAGAN AGREES TO PRESS FOR IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 657 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11


President Reagan met today with key members of Congress to express his support
for legislation designed to stop the flow of illegal aliens into the United
States.

At the meeting, White House officials said, Mr. Reagan prodded members of the
House of Representatives to take action on a comprehensive immigration bill
passed by the Senate last September.

The bill was sponsored by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, the
assistant majority leader, who attended the meeting today in the Oval Office. A
similar bill, sponsored by Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of New
Jersey, is pending before the House Judiciary Committee, of which Mr. Rodino is
the chairman.

Specifics Are Not Discussed

Mary Kay Hill, a spokesman for Senator Simpson, said the people at the meeting
today ''did not get into specifics'' about what the President or others would do
to obtain approval of the legislation. However, she said, Mr. Simpson, who had
requested the meeting, was ''very pleased'' with it.

Among those present, besides Mr. Simpson and Mr. Reagan, were Representatives
Rodino; Hamilton Fish Jr. of upstate New York, the ranking Republican on the
Judiciary Committee; Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, chairman of the
Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, and Dan Lungren of California, ranking
Republican on the subcommittee; Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d; Donald T.
Regan, the White House chief of staff, and James C. Miller 3d, director of the
Office of Management and Budget.

The Simpson and Rodino bills differ in details. However, both would prohibit
employers from hiring illegal aliens, provide additional money for enforcement
of the immigration laws and offer legal status to many aliens already in this
country illegally.

Reagan Agrees to Work for It

In an interview tonight, Mr. Rodino said Mr. Reagan had given a firm assurance
that he was ''committed to a comprehensive immigration reform bill'' and would
lobby Congress to pass such a measure.

''He understands that the bill is going to take a certain amount of money, $1
billion a year for four years,'' Mr. Rodino said. ''I stated unequivocally that,
with all due respect to the President, he would have to be personally involved
in pushing this bill.''

Mr. Rodino said he had told Mr. Reagan that it would be difficult to win passage
of the legislation, in part because Beryl W. Sprinkel, chairman of the Council
of Economic Advisers, had ''poured some cold water'' on it. In a draft report,
the council warned that proposals to punish employers could have adverse effects
on the economy. This warning was later removed. Farm Labor Would Still Flow The
Senate-passed bill includes a provision under which farmers could bring up to
350,000 aliens into the United States to harvest perishable fruit and
vegetables. The farmers said this provision was necessary to keep crops from
rotting in the fields. However, labor unions opposed it, saying it would permit
exploitation.

Aides to Mr. Rodino said he was working on a proposal to sidestep this.

Federal officials have estimated that 15 percent of illegal aliens work in
agriculture.

There is no reliable count of aliens illegally in the United States. Government
estimates range from 3.5 million to 6 million, or somewhat higher.

Representative Lungren said that Mr. Reagan had given strong support to the
legislation. ''On three or four occasions at today's meeting,'' Mr. Lungren
said, ''the President indicated his willingness to work in support of the bill.
Everybody in the Administration is on board.''

The House Judiciary Committee tentatively plans to begin work on the Rodino bill
after the House returns April 8 from a two-week recess.

The Senate passed comprehensive immigration bills in 1982, 1983 and 1985. The
House passed a bill in 1984 by a five-vote margin, but the two houses of
Congress could not work out their differences, so the legislation died.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 4, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION BILL IS STILL AT SEA

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 859 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


FOR the third time in five years, the House Judiciary Committee was set to take
up a comprehensive bill to curtail illegal immigration this week. But the
session was postponed at the last minute, and the bill drifted into limbo.
Similar bills, pronounced dead in the past, have come back to life, but they
never finished the legislative marathon before the clock ran out with the
adjournment of Congress. Whether this year will be any different is a hotly
debated question.

Opponents of the bill, including civil liberties groups, farmers and farm labor
organizations, welcomed the delay, saying it reduced the chances for ultimate
approval of the legislation. Representative Dan Lungren, a California Republican
who strongly supports the measure, shared this assessment, saying the delay
''just about kills the bill.''

But another supporter, Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat,
said the five-week delay was ''a good thing'' because it would permit him and
other lawmakers to negotiate a compromise on the most contentious issue in the
bill, its treatment of farmers and ranchers, who have historically relied on
illegal aliens to harvest certain crops.

Mr. Schumer's involvement is one of several factors that make the situation this
year somewhat different from in the past. Some of his more seasoned colleagues
see him, in this instance anyway, as a kind of Don Quixote pursing an impossible
dream, a reconciliation of the interests of Western farmers and the farm workers
union. But he is not naive; indeed, he has a knack for legislative maneuvering,
honed in the New York State Assembly. And he sees the thicket of immigration as
''a metaphor for governance.''

''It is,'' he said, ''a real institutional test for Congress in the 20th
century: Can the general interest transcend the specific interest?'' Many
specific, well-organized interest groups oppose the bill. But Mr. Schumer and
other proponents insist that it has broad, rather diffuse support among the
public.

The measure pending in the House, like one passed in September by the Senate,
would prohibit employers from hiring illegal aliens and would offer legal status
to many aliens already here illegally. The basic concept may sound simple, but
it quickly becomes entangled with a host of questions: Should Washington
reimburse the states for the cost of providing health and welfare benefits to
aliens who gain legal status? Do immigration officers need a search warrant to
enter open fields? Do employers have a right to hire United States citizens in
preference to refugees and other legal aliens?

Such questions may seem technical, but members of Congress discovered in 1984
that they involved profoundly important issues, such as the value of the
Constitution's promise to provide ''equal protection of the laws'' to all
people.

The bill will be getting serious attention just as the nation prepares to
celebrate the reopening of a refurbished Statue of Liberty. Supporters of the
bill say the words of the statue - ''Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled
masses yearning to breathe free'' - can no longer be taken literally in an era
when more than a million illegal aliens are apprehended each year.

Another difference this year is that the House bill is sponsored by
Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, a
shrewd tactician who probably knows more about immigration law than any other
member of Congress. If the bill fails, it is Mr. Rodino's bill that dies. The
New Jersey Democrat is running for re-election and, after more than 37 years in
Congress, has begun to think about his place in history, according to his aides.
Mr. Rodino has long wanted to impose penalties on employers hiring illegal
aliens, but he says he is also determined to prevent discrimination of any kind.

Mr. Rodino has told labor leaders in his home state that he was ''adamantly
opposed to the agricultural worker program'' in the Senate-passed bill. Under
this program, American farmers could bring in up to 350,000 aliens to gather
perishable fruit and vegetables. But Justice Department officials have told Mr.
Rodino that the Administration favors the basic concept of such a program, and
some members of Congress contend that President Reagan supports that provision
more strongly than any other element of the bill.

Doubts about the Administration's commitment to other sections of the measure
were raised in January when a report drafted by the Council of Economic Advisers
warned that punishing employers of illegal aliens could have adverse effects on
the economy. The statement was subsequently deleted from the council's annual
report, and President Reagan sought to repair the political damage by affirming
his support for the legislation at a meeting with key members of Congress in
March.

The bill's problems are sometimes cited as evidence that Congress simply cannot
deal with complex issues. But, according to some legislators, they also serve as
a vivid reminder that the Founding Fathers purposely diffused power so it would
be difficult to make laws enhancing the authority of the central Government.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of a U.S. border patrol agent wearing infrared glasses
(Contact/Alon Reininger); graph of illegal aliens apprehended at the borders and
within the United States (Immigration and Naturalization Service)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 15, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Congress;
Whither the Immigration Bill?

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1090 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 14


Just before Congress left town last month, the House Judiciary Committee
approved a major bill to curb the influx of illegal aliens. The Senate approved
a separate bill with a similar purpose last September.

As they return to Capitol Hill this week, lawmakers are coming under pressure
from the Reagan Administration to complete action on immigration this year. No
one is sure of the outcome, but it seems certain that Congress will spend many
hours on the issue before finally adjourning for the November elections.

The battle over immigration, which has been running now for five years, provides
a case study of the way lobbyists clash over legislation every week. But there
is a difference: On this issue, the interests, including Hispanic people, labor
unions, state and local governments, religious groups, farmers and business
organizations, are more numerous and diverse. The fight concerns not just money
or taxes, but visceral notions of America's identity and its ideals.

In the past, the various groups have fought to a standoff. The Administration,
itself deeply divided, was in no position to force a consensus in Congress. But
things may be different this year.

The House bill now includes a novel feature that would dramatically increase the
rights guaranteed to foreign agricultural workers who come to this country to
harvest fruit and vegetables.

Under the bill, illegal aliens who have been working for farmers in this country
at least 60 days in the last year could become permanent residents and, in time,
citizens. This provision seems to have won support from two factions that had
seemed irreconcilable: organized labor, representing the nation's farm workers,
and the farmers who employ illegal aliens.

The comprehensive bill passed last fall by the Senate, by a margin of 69 to 30,
is generally similar to the one pending in the House. Both would prohibit
employers from hiring illegal aliens but would legitimize the status of many
illegal aliens already in this country.

The Senate bill would also permit farmers to bring 350,000 aliens into this
country as temporary workers to harvest crops. The farmers, who have for years
employed illegal aliens, say they need a ready supply of labor, or else their
crops would rot in the fields. But the foreign worker program in the Senate bill
is despised by the United Farm Workers of America and by many liberal Democrats
from Eastern states, who say it would permit the continued exploitation of farm
labor.

In a high-risk gambit, Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn,
negotiated a compromise to give the farmers special treatment while protecting
the rights of their foreign workers. Making them permanent residents of the
United States, he said, ''is the only way to assure foreign agricultural workers
that they will be able to have the freedom of movement and bargaining power that
is enjoyed by every other worker in every other industry in this nation.''

Dolores C. Huerta, vice president of the United Farm Workers, said she supported
the Schumer proposal because ''it gives the workers a fighting chance.'' Michael
V. Durando, president of the Farm Labor Alliance, an influential coalition of
growers in Western states, said he too supported the Schumer approach, provided
the bill is amended to require that immigration officers get warrants before
entering open fields to search for illegal aliens.

Wade J. Henderson, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union, expressed
reservations about the Schumer proposal because, he said, ''it permits massive
importation of foreign workers.'' But, Mr. Henderson added, ''assuming there is
to be an immigration bill this year, the Schumer proposal is by far the best way
of guaranteeing some protections for farm workers.''

Representative Howard L. Berman, a California Democrat who works closely with
the farm workers' union, said he was distressed that it seemed necessary to
treat agriculture as ''God's chosen industry.'' Nevertheless, after strongly
opposing a similar bill two years ago, he now supports the House bill because,
he says, his concerns about the effects on farm workers have been alleviated by
the Schumer amendment.

The Schumer proposal would give foreign workers new bargaining power in relation
to farmers. The aliens, after becoming permanent residents, would no longer have
the threat of deportation hanging over them.

But the very provisions that appeal to Mr. Berman make the bill less appealing
this year to Republican Representatives such as Dan Lungren of California and F.
James Sensenbrenner Jr. of Wisconsin. They find it unbelievable that Congress
would offer permanent resident status to illegal aliens who have worked in
agriculture for just 60 days in the last year.

Under the proposal, Mr. Sensenbrenner asserted, millions of aliens could come
into the country and qualify for welfare. Representative Bill McCollum, a
Florida Republican who favors more restrictive immigration laws, called the
Schumer proposal ''a killer amendment,'' adding: ''I cannot believe the bill has
any chance of passing with that amendment on it.''

Before coming to the floor of the House, the bill will probably be considered by
three other committees: Agriculture, Ways and Means, and Education and Labor.
Any of the committees may propose amendments.

Reagan Takes No Position

The Reagan Administration, while supporting the overall thrust of the
immigration bill, has taken no position on the Schumer proposal. In the past,
the Administration has opposed granting permanent resident status to alien farm
workers. ''The admission of aliens as permanent residents to perform
agricultural labor would adversely affect the U.S. labor force,'' Administration
officials said in a letter to the House Judiciary Committee in February.

The bill is almost certain to get to the floor of the House later this year. It
is no longer possible for opponents to kill it through delay, lawmakers say. But
passage by the full House is not assured. Similar legislation was approved in
June 1984 by a five-vote margin, 216 to 211. Even if the House passes a bill,
there is no guarantee that the House and Senate can reconcile their differences.
In 1984 a conference committee met 10 times over four weeks and reached no
agreement, so the bill died.

But public sentiment in favor of restricting immigration appears to have
increased, and liberals who opposed the bill then may reckon that they will
never get a better deal than the one they could negotiate this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of Representatives Dan Lungren, F. James Sensenbrenner, Bill
McCollum, and Charles E. Schumer (AP; Agence France-Presse; UPI)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 2, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

ILLEGAL ALIENS WIEGHING IMPACT OF NEW U.S. LAW

BYLINE: By LYDIA CHAVEZ

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 42, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 945 words


In Chinese and in Spanish, in Korean and in Hindi, from the Lower East Side of
Manhattan to Corona in Queens, the estimated 750,000 to 1 million illegal aliens
in New York City are asking how life will change for them and their families
under the nation's sweeping new immigration law.

Officials say as many as 40 percent of the illegal aliens in New York may
qualify for temporary residence and eventual citizenship under the law, which
offers legal residency to aliens who have lived in the United States since Jan.
1, 1982.

But the law also prohibits employers from hiring foreign workers who lack proper
documents. And city officials say that most illegal aliens are employed - in the
city's 3,000 sweatshops, in construction, as craftsmen, engineers and
technicians, as chefs and busboys - and that they help support New York's
service and manufacturing industries.

Hopes and Fears

Immigration experts and members of the city's immigrant communities said in
interviews that while some people welcome the amnesty, others fear that many
aliens who qualify for residence will be denied it. And although the law is
meant to stem the tide of illegal immigration, they said, its sanctions against
employing undocumented aliens are likely to have little effect in New York,
where an estimated 40,000 foreigners enter illegally each year.

''People who don't normally read the paper are reading to find out about the
bill,'' said Navia Nunez Burger, an immigrant from Colombia who works in the
Brooklyn Family Courts. ''Everyone is talking about it.'' ''People are relieved
that there is some legislation but worried about the requirements for permanent
status,'' said Ben Gim, an immigration lawyer.

Guillermo Linares, a United States citizen who emigrated from the Dominican
Republic 20 years ago and is active in the city's large Dominican community,
said many people are afraid.

''There is no assurance that those who present themselves to immigration with
all of their papers will not be deported,'' he said.

Parallel Patterns

Demographers say that the patterns of illegal migration to New York follow those
of legal immigration. According to the 1980 Census, the countries with the
greatest number of people in New York were from the Dominican Republic, with
98,410; Jamaica, with 76,280; China, with 62,420; Haiti, with 43,780; Italy,
with 42,000; Trinidad, with 34,300; Colombia, with 33,200, and Ecuador, with
32,960.

New York maintains that many illegal aliens were not counted in the Census,
however, and demographers said that if the illegal communities were included,
each group would at least double in size.

Those regions closest to the United States, such as the Carribean and Latin
America, are likely to have the largest illegal communities because of the
relative ease with which people can enter the country, the experts said.

In the last five years, thousands of Nicaraguans and Salvadorans have also
migrated to New York. Many live in Queens, while others have moved to
Westchester County, where officials estimate there are some 40,000 illegal
aliens.

The director of the city's Office of Immigrant Affairs, Elizabeth Bogan, said
that the city's public schools and municipal hospitals do not ask for proof of
citizenship now and that the policy was unlikely to change.

Cost Put at Up to $44 Million

The director of the city's Washington office, Judy Chesser, said the city's new
legal residents would cost New York an estimated $26 million to $44 million.
Although ineligible for welfare and food stamps, Ms. Chesser said, aliens who
become temporary legal residents would be elgible for Medicaid and Supplemental
Security Insurance.

At the same time, however, many illegal aliens who are working now are already
paying Federal, state, city and Social Security taxes.

Mr. Linares said that an immigration lawyer at a conference held while Congress
was debating the bill found it difficult to explain how illegal aliens would go
about proving that they had resided in the United States since 1982.

The law offers amnesty to those who entered the country before 1982, but many
such residents do not have the legal papers to document continuous residence and
are afraid that approaching the immigration agency will end in their
deportation, according to community leaders.

Awaiting Guidelines

Until guidelines are published, they said, no one can tell whether check stubs
or leases have to be produced -or fabricated. No doubt, they said, many people
who entered the country recently will try to come up with adequate - but forged
- documents.

An associate professor of urban planning at Columbia University, Saskia
Sassen-Koob, said that when a similar amnesty was tried in Venezuela in the
early 1980's, few immigrants came forward to declare their rights.

What will happen in New York, she said, will not be known until employers and
immigrants begin feeling the effects of the legislation.

Julio Hernandez, a Dominican who works in immigrant rights, said that employers
woudl take advantage of illegal aliens and make them work more hours to cover
the fines they might incur.

''I worked in a factory for years,'' he said. ''I know how they operate.''

Mr. Gim said that many in the Chinese community operate small, marginal
businesses and will find it costly to abide by the bill's restrictions against
hiring illegal aliens.

''How will someone with little education be able to figure out whether someone
is legal or illegal?'' he asked. ''Some will have to hire English-speaking
assistants, and it will complicate their businesses, which now make a profit
because they are working 14 hours a day.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Ben Gim (NYT/Dith Pran)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 3, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

ILLEGAL ALIENS HOPING TO CLAIM THEIR DREAMS

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 2335 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Nov. 1


When the dreaded ''migras,'' the immigration police, picked up Marcelino Castro
a few years ago in suburban Conroe, he thought the game was finally over.

So when the immigration police went after another Mexican, Mr. Castro escaped.
Now he is preparing to emerge from the legal twilight zone in which he has lived
since floating across the Rio Grande on an inner tube eight Octobers ago.

Mr. Castro, born of Mexican peasants 28 years ago in the impoverished town of
Zacatepec, is one of the uncounted millions of illegal aliens who believe they
are eligible for amnesty because of the new immigration bill.

'My Dreams Coming True'

Under the legislation, those who can prove they have lived in the United States
since before Jan. 1, 1982, may claim permanent legal residency and ultimately
American citizenship.

''At first they said the bill would not pass, but then they said the President
would sign it and I felt all my dreams were coming true,'' Mr. Castro said. And
so it is for the others.  Their stories are as diverse as America. Some entered
this country swimming naked through the Rio Grande, others with tickets aboard
jet liners. They are laborers, classical pianists, secretaries, dishwashers,
restaurant owners, high school students.

Shadow Economy and Culture

They come from almost every conceivable country - Mexico, El Salvador, Japan,
Vietnam, Korea, Haiti, Ethiopia, Iran, Poland, New Zealand. For all their
cultural differences, they have shared a semi-secret life in their chosen land,
forming a kind of shadow economy and culture in which any day could end in
arrest and deportation.

The ''illegals,'' elated but wary, are now emerging, thinking perhaps of the day
they may become citizens. Here are some of their stories.

For One, No More Dishes

Laurence Barrera went to New York illegally in 1978 as a 19-year-old to escape,
he says, the horrors of civil war in his native El Salvador. He started as a
dishwasher in a Manhattan restaurant, and today, along with his wife, parents,
brothers and sisters who have joined him since, owns a restaurant and a
baby-furniture store. They all live in Washington Heights.

The Barreras are among the 100,000 undocumented Central Americans, mostly
Salvadorans, who the Inter-Religious Task Force on Central America estimates
live in the New York City area.

Mr. Barrera's entry into the United States was as bumpy as any illegal alien's.
He was immediately arrested when he alighted at Kennedy Airport with a
companion. The pair agreed to depart by way of Mexico, where they escaped
Mexican authorities and worked their way up to the American border, slipping in
unnoticed at Laredo, Tex. Then, back to New York.

He was arrested again two years later when he went to Kennedy Airport to greet
his father, two brothers and other relatives who had slipped in through
California with the help of a ''coyote'' - a person who guides aliens into the
United States for money.

''I went to pick them up, and didn't see that they had already been
handcuffed,'' he recalled. ''I yelled 'padre' and they took me too.'' But the
family managed to get permission to remain temporarily in the United States
while a lawyer filed a claim for political asylum, which has not been granted.
But now most of the family members believe they are eligible for amnesty.

Like many of the illegal aliens, they are industrious. In eight years, Mr.
Barrera alone has saved $60,000, and he says he paid taxes on all his earnings,
including interest on savings.

His elation over amnesty is tinged with regret for those who fail to qualify.
''Let's be honest,'' he said. ''It's going to be good for me because I came
before 1982. But what happens to the people who have to go? We have a guy
working with us. He came last year. How am I going to say to him, 'I don't need
you any more.' It's not fair.'' Two From Vietnam 'Want to Belong Here' Lan Thiet
Lu came to California in 1977 on a three-month tourist visa, never intending to
leave when it expired. She lives with her 18-year-old son, Michael Joseph Lee,
in a $300-a-month one-bedroom apartment in a rundown section of Hollywood
inhabited mainly by Mexican and Armenian immigrants.

Miss Lu, divorced from her husband, who also lives illegally with a daughter in
the Los Angeles area, was born in North Vietnam. She migrated south during the
war, going with her family to Saigon, where she worked for the American military
forces as a secretary, and later wound up in Hong Kong.

Now 43 years old, she remains confident about her decision to migrate to the
United States illegally. ''I feel I belong here,'' she said. ''I want to belong
here, especially because I don't have my country any more.''

She has supported herself with secretarial jobs and for a time sold Mary Kay
cosmetics door to door. She conceded that she avoided applying for better-paying
work out of fear her illegal status would be detected.

For her Vietnamese-born son, Michael, growing up in legal limbo has been
painful. He looks the part of southern California teen-ager in his punk-style
crewcut and Reebok-style sneakers, admires the filmmakers Steven Spielberg and
George Lucas and has an interest in special-effects cinematography.

''I just have never felt as free as the other students,'' said Michael, a senior
at Hollywood High School. ''I've always had something to hide. When my friends
ask me where I was born I have to debate in my head whether I should tell them
Vietnam or Honolulu. I've worried that they might tell immigration and I would
be deported. I've told them the truth - I just didn't say that I was here
illegally. Now I'm free. I don't have to hide.'' Japanese Pianist Hopes To Be
Himself Again Shunsuke Kurakata, who is 39, stopped in San Francisco on a
tourist visa in 1974 on his way home to Japan from musical studies in Europe.

He has lived in San Francisco ever since, teaching piano privately, playing with
a symphony orchestra, even getting reviewed favorably in the local newspapers
for his interpretations of Beethoven, Messiaen, Takemitsu and Frank Zappa. Few
have known that the wiry, bearded musician is an illegal alien who has not seen
his elderly parents in Tokyo for 15 years because he would not be allowed back
in the United States.

''I could never appear as myself,'' he said of the mask he has hidden behind.
''I've always been careful to drive carefully. I don't do anything to break the
law. In a subconscious way, I think about it a lot. It never leaves you alone.''

Like many illegal aliens, he made futile efforts to legalize his status over the
years. The American girlfriend of a roommate offered to marry him if he paid the
man's rent for six months.

''We even went through the blood tests, but then I got an offer from the
symphony,'' he said. ''Getting a job seemed like a better opportunity to get a
green card.'' That document permits immigrants to work legally.

Then he paid $2,000 to a lawyer to apply for the green card, but the lawyer
cheated him, he said: ''I never saw the money again. I couldn't do anything
about it because I was illegal.'' Now he looks forward to the freedom that legal
status will give him. ''I can go anywhere to play. I can join the union whether
I'd like to or not and I can be more open in my personal relationships.''

He has not decided if he will seek American citizenship. ''I just don't know
yet,'' he said. ''It's not all real yet.'' Salvadoran Couple Find Lower Jobs,
Better Life Pedro Carlos Melendez and his wife, Clara, were comparatively middle
class in El Salvador, he teaching middle school, she operating her own grain
distribution business. Even so, they find life better in Houston doing menial
labor, cleaning buildings at the Texas Medical Center.

''Our jobs are on a lower level,'' Mrs. Melendez said in Spanish. ''But we have
a higher standard of living. We think we can give our children a better
education and upbringing than we could there.''

The Melendezes came in 1978, across the porous border at Laredo, Tex. They live
in a very modest but immaculate apartment near the medical center. Their three
children, Mercedes, 12, Pedro Carlos, 9, and Carla, 7, all go to public school.
Like many of the illegals, their family is part American; little Carla, born in
this country, is an American citizen.

Mrs. Melendez studies English three times a week and hopes, with amnesty, to get
a better job. She fears, however, that a deception will complicate her claim to
amnesty. She has been working under an assumed name since she came to Houston.
It was probably unnecessary, she feels now, because employers never cared
whether she was legal.

''You gave them your application and they wrote down a Social Security number,''
she said. ''You didn't know what it was. They all do that.'' The new immigration
legislation would for the first time bar employers from hiring illegal aliens.

In any case, she is optimistic that her problem can be ironed out and soon the
family will be ''totally free, able to live without thinking about being taken
away at any moment.'' 'Bot Peson' and Family Count Their Blessings The thousands
of impoverished Haitians who have made their way to Miami seem less secretive
than most illegals.

Aidieu Daniel, an amiable, slightly paunchy man of 40 is no exception. He says
he left his village of St. Louis in northwestern Haiti in 1981, arriving in
Florida after eight scorching days in a tiny makeshift boat, undetected by
immigration officers. His wife, Marie, who is 37, joined him two years ago, also
by boat, followed by their sons Adien, 13, and Patrick, 7.

Mr. Daniel proudly calls himself a ''bot peson,'' Creole for boat person. In
five years, he has learned only a little English.

The Daniels live in a two-bedroom apartment that rents for $400 a month in
''Little Haiti,'' a 300-block area near Miami's inner city. On Mr. Daniel's
salary of $177 a week in a box factory, they do fairly well for Miami Haitians:
color television, 1974 Chevrolet. On a recent evening as the Daniels sat at the
kitchen table of their steamy apartment, two Bibles - one in Creole, the other
in French - lay nearby. ''God has been very kind to me,'' Mr. Daniel said.
''When I left I never knew when my family would be together again.''

Though his wife and children came after the Jan. 1, 1982, cutoff date, Mr.
Daniel believes they also will be allowed to stay. Mrs. Daniel, who was briefly
detained by the immigration authorities last year, has requested political
asylum; there has been no response yet. She hopes to get work as a seamstress
when her status is legal. Amnesty means they will be able to visit family in
Haiti again and return without sneaking back to Miami in a leaky boat.

''I am a fortunate man,'' Mr. Daniel said. For Polish Baby Sitter, A Return to
Studies Sophie Siedlezka, now 27 years old, came to Chicago from Warsaw in 1981,
ostensibly to do research for her master's degree for two months. She is glad
that she has not left the United States. Her first days in America were tense;
she watched as immigration officers round up Poles at a delicatessen in a Polish
neighborhood on Chicago's northwest side.

But three months after she arrived, Poland declared martial law, and the Reagan
Administration pledged not to deport Poles. She relaxed then. ''Martial law was
a good thing for me,'' said Miss Siedlezka, who had been studying statistics and
planning. But her reasons for emigrating were entirely economic. ''I was a
student with no future,'' she said, with little prospect of finding work in her
field of public administration.

Thus far, there has been scant work in Chicago. She said she survives by
baby-sitting and waiting tables in a bar and restaurant. After amnesty, she
hopes to return to school, improve her English, and get better work. ''If I can
get papers from amnesty, I want to go to school,'' she said.

''And I'm not going to work as a baby sitter or bartender anymore.'' A Mexican
Wants To Own a Business Marcelino Castro can remember the date, Oct. 2, 1978, he
left his home town deep in southern Mexico. At the age of 20, he saw little
future in picking cotton and harvesting rice.

So with nothing but a small bag and 5,000 pesos, then worth about $225, he
boarded a bus for Mexico City, 250 miles to the northwest. From there he took
another bus to Reynosa, on the Texas border. He made a $100 down payment to the
''coyotes'' who would guide him across the river and drive him to the northern
suburbs of Houston, where he had a friend. The very next day, he had a job at a
subminimum wage of $2 an hour loading mulch and soil at a nursery in Conroe,
Tex.

Marcelino Castro's eight-year journey from Mexican ''wetback'' to American had
begun.

Like most in his position, he lived on the edge, somehow working without a
proper Social Security card, driving without a license, getting by with a
''universal identification'' card he bought for $2 at a local supermarket.

Ultimately, he got a job with David Heintz, an electrical contractor, for whom
he still works, servicing vehicles and assisting electricians. Mr. Castro
impressed his employers. He could fix anything, Mr. Heintz said, and unlike many
Americans, he was eager and uncomplaining: ''He was willing to do everything.''

So impressed was Mr. Heintz that some months ago he approached Charles Foster, a
leading Houston immigration lawyer, to see about gaining legal status for Mr.
Castro. The lawyer said there was no chance, but then came the promise of
amnesty.

Mr. Castro lives alone in half a small house he rents for $280 a month and
drives a 1976 Chevrolet Impala. He hopes to get a driver's license soon. He has
learned a passable version of English and exhibits a certain fatalism about his
life. ''Ni modo,'' he says, roughly ''what could I do?'' when describing his
troubles.

Now he wants to start his own business and become an American citizen. He
already owns two color television sets and a cordless telephone and is a fervent
Dallas Cowboys fan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of illegal aliens (NYT/Keith Meyers; Terrence McCarthy; F.
Carter Smith and Susan Greenwood)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 15, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE WORLD;
NON-MEXICANS SLIPPING INTO U.S.

BYLINE: By Katherine Roberts, James F. Clarity and Milt Freudenheim

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 196 words


Last year there were about 1.6 million apprehensions of would-be illegal
immigrants trying to cross the border between Mexico and the United States. Most
of these were Mexicans, but by no means all.

In recent years the number of non-Mexicans trying to enter this country
illegally from Mexico has been rising sharply.

People from as far away as India, China, Yugoslavia and Lebanon have begun to
use Mexico as a staging point for illegal entry.

From 1982 to 1985, the number of illegal immigrants from countries other than
Mexico detained at the Mexican border rose 50 percent, from 24,325 to 36,689,
according to the Immigration and Naturalization Service. In the fiscal year that
ended last September,the total rose 33 percent more, to 48,954. Those figures
deal with people detained; how many non-Mexican illegal immigrants have
succeeded in entering this country is not known.

But Duane Austin, a spokesman for the service, said agents catch ''one out of
every two illegal aliens in the best of cases and one out of three in the
worst,'' an indication that as many as 150,000 non-Mexican illegal immigrants
may have crossed the border into this country last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 9, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

SURGE OF ILLEGAL ALIENS TAXES SOUTHWEST TOWNS' RESOURCES

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1198 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, March 6


A tide of illegal immigrants sweeping over the border from Mexico is straining
border communities from Texas to California, according to officials throughout
the region.

Even in communities long accustomed to increasing illegal immigration, people
say that rising crime and a continuing burden on schools and hospitals are
lending a new sense of urgency. ''The impact is too damn great for border
communities to deal with anymore,'' said Judge Pat O'Rourke of El Paso County.
''In 18 to 24 months, it's just going to overwhelm the social service system on
the border.''

The situation is also evoking concern that stepped-up operations to enforce
immigration laws are leading to harassment of Hispanic people. #50% More Arrests
Expected Alan C. Nelson, Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said last month that officials of the service expected to apprehend 1.8
million aliens entering the United States from Mexico this year, about 50
percent more than last year's record of 1.2 million.

Reports from Border Patrol sectors indicate that this estimate could be
conservative. In El Paso, arrests increased over last year by 55 percent in
January and 56 percent in February. In February, usually a slow month, agents
here said they apprehended more aliens than in any previous month. Around the
San Diego area, the only sector larger than El Paso's, apprehensions rose 44
percent in January and 60 percent in February.

No reliable figures are available on how apprehensions compare with the number
of illegal aliens who get through. Agents say it is possible in any area for 4
to 10 aliens to get through to this country for every one caught.

Officials cite the continuing collapse of the Mexican economy and the
availability of jobs in the United States as a major cause of the surge in
illegal immigration.

''People in Mexico have decided there's no light at the end of the tunnel
anymore and the word is out that once they get past the Border Patrol, they're
free to live and work here,'' said Ed Pyeatt, a spokesman for the Border Patrol
in San Diego.

''We're catching a lot more first-timers, a lot more familiies, a lot more
people saying they're coming here to stay,'' he said. ''There are 80 million
people between here and the Panama Canal and the preponderance of them want to
be up here.''

Officials say some of the increase in apprehensions is a result of increases in
the Border Patrol staffs in the El Paso and San Diego sectors. But a night on
tour with a Border Patrol agent on the banks of the Rio Grande here made it
clear that the number of apprehensions was only a small part of the total number
of people streaming across the border.

The Dash for the Interior

In the El Paso sector immigrants could be seen hiding on river levees or behind
bridge pillars, clambering through gaping holes in the wire fence separating El
Paso from Mexico and fanning out toward freight yards, bus stations or downtown
El Paso. Officials say a growing percentage are bound for the factories and
cities of the American interior rather than its border communities.

At El Paso, 2,160 aliens were apprehended as they prepared to board planes at
the local airport in January, as against 998 in January last year. But it is the
border communities that feel the most dramatic effects, and what to do about the
situation is becoming a controversy.

In Laredo, Tex., school officials say they are educating 701 new students from
Mexico out of a total enrollment of 22,193. The new students are either illegal
aliens, resident aliens or children who were born in the United States but never
lived here. Those born in this country are automatically United States citizens.


Burden on District's Resources

Representatives of the Laredo school district, one of the poorest in Texas, say
it costs $2,294 a year to educate each child. The Supreme Court has ruled that
illegal aliens who live here are entitled to a free education, but school
officials say they may not have the resources.

Ed Bueno, director of student services for the Laredo Independent School
District, which is about 96 percent Hispanic, said residents tend to sympathize
with the aliens but are also becoming worried about the costs.

''They're more concerned now,'' he said. ''They see this big influx of kids, and
they want to know how to pay for it. We're a compassionate school district, but
you wonder when you have to say, 'We just can't take any more.' ''

The Burden for a Hospital

In El Paso, the problem is most conspicuous in terms of medical costs. The R. E.
Thomason General Hospital says about 20 percent of its patients are illegal
aliens. Last year the hospital wrote off $32 million in uncollected bills,
though not all were incurred by the aliens. Over the last three years, the
public, county-operated hospital's costs have caused taxes to rise by 40
percent.

Officials have sent the Federal Government a bill for $10 million, saying they
do not have the resources to go on paying for alien health care.

Concerns are also being raised about an increase in crime along the border. In
San Diego last year, 12 percent of all arrests for felonies, 23 percent of all
automobile thefts and 26 percent of all arrests for burglary were attributed by
the police to illegal aliens.

In Arizona last month, a Customs Service agent, Glenn Raye Miles, was shot to
death by aliens near his post in San Miguel.

And officials say the situation is contributing to high unemployment in Texas
border communities that have the highest unemployment rates in the state, with
aliens offering to work for low wages in an already depressed economy. In
McAllen, Tex., for example, the unemployment rate was 16.4 percent in January.

Harassment of Americans Cited

Some Hispanic leaders in El Paso say officials of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service regularly harass United States citizens of Mexican
descent by asking for proof of citizenship when they cross the international
bridge here.

John T. Garcia, the El Paso district director for the League of United Latin
American Citizens, says the current climate is making that sort of border check
more prevalent. ''I think the mind-set now is one of hysteria,'' he said.
''Instead of dealing with the situation in a humane way, we're just being
scapegoated.''

Joe Aubin, an intelligence agent with the border patrol here, said that Mexico's
population was expected to double by the year 2000 from what it was in 1980 and
that half the population is now under the age of 15. He said Mexico needed
800,000 new jobs a year to keep pace with people entering its job market,
500,000 more jobs than are actually being added. Other Central American
economies are similarly weak.

Apart from specific concerns, frustration is increasing over the lack of
national action on immigration policy. There are sharp disagreements on what
that action should be, but the consensus is that some action is long overdue.

''People seem to think this is just our problem,'' said Bill Kennedy, the
administrator of Thomason Hospital. ''Well, if we don't deal with it now, the
border is going to keep moving to the interior of the U.S.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of detention area for illegal aliens in El Paso, Tex. (El Paso
Times/Luis Villalobos); Photo of two men using a ladder to scale a wall near
Juarez, Mexico, as they illegally enter U.S. (NYT/Bruce Berman)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 27, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE TALK OF SAN DIEGO;
AS FLOW OF ILLEGAL ALIENS GROWS, COMPLAINTS MOUNT IN THE WEST

BYLINE: By ROBERT LINDSEY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 24, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 929 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, April 21


In this fast-growing city 16 miles north of Mexico, hospitals say they are being
swamped by the cost of treating illegal aliens.

At a political forum last week, candidates vying for seats on the San Diego
County Board of Supervisors battled to outshout one another over who would work
hardest to crack down on illegal aliens.

John Duffy, the Sheriff, suggests how to cope with what he describes as a
soaring crime problem caused by illegal aliens: bring in the Marines.

''Illegal aliens are gradually affecting the quality of life as we know it,''
Mr. Duffy told a reporter recently. ''Now,'' according to a court decision, he
said, ''we have to admit illegal aliens into our colleges, which means my
grandchildren may not be granted entry because of an illegal alien, and they'll
probably require her to be bilingual.''

Immigration officials say San Diego County has for years been the leading
gateway for aliens entering this country illegally from Mexico and other
countries.

In the past, few here paid much attention; for the most part the immigrants
passed quickly through the county seeking job opportunities and prosperity in
Los Angeles and other points to the north.

But in recent months, officials say, a sharp rise in the flow of aliens has
brought mounting complaints from residents about crime and the cost of operating
the local courts, jails, hospitals, schools and other governmental services
often swamped by illegal aliens.

''We're simply seeing an unprecedented number of illegal aliens trying to cross
the border,'' Alan E. Eliason, the chief Border Patrol agent here, said in an
interview.

In March alone, he said, 64,475 aliens, a daily average of 2,080, were caught at
the border south of San Diego. That is more than were caught from 1965 to 1968,
he added.

So far this month, Mr. Eliason said, the tide of illegal aliens has grown even
larger, with arrests averaging 2,400 a day. Probably no more than half those
trying to enter the country illegally are caught, he said.

Although the great majority of aliens trying to cross the border are Mexicans,
Mr. Eliason said, the number of would-be migrants from Central and South
America, Korea, Hong Kong, the Middle East and other parts of the world was
increasing even faster.

''What I see happening,'' he said, ''is an increased flow from other parts of
the world as some of the people who came earlier from these countries make it
and then encourage others to come, the same thing that started happening with
Mexicans 20 years ago. They want the good life here.''

The world offers perhaps no sharper contrast between the wealth of a modern
industrialized nation and third world poverty, in so small an area, than here at
the southwestern corner of the United States.

South of the border is Tijuana, a grim town with more than a million people,
many living in shanties.

Sixteen miles to the north is San Diego, a city booming with new technology,
industry, trendy restaurants and shiny office towers. It is now caught up in a
political campaign between two millionaires who want to be Mayor: Bill Cleator,
a wealthy manufacturer, and Maureen F. O'Connor, whose husband founded a chain
of fast food restaurants. The election will be held June 3.

Local people call a stretch of State Route 117 south of here ''Camino de la
Muerte, or ''death highway.'' Since December eight pedestrians, all Mexican
aliens, have been killed by automobiles shortly after the immigrants arrived in
this country.

Nationally, there has been a growing debate over whether unfettered illegal
immigration is good or bad for the country.

Many proponents say immigrants are willing to work for low wages in agriculture,
at restaurants and other places, a fact that will become more important as
fast-food outlets and other employers dependent on teen-age workers encounter
shortages of help because of the nation's recently lowered birth rate.

Researchers for the Rand Corporation in California maintain that illegal aliens
contribute more in taxes than they cost governments.

But such benevolent views of illegal immigration are under increasing attack in
San Diego and other Southwestern cities.

City and county officials say local people pay a growing tax bill for services
required by the aliens, and they note concern over crimes by illegal aliens is
on the rise.

Chief William Winters of the Chula Vista Police Department says the crime rate
in his town, between San Diego and the border, has jumped 39 percent this year.
''We're losing over 100 stolen cars a month,'' mostly to illegal aliens headed
north, he said.

Sheriff Duffy, who suggests posting a marine every few feet along the border
unless Congress takes action soon to halt illegal migration, said a third of the
men arrested for rape in the county last year were illegal aliens. And he said
aliens were involved in a third of the murders, either as killers or victims.

''Only a small number of the hundreds of thousands who cross the border commit
crimes here,'' William Kolender, San Diego's Police Chief told the City Council
recently, ''but some of those who come here are hardened criminals.''

Despite the heightened concern, there is little apparent optimism that the
migration will end soon. Many officials say they believe that until it becomes
more difficult for illegal aliens to get jobs in this country, the flow will
keep growing.

''You ought to see the border on a Sunday night,'' said Mr. Eliason, the Border
Patrol chief. ''When you see 4,000 people standing on the border, getting ready
to cross, it'll amaze you.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Alan E. Eliason (AP)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 13, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Immigration Policy Tests Our National Humanity

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 622 words


To the Editor:

As an organization that for several decades has worked with the problems of
undocumented people in this country, and the causes of migration abroad, the
American Friends Service Committee is distressed at both the tone and substance
of the letter from Alan Eliason, the Border Patrol's chief agent for the San
Diego sector (April 29). We find little evidence of a horde of people massing on
our borders seeking access to the American way.

Instead, we find much evidence of poverty and oppression - some of it caused by
policies and practices of the United States - forcing people to flee their homes
and seek safety in a dangerous and uncertain world. They are victims, all of
them, of forces beyond their control. We do not help matters by placing them in
further jeopardy.

Mr. Eliason rightly points out that Southern California has the highest
proportion of undocumented immigrants in the country. He does not mention,
however, a considerable body of evidence, including a recent study by the Rand
Corporation, that concludes the economy of the area has benefited from this
migration, that economic growth has been stimulated and employment has risen.
Moreover, it is unclear whether the increased number of apprehensions he refers
to is the result of additional people seeking to cross the border, or more
aggressive activity by the Border Patrol.

Let us not panic. Except for the relatively few among us who are native
Americans, we (or our forebears) are all immigrants. No one really knows how
many of us are ''undocumented'' either, with estimates ranging from 2 million to
12 million or so. A year ago, a report by the National Academy of Sciences, made
for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, estimated the probable range at
2 million to 4 million and noted that ''the number has not been growing
remarkably fast in recent years.'' As a proportion of total population, this is
but a small fraction of historical immigration levels.

Current efforts to reform U.S. immigration law, such as the Simpson-Rodino bill
before Congress, pay far too little attention to the causes of immigration, such
as domestic and international economic inequality, violence and persecution.

A serious approach to immigration must confront injustices in the international
economic order, including those embodied in global flows of capital and
technology. These cannot be addressed by the United States acting alone.

Efforts to limit immigration by applying domestic sanctions, by strengthening
the Border Patrol or other repressive measures threaten the basic rights of
United States citizens. Moreover, they are doomed to failure so long as the
forces that lead to migration remain unconfronted.

What to do? First recognize the humanity of those who are already in this
country, by granting them legal status and freeing them from the risks of
prosecution and exploitation. Second, stop aiding repressive regimes and, as
required by the Refugee Act of 1980 and international agreements to which we are
a party, offer asylum to those fleeing persecution in their homelands. Third,
initiate serious consultations with Mexico and other countries, embracing
immigration policy and support for the kind of economic growth that will give
people opportunities to stay in their own countries.

In this year when the Statue of Liberty is being rededicated, we should
rededicate ourselves to an immigration policy based on a belief in the worth and
dignity of all individuals and in the sacredness of human life, regardless of
nationality or place of birth. CUSHING N. DOLBEARE Philadelphia, April 30, 1986
The writer is chairman of American Friends Service Committee's working group on
Mexico-U.S. border program.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 5, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. PREPARING DRUG DRIVE ALONG THE MEXICAN BORDER

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 850 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4


Hundreds of Federal officers will be sent to the Mexican border to take part in
a major new effort to combat what the Treasury Department is calling a
''crisis'' in drug and arms trafficking, illegal immigration and related
criminal activity, Reagan Administration officials said today.

''We are anticipating a permanent placement of significant new resources at the
border,'' Francis A. Keating 2d, Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for
enforcement, said in an interview. Mr. Keating, who is the head of an
interdepartmental committee planning the new effort, said steps to it carry out
were ''imminent.''

Federal officials would not offer many details of the new program, saying they
do not want to alert drug and arms traffickers and others to their plans. But
Mr. Keating said at least five Federal agencies would send additional agents and
investigators to Texas, New Mexico, Arizona and California, and a Customs
Service official said that the Federal Government would also equip local
law-enforcement personnel with a variety of new equipment, including
sophisticated radios, weapons and vehicles.

Announcement of the new program comes after several weeks of debate within the
Government about the severity of the drug trafficking problems in Mexico and the
effectiveness of the Mexican Government's response.

Earlier Program in Florida

The new program will be similar in many ways to Vice President Bush's South
Florida Drug Enforcement Task Force, which sent additional Federal
law-enforcement agents to Miami in 1981 to fight drug smuggling there. But the
Southwest border initiative, which does not yet have a name, is intended to be
permanent, while the Miami task force was not.

While the new campaign is similar to the South Florida effort, it is also partly
a result of it. Federal officials say drug traffickers are not as eager to
smuggle through Florida now and have been streaming instead to Texas, where
enforcement is far weaker.

A program for the Mexican border has been promoted by members of Congress and
has been discussed within the Administration for several years. As recently as
mid-April six senators from states on the Mexican border wrote President Reagan
asking him to establish what they called a Southwest Border Drug Enforcement
Task Force, because, the senators said, ''intelligence reports confirm'' that
''the drug trafficking threat appears to be accelerating at an alarming rate.''

In recent months, Mr. Keating said, ''the intelligence seemed to be showing that
the problems on the border were growing significantly more extensive.''

As a result, he said, he and Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d agreed early last
month ''to do a complete analysis of what the intelligence from the various
agencies was telling us.''

''It showed ''the crisis from Mexico is real,'' he said.

Principal among the problems, he and other officials said, is the increased flow
of drugs from Mexico, which the Government estimates is the largest supplier of
heroin, marijuana and illegal amphetamines to this country.

As Mexico's economy has worsened, illegal immigration has mushroomed as well,
and now the Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates that 1.8 million
illegal immigrants will cross the border this year, 50 percent more than last
year.

Stephen E. Higgins, director of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms,
said arms smuggling from the United States to Mexico was one of his agency's
principal problems, and as part of the larger Federal effort, he added, ''We
intend to give that area significantly increased attention.''

Customs to Be Lead Agency

The leading agency in the new program will be the Customs Service, whose head,
William von Raab, has been especially vocal in his description of the problem.
He recently called drug trafficking and related violence along the border ''a
horror story.''

Other agencies participating in the program will include the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and its enforcement agency, the Border Patrol; the Drug
Enforcement Administration; the Coast Guard and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco
and Firearms.

In mid-May, senior officials from the Customs Service, Drug Enforcement
Administration and the State Department, harshly criticized Mexico's own drug
enforcement programs, saying extensive Government corruption there was hobbling
enforcement programs.

Their testimony infuriated the Mexican Government, and a few days later 60,000
people marched in Mexico City to protest. Since then, Mr. Meese and the White
House have said the testimony did not represent Administration policy and that
Mexican drug enforcement has improved.

Privately, official in the enforcement agencies say they stand by their public
criticisms.

Asked about Mexican Government cooperation with the new initiative, Mr. Keating
said ''we are asking the D.E.A. and State to coordinate this with Mexican
enforcement authorities.'' Mr. von Raab has said that ''when we raise'' drug
enforcement issues with the Mexicans ''their regular response is: 'You don't
understand. That's another department.' ''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 26, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. SET TO ACT ON MEXICO BORDER DRUG FLOW

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2227 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 25


Illegal immigration, drug and arms trafficking and related violence have grown
to such levels that officials say the United States is preparing to restrict the
relatively free flow of people and materials across the Mexican border.

Law-enforcement officers say that almost every day they find the bodies of
shooting victims in the bushes or floating in the Rio Grande, some of them
immigrants robbed while trying to cross the border, some of them victims of
smuggling deals that went wrong. The officers say, furthermore, that they are
frequently caught in battles with drug and weapon traffickers using machine
guns.

Officials agree that sealing the border so that no one could cross it without
authorization would be physically and politically impossible.

But according to interviews with numerous officials in Washington and
law-enforcement officers along the border, the United States is planning to use
greater manpower, both military and civilian, and improved equipment in a
variety of new projects to make it much more difficult for smugglers and illegal
aliens to enter the United States.

They acknowledge that the plan could be disastrous for Mexico, which depends
heavily politically and economically on the ''safety valve'' that the barely
restricted access to the American employment market now offers to millions of
unemployed and underemployed Mexicans. The Mexican Government is objecting to
the plans.

Speaking in San Diego this month in his first major address in this country
since becoming Mexico's Foreign Minister, Bernardo Sepulveda said Mexico was
''deeply concerned'' about plans for ''more rigid controls on the border area.''

Mr. Sepulveda said ''voices of darkness'' in the United States proposed ''to
build a high fence only after they themselves were able to enter and become a
part of this nation of immigrants.''

But in recent Congressional testimony, Elliot Abrams, Assistant Secretary of
State for Inter-American Affairs, said that if present trends on the border
continued, ''there is not going to be much of an alternative.''

Already, Roger P. Brandemeuhl, head of the United States Border Patrol, said,
''The border is a monster, growing, feeding on itself.''

As illustrations, in South Texas some Border Patrol officers, unaccustomed to
violence beyond occasional scuffles, now find themselves so often caught in gun
battles that some have begun to carry submachine guns.

Near McAllen, Tex., just north of the Rio Grande, D'Wayne Jernigan, head of the
Customs Service office, said: ''All the time now we're finding bodies in the
river, in groves of trees, beside the road: people shot in ambushes.''

William R. Logan, the regional commissioner of customs in Houston, concurred.
''There are now numerous, numerous murders all along the border, every day,'' he
said.

Near Sells, Ariz., just over the border, a customs officer, Glenn Miles, was
shot to death earlier this year, apparently by drug traffickers. In April, Al
Guiterrez, a photographer for The El Paso Herald-Post, was kidnapped by a
Mexican drug trafficking suspect while he was working just across the border in
Ciudad Juarez. Mr. Guiterrez was beaten and detained for 12 hours before he was
dumped beside a road. #10,000 May Cross Nightly At San Ysidro, just south of San
Diego, it is estimated that 10,000 or more Mexicans pour over the border from
Tijuana every night, 50 percent more than a year ago, 100 times the number in
1966.

So far this year, Border Patrol officers at San Diego have found near the border
the bodies of eight immigrants robbed and murdered on their way north.

In nearby Chula Vista, according to Police Chief William Winters, ''we're losing
over 100 stolen cars a month'' to illegal aliens.

They Cite Impact on Crime

In Brownsville, Tex., the Police Department says two-thirds of the crimes
committed in the city are directly attributable to illegal aliens.

In south Texas, Silvestre Reyes, chief of the Border Patrol station, said, the
Border Patrol ''simply is not in the business of catching narcotics, but we've
still come up with $35 million worth so far this year.'' In one typical case,
his men recently arrested three Mexicans crossing the border carrying 350 pounds
of marijuana on their backs. Two were brandishing 9-millimeter machine guns.

No firearms are manufactured in Mexico; in most cases, officials say, the
automatic weapons were purchased here and smuggled across the border.

Phillip J. Chojnacki, agent in charge of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms office in Houston, said that a few years ago, ''with the exception of
one or two guns now and then,'' arms smuggling into Mexico ''was just not a
problem.'' But in the last two years, he said, ''we've been seeing a steady
increase'' in the numbers seized in Mexican smuggling investigations. The total
was 1,000 in the 1984 fiscal year, 4,000 in 1985 and 9,800 so far this year.

The Mexicans ''want heavy assault rifles, anything that can be converted into an
automatic weapon.''

Trouble Is Built In

Illegal immigration, smuggling and related criminal activity have been problems
on the Mexican border for as long as the border has existed. A certain level of
trouble is inevitable, given the vast economic and social disparities between
the two countries, scholars of Mexican affairs say.

Mr. Brandemuehl, chief of the Border Patrol, said that for decades the United
States ''set a permissive tone'' because trying to control 1,950 miles of border
presented many logistical, financial, political and foreign policy problems. But
in the last year or two, many Government officials and law officers said, the
problems have caused life on the border to take on ''a sinister mood,'' William
von Raab, Commissioner of the Customs Service, said.

In many border communities law-enforcement officers report finding an increasing
number of drug traffickers and other criminals among the hundreds of thousands
of Mexicans who cross only to find work.

Criminals are now able to ''hide themselves'' among the illegal immigrants
''because of the chaotic conditions on the border,'' according to Richard
Slattery of the Drug Enforcement Administration's San Diego office.

Meese Leads Discussion

As a result of all this, a group of senior Government officials, under the
leadership of Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d, concluded this spring, according
to Francis A. Keating 2d, Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for enforcement,
that drug smuggling and border violence ''are now presenting a serious social
and foreign policy threat to the United States.''

Last month the Treasury Department announced that an effort to enhance law
enforcement sharply along the border was ''imminent'' and would include large
increases in Federal officers at the border, along with the purchase of new
aircraft, vehicles, communications equipment, weapons and other items. The plans
are still being developed and details are sparse but a senior Federal official
said, ''We're talking about spending a massive, massive amount of money.'' The
figure under discussion now is $250 million over the next few years, officials
said. #4 States' Officials Meet Also last week, Federal officials met in El Paso
with 50 representatives from local law agencies in the four border states to
enlist their support.

In addition, at a news conference in Houston this month, Vice President Bush
announced that President Reagan signed a directive in April declaring drug
trafficking to be a national security threat, enabling the Government to step up
the use of military and intelligence resources in the fight.

Although Mr. Bush's statements were not directed specifically at the Mexican
border, Administration officials said a major reason for the new directive was
to enable the Government to increase the use of military resources along the
border.

For several years the military has been helping civilian agencies on occasion by
using radar-equipped aircraft to sight planes smuggling drugs. Most of the plans
under discussion now also involve using military equipment to find
drug-smuggling aircraft. Some of the new equipment would also help the civilian
authorities track drug smugglers and illegal aliens crossing the border on the
ground.

In addition, Mr. Logan said, ''there's a strong move afoot to begin using
National Guard forces along the border.''

All that worries the Mexican Government and some American scholars.

One Expert Is Worried

Wayne Cornelius, director of the United States-Mexican Study Center at the
University of California at San Diego, is uneasy. Dr. Cornelius, widely viewed
as a leading expert on the Mexican border, said, ''If they follow through with
this, it is going to have a serious economic impact on Mexico, there's no
question about it.''

Many of the several million Mexicans who live and work illegally in the United
States, generally for several months a year, send money home to their families.
This is believed to add several billion dollars a year to the Mexican economy.

Now that Mexico is undergoing ''the worst economic crisis in our contemporary
history,'' as President Miguel de la Madrid said this month, reducing or ending
this income could have serious and perhaps disastrous effects. Some Government
officials and Mexico scholars say depriving millions of young Mexicans the
opportunity to work in the United States while there are few jobs available at
home could lead to social unrest and violence. The Central Intelligence Agency
has warned of this possibility in recent classified reports.

In his speech, Mr. Sepulveda acknowledged that the flow was an important source
of foreign exchange. Peter H. Smith, a professor of political science at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology who was among five academics hired by the
State Department last year to forecast trends in Mexico in the decade, said the
importance of the income ''is certain to increase as the economy declines.''

Interruption Is Disruption

No one believes the United States can completely stop illegal immigrants or drug
smugglers from crossing. But increased enforcement and a significant military
presence could discourage many Mexicans from trying to come north, officials
said. And, like others, Dr. Cornelius said Mexico was ''extremely vulnerable to
even short-term interruptions.''

As a reflection of that, Mr. Sepulveda ''the continuing harassment of Mexican
undocumented workers is also a source of anger and can become divisive to
Mexican-American relations.''

In San Diego, where nearly a third of the illegal aliens are believed to cross
the border, Alan Eliason, chief of the Border Patrol office, scoffed at Mr.
Sepulveda's remarks. Two or three times a week in recent months, he said,
''we've had to use tear gas to break up rock-throwing crowds of 1,500 or more
Mexicans at the border who are hoping to drive us back for just one or two
minutes'' so they can rush north.

Those and other problems law-enforcement officers face in San Diego illustrate
the many obstacles the Government will confront as it prepares to tighten
control of the border.

Gathering on 'Soccer Field'

Every evening Border Patrol officers, looking down at a plain they call ''the
soccer field'' just on the United States side of the border from Tijuana, watch
while as many as 5,000 Mexicans gather, waiting for dusk. For several miles on
either side of this field, hundreds of other Mexicans sit on rocks or lean
against the northern side of the border fence.

Observing them a few hundred yards inside the United States, lone Border Patrol
officers sit in four-wheel-drive vehicles roughly every half-mile.

As darkness falls, the Mexicans are joined by hundreds of others and begin
pouring north in streams. Some walk behind guides in straight, tight lines as
many as 100 people long, others in less organized groups, hundreds and hundreds
of Mexicans, including entire families with women and children.

They climb over fences, tramp through farmers' fields and pour across the
highways in such numbers that some are struck by cars and killed. Residents have
dubbed Highway 117, about a mile north of the border, Camino de la Muerte, or
Highway of Death.

They Run Past Autos

Even at the official border crossing station at San Ysidro, the aliens dash past
the cars waiting in line and run up the highway median strip on the other side.

No one knows with confidence how many others get by; estimates range from 2 for
every 1 caught to 10.

Those who are caught are packed in buses and sent back to Mexico before sunrise.
In a few hours most will try again so that in the end ''it doesn't really matter
what percent we catch because eventually 100 percent get through,'' Officer
Edward Pyeatt said.

Although the numbers are smaller elsewhere, they are rising every month. Early
this month the Ku Klux Klan threatened to begin patroling the border in south
Texas to apprehend aliens and drug smugglers, an idea the Border Patrol
rebuffed.

Still, with ''the drug traffickers and the others concealing themselves among
the immigrants,'' said Mr. Jernigan, ''as long as they're coming across by the
thousands and thousands and thousands, Customs, D.E.A., Immigration and the
others are just a drop in the bucket against them.''

Next: Poor cooperation from Mexico hinders border enforcement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: First of two articles on problems along the U.S.-Mexico border.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Border Patrol officer Orlando Lune using infrared telescope to
spot people illegally crossing into California (NYT/Alan Decker); Photo of
Border Patrol agent Dennis Pease watching for aliens north of Mexico (NYT/Alan
Decker) (page D22)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 8, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

PARAMILITARY GROUP THAT CAUGHT 15 ALIENS PLANS MORE PATROLS

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 847 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, July 7


Members of a paramilitary group who helped capture 15 illegal aliens near the
Arizona-Mexico border Saturday night said they planned to continue and perhaps
increase their patrols, despite sharp criticism from a Government official.

There were conflicting reports on the nature of the patrols by Civilian Materiel
Assistance, a three-year-old group that has been active in providing aid for the
rebels in Nicaragua. Members of the organization, which describes itself as
anti-Communist, gave conflicting accounts of the origins of the action.

The episode Saturday occurred while 20 members of the Alabama-based group were
on patrol in the Lochiel Valley three miles north of the Mexican border in
Arizona, about 30 miles east of the border town of Nogales. Those involved wore
camouflaged uniforms and carried weapons including Soviet-made AK-47 assault
rifles and American-made M-16s, members say.

J. R. Hagan, the group's regional director for Arizona and Utah, said the
patrols existed only to ''observe, document, and report'' illegal border
activity. But other members said that the patrols held the aliens at gunpoint
and that the group's other activities included armed incursions across the
border into Mexico to look for drug smugglers.

U.S. Official Condemns Patrols

Harold Ezell, regional commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, condemned the patrols, likening them to vigilantes.

''Some kind of commando siege type of activity is something we can't afford to
have,'' Mr. Ezell said. ''It's not much better than vigilante activity, and that
went out with white sheets.''

But Thomas Vincent Posey, who heads the group, said he hoped to expand the
patrols across the border.

''Our objective is to stop the flow of drugs into this country, which is helping
to fund Communist operations in Central America,'' he said. ''If you're going to
fight Communism, you have to fight it on both fronts.''

Civilian Materiel Assistance, which recently changed its name from Civilian
Military Assistance, says it has 5,000 members in all 50 states and 7 foreign
countries.

Involvement in Nicaragua

It has gained some degree of prominence in the past because of activities in
behalf of the rebels in Nicaragua.

Mr. Posey, a former marine who owns a produce business in Decatur, Ala., said
the group last year provided $4 million in supplies for the rebels. Two members
of the group were killed two years ago when their helicopter was shot down near
the Nicaraguan border with Honduras.

The Saturday operation, according to Mr. Hagan, who was involved, was part of
efforts to help report illegal activities, particularly possible drug smuggling,
to immigration officials.

Official Encouragement Disputed

Mr. Hagan, who said he manages a Tucson-based company that does investigations,
collections and repossessions, said the group began the patrols to help provide
information for law-enforcement officials. He said no government official asked
for or encouraged the patrols, but he said local immigration and law enforcement
personnel were alerted to them.

Mr. Posey said, however, that the patrols began after an immigration official,
whom he declined to name, requested them.

Mr. Ezell of the immigration service said that he strongly doubted whether any
immigration officials would have encouraged patrols. And he said there was no
room at the border for similar private operations.

''There is no place for any kind of a quasi-border patrol,'' he said. ''Maybe
there's room for it in Lebanon, but this is America.''

Details of Episode Unclear

Mr. Hagan said the incident Saturday began when patrols from the organization
came upon two vehicles that had crossed the border and broken down. He said the
group alerted immigration officials and did no more than shine spotlights on the
aliens who made no attempt to flee.

But Mr. Ezell said border patrol agents were told by members of the organization
that the aliens were apprehended after a ''firefight.''

And two members of the group, unhappy with its involvement, told a different
story from Mr. Hagan.

Use of Booby Traps Reported

They said the group's activities included armed patrols several miles inside
Mexico. And they said the aliens' vehicle broke down because it came in contact
with booby traps set up by members of the group.

They said the patrols were supposed to serve a purely informational and
reportorial function.

''But suddenly, when we showed up on the spot, everything changed,'' one member
said.

They said that weapons were fired and that the aliens, who included women and
children, were detained at gunpoint for about 90 minutes before border patrol
officers arrived.

Members of the group said they believed it was important for the organization to
continue providing assistance to officers trying to halt the entry of drugs into
the country. But they said they were distressed by the incident Saturday.

''I left because I did not want to terrorize innocent people who are coming here
to help feed their families, '' one member said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 12, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

WOVEN IN ILLEGALLY, THEY'RE PART OF AMERICA'S FABRIC

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 997 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


WHEN school started last month in Brownsville, Tex., 900 new pupils enrolled.
Just 35 of them said they had lived in the United States the year before; all
the rest had been in Mexico.

Some were United States citizens. But every morning, Mexican children carrying
schoolbooks can be seen crossing the Rio Grande bridge from Matamoros. The
Brownsville Independent School District estimates that 18 percent of its 34,000
pupils - an unusually large enrollment in an area of 100,000 people - are
citizens of Mexico who register with false American addresses. The overcrowded
district has had to build at least one new school every year for the last 10
years.

The Brownsville schools' problem is emblematic of the many complex ways state
and local governments are affected by the large numbers of illegal aliens in
this country. Last month, Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d said that 1.7 million
illegal immigrants were apprehended in the 1986 fiscal year, a third again more
than the year before. Immigration officials say this is only a small fraction of
those who cross the border successfully and stay in the United States for years,
for a season, or even, like the pupils of Brownsville, for the day.

The problems some of them cause the police, public housing authorities and
public hospitals, as well as school systems, are touched on in legislation to
overhaul the immigration system. The bill, now in conference, would offer legal
status to illegal aliens who arrived before Jan. 1, 1982, and have lived here
continuously since then; it offers a yet undetermined amount of reimbursement to
the localities whose services they use. A few weeks ago, most lawmakers thought
the bill dead, but the House passed it Thursday after negotiators reached a
compromise on a provision protecting Western growers who rely on illegal aliens
to harvest their crops.

As the provision illustrates, the presence of illegal aliens has been
institutionalized in many ways and is accepted, indeed welcomed as essential to
the economy, in some parts of the country. This is particularly true in the
Southwest, where cross-border family ties can make the definition of what is an
American an ambiguous matter.

There is some evidence, too, that the immigrants bring benefits with them. While
indigent Mexicans in the Los Angeles area represent a fiscal burden on the
state, a recent report by the Urban Institute said, ''The economic benefits
accruing to the average Los Angeles household from the presence of Mexican
immigrants probably outweigh the economic costs of fiscal deficits.'' The
researchers said they stimulate the economy by filling jobs that United States
citizens do not want. And, they said, by working for lower wages and buying
cheaper products, the aliens keep a lid on the overall cost of living.

Nevertheless, many local governments are seeking to limit their expenditures on
illegal aliens.

Checking on Pupils

Seeking to weed out its Mexican pupils, the Brownsville district is to start
knocking on the doors of city addresses given by five or more children. A
computer check found more than 2,000 such addresses. ''Some have 10 or 12
children living at the same address,'' said Thomas Keller, deputy
superintendent. ''All the kids are about the same age. That's a little
suspicious.''

In El Paso, Border Patrol agents question children crossing with schoolbooks
from Juarez and give the school district their names; some pupils have been
dismissed. With the idea of drawing attention to its problems, the city recently
sent the Federal Government a bill for $10 million for medical care its county
hospital had given to indigent illegal aliens.

Illegal aliens are even, unwillingly, burdening the prisons. The Texas
Department of Corrections, bursting at the bars with native-born felons,
regularly turns illegal aliens who are convicted of crimes over to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, which holds them until they can be
deported. On Oct. 1, an unusually large group of 57 convicted burglars, rapists
and other felons left the Huntsville, Tex., prison on a big white I.N.S. bus.

In Southern California, police officials attribute a large measure of crime to
illegal aliens, often preying on each other; in 1984, the Santa Ana Police
Department reported a record 35 homicides, and 70 percent of the victims were
illegal aliens. The Census Bureau estimates that nearly half the illegal aliens
in the United States live in California, many of them Asians.

Los Angeles County estimates that caring for indigent illegal aliens in county
hospitals cost taxpayers $123.7 million this year, and that 71 percent of all
births in county hospitals are to illegal aliens.

Figuring out how to deal with these burdens, in a country whose very identity is
rooted in a history of welcoming immigrants, is hard. In 1982, on the one hand,
the United States Supreme Court held that local school districts must educate
the children of illegal aliens; on the other, the Federal Department of Housing
and Urban Development will soon begin demanding that local public housing
officials evict any tenants who cannot show documentation of legal residency.

This plan has not been greeted with universal applause by the local authorities.
''To use me as a para-police force is not right,'' says Emanuel P. Poppolizio,
chairman of the New York City Housing authority.

Last June, Congressman Mario Biaggi, Democrat of the Bronx, estimated that 35 to
40 percent of residents of New York public housing were illegal aliens, but Mr.
Poppolizio puts the figure at only 2 to 3 percent. At any rate, he wonders what
will happen to those displaced: ''They are homeless - now who pays for them?''

As for the Federal Government, the books appear to balance. A study by the
General Accounting Office found that aliens, legal and illegal, paid a total of
$19 billion in Federal income taxes, Social Security and the like in 1984; they
received about the same amount in benefits.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of illegal aliens convicted of crimes being released from Texas
Department of Corrections prison in Huntsville to the custocy of the immigration
and naturalization Service (NYT/F. Carter-Smith)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 16, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

HOUSE APPROVES COMPROSMISE BILL ON ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 15, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 890 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 15


The House of Representatives today approved a compromise immigration bill that
lawmakers described as a historic step to curtail the influx of illegal aliens
into the United States.

By a vote of 238 to 173, the House agreed to the bill recommended by a
conference committee of House and Senate negotiators.

The vote followed an hour of impassioned debate in which Representative Don
Edwards, a liberal California Democrat, denounced the bill as ''an invitation to
racial discrimination'' against certain minority groups, particularly Hispanic
Americans.

But supporters of the bill said it was time for the nation to close, or at least
tighten, its borders. Representative Hamilton Fish Jr., a Republican from
upstate New York, said, ''This may be our last opportunity for comprehensive
immigration reform before the problems at our borders preclude compassionate
solutions.''

Senate to Vote on Plan

The compromise bill, embodied in a conference report, now goes to the Senate for
debate and final approval. If approved by the Senate, as expected, it would be
sent to President Reagan for his signature. Mr. Reagan has repeatedly expressed
support for such legislation, though Administration officials were not
conspicuously lobbying House members to vote for the bill today.

In the House today, 161 Democrats and 77 Republicans voted for the compromise
bill. Eighty Democrats and 93 Republicans voted against it.

The bill, which resulted from nearly a decade of work in Congress, would
prohibit the hiring of illegal aliens. Employers of illegal aliens would be
subject to civil penalties ranging from $250 to $10,000 for each such alien
hired. The bill would offer legal status to illegal aliens who entered the
United States before Jan. 1, 1982, and have lived here continuously since then.

A crucial feature of the bill, which permitted supporters to revive it this
month, is a program to assure a steady supply of foreign workers to harvest
fruit and vegetables grown on ranches and farms in Western states.

The bill's prohibition on hiring illegal aliens applies to all employers. There
is no exemption for employers with just a few employees.

At present, under Federal law, it is generally not illegal for employers to hire
illegal aliens. There is one exception: Farm labor contractors may not recruit
or employ illegal aliens.

Representative Bill Richardson, a New Mexico Democrat whose mother was born in
Mexico, broke with some members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and
supported the bill. ''This is the final hour for immigration reform,'' he said.
''This is the final hour for millions of people who have no lobbyists, but
deserve some status in this country. They come from Mexico, from Italy and
Greece and every corner of the earth.''

'No Realistic Alternative'

Mr. Richardson added: ''There is no realistic alternative to this bill. I don't
want my legacy as a Hispanic to be that I obstructed immigration reform.''

Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, a Kentucky Democrat who is a co-sponsor of the
legislation, said: ''If this bill were a cat, this would be its ninth life. It
can't pop up out of the grave again. It can't have more life breathed back into
its corpse. This is historic legislation, watershed legislation. It is not a
perfect bill, but it is the least imperfect bill we will ever have before us.''

But Representative Robert Garcia, Democrat of the Bronx, said, ''This bill as it
stands today is not going to stop illegal immigrants from coming into the United
States.'' They come, he said, because they are hungry, and ''where hunger is, it
will try and find an escape.''

Representative Norman Y. Mineta, a California Democrat, said he reluctantly
opposed the bill because he believed its penalties against employers of illegal
aliens would ''take us inevitably down the road toward invidious racial
discrimination.''

Provision to Fight Discrimination

Supporters of the bill noted that it prohibited employers from discriminating
against legal aliens merely because they were aliens. It creates a new office in
the Justice Department to investigate complaints of such discrimination, as well
as complaints of bias based on national origin.

Representative Henry B. Gonzalez, a Texas Democrat, complained that the bill
would permit farmers to keep foreign workers in a state of ''indentured
servitude.''

But Howard L. Berman, a California Democrat who is a longtime ally of organized
labor, said, ''We have dealt with the asserted needs of Western agriculture in a
fashion that protects the legal status and rights and dignity of farm workers.''

A lobbyist for the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial
Organizations, Vincent M. Trivelli, said his group was supporting the compromise
bill.

Representative Bill McCollum, a Florida Republican, said he was strongly opposed
to the amnesty provision for illegal aliens. But he said, ''I am going to hold
my nose and vote for this conference report because I see employer sanctions as
an opportunity to close our borders.''

Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat who engineered the
agreement on foreign agricultural workers, said: ''We are here to solve problems
before they become crises. Sure enough, if we do nothing, our immigration
problem will become an immigration crisis.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 17, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

REAGAN SAID TO FAVOR SIGNING NEW ALIENS BILL

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 25, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 797 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 16


A leading Republican Senator said that President Reagan indicated today that he
would probably sign a comprehensive immigration bill on which House and Senate
negotiators agreed this week.

The Senator, Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming, the assistant Republcian leader, said
he had received the assurance in a half-hour meeting with Mr. Reagan at the
White House.

Final Congressional approval of the bill appeared held up by the objections of
several senators opposed to provisions offering legal status to illegal aliens.

Phil Gramm, a Texas Republican, was the only Senator to speak forcefully against
the bill as the Senate took up the compromise measure approved Wednesday by the
House of Representatives.

Three Bills in Four Years

The Senate passed similar legislation three times in the last four years. Senate
approval of the new bill, a compromise worked out by House and Senate
negotiators, would clear the measure for action by Mr. Reagan.

Senator Simpson said that, in the meeting today, Mr. Reagan expressed concern
about a section of the bill that would establish new civil rights guarantees for
legal aliens. Mr. Simpson sought to allay this concern by declaring, on the
Senate floor, that the new civil rights protections must not be used by the
Government or by ''activist groups'' as ''a tool for harassment'' of employers.

The bill would prohibit the hiring of illegal aliens and would offer legal
status to illegal aliens who have lived here continuously since before Jan. 1,
1982. It would provide additional money for enforcement of immigration laws and
would establish a new program to guarantee farmers a steady supply of foreign
labor to harvest perishable fruit and vegetables.

The civil rights guarantees were included because Hispanic groups and some
members of Congress asserted that the new penalties against employers of illegal
aliens could lead to employment discrimination against people who looked
''foreign.''

Gramm Sees Huge Costs

Senator Gramm said the bill would cost ''tremendous amounts of money,'' and that
''nobody has the foggiest idea'' how much.

By a vote of 75 to 21, the Senate crushed a bid by Mr. Gramm to block
consideration of the bill on the ground that it would require spending not
properly authorized by Congress. Mr. Simpson and other legislators said this
vote indicated that the Senate would approve the bill by a wide margin.

As a precaution, Mr. Simpson filed a motion signed by 16 Senators to close
debate on the immigration bill. It was not clear whether supporters of the bill
would have to use this procedure, cloture, to shut off debate, but under Senate
rules, they could call for a vote on the motion Friday.

So far, Mr. Simpson said, Senator Gramm is not conducting a filibuster, but is
raising legitimate questions that could be answered by proponents of the bill.

Metzenbaum Is Jubliant

As the Senate moved toward voting, Howard M. Metzenbaum, Democrat of Ohio, said,
''It's a great day for the American people.'' He added: ''We have an obligation
to do something about illegal immigration in this coutry. We have been talking
and talking about it while more and more illegal immigrants cross the border.''

Mr. Metzenbaum said he considered the bill ''too generous to Western growers.''
But he continued: ''The totality is worth far more than some of the component
parts. The political reality is that the growers demanded certain concessions.
We went too far, but it's the price we had to pay to get this bill.''

Mr. Gramm objected to the amnesty for illegal aliens who have lived here for at
least five years. He objected even more strenuously to a provision under which
illegal aliens could become legal residents of the United States if they did
agricultural work in this country for 90 days between May 1, 1985, and May 1,
1986.

This, he said, is ''one of the most absurd proposals I have ever heard,''
because it puts illegal aliens ahead of 1.9 million foreigners who had applied
for visas to immigrate legally.

Mr. Gramm acknowledged that he had not been deeply involved in efforts to draft
the immigration bill. He also acknowledged that in 1985, he voted for a proposal
that would have admitted up to 350,000 temporary foreign workers to harvest
fruit and vegetables in the United States. Under this proposal, the aliens could
not have become permanent residents of the United States, but would have had to
return to their homelands for at least three months a year.

Mr. Reagan has often expressed support for legislation to tighten border
controls. His tentative endorsement today of the compromise bill was significant
because Administration officials at the Justice Department and the Office of
Management and Budget had expressed objections to parts of the bill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 26, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

ALIENS' CHRISTMAS TRIPS SOUTH APPEAR TO SLOW

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 393 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, Dec. 25


The migration of illegal aliens across the border with Mexico usually reverses
itself this time of year, with people sneaking out of the United States to spend
the holidays with relatives to the south.

United States Border Patrol agents in Texas, New Mexico, Arizona and California
will not even attempt to guess how many undocumented workers travel to Mexico
and Central America this time of year. But those who are familiar with the
situation say changes under the new immigration law seem to have sharply
curtailed the exodus this year.

Under the new law, illegal aliens who have lived continuously in the United
States for more than five years may be granted amnesty. The Government will
start taking applications next May.

Fear of Risking Status

''I would expect this Christmas will be different,'' said William Harrington,
assistant chief Border Patrol agent in El Paso. ''A lot of the people would not
want to risk going home and risking that status.''

At the Greyhound bus station in downtown El Paso, a popular connecting spot for
those returning to Juarez, Mexico, a taxi driver, Raymond Garcia, and other
regulars have noticed a decrease.

''Anyone can see the change, but we see it more because we're right here,'' Mr.
Garcia told The Dallas Morning News. ''This time last year, I was taking people
to Juarez five times a day. Now it's half that.'' Many Border Patrol agents say
they can easily pick out ''Southbounders,'' the illegal aliens returning home.
Clothes, packages and demeanor offer clues.

''You can tell the difference between a family going home to South Texas and a
bunch of men all sitting anxiously waiting for the bus,'' said Benny S. Barron,
assistant Border Patrol chief in Tucson. Symbol of Failure?  To some agents, a
horde of Southbounders is a glaring symbol of the Border Patrol's failure.

''The way I look at it, we're here to stop them from coming in,'' Mr. Harrington
said. ''If they get in, find a job, earn money to bring home, then really we
haven't accomplished what we set out to do.''

Within the Border Patrol, opinions are divided about whether it is worthwhile to
pursue aliens leaving the country.

''Generally, if we get them going in the right direction, we don't bother with
them,'' said David G. Turner, deputy district director of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Harlingen.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 27, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Jury Out in Alien Smuggling

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 30, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 32 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., April 26


A Federal jury has deliberated six days without reaching a verdict in the trial
of 11 religious leaders accused of smuggling aliens into the United States. The
jury is to reconvene Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 27, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

U.S.-MEXICAN BORDER EFFORTS HAMPERED BY POLITICS AND INERTIA

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 2139 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26


It was billed as the greatest cooperative undertaking ever by United States and
Mexican law authorities working on the border. But when it ended April 16, the
operation served instead as a stark illustration of a central problem facing the
United States as it tries to gain control of the border.

The problem, United States law-enforcement officials along the border say, is
that cooperation from the Government of Mexico ranges from incomplete to
nonexistent. The reasons run from what one Mexican memo acknowledged was
entrenched corruption to the political factors that make Mexicans reluctant to
appear too helpful to the United States. And underlying all of this is Mexico's
deteriorating economic situation. Unless that improves, American officials say
they are pessimistic that cooperation will improve any time soon.

In the recent project, more than 250 Mexican and United States police officers,
working on both sides of the border for eight weeks, arrested 3,506 fugitives on
charges including drug trafficking, smuggling of illegal aliens and murder.

It Was Not as It Seemed

At a news conference when the operation ended, Stanley E. Morris, director of
the United States Marshals Service, called the project a great success and ''a
valuable beginning.''

Privately, however, many law-enforcement officers were not so pleased. ''From an
international standpoint, it was a joke,'' said a senior American official who
had been directly involved. The reason for his scorn was clear: Of the 3,506
fugitives, 3,503 were arrested in the United States; 3 in Mexico.

One possible reason for the disparity was given in a confidential marshals'
document recounting a conversation with Jose Maria Ortega, the Mexican deputy
attorney general, who had directed the Mexican part of the program. Before the
operation began, American officials asked Mr. Ortega to evaluate his force, the
Federal Judicial Police. According to the document, he divided them into three
groups.

Perhaps New Recruits

The first group, Mr. Ortega told American officials, was ''totally corrupt and
therefore not reliable,'' the report said. The second was ''contemplating
corrupt acts'' while those in the third group were ''newly recruited and
therefore not experienced.''

Howard Safir, the director of operations for the Marshals Service, said he was
not familiar with the document, although he did say Mr. Ortega was ''a very
candid, open person.'' Of the arrests in Mexico, Mr. Safir said: ''It was a
start. We didn't expect big numbers to begin with.''

In interviews, numerous American law authorities in Washington and along the
border said they shared Mr. Safir's view. When it comes to official cooperation
from Mexico on drug trafficking, illegal immigration, border violence and
related issues, most simply do not expect very much.

''Occasionally we're given some little crumb,'' said Alan Eliason, United States
Border Patrol chief in San Diego.

President Speaks of Efforts

But in a televised interview last week, President Miguel de la Madrid said
Mexico ''is devoting a large part of its budget to the fight against drugs; it
has assigned a large part of its army to the campaign, and the facts show that
Mexico has been an active fighter against international drug trafficking.''

On illegal immigration, he said increased American law enforcement would not
work, adding: ''If there were no demand in the United States for Mexican
workers, Mexican workers would not go to the United States.'' Early this month
Mexico's foreign minister, Bernardo Sepulveda Amor, urged American authorities
to stop ''harassing'' illegal aliens.

As a result of views like Mr. Sepulveda's, American officials say, the United
States has come to view even the smallest cooperative effort as a breakthrough.
And that helps explain contradictory public statements from Reagan
Administration officials recently about relations with Mexico.

Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d and Attorney General Sergio Garcia Ramirez of
Mexico have been meeting over several months to foster greater law-enforcement
cooperation. The fourth meeting was held in Cancun, Mexico, in April, and out of
them came several agreements for joint initiatives.

'It Was a Start,' Aide Says

As a result, a State Department official said: ''They began giving us slight,
occasional help on some things. It was a start.''

The recent drive for arrests was one example. Another involved the tracing of
United States-made firearms.

For years the United States has asked Mexico to give the Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco and Firearms serial numbers and other data on American-made weapons they
seize. The firearms bureau uses this to find out where the weapons were
purchased and in some cases to prosecute American dealers suspected of
smuggling.

The Mexicans seldom responded, even though putting those dealers out of business
''benefits Mexico, too,'' Stephen E. Higgins, director of the firearms bureau,
said.

Unlike most other countries in the region, Mexico declined to cooperate for the
most part, without explaining why. In 1984, as an example, the Dominican
Republic made 1,070 trace requests, while Mexico made 184.

List of 800 Is Turned Over

Then, as a result of the meetings this spring of attorneys general, Mexico
turned over a list of 800 weapons the police had seized, asking the United
States to trace their origins.

''It was their first big request,'' Mr. Higgins said. But it was still ''only a
tiny percentage of those they have seized.''

To make matters worse, ''only about one-seventh of the 800 were traceable,'' Mr.
Higgins said. For the others, ''the information was incomplete or bad or the
weapons were too old,'' some seized as long as 20 years ago. Still, he added,
even that list ''was a start.''

Meanwhile, others in Government became frustrated that the level of cooperation
was improving so slowly while problems on the border were rising so
dramatically.

Last month, testifying before a Senate subcommittee, William von Raab, the
Commissioner of Customs, called problems at the border ''a horror story'' and
faulted Mexico as failing ''to provide us with information, intelligence and
cooperation that would enable us to mount an effective border campaign.''
Without Mexican help, Mr. von Raab said, law enforcement along the border ''is
doomed.''

'Corrupted by Vast Sums'

Elliott Abrams, an assistant Secretary of State, was unusually critical, too,
saying numerous Mexican officials, including many ''supposedly engaged in
antinarcotics efforts,'' have been ''corrupted by the vast sums of money
available to traffickers.''

The Mexican Government sent an official note of protest. In a few days Mr. Meese
apologized to Mr. Garcia Ramirez, in effect recanting the Abrams statement. That
angered and confused others in the Administration and in Congress.

A Justice Department official explained: ''Things with Mexico are far from
perfect, but we had made a start when we'd had almost nothing going with them
before. Meese thought the Mexico-bashing was undercutting us.''

Meanwhile, in Washington and along the border, many law-enforcement officers say
Mexican authorities still offer little cooperation, although there are
exceptions.

Silvestre Reyes, chief of the Border Patrol in South Texas, recalled a recent
incident when his office called the local Mexican police for help in arresting
smugglers who were discovered ferrying three tons of marijuana across the Rio
Grande to Mercedes, Tex. ''They were on the scene in less than five minutes,''
Mr. Reyes said.

'They Could Be Doing More'

Still, on the whole, Alan C. Nelson, Commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said, ''They certainly could be doing more.''

Corruption remains a major problem, American officials say. Paying small bribes
to public officials in exchange for favors or services is a Mexican tradition.
But recently, American officials say, the Mexican economy has deteriorated so
drastically that the system has grown into a problem of vast corruption
involving even some senior members of the government. Last month, Mr. Abrams
said corruption had become so pervasive that it threatened to undermine the
Government's authority.

Law officers say they feel the effect along the border. ''The way the atmosphere
is in Mexico today,'' said Richard Slattery, assistant agent in charge of the
Drug Enforcement Administration's San Diego office, there is no way the Mexican
Federal security police force can arrest major drug traffickers because the
traffickers know too much about the police force's involvement in trafficking.
#700 Were Dismissed in a Year Recognizing that, the Mexican Government dismissed
''more than 700'' federal police officers last year ''for being connected to
narcotics trafficking,'' Mr. von Raab said.

A few weeks ago, according to officials with the D.E.A., the Customs Service and
the Border Patrol, several officers of this service armed with machine guns were
escorting a tanker truck filled with marijuana as it traveled north on Mexico's
Highway 101 toward El Paso.

That is not unusual, said William R. Logan, regional commissioner of Customs in
Houston. The United States often gets reports of ''convoys of vehicles'' loaded
with drugs ''coming up from the interior and escorted into the border areas'' by
Mexican Judicial Police or the Mexican federal police, he said.

In the recent case, Mr. Reyes of the Texas Border Patrol said, ''local police
stopped them in the town of San Fernando,'' 85 miles south of El Paso. A
machine-gun battle followed.

Officers Reportedly Fled

D'Wayne Jernigan, head of the Customs Service office in McAllen, Tex., said the
Mexican federal police officers shot and killed five of the local policemen,
then apparently fled. Later, several tons of marijuana was found in the truck.
The Drug Enforcement Administration confirmed the account.

Sometimes these armed police convoys do not stop at the border, officials say.

''There has been a series of instances in recent months,'' Mr. Logan said, when
uniformed Mexican federal police officers carrying automatic weapons have
escorted drug traffickers with loads of marijuana or cocaine across the Rio
Grande.

The first reports came last fall from an organization of Federal border agents,
active and retired, in south Texas. In a letter to President Reagan, the group
charged that Mexican federal police officers ''armed with machine guns and
wearing .45-caliber pistols provided an armed escort'' and then ''set up a
perimeter defense'' while the traffickers delivered a load of marijuana and
cocaine in Starr County in Texas, just west of McAllen.

Informant Termed Reliable

In McAllen, Mr. Jernigan said that report came from ''an informant who has been
a longtime, reliable source in Starr County.'' ''He doesn't give information
very often,'' Mr. Jernigan said, ''but when he does it is always corroborated.''

To counteract such problems, sometimes United States authorities on the border
use unorthodox methods. United States drug-enforcement officials acknowledge
that in January they hired several off-duty Mexican police officers to seize
Rene Verdugo, a reputed Mexican drug trafficker, in Baja California and in
effect, to kidnap him. He was wanted for questioning in the murder of Enrique
Camerana, a United States Drug Enforcement Administration officer slain in
Mexico last year.

The off-duty Mexican officers blindfolded Mr. Verdugo and carried him to the
border, according to a law officer with direct knowledge of the incident, where
they ''shoved him through the fence,'' at Calexico, southeast of San Diego.
There he was arrested by the Border Patrol. Since then he has been testifying
before a Federal grand jury.

Cost Is About Same, He Says

''We paid the Mexicans about $50,000, what we normally pay for bringing in a
fugitive,'' the official added. ''With things the way they are in Mexico, we
never would have gotten him out otherwise.''

American officials say corruption is only part of the problem. In addition,
Mexican officials are reluctant to seem overtly helpful, particularly on the
issue of illegal immigration, for fear of political damage at home.

Access to the United States employment market is a political and economic
''safety valve for Mexico, and obviously they are satisfied with that,'' said
Mr. Nelson. As a result, said Mr. Eliason, chief of the border patrol in San
Diego, ''Mexican law enforcement just can't be seen doing much to help.''

With Mexico's economy continuing to deteriorate and relations between the two
countries tense, Mr. Eliason said, Mexican authorities ''have very little
incentive to help us now.''

If, as expected, Mexico's economic troubles continue to grow, he added, ''they
will probably have even less.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Second of two articles on problems along the U.S.-Mexico border.

GRAPHIC: photo of Border Patrol agents searching Mexicans who entered the U.S.
illegally (NYT/Alan Decker)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 2, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

TESTIMONY ENDED IN TRIAL ON ALIENS

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 760 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., April 1


The Federal Government began closing arguments today in the trial of 11 church
workers who provided sanctuary to illegal aliens by asserting the case should be
viewed as routine smuggling and nothing more.

The Assistant United States Attorney, Donald M. Reno, said jurors should base
their decision solely on the issue of whether the church members were involved
in ''aiding and abetting'' the illegal immigration of Central American refugees
into the United States. The Government has said the defendants were involved in
an ''alien smuggling conspiracy of major dimensions.''

Lawyers for the 11 church workers, including two Roman Catholic priests, a nun
and a Protestant minister, have said their clients acted out of religious and
humanitarian concerns in accordance with Federal immigration laws. They also
contend the prosecution failed to show there was any smuggling conspiracy.

''The drafters of the Constitution and this court and the law of this land do
not permit people to commit criminal acts, and then say it was a religious
example,'' Mr. Reno told the jury. ''No, that's not the law.''

Future of the Movement

At issue, to some degree, is the future of the sanctuary movement, which has
grown to include more than 300 churches and synagogues offering protection to
Central American refugees.

But lawyers say the trial has hinged on much narrower issues as it has
developed.

Part of that, lawyers for the defendants said, is a result of rulings by Federal
District Judge Earl Carroll who has consistently ruled out defense attempts to
testify on religious or humanitarian issues or conditions in Central America.

In addition, the smuggling charges, which have been reduced from 71 counts to 30
in the course of the trial, have hinged on technical aspects of immigration law,
the lawyers said. #19 Prosecution Witnesses Mr. Reno, who presented 19 witnesses
in 14 weeks of Government testimony, began his closing arguments today by
discussing about 15 of the 52 items in the judge's instructions to the jurors.
He said the items involved the ''essence and core of the Government's case.''

Mr. Reno said the Government's case hinged on the relatively simple issue of
whether the defendants had formed a conspiracy to help immmigrants enter this
country without going through proper immigration procedures.

He said the fact that the aliens might have felt that they were fleeing
persecution had no bearing on the case. The defendants have said they were
acting in accordance with the Congressional Refugee Act of 1980, which grants
safe haven to those with a ''well-founded fear of persecution.''

But Mr. Reno said the idea that an alien was a refugee and thus entitled to
enter the country without presenting himself to the immigration authorities was
a ''mistake of law.''

A Criminal Partnership

''When you are an alien, you present yourself at the border,'' he said. ''That
is the law of the land and there is no exception to it.''

He went on to reiterate the Government's contention that the church members
constituted a conspiracy, a criminal partnership to violate immigration laws.

After Mr. Reno concludes his closing arguments, the jury will hear arguments
from the 11 lawyers representing the defendants. The lawyers said that could
take up most of the next two weeks. The case will then go to the jury.

The defense, in a surprise move, rested its case March 14 without calling anyone
from its list of 150 potential witnesses. Lawyers for the 11 defendants said
they had decided not to call any witnesses because of what they termed serious
flaws in the Government's case.

Contradictions in Testimony

In particular, they cited repeated contradictions in the testimony of the
prosecution's main witness, Jesus Cruz, who infiltrated churches in the Federal
investigation.

Lawyers for the defense said the Government's closing arguments reflected the
narrowed scope of the prosecution's case. They said the Government had never
come close to proving its original contention the defendants were operating an
''underground railroad'' to smuggle aliens into the country.

''Their case has taken on an amorphous quality,'' said James J. Brosnahan, one
of the defense lawyers. ''It's come down to an aiding an abetting case. That
seems like a far cry from when they got started.''

Defense lawyers said they would focus on the weaknesses of the Government's
case. They say only one count actually alleges the transporting of aliens. The
others center on the alleged conspiracy to shelter and import aliens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Donald M. Reno

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 23, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

BRIEFING;
Border Lines

BYLINE: By Wayne King and Warren Weaver Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 148 words


The most fascinating Congressional invitation of the month was received the
other day by Representative Morris K. Udall, Democrat of Arizona, from Harold W.
Ezell, Western regional commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. Mr. Ezell asked the Congressman to tour the United States-Mexico border
near San Diego over Memorial Day weekend with him to observe his contention that
''we have lost control of our southern border.''

''People from all over the world, knowing how easy it is to jump our border, are
swarming to Mexico and to the border,'' Mr. Ezell wrote. ''This past year we
have apprehended illegal aliens from Congress, we hope you share our concern and
I think it is vital that you view this crisis firsthand, and it will be an
experience you won't soon forget.''

A Udall aide said the Congressman had a big laugh over the invitation, then
declined.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 8, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

'MEXICAN TAPES,' ON ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By NINA DARNTON

SECTION: Section C; Page 18, Column 4; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 515 words


AS part of its monthlong tribute to immigrants - a birthday present to Lady
Liberty -Channel 13 will broadcast ''El Gringo'' at 10 o'clock tonight. It is
the start of a four-part series called ''The Mexican Tapes: A Chronicle of Life
Outside the Law.'' The first episode, about illegal Mexican immigrants living in
a southern California neighborhood they call La Colonia, shows good intentions
but, unfortunately, has little else to recommend it.

In the opening sequence, Louis Hock, the narrator and producer, introduces us to
the Analos Apartments, where he and his Mexican friends and neighbors live. He
focuses on three families, whom he videotapes and photographs as they attempt to
carve out a new life for themselves; at work, at home, at the birth of their
children. He also tells about the immigrants' worst enemy - La Migra - the
dreaded immigration police. Border Patrols, he says, periodically come into the
neighborhood making sweeps, arresting and deporting illegal immigrants.

''The tape images I'm getting are frightening,'' Mr. Hock says. ''I wish it
would just stop. I can't get a photo of Jews and the boxcars out of my dreams.''
But the images we see are merely a series of still black-and-white photographs:
one is of a police officer in uniform, another is of a policeman escorting a man
to a car. The man's head is bowed.

The implication of the narration is so out of line both with the images on the
screen and with the reality of deportation that it does a disservice to Mr.
Hock's cause - which is to show the immigrants' plight - by overstating it to
the point of the ridiculous.

The documentary has no strong center - its images are often unfocused and its
editing is disjointed. The point of view is so subjective and unsophisticated -
and ingenuousness is evident throughout both in content and in style - that the
film provides almost no perspective, overview or intellectual framework.

In one sequence, Mr. Hock discusses one of his friends. ''Cande told me that
people who save their money have a lot of anxiety,'' he says as the camera shows
catalogues with pictures of cars and digital watches, ''so he spends all his
money. He says that's how he's exploring America.''

Mr. Hock has touched here on a problem common to many of the urban poor, a part
of a phenomenon Oscar Lewis, the anthropologist who wrote about Mexico's poor,
called ''the culture of poverty.'' But there is no reference to any larger
point. There is no attempt to relate this way of thinking to problems that
surface later in the film when the families complain that they don't have enough
money to live well, to save or to send any money home.

There is a kind of enthusiasm about this film that is somewhat refreshing. Mr.
Hock finds it exciting to live in a different culture. He shares with us his
discovery that all people do not think the same way, or that illegal immigrants
who speak minimal English have a hard time. It's a bit like watching someone
learn that the earth moves around the sun. It's a fascinating revelation, but
most of us experienced it long ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 11, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

ANTI-COMMUNISM CALLED THE THREAD BINDING GROUP THAT CAPTURED ALIENS

BYLINE: By DUDLEY CLENDINEN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1273 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, July 10


A little more than three years ago, four members of the Alabama National Guard,
frustrated by their perception of the Communist menace, unsatisfied by
individual experience with the Ku Klux Klan and the John Birch Society, and
unable to find any other organization that they felt would allow them to combat
Communism, formed their own group to supply and assist anti-Communist forces in
Central America.

They named their group Civilian Military Assistance. At first they gathered
ammunition for the government forces in El Salvador. Then when they shifted
their focus to the rebels in Nicaragua and discovered that shipping them arms
would be a violation of the Neutrality Act, they concentrated on supplying
equipment and training.

One of the four founders, Dana Parker, a Huntsville police detective, was killed
along with another member of the group and a rebel on Sept. 1, 1984, when the
helicopter they had flown across the Honduran border was shot down by Nicaraguan
soldiers.

Patrol Captures Aliens

This past weekend the organization, using the name Civilian Materiel Assistance,
a change made to help it apply for tax-deductible status, came into the news
once again. Conducting an armed patrol along the Arizona-Mexican border, 19 of
its members captured 16 illegal aliens, drawing sharp criticism from the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Thomas Vincent Posey, the organization's national director, interviewed
Wednesday at his home near Decatur, Ala., described the patrol as an attempt to
intercept drug traffickers whose profits go to the Communists, and said the
action made him proud.

''Dadgum right,'' he said. ''Proud as a peacock in a cornfield. Because it's
Americans standing up and doing something.''

The patrol's leader, J. R. Hagan, a repossessor of cars in Tucson, ''plans on
doing more,'' Mr. Posey said. ''He has our full backing.''

Two Members Resigning

But today, two members who had been part of the border action said they were
resigning from the group because the way the patrol had been armed and conducted
was dangerous, because it had penetrated into Mexican territory and because they
had been misled about its purpose.

''I am resigning because I feel that the well-being of civilians and C.M.A.
members was endangered,'' said Floyd Arnold Blaylock, a veteran and sometime
mercenary in Central America who said he had belonged to the group for several
months. ''Weapons were handed out to people who in my opinion were not
competent.''

Mr. Blaylock said that of the 19 people on the patrol, he thought only five were
qualified to handle firearms. He said he personally disarmed one man he felt was
unable to handle the stress.

Mr. Blaylock, who told of leading one of four patrol sorties, said the 16 aliens
the members encountered Saturday night included women and children who were
forced to stand for 90 minutes with their hands in the air and their legs
spread. He said that the patrols had placed wooden timbers in the road with
nails upright as booby traps, and that those were what had stopped the aliens'
vehicles. He said further that the patrols carried automatic weapons and
sophisticated surveillance equipment, and that at one point they advanced more
than four kilometers into Mexican territory.

Charges Denied by Leader

Mr. Hagan, the C.M.A. leader in Tucson, denied the charges, saying the mission
was only to ''observe, document and report illegal activities.'' He also said
the vehicles transporting the illegal Mexican aliens had stopped because they
experienced mechanical failure.

''We aproached what we thought were two abandoned vehicles to see if there were
any drugs in them and suddenly the illegals froze in our spotlights,'' Mr. Hagan
said.

But Brad Wright, a 25-year-old Tucson carpenter who said the patrol was his
first C.M.A. experience, disagreed with that account. Describing himself as a
former marine who went along for the excitement but would not do it again, Mr.
Wright said: ''I can't trust them. They lied about what happened. If our mission
was to report, document and observe, why do we need military codes and guns?''

Mr. Hagan, a burly 37-year-old man who said he was a former Army sergeant with
experience in training men for combat in Vietnam, pledged that the group's
methods would change.

''We don't want people in this country to think that we are a bunch of gun
nuts,'' he said. ''We are going to patrol from now on without guns and with
cameras. We don't need guns to observe.

Membership Put at 5,000

Like Mr. Hagan and his two critics from the controversial patrol, 75 per cent of
the C.M.A.'s membership are military veterans, Mr. Posey said. And like the
members of that patrol, the organization appears to be made up of frustrated men
seeking a purpose somewhere between armed vigil and the peaceful supply of
material to distant civilian and armed forces.

Mr. Posey, a former produce dealer who says he now makes a living selling coins
from a collection begun years ago, said that in the beginning the C.M.A. was
made up ''mostly'' of National Guardsmen. Now, he said, guardsmen probably
account for ''only 5 percent at most'' of the group's membership, which he put
at 5,000. The organization has active members in the Army, Navy, Marine Corps
and Air Force who are paying dues of $30 a year to the group, he said. The
current manager of its sole national office, in Memphis, is a retired Marine
master sergeant, he said, and the former executive director was ''a retired
full-bird colonel in the Special Forces.''

As many as 10 per cent of its members are in it ''for adventure,'' Mr. Posey
said, as he sat in a den lined with plaques and pictures from his Marine Corps
and National Guard service. But most, he said, are conservatives like himself,
who are concerned about the threat of Communism.

''Their ultimate goal, as everyone knows,'' he said, ''is to overthrow the
United States.''

He said C.M.A. members, all described as unpaid volunteers, mostly spend their
time gathering boots, ponchos and other clothing and equipment for shipment from
the New Orleans airport to ''the freedom fighters'' in Honduras and Nicaragua.

Tells of Witnessing Action

But Mr. Posey has been to Central America to visit the forces he is supplying
''about eight times,'' he said. He has been amidst gunfire and the wounded, he
said, and his involvement clearly gives him a satisfaction he did not find
elsewhere.

''In my younger days I did know Klansmen,'' he said. ''I've even been to a
couple of Klan meetings. But I got tired of them. I was even a John Bircher,''
he said, ''but their way of stopping Communism and mine were different.''

The experience of Lee Fuller, the Georgia director of the orgnization, echoes
that of Mr. Posey. Mr. Fuller, a carpenter by training, came from Louisiana,
from a blue-collar culture where the Klan was strong. He knew the local leader
as a boy of 15, Mr. Fuller said. In the gas station that served as the Klan
headquarters, he said, ''You had handcuffs and sawed-off shotguns and all that
baloney all over the wall. And they seemed so hateful and ignorant. I found very
quickly that wasn't the area I wanted.''

The death of Representative Larry P. McDonald of Georgia, a John Birch Society
member killed in the downing of a Korean Air Lines jet by a Soviet fighter in
1984, moved Mr. Fuller to join the C.M.A. His garage is full of clothing and
other non-armament goods ready for shipment to Central America, he said. ''We're
basically honest in what we're trying to do,'' he said. ''And we're trying to
stay within the law if it's humanly possible.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Thomas Vincent Posey (NYT/Scott Henry)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 7, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
119 Aliens Are Arrested Living Under Highways

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 136 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 6


Federal agents arrested 119 suspected illegal aliens from an encampment under a
freeway interchange today and found jewelry and other property believed to have
been stolen, the authorities said.

The raid early this morning was a response to complaints about burglaries in
nearby houses, said a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
Joe Flanders.

None of the Mexican nationals arrested was able to produce valid citizenship or
residency documents and all were taken to the immigration service's processing
center downtown pending deportation, he said.

The people had been living for some time atop an embankment beneath the
intersection of interstates 10 and 405, he said. A search of the encampment 10
miles west of downtown Los Angeles turned up jewelry, cassette tapes and other
property.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 8, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

HONG KONG JOURNAL;
ENSNARED AND RETURNED: CHINA'S MIGRANT YOUNG

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 936 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG


A siren sounded at 2:45 P.M., as it does every day, and two buses slowly rolled
from beneath a British flag to beneath a Chinese one.

Fifty-five Chinese men and women who had illegally entered Hong Kong were on the
buses, gliding away from families and economic opportunities in Hong Kong to the
prospect of fines or prison in China.

''We sympathize with them,'' Joseph Cheung, the Hong Kong police officer in
charge of the Man Kam To border crossing, said as he watched the daily
repatriation. ''But if we allowed them in, we would have many thousands coming
in, and we cannot accommodate them all.''

And so each day Hong Kong returns to China the illegal immigrants it catches.
Even though Hong Kong is itself a territory of immigrants from China, there is
virtually no disagreement about the policy of searching for and returning
illegal immigrants from China.

A glimmer of doubt has arisen, however, about the practice of sending back
children, even infants, who arrive illegally to join families that are already
legally in Hong Kong.

Allowed to Take One Child

The question arises because couples that are permitted to leave China for Hong
Kong are normally allowed to take just one child with them. They leave their
other children behind, hoping they can later be smuggled into Hong Kong.

Although some officials are said to worry that it is harsh to break up families
by sending back illegal child immigrants, the Immigration Department says it is
not reviewing its policy of forced repatriation.

Indeed, the Government is considering going a step further by punishing parents
who permit their illegal-immigrant children to stay with them. Current law
provides a fine or imprisonment for helping illegal immigrants in exchange for
money; the proposal would provide the penalties for assisting them for any
reason.

At least a handful of children have died when Hong Kong policemen tried to catch
them as they were being smuggled in. Four children died last year, for example,
when a police boat rammed and sank the flimsy boat in which they were fleeing.

Thousands Arrested This Year

Hong Kong officials insist that they are not callous in returning children to
China, and that only by maintaining an inflexible policy can they avoid being
inundated with immigrants. As it is, about 17,000 illegal immigrants were
arrested in the first 10 months of this year, more than in all of 1985.

About 475 of this year's total were children, a bit more than last year.

Although there is a vigorous debate in the United States about immigration
policy, and many organizations help illegal immigrants, there is little such
debate and no such organization in Hong Kong.

The local slang for illegal immigrants is yun se, or human snakes, and those who
transport them are called se tau, or snakeheads. The term derived from the
stealthy way in which illegal immigrants sneak into the territory, residents
say, but they acknowledge that it can be derogatory.

Although in general the attitude toward illegal immigrants seems to be mild
sympathy, laced with mild disdain for their lack of sophistication, some Hong
Kong Chinese object that illegal immigrants are not prepared to work hard but
expect to be handed the riches they see around them.

The most common explanation by Hong Kong residents for their stance is that the
territory already has 5.5 million residents on just 410 square miles.

Policy Begun in 1980

In the three years before the repatriation policy was introduced in 1980,
180,000 illegal immigrants asked to become permanent residents. Such levels of
immigration are untenable, residents say.

''We sympathize, but we have our own problems,'' said Alfred Ho, an officer of
the Government Information Services. ''What can we do?''

In addition, some say that to accept illegal immigrants would offend China, a
powerful neighbor and future landlord of Hong Kong.

The punishment that illegal immigrants face on their return depends on their
home province. Typically they are fined about $90, a substantial sum in China,
but recently there have been reports of three-month prison sentences in some
cases, to deter skilled urban workers from leaving for Hong Kong.

For most parents in Hong Kong, arranging for a child to be smuggled to the
territory begins with the payment of a sum ranging from a few hundred dollars to
$2,000 to a smuggler who passes along part of the money to a partner on the
other side of the border. A Chinese criminal gang is believed to be involved in
the smuggling on both sides of the border.

By Boat at Night

Typically the child is first taken to Shenzhen, a Chinese border city, but even
this takes some craft, because special permission is normally required for
Chinese to go to a special economic zone such as Shenzhen. Once the permission
is arranged, or the child is smuggled to Shenzhen, a smuggler arranges
transportation to Hong Kong, usually by boat at night.

Hong Kong residents say most of the illegal immigrants are drawn by economic
opportunities rather than political repression.

Some of them apparently find the way of life addictive. They find a way back
even if they are returned to China.

In Macao, a Portuguese enclave 40 miles southwest of Hong Kong that faces the
same problem of illegal immigrants, a Government official tells of a neighbor
whose maid was an illegal immigrant from China. One day she disappeared.

A few days later she telephoned -from China. She had been arrested and
repatriated, she said, but he should not hire a new maid. She would be back in a
few days, she assured him, and indeed she was.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of border separating Hong Kong and China (NYT/Nicholas D.
Kristof)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 16, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

COLUMN ONE: CAPITAL REPORT;
'Meeting of Minds' On Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By ESTHER B. FEIN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 776 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


If Mayor Koch has his way - and all indications are that he will - illegal
aliens convicted of drug-related offenses will soon be deported from the Rikers
Island jail before completing their sentences.

The program was first proposed by the Mayor in a meeting here last month with
officials from the Justice Department and the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

''We would free up jail space, we'd save a lot of money and their own countries
would have to worry about them, and wouldn't that be nice,'' was the Mayor's
pitch - and Federal officials apparently bought it.

The idea is now ''a program in progress,'' said the Mayor's criminal-justice
coordinator, Kevin B. Frawley, who met last week with Immigration and Justice
officials and said final details could be announced in January.

''There was a real meeting of minds on all the issues,'' said the eastern
regional commissioner for the immigration service, Stanley E. McKinley. ''If
everything hangs in place, like funding, we're prepared not to be bureaucratic
about getting this program going.''

Offenders must now serve their full sentences before being deported. The new
program would parole aliens directly to the immigration service for deportation
after a minimum time is served. The aliens have a right to a hearing and an
appeal, Mr. Frawley noted, ''so we don't know how much jail time we'll save the
city.'' ''But we will get them out of the country faster,'' he said. Mr. Frawley
puts the number of such aliens ''in the hundreds.''

INFORMATION, QUICK AND EASY
 The text of the Encyclopedia Britannica could soon be transmitted across New
York State in a minute, now that the Federal Transportation Department is on the
verge of approving Governor Cuomo's plan to install a fiber-optics
communications cable along the Gov. Thomas E. Dewey Thruway.

The newfangled cable needed some old-fashioned lobbying by the Governor, who
asked that certain rules be waived to allow its installation. New York officials
say the cable would help attract high-tech industry.

Transportation Secretary Elizabeth Hanford Dole was initially opposed to waiving
Federal Highway Administration rules that restrict access to Interstate Highway
rights of way. But according to the Governor's counsel here, Brad Johnson, and
officials at the Transportation Department and the Office of Management and
Budget, Mrs. Dole has sent proposed regulatory changes that would clear the way
for the project to the Office of Management and Budget for review.

The New York decision may have a much broader national impact, one Dole aide
said.

PRIMARY LEAP-FROG
 Democratic and Republican leaders in New Jersey have agreed to move up their
primary day as a way to make the state more important in the Presidential
primaries, according to Republican Party leaders here and officials in the New
Jersey legislature. The actual date has not been selected. New Jersey has often
been ignored in the Presidential election process. Its primary -on June 5 in
1984 -falls after Super Tuesday in March, when 17 states hold primaries or
caucuses, on the same day as California's and usually too late for it to be
relevant. Last January, Governor Kean asked a bipartisan panel to look into
changing primary day. The decision - earlier is better - is expected to be
announced soon.

''It would enhance our role in the process,'' said a Kean spokesman, John
Samerjan.

FRIENDS IN HIGH PLACES
 Mr. Kean's interest in the election may be more than just strengthening the
state's role. His name surfaces often as a Vice-Presidential prospect in 1988,
and though he says he is ''not running for Vice President,'' his aides do note
Mr. Kean has close ties to several potential Republican Presidential nominees.

Mr. Kean has known Vice President Bush ''for 30 years,'' Mr. Samerjan said.
''Their fathers were friends.'' His connection with Senator Bob Dole dates to
1976, when Mr. Kean was New Jersey campaign manager for the Ford-Dole
Presidential ticket. He has known another possible candidate, Howard Baker,
''since their fathers served together on Ways and Means,'' Mr. Samerjan said.
And Representative Jack Kemp of Buffalo endorsed Mr. Kean in the 1981 Republican
guberatorial primary, the aide said, ''and since primary endorsements are rare,
you don't forget that soon.''

But one well-known Republican consultant said some of those pairings could
actually ''nullify the chance for a successful ticket.'' He said Mr. Kemp and
Mr. Kean are ''geographically'' not suited: both are from the Northeast. And Mr.
Bush and Mr. Kean are ''socio-economically'' mismatched: they would be ''too
preppy a pair.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Governor Kean (UPI)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             December 17, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

PUERTO RICO SEEN AS BACKDOOR PIPELINE FOR ALIENS FLEEING DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1451 words

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, P.R., Dec. 15


An unstemmed tide of illegal immigrants from the Dominican Republic courses
through Puerto Rico every day, headed directly for New York or staying here to
work for substandard wages.

It is a backdoor pipeline of illegal immigration to the United States mainland
that has existed for years as Dominicans sought relief from economic hardship on
their Caribbean island of Hispaniola, which the Dominican Republic shares with
the poverty-stricken nation of Haiti. But the rate of illegal immigration has
picked up in recent years and has probably surpassed the peak levels of the late
1970's, experts on Hispanic immigration say.

The Dominicans are brought to Puerto Rico by smugglers in dangerously overloaded
boatloads across Mona Passage, which separates the two islands, covering the
treacherous 75 miles of open water under the cover of darkness.

Moreover, since September the United States Immigration and Naturalization
Service's unit in Puerto Rico has been virtually cut off from operating funds to
detain and deport illegal immigrants, according to William L. Bryan, deputy
director of the immigration office in San Juan, which has responsibility for
Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands of the United States.

Some 800 illegal aliens who have been picked up or turned over to the
authorities in the last few months had to be released because there was no money
to care for them or pay for the cost of sending them back to the Dominican
Republic, Mr. Bryan said.

A thousand or more Dominicans are smuggled into Puerto Rico every month,
according to immigration service reports, and less than 15 percent are
eventually picked up.

Strain on Island's Services

The growing presence of Dominicans in Puerto Rico, now estimated to be at least
5 percent of the commonwealth's population, or a minimum of 150,000, is imposing
a strain on the island's municipal and social services, commonwealth officials
reported. At least 30,000 of those living in Puerto Rico will qualify for
naturalization under the provisions of the new immigration law.

''Once they are legal I think most of them would head straight to New York,''
Mr. Bryan said in an interview.

Growing numbers of Dominicans have been bottled up here because reaching the
island by boat is only the first step in the journey to New York.

Immigration agents make spot checks of passengers boarding planes at San Juan
International Airport bound for the mainland United States. But thousands of
Dominicans every year get past the agents with false documents, or simply slip
by unnoticed. Others are able to get aboard container ships headed for mainland
ports, in some cases paying crew members to look the other way, immigration
agents said.

The smuggling of Dominicans across Mona Passage has been largely obscured by the
saga of desperate Haitians trying to reach the United States from Hispaniola.
For the Dominicans the trip is far shorter but quite dangerous, the immigration
service said.

For fees ranging from $500 to $5,000, a Dominican seeking to reach Puerto Rico
can choose from a variety of services, ranging from being dumped at night on the
Puerto Rican coast to passage to a safe house in San Juan, where he will be
provided with false documents and an airline ticket and then safely escorted
around immigration agents at the airport and placed on a plane bound for New
York.

''It is usually a Dominican family in New York who puts up the cash to get a
poor relative out,'' Mr. Bryan said, adding that the alien is then expected to
work to pay the cost of his passage.

But the immigration office here is so strapped for resources to intercept
illegal aliens that the price of what Mr. Bryan calls ''the first-class
treatment'' hardly seems worth it.

In the current fiscal quarter, which began Oct. 1, the office's budget for
detention, welfare and repatriation is $500. ''Hardly enough to pay for feeding
the Dominicans we catch,'' Mr. Bryan said, ''and nothing to detain or deport
them.''

The office had requested $83,000 for the quarter. It was told that cuts under
the budget-balancing law that President Reagan signed last December, as well as
expenditures connected with the imprisonment of Cuban refugees detained for
crimes committed in the United States after they arrival in Florida in 1980, had
drastically undercut the enforcement arm of his operations, Mr. Bryan said.

Moreover, the antismuggling squad for Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands was
recently reduced from five to four investigators.

Dangerous Boat Trip Recalled

The result is that when the Dominicans are picked up, they are not detained or
sent back home on a ferry. Instead, they are given an official-looking notice
instructing them to appear for a deportation hearing in 30 days. Not
surprisingly, few if any ever comply, Mr. Bryan said.

Juan Mendez, a 27-year old Dominican, is perhaps typical of those who boarded a
boat for a dangerous ride to Puerto Rico.

''Everyone was sick on the voyage,'' he recalled in an interview. Once safely
landed, he reached San Juan and settled in Toabaja, a section of the city with
many squatters.

He said he had worked for a while with the Navy, repairing and painting fences
before finding a better job as a $5-an-hour construction worker.

All went well for him until early last Saturday. At a party, drinking too much,
he mistook a cup of liquid household cleaner for his drink. Sickened, he went to
a hospital emergency room for treatment. When he could not produce a Social
Security number for payment, he was detained by a police officer on duty at the
hospital.

Questioned at the Airport

Fourteen hours later, he was dropped off at the immigration service's section at
San Juan International Airport and questioned by the officer on duty. Mr. Mendez
told the officer he had been in Puerto Rico since 1981 but had no documents to
support his claim.

Nevertheless, he was released with the admonition to report this week for a
hearing on his case. Smiling but still shaken by his ordeal, Mr. Mendez walked
free.

Illegal immigration from the Dominican Republic has been going strong for the
last 10 years, but there is some evidence to suggest that it has picked up since
1980.

Douglas Gurak of Fordham University's Hispanic Research Center said it was at
least as strong as the late 1970's and early 1980's.

Mr. Bryan said the situation should be helped by an emergency allocation of
$150,000 made available to help stem the flow of illegal Dominicans. Moreover,
the new immigration law will make other resources available, including the
creation of a Border Patrol station on Puerto Rico's west coast.

'The Situation Is Ludicrous'

The facility, the first Border Patrol unit established outside the continental
United States, is scheduled to open next summer and will provide a 50-man staff,
a 100-bed detention camp, three patrol boats and two aircraft, Mr. Bryan said,
But for the moment, he added, ''the situation is ludicrous.''

The immigration service has no detention facility, no boats and no planes. It
has to wait for a tip from Coast Guard or naval fliers who happen to spot
immigrant-laden boats crossing the Mona Passage and ask local police officers to
pick up the aliens on the beach.

Mr. Bryan said no one has a clear understanding of how many Dominicans have
drowned while trying to reach Puerto Rico. But casualties are inevitable because
of the turbulent sea and the flimsy construction of the smugglers' boats.

Dominicans have washed up on Mona Island, 18 miles off the west coast of Puerto
Rico, and have wandered without food and water for days until they were
evacuated by helicopter by Puerto Rican law-enforcement agencies, which are
reimbursed by the Federal Government.

Once they land on Puerto Rico, however, the Spanish-speaking Dominicans have
little trouble in making their way to San Juan, most likely to Santurce, a
crime-ridden neighborhood of cheap housing.

The Dominicans are willing to take menial jobs below the $3.35 minimum hourly
wage in Puerto Rico. Back home, officials said, their wage scale is under $1 an
hour. On an island where some 60 percent of the population qualifies for Federal
food stamps, Dominicans have been able to tap into social programs and public
housing, straining existing government services, officials say.

It is estimated that 30,000 or more Dominicans in Puerto Rico will qualify for
naturalization under the provisions of the new immigration law. The new law
allows illegal aliens who entered the United States or its territories by 1981
to seek American citizenship.

Thousands of other illegal aliens will probably seek to qualify with false
documents and resident cards, Mr. Bryan said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Juan Mendez (NYT/Angel Franco); Map shows location of Mona
Island (NYT)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 24, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AS NEW U.S. LAW SINKS IN, MANY ALIENS WANT OUT

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1468 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Feb. 23


In April 1982 Irineo Jaimes and his wife, Eustolia, paid $500 to smugglers who
helped them across the Rio Grande from Piedras Negras, Mexico, to Eagle Pass,
Tex., and eventually to Houston, where they have resided, worked and given birth
to two daughters.

For a time they dreamed of starting a business, but now their plans are much
simpler: to return home to the communal farm in the central Mexican state of
Michoacan where Mr. Jaimes's family lives at subsistence level by harvesting
corn and sesame. Mr. Jaimes said most of his friends from Michoacan planned to
go home, too.

''Before, if you were caught, you could leave and then return,'' said Mr.
Jaimes, a 23-year-old who has two part-time jobs here. ''But now you don't have
anything to come back to.''

New Law Dims Job Prospects

Behind their new plans is the nation's new immigration law, which offers legal
status for illegal aliens who have lived in this country continuously since
before Jan. 1, 1982. For the Jaimeses and many others who do not qualify,
however, the job prospects that helped draw them to this country now seem dim,
and tens of thousands are confronting the possibility of having to leave.

That is because the new law also prohibits employers from hiring foreign
nationals who are in this country illegally. For the first time, employers face
fines and possible imprisonment for hiring such people, and the employers seem
to be taking the law seriously. Some have even laid off illegal aliens hired
before the law took effect Nov. 6, although the law allows continued employment
for those with jobs.

Aliens and groups that work with them around the nation say that so far there
has been more fear and confusion than emigration. Many aliens are staying where
they are for now, believing that the law will probably not be enforced
rigorously enough to change their lives radically or that their home countries
offer too little to warrant any thought of returning. But some aliens have
already left and others are planning to.

'It Seems Hopeless to Them'

Many, particularly Salvadorans, have been desperately fleeing to Canada.
Immigration officials there tend to view them as political refugees rather than
deportable illegal immigrants, although Canadian policies were tightened Friday
in an effort to curb abuse. Other aliens, like Mr. and Mrs. Jaimes, are
reluctantly planning to return home, where the economic prospects they fled have
only become worse since they left.

''It seems hopeless to them,'' said Ralph Carrasco, director of the Centro de
Informacion, a Hispanic community center in Tyler, Tex. ''I know six families
that just packed up and left. The media keeps telling them to wait, but they
aren't able to find work or get solid information about it. One of the last
families who came by here to see me said the biggest business to get into is
suitcases.''

The stories of those who have left or are planning to leave vary greatly, but
they share a fear of not being able to support themselves under the new law.

There are Jesus and Maria, two Bolivians who have lived in Houston illegally
since March 1982 and asked that their last name not be used. They have two
children on the honor roll in the public schools, a comfortable apartment full
of new furniture and both have jobs. He worked as an accountant in Bolivia and
as a bartender here. She works for a home-building company.

No Loan for a Business

He feels certain he will not be able to keep his bartending job indefinitely,
and last month he tried to buy a liquor store but could not get a loan.

They now plan to sell their furniture, return to Santa Cruz, Bolivia, and then
move to Brazil, which is home to thousands of Bolivian immigrants.

There is Trancito Marroquin, a 23-year-old Salvadoran who has lived in New York
since 1983, after fleeing the continuing unrest in his native country. He has
worked his way up from dishwasher to busboy to his present job as a waiter at an
Italian restaurant in Hoboken.

''I probably can't stay a long time here,'' he said in a recent interview. ''So
I decided that I should go to Canada because in Canada I will have much more
chance of staying out of El Salvador.''

'People Are Really Scared'

There are Suheil Sobarzo, Sylvia Vargas, Carlos Lucero and Juana Isabel
Cervantes, four former students in Anna Woolfolk's bilingual third-grade class
in Tucson, Ariz. Ms. Woolfolk said all returned with their families to Mexico
after the law was passed. They left because their fathers had no documentation
to allow them to work, according to other students in the class.

''A lot of people are really scared,'' Ms. Woolfolk said. ''The stories run like
old wives' tales. One of my students came in and said, 'My dad says we have to
leave because of the war.' I said, 'What war?' He said, 'The war the United
States declared against Mexico.' That's what they think. And this is how they
see it. They think that it's a rampage.''

Still, if some are going, groups that work with illegal aliens say the majority
are taking a wait-and-see attitude toward the new law. Much of the reason is
economic. Even if life becomes tougher here, any work in the United States will
pay far better than comparable work in Mexico.

The Rev. Gregory Boyle, pastor of the overwhelmingly Hispanic Dolores Mission in
East Los Angeles, said he was counseling aliens not to leave the country until
the law's effects became clearer.

While some Mexicans appear to be going back, he said, others are continuing to
come into the United States, despite the new law.

'No Intention of Returning'

Most Mexicans are too aware of the worsening economics of their own country to
move back there, he said. ''One of the emotions is kind of a denial,'' said
Father Boyle, a Roman Catholic. ''One woman told me, 'I can't go back. I can't
scrape up enough money in Mexico to buy a tortilla.' ''

Mexicans have played cat and mouse games with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service for generations. They are thus less likely than Salvadorans, who have
little experience with United States immigration laws, to panic about the new
one, immigration lawyers and counselors say.

'Seen Laws Come and Go'

''Most of my clients are staying,'' said Ruben Montemayor, an immigration lawyer
in San Antonio. ''You have to remember that undocumented workers have been in
South Texas for hundreds of years. They've seen laws come and go. They're not
leaving.''

How much emigration of aliens from the United States will occur may become more
apparent in May and June, when the law will be in full force as the Government
starts to take aliens' applications for legal status and to impose penalties
against employers.

''Somehow the image has gotten across from the Spanish press, television and
radio - on May 5 if you are Mexican don't walk on the street,'' said Kalman
Resnick, an immigration lawyer in Chicago. ''If this is what really happens,
then they will go back. They won't be able to work, and they won't have a way to
support themselves.''

Uncertainty About Enforcement

Mr. Resnick said uncertainty about how strictly the law would be enforced and
the easy availability of false documents to support employment and amnesty
applications were making many aliens skeptical that the new law would
dramatically change their lives here.

''If people perceive that by presenting false documents nothing really changes,
and if enforcement by the Government is not tremendously different than it was
beforehand, then it won't be that different,'' he said. ''The difficulty of life
in the third world will counter the reality of the law.''

Immigration experts say that while the new law is undoubtedly a factor in
aliens' emigration plans, economic troubles in some localities, such as Houston,
are probably also playing a role, making it that much harder for aliens to
retain or find jobs. And the experts say that immigration has always been
extremely fluid.

Despite the aliens' fears, no one expects that the new law will completely
eliminate work in the United States for illegal aliens.

''In the cases of the menial jobs, capitalism will overrule,'' said Mark Zwick,
director of Casa Juan Diego, a service center for refugees in Houston.

And on a cultural level the allure of illegal immigration remains as strong as
ever among Hispanic people.

One of the most popular songs these days on Spanish-language radio stations is
''Juana la Mojada,'' a humorous song about a poor young Mexican woman who plays
out one illegal immigrant's version of the American dream. She wades across the
Rio Grande without a cent, finds her boyfriend, who crossed over earlier, with a
new, blond girlfriend, chases her competition off with a gun, and eventually
marries a Hollywood producer and buys a ranch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Irineo Jaimes (NYT/F. Carter Smith); Photo of Anna Woolfolk
(NYT/Terrence Moore)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 14, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

...And No Way To Treat Refugees

BYLINE: By Arthur C. Helton; Arthur C. Helton, a lawyer, is director of the
political asylum project of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights.

SECTION: Section A; Page 35, Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 714 words


A dedication ceremony will be held next week in the small town of Oakdale, in
central Louisiana. The subject will be immigration. The ceremony is not,
however, a preview of the national rededication of the Statue of Liberty and
Ellis Island scheduled for July 4. Rather, it is to commemorate the opening of
the largest immigration detention center in the country.

The increasing numbers of asylum seekers languishing in prison represent a sad
betrayal of our melting pot heritage and our tradition of providing refuge to
the poor and oppressed of all nations. Our rhetoric of compassion has broken
down in practice.

The detention of aliens was first introduced when we began to control
immigration in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Detention was integral to
the process of screening arriving aliens; it facilitated their departure if they
were denied admission. But the policy fell into disuse in the 1950's: Ellis
Island was closed to avoid what the Supreme Court later called ''needless
confinement'' and make way for more liberal practices that ''reflected the human
qualities of an enlighted civilization.''

In the 1980's, detention was revived in response to the influx of Cubans and
Haitians who came seeking political asylum. Arriving boat people and other
asylum seekers are now incarcerated even when there is no suggestion of
criminality and even if they can show that they will not abscond or pose a
security threat. To seek refuge, they are required to petition for asylum from
behind prison walls.

Aliens are incarcerated in facilities, including local jails, owned or
contracted for by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. All facilities now
include in their populations long-term detainees - most often applicants for
political asylum.

Apart from the Atlanta penitentiary, home to 1,800 Cubans, there are eight
immigration prisons with a total capacity of 2,424 people. They are situated in
Boston, New York, Miami, Houston, El Paso and border areas in Texas, Arizona and
California. The largest single group in detention, more than 700 people, is
Salvadoran, but large numbers of Haitians, Guatemalans, Nicaraguans, Iranians
and even Afghans have been incarcerated. The facility in Oakdale is the flagship
of the detention centers. It will normally house 1,000 people but has a capacity
of up to 6,000.

A detention policy is both expensive - it will cost more than $12 million to
operate Oakdale next year - and inhumane. Detainees, most of whom do not speak
English, are isolated from family and friends and unable to communicate with
other detainees or with the authorities, including medical personnel. Physical
conditions of confinement vary depending on the facility but are generally
similar to prison conditions. There is little or no social or educational
programming available. Facilities designed as short-term detention processing
centers are used increasingly to incarcerate long-term detainees. Boredom is
excruciating. Overcrowding is a recurrent problem. Hunger strikes and even
suicides are not unknown.

Why does the Administration persist in such a policy? In truth, it is designed
to do more than facilitate deportation; it is meant to deter asylum seekers from
coming to the United States. The problem with this approach is that it
effectively rules out any rational examination of asylum claims. The result is
that many people who would deserve asylum do not even try to reach our shores.
Others, equally deserving, are encouraged to leave and return to places where
they face persecution.

A more humane policy would involve putting anyone who turned up on our shores
through a sensitive review process - and instead of blindly deterring all
refugees, we would make a good-faith effort to determine which ones truly needed
asylum. Certainly, there would be no need to detain asylum seekers while they
pursued their cases unless there were evidence that they would threaten the
community or run away.

We often hear that there is a ''crisis'' of asylum in America. The problem is
not, however, that there are too many asylum seekers: That is simply not the
case. The crisis stems from our increasingly callous disregard of the right to
seek refuge - that basic human right, once at the center of our American
tradition.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 24, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

REPORT ASSAILS SECURITY LAPSES AT ALIEN CENTER

BYLINE: By ESTHER B. FEIN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 496 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 23


The detention center in lower Manhattan where aliens are held before being
deported has serious security lapses and is not equipped to deal with the
criminals who are often held there, according to a Federal report released
today.

The report, by the General Accounting Office, found that the center, at 201
Varick Street, is understaffed, with improperly trained personnel, and has
windows that are vulnerable to escape.

Two detainees escaped a week ago, apparently by breaking through a window. A
total of 31 detainees escaped in 12 incidents between April 1984 and August
1986, according to the report.

The report, which was completed last month, said personnel and structural
inadequacies were aggravated by the fact that the center was intended to
temporarily hold illegal aliens. ''Instead,'' it said, ''it has been housing an
increasing proportion of aliens with criminal backgrounds, many of them for
lengthy periods of time.''

Cubans a Problem

Many of those criminal detainees are Cubans who came to the United States during
the 1980 boatlift from Mariel, and have since been convicted of crimes. Because
the United States no longer has a repatriation agreement with Cuba, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service must detain them indefinitely.

To improve security at the Varick Street center, all 73 of the so-called
Marielitos at the center were transferred this week to a maximum-security
Federal prison in Atlanta, according to a spokesman for the immigration service,
Duke Austin.

Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New York, who requested the report,
said he was dismayed that ''dangerous criminals'' had been detained at Varick
Street, a minimum-security center.

Mr. D'Amato said that he welcomed the transfer, but added that ''there are other
serious problems at the center that must be addressed,'' such as personnel and
the plant itself.

Some Problems Said Corrected

Mr. Austin said many of the problems raised in the report had since been
corrected, including installing new windows and hiring new security guards.

Moreover, Mr. Austin said the problems caused by the Marielitos were not as
severe as at other detention centers. He said Cuban detainees had caused severe
damage to detention centers in Florence, Ariz., and Krome, Fla.

But in a letter to Mr. D'Amato, the Commissioner of Immigration and
Naturalization, Alan C. Nelson, acknowledged many of the Varick Street center
problems cited in the report.

''The overall problem as presented in the G.A.O. study,'' Mr. Nelson wrote, that
''the Service Processing Center in New York City was neither designed nor
staffed to handle a dangerous, long-term criminal population, has long been
recognized by the service.''

He further wrote that, although the windows had been upgraded, ''more
substantial measures are needed to prevent escapes.''

He also referred in his letter to the immigration service's ''inability to
maintain authorized force on duty'' at the center.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of police officers checking security outside Federal detention
center (NYT/Dith Pran)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 1, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

ALIEN DETENTION CENTER HELD INADEQUATE

BYLINE: By PETER KERR

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 631 words


The center where aliens are detained in New York City before being deported is
plagued by escapes and is not equipped to handle drug dealers or others
convicted of serious crimes who are awaiting deportation, a Federal study says.

The center, at 201 Varick Street, at King Street, in Manhattan, which houses
between 170 and 180 aliens from the New York area, had 25 escapes between June
1985 and June 1986, the report said. The majority of the escapees were convicted
criminals and 18 are still at large.

Most of the escapes were through unsecured fourth-floor windows of the building,
which houses other Federal offices. Many of the staff members are private
security guards, who have no training as correction officers.

''It is not a prison, was not meant to be a prison, but it is being operated as
a prison,'' said Allan Stapleton, an audit manager for the General Accounting
Office, the investigative arm of Congress, which did the study. ''Why should the
community around that facility and the whole city be jeopardized by the
detaining of criminals there?''

A spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Scott Blackman,
assistant district director for deportation, said he had not seen the report and
could not respond to specific charges. But he acknowledged that the center was
not designed to handle dangerous criminals and that its security guards were not
trained as correction officers.

''The nature of detained aliens has changed over the years and many now do have
criminal records,'' he said. ''As the population has changed in nature, we have
tried to change as well.''

In recent weeks, he said, the agency has put wire mesh on windows and has
attempted to find a new guard service to increase security precautions.

The New York office of the immigration service has come under growing criticism
recently from public officials who have accused the agency of not trying to
deport most aliens convicted of drug violations. Aliens make up a large
proportion of the people arrested for dealing crack, a potent form of cocaine,
law-enforcement officials say.

'A Lack of Adequate Space'

Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New York, said that as long as the
immigration service was unable to detain and properly house dangerous criminal
aliens, it would be highly limited in its ability to arrest and deport aliens
found dealing drugs and committing other serious crimes in the city.

''One of the reasons they don't go after most of the real criminals is there is
a lack of adequate space,'' he said.

The report, one of three being prepared for Senator D'Amato by the General
Accounting Office about the immigration service in New York, has not yet been
released to the public. But the Senator and workers involved in compiling the
study disclosed some of its main findings yesterday.

Opened in 1984

According to the report, an environmental impact statement in 1980 describing
plans for opening the center in the Varick Street building said the average
detainee would not be a violent or serious criminal. The center opened in 1984.
But the report said that of its 173 prisoners on April 29, 116 had criminal
backgrounds, including 77 who had been convicted of violent crimes.

The report said the staff included 40 security guards hired on contract from
Citywide Security Services, a private concern. The guards, who work with unarmed
employees from the immigration service, were not trained to handle dangerous
prisoners, it said.

The study found that in June 1986 guns were stored in a cabinet secured by a
combination lock and that the combination was written out and kept nearby.

During one review of security equipment, the report said, 17 of the 23
television monitors used for watching prisoners were not working.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 2, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

BID TO RECONSIDER ALIEN BILL BLOCKED

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 542 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 1


Republicans made a surprise move today to bring a comprehensive immigration bill
to the floor of the House of Representatives, but Democrats blocked the effort
after an impassioned debate.

Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican whip, proposed taking up the bill,
which had been considered dead as a result of House action last Friday.

His proposal was defeated, 235 to 177. Voting for it were 167 Republicans and 10
Democrats. But 230 Democrats and 5 Republicans voted against it.

By a vote of 202 to 180 last Friday, the House defeated a move to take up the
bill under a rule limiting amendments from the floor. Republicans complained
then that they had no opportunity to amend provisions relating to the use of
foreign agricultural workers in the United States. Those provisions have emerged
as the most controversial aspect of the legislation, pitting organized labor
against growers of fruit and vegetables.

Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of New Jersey, said Friday that the
bill was dead and that there was no feasible way to resurrect it.

Move for Reconsideration

Since then Democrats have accused Republicans of killing the bill. Republicans
today urged the House to reconsider its earlier action and to take up the bill
under a rule that would permit wider debate and more amendments.

In the debate today it was disclosed that House members were still trying to
negotiate a compromise to save the bill even as Congress rushed toward
adjournment. But no more votes on the legislation are scheduled, and there is no
requirement for the bill to be considered any further before Congress adjourns.

''If you think another train is leaving this station, you are sadly mistaken,''
Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr., a Florida Republican, said in the debate over
Mr. Lott's proposal. ''This is the last chance.''

The Senate passed its version of the immigration bill, 69 to 30, in September
last year. The Senate measure, like the House bill, would prohibit employers
from hiring illegal aliens and would offer legal status to illegal aliens
already in the United States. There is clear support in both houses for these
provisions, but there is no agreement on how to accommodate the needs of farmers
and ranchers who have long depended on illegal aliens to harvest their crops.

Democrats Are Surprised

Representatives Claude Pepper of Florida and Charles E. Schumer of Brooklyn,
both Democrats, said that the move by the Republicans today caught them by
surprise. Mr. Pepper is chairman of the Rules Committee, which normally sets the
terms for floor debate on legislation. Mr. Schumer has been leading negotiations
to break the deadlock over foreign agricultural workers.

Many Democrats said they supported the immigration bill but opposed Republican
efforts to circumvent the Rules Committee and the Democratic leadership of the
House. Mr. Pepper denounced Mr. Lott's move as ''a clear effort to pervert the
rules and precedents of the House.''

Mr. Lott said the question was: ''Will you allow the bill to go forward or will
you stop immigration reform?'' Representative Dan Lungren, a California
Republican, said the demise of a bill with such broad bipartisan support was ''a
travesty and a tragedy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 18, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Senate Roll-Call On Immigration Bill

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 264 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON. Oct. 17


Following is the roll-call vote by which the Senate today approved, 63 to 24, a
landmark immigration bill and sent it to the White House:

FOR THE BILL - 63

Democrats - 34

Baucus, Mont.; Bentsen, Tex.; Biden, Del.; Bingaman, N.M.; Bradley, N.J.;
Burdick, N.D.; Byrd, W.Va.; Chiles, Fla.; Cranston, Calif.; Dixon, Ill.; Dodd,
Conn.; Eagleton, Mo.; Exon, Neb.; Gore, Tenn.; Harkin, Iowa.; Hart, Colo.;
Hollings, S.C.; Johnston, La.; Kerry, Mass.; Lautenberg, N.J.; Levin, Mich.;
Long, La.; Matsunaga, Hawaii; Melcher, Mont.; Metzenbaum, Ohio; Moynihan, N.Y.;
Nunn, Ga.; Pell, R.I.; Proxmire, Wis.; Pryor, Ark.; Rockefeller, W.Va.;
Sarbanes, Md.; Sasser, Tenn.; Simon, Ill.

Republicans - 29

Andrews, N.D.; Boschwitz, Minn.; Chafee, R.I.; D'Amato, N.Y.; Danforth, Mo.;
Dole, Kan.; Durenberger, Minn.; Grassley, Iowa; Hatfield, Ore.; Hawkins, Fla.;
Heinz, Pa.; Kassebaum, Kan.; Kasten, Wis.; Lugar, Ind.; Mattingly, Ga.;
McConnell, Ky.; Packwood, Ore.; Quayle, Ind.; Roth, Del.; Simpson, Wyo.;
Specter, Pa.; Stafford, Vt.; Stevens, Alaska; Thurmond, S.C.; Trible, Va.;
Wallop, Wyo.; Warner, Va.; Weicker, Conn.; Wilson, Calif.

AGAINST THE BILL - 24

Democrats - 8

Bumpers, Ark.; Ford, Ky.; Heflin, Ala.; Inouye, Hawaii; Kennedy, Mass.;
Mitchell, Me.; Riegle, Mich.; Zorinsky, Neb.

Republicans - 16

Abdnor, S.D.; Armstrong, Colo.; Cochran, Miss.; Cohen, Me.; Denton, Ala.;
Domenici, N.M.; Garn, Utah; Gramm, Tex; Hatch, Utah; Hecht, Nev.; Helms, N.C.;
Humphrey, N.H.; McClure, Idaho; Nickles, Okla.; Pressler, S.D.; Rudman, N.H..

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 11, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CORPORATE POWER, CONT.;
Immigrants

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 176 words


To the Editor:
    I agree with Mr. Chiswick on the desirability of having an immigration
policy that favors applicants for immigration who are most likely to be
productive members of American society. However, I think Mr. Chiswick errs when
he equates the educational level of the applicant with his probable
productivity. I doubt that it can be established that a foreign worker's
education level is likely to correlate with his productivity beyond a minimal
level.

Our experience with Mexican workers in the Mexican in-bond maquiladora
manufacturing and assembly industries, for example, is that those workers who
have sixth- grade educations are, on the average, from 10 to 25 percent more
productive than United States workers (who presumably are better educated) in
doing the same tasks. Conversely, university or college education in many
foreign countries seems to correlate almost inversely to useful productive
skills.

ALLEN E. SMITH
Allen E. Smith & Associates
Maquiladora industry consultants
  McAllen, Tex., Dec. 29

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 11, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CORPORATE POWER, CONT.;
Immigrants

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 182 words


To the Editor:
    Barry R. Chiswick (''A Troubling Drop in Immigrant 'Quality', '' Forum, Dec.
21) claims that an immigration policy that favors ''productive applicants''
would ease the competition between America's native minorities and newly arrived
unskilled immigrants for low-skilled jobs. Thus, he seeks to relegate America's
minorities to a permanent underclass by assuming that they are the appropriate
candidates for low-level jobs.

As important, Mr. Chiswick overlooks the fact that these educated immigrants
have stolen jobs from Americans. This occurs when immigrants, especially those
trained in engineering or the physical sciences, compete with Americans for
increasingly scarce jobs and offer their services for about one-third less than
Americans with similarly high qualifications. In these days of a high-tech
depression, such factors discourage America's youth from pursuing these
difficult disciplines.

Finally, Mr. Chiswick's proposed policy deprives foreign countries of badly
needed brainpower.

IRWIN FEERST
   Massapequa Park, N.Y., Dec. 24

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 11, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

FOUR IRANIAN STOWAWAYS JUMP FROM A SHIP INTO NEW YORK HARBOR

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 20, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 383 words


Four Iranians, stowaways on a freighter bound for Newark from Istanbul, were
pulled from New York Harbor early yesterday morning after they jumped from the
ship, the police said.

A fifth Iranian remained aboard and was taken into custody by the Federal
Immigration and Naturalization Service when the freighter docked at the Port of
Newark, the authorities said.

Chief Petty Officer Joe Gibson of the Coast Guard, which pulled the men from the
choppy, 39-degree water in the harbor, said immigration service officials told
him the stowaways were deserters from the Iranian Army. Mr. Gibson said he
believed the incident was being handled as an asylum case.

A spokesman for the immigration service, Charles Troy, declined to say whether
any of the men had sought asylum or intended to, adding that it is the service's
policy not to discuss asylum cases for fear that relatives of foreign nationals
may be harmed.

Mr. Troy, however, declined to describe the background of the Iranians or their
reasons for stowing away on the ship. ''All we can say is that they are in
custody, but they have not yet been interviewed,'' he said.

Mr. Troy said only one of the Iranians spoke English, and interpreters were
required before the interviews could be conducted.

Mr. Troy said four of the men were in custody at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service detention center on Varick Street in Manhattan and that
theother stowaway was in custody but that he did not know where.

The administrative offices of the Immigration Service in New York were closed
yesterday, and officials could not be reached. A reporter visiting the detention
center on Varick Street was denied access by guards in the lobby.

A New York Police Department spokesman, Sgt. Raymond O'Donnell, said the five
men ranged in age from 23 to 27 years old. He identified the men who jumped ship
as Framan Abbasi, Mohsen Mohbar Erzdeh, Kord Ali Mosleni and Yusuf Tapai. The
stowaway who remained on board was identified as Reza Ahadi, Sergeant O'Donnell
said.

The Coast Guard said it pulled the four men from the harbor at 5:15 A.M., 32
minutes after they received a call from the freighter, the Estoril.

Mr. Gibson said the four stowaways jumped ship after they were discovered in a
baggage compartment by the ship's captain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 18, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

WHAT'S NEW IN ECONOMIC CIRCLES;
For Immigrants, a Rough Road

BYLINE: By Susan F. Rasky

SECTION: Section 3; Page 23, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 377 words


FOR years, the prevailing wisdom on how immigrants fare in the labor market has
been based on the notion that assimilation is a key, even determining, factor.
Drawing mainly on 1970 Census data, studies concluded that while earnings of new
immigrants were lower than those of comparably situated native workers, earnings
of immigrants who had been here for more than a decade exceeded those of native
workers of the same age, education and so on. The assumption was that as
immigrants gained language and work skills, their earnings grew.

Now some economists, including George J. Borjas, a professor at the University
of California at Santa Barbara, dispute this conclusion. The positive effect of
assimilation ''is so small,'' says Mr. Borjas, ''that there is little chance the
average immigrant will ever catch up with the native worker.''

The 1970 Census was the first in 30 years to ask individuals when they had
arrived in the United States. When comparable data from the 1980 census became
available, researchers could then track the progress of immigrants who arrived
at different times. Mr. Borjas's research, which drew on both sets of data,
found that most recently arrived Hispanic immigrants exhibit lower earnings and
higher unemployment rates than earlier Hispanic immigrants.

There was one major exception: More recent Mexican immigrants had substantially
higher employment rates but lower earnings than the earlier group. Mr. Borjas
theorizes that this is because the population of recent immigrants included many
illegal aliens who would accept low-paying jobs.

What seems most striking, Mr. Borjas says, is that the immigrants who arrived
prior to 1964 are fundamentally different from those who arrived later.
Immigration laws were changed in 1964, and the immigrants who arrived under the
earlier law were permitted entry largely because of their skills. Those who came
after 1964, he says, were admitted because they had close relatives in the
country. Although his research deals with Hispanics, he says the performance
discrepancies seem to hold true across the board.

''It seems like a very simple notion, but until recently, nobody was raising
it,'' he said. ''In very plain terms, different waves of immigrants are
different.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 24, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

A MILLION SEEK 10,000 VISAS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 299 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 23


In a huge outpouring, more than one million foreigners have applied for the
10,000 immigration visas the United States is offering without the usual tough
entry requirements, a State Department official said today.

As of the opening of business this morning, the department had received 1.03
million applications, said Ruth van Heuven, a spokesman for the department's
consular affairs bureau.

The requests came from people in 36 countries or territories under a special law
granting American residency to 5,000 people this year and 5,000 next year.
Unlike other immigrants, these applicants need not have family members already
in this country or special skills in short supply here.

Under State Department rules, the ''winnners'' will be selected on a first-come,
first-served basis, beginning with the first applications received at a special
post office box after midnight last Tuesday.

All applications received from Jan. 21 to Jan. 27 will be registered and
computerized, but with only 10,000 slots available, none but the applications
received in the opening hours of the period had a chance.

Ms. Van Heuven said 400,000 applications were discarded because they were
received before the starting time. The department received 260,000 applications
on Thursday and 370,000 on Wednesday. Officials had estimated late Wednesday
that they had received 500,000 on that day, but the actual count turned out to
be less.

The first application received was from an unidentified Irish woman. Ms. Van
Heuven said other countries represented in the first 100 entries were Sweden,
the Netherlands, Denmark, Britain, Canada, West Germany, Switzerland, France,
Poland and Japan.

Because of the volume of mail, the department will be unable to notify the
unsuccessful applicants, she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 29, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

9 ALIENS' ARRESTS LAID TO POLITICS

BYLINE: By LENA WILLIAMS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 267 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28 - Arab-


American and civil liberties groups today condemned as ''politically motivated''
the arrest of nine people this week in Los Angeles who were said to be
supporters of a militant Palestinian group.

''Arab-Americans are stunned by the manner in which these arrests were conducted
and the bases of these arrests,'' said Dr. James J. Zogby, executive director of
the Arab American Institute in Washington. ''The nine arrested face no criminal
charges, yet apparently were deemed a risk to the security of Americans solely
because of political opinions they may or may not hold.''

The suspects, eight Jordanians and a Kenyan, were taken into custody by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation and immigration agents in raids early Monday
morning and charged with a variety of immigration violations. One of those
arrested, the F.B.I. said, was the southern California leader of the group, the
Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine. He was identified as Khader Musa
Hamide.

The F.B.I. said on Monday that seven of the nine were linked to the Popular
Front. Bureau officials now say that all nine are linked to the group.

Opposition to Arafat

The Popular Front, which is led by Dr. George Habash, is a faction of the
Palestine Liberation Organization that has long been opposed to the P.L.O.
leader, Yasir Arafat.

The F.B.I. in Los Angeles would not comment beyond a statement announcing the
arrests of the nine.

Leaders of several Arab-American groups asserted, however, that the arrests were
spurred by recent developments in Lebanon, where three Americans were kidnapped
last weekend.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             February 11, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

MEXICO: WORLD'S BACK DOOR TO U.S.

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 995 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Feb. 10


Citizens of countries as far away as India, China, Yugoslavia and Lebanon are
increasingly using Mexico as a transit and staging point to enter the United
States illegally, according to American and Mexican government officials.

The would-be immigrants are being arrested in growing numbers by American
immigration authorities along the Mexican-American border. An increasing
proportion of the non-Mexican immigrants are from regions other than Central
America.

The same networks of smugglers that have long transported Mexicans and other
Latin Americans into the Southwestern United States have expanded their
operations to handle this lucrative new traffic, the officials said.

''The word is out all over the world that if you can make it to Mexico, you
stand a good chance of getting into the United States,'' said Duane Austin, a
spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington.

Migration From Central America

Since the eruption of political turmoil in Central America at the start of the
1980's, the largest single group of non-Mexicans coming across the border has
been from strife-torn countries like El Salvador, Guatemala and Nicaragua. But
immigration service records show that the number of Central Americans detained
while using the Mexican route has declined slightly while detentions of those
from other, more distant countries is on the rise.

One group of about a dozen Chinese apprehended in Southern California a year ago
said they had been discharged from a ship off the coast of Lower California and
had made their way north on foot. Gene Smithburg, assistant chief of patrol for
the San Diego border sector, said an Asian man posted $10,000 bond for each of
them, ''and we never saw him or them again.''

In another instance, during the World Cup tournament in Mexico last year, a tour
group of Lebanese and Turks, ostensibly in Mexico to see the international
soccer championship, dropped from sight, officials said. When the group suddenly
surfaced in Ciudad Juarez, where no games were being played and which is across
the Rio Grande from El Paso, they were detained by the Mexican authorities.

The phenomenon of non-Mexicans crossing into the United States has been
accelerated by growing awareness around the world of Mexico's visa and entry
regulations, according to foreign diplomats here.

Mexico has liberal or only nominal entry visa requirements for nationals of some
European, Asian and Latin American countries, they said, and citizens of those
and other countries have been coming here as tourists with the intention of
using Mexico as what one Mexican official calls ''a trampoline'' to enter the
United States.

From 1982 to 1985, the number of illegal immigrants from countries ''other than
Mexico'' detained at the U.S.-Mexican border rose 50 percent, from 24,325 to
36,689, according to immigration service statistics.

In the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, 1986, the total rose another 33 percent,
to 48,954.

How Many Are Caught

There are no figures available on the number of non-Mexican illegal immigrants
who have successfully crossed the border. But Mr. Austin said the immigration
service estimates that it catches ''one out of every two illegal aliens in the
best of cases and one out of three in the worst.''

The non-Mexicans make up only a small part of the 1.6 million apprehensions of
illegal immigrants on the border between the United States and Mexico last year.
But the rapid growth and increasing diversity of the ''other than Mexico'' group
is an indication that smugglers and illegal immigrants worldwide continue to
regard the 1,952-mile border as more easily penetrable than more traditional
routes.

The San Diego border patrol office, which controls the most heavily traveled
area of the border, reports that illegal immigrants from 67 countries were
apprehended along its sector of the border last year.

Networks of Smugglers

Authorities in both countries said smugglers in Europe and Asia, as well as some
travel agents in the United States, have established working relationships with
Mexican ''coyotes,'' as the smugglers of immigrants are known here. They said
one well-established network begins in China and has stops in Hong Kong, the
Bahamas and Mexico City before its terminus in California. It charges $5,000 to
$10,000 per immigrant, they said.

The Mexican authorities, while more reluctant to talk publicly about the
problem, appear to share the concern of their American counterparts. Mr. Austin
said the Mexican Government ''has cooperated'' with the Immigration Service and
has passed on information about non-Mexican groups or individuals it regards as
suspicious.

''The Mexican Government does not like the idea of a large and uncontrolled
population here of people who have overstayed their visas or entered the country
illegally,'' a foreign diplomat said. ''They are regarded as an unwelcome and
potentially dangerous force, especially at a time when Mexico is in the midst of
a severe economic crisis.''

A Mexican official recently returned from an assignment in a European embassy
said that orders had been sent out to be on the lookout for false passports,
especially those from countries with which Mexico maintains relaxed visa
requirements.

The official said additional steps have also been taken to scrutinize visa
requests more closely, with particular attention paid to Iranians, North
Africans and Lebanese.

Nevertheless, American officials said they would like to see Mexico make even
stronger efforts to halt the influx of third-country illegal immigrants.

A spokesman for the Mexican Foreign Ministry, Manuel Compean, said that Mexico
maintains a policy of reciprocity on visas, allowing routine entry to citizens
of all countries that do not require visas of Mexicans. He said he did not know
if Mexico had made ''any document or formal representation'' to any of those
countries about abuse of the regulations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 13, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

ABROAD AT HOME;
Yearning to Breathe Free

BYLINE: By Anthony Lewis; Flora Lewis is on vacation. Her column will resume
next Friday.

SECTION: Section A; Page 35, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 764 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


It is a basic constitutional right in this country to read and express political
ideas, however unpopular. We can subscribe to Pravda. We can distribute
literature calling for replacement of Israel by a Palestinian state, or calling
for a Greater Israel with its Arabs expelled.

All that is so clear that I would have thought it unchallengeable. But it is
being challenged now, from an astonishing quarter: the United States Government,
through its Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The I.N.S. is taking the position that freedom of political expression does not
apply to aliens resident in this country. If after coming to America they join
an organization that circulates certain publications, the I.N.S. says, they can
be imprisoned and deported. And that is so even though the organization and the
publications are entirely lawful - and could not, constitutionally, be made
unlawful.

This amazing theory is being pressed by the I.N.S. in a case involving eight
Palestinian residents of Los Angeles and one's Kenyan wife. They were arrested
at gunpoint on Jan. 26, and proceedings to deport them began. Seven are in
prison without bail, under conditions of strict security. When they talk to a
lawyer, they are put in shackles.

You might think that those seven were charged with throwing bombs or some other
horrifying crime. The actual charge is that each is ''a member of . . . an
organization that causes to be written, circulated, distributed, published or
displayed, written or printed matter advocating or teaching economic,
international and governmental doctrines of world Communism.''

The organization is the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a wing of
the Palestine Liberation Organization. The P.F.L.P. calls itself Marxist. But as
everyone knows, it is a radical Palestinian nationalist group, dedicated to the
establishment of a Palestinian state.

A P.F.L.P. magazine, Democratic Palestine, is in university libraries and on
newsstands in California, where people of Palestinian origin live in
considerable numbers. No one has suggested that there is anything illegal about
the magazine.

The Supreme Court has said that the right to argue politics, and organize to
that end, is at the ''core'' of the First Amendment. And of course the amendment
makes no distinction between citizens and others. It says that ''Congress shall
make no law . . . abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press.'' The
freedom covers the country.

The so-called ideological provisions of the McCarran-Walter Immigration Act have
been used to keep out foreign visitors disliked by Washington officials. Now the
I.N.S. is trying to put them to an even more dangerous use: to deport resident
aliens for using American political freedoms.

A second doubt about the case - a matter of decency as well as constitutionality
- is the way the Palestinians are being treated. They have lived in this country
for as long as 15 years. Suddenly they are thrown in jail, shackled, denied bail
- instead of just being notified of an alleged immigration violation, as is
usually done.

Why the harsh treatment? It seems designed to suggest some terrorist
involvement. But Justice Department officials say the F.B.I. investigated these
people for months and found no activity connected with terrorism.

Indications are that some I.N.S. officials are using this case to try out a
''contingency plan'' for handling suspected terrorists. A draft plan leaked to
the press last week suggests that when no evidence of terrorism can be found,
suspects be charged with technical immigration violations, denied bail, treated
as security risks.

A third reason for qualms about this case is the targeting of Palestinians. The
draft contingency plan said the I.N.S. would have to ''concentrate its
counterterrorism efforts against particular nationalities or groups.'' It listed
eight examples: seven Arab countries and Iran. But in America, guilt is
individual.

In a previous column I wrote about a young woman in San Diego, an American
citizen of Palestinian origin, who was brutalized by unknown officers in an
attempt to make her testify against those eight Palestinians. In reaction to the
column, high officials of the F.B.I. and the I.N.S. commendably said they were
going to investigate the episode.

Now Attorney General Meese should take a broad look at the whole proceeding.
Surely he does not want to go down as the man who presided over an attempt to
make a mockery of those words on the Statue of Liberty: the welcome to America
for those ''yearning to breathe free.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 23, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition

10,000 WIN RESIDENCY IN U.S.

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 251 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 22


The United States has begun notifying 10,000 foreigners that they have won a
lottery offering American residency as the prize.

According to Government figures made public over the weekend, applicants from
the Republic of Ireland won 3,112 of the 10,000 immigration slots made available
over the next two years to people who normally would not qualify.

The sweepstakes was offered under a law designed to help people in 36 countries
whose emigration to the United States has decreased since 1965.

For years, all 270,000 immigration slots available each year have been filled by
people with special preferences, desirable skills or close relatives already
living in the United States. Others failed to make the cutoff.

To give all 1.3 million applicants an equal chance, the State Department
advertised in the 36 countries that anyone sending entry forms to a special post
office box in Washington would be selected on a first-come, first-served basis
after midnight Jan. 21.

Under the law, the authorities have until Sept. 30 to process the first 5,000
applicants and Sept. 30, 1988 to process the next 5,000. Ruth van Heuen, a
spokeswoman, said that the State Department has set aside a number of
applications beyond the 10,000 in case there are dropouts.

Widespread interest in the program was reported in Ireland, as well as in
Canada, which finished second with 2,078 winners. Britain was third with 1,181,
followed by Indonesia with 810, Poland with 592, Japan with 518 and Italy with
315.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 6, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

PROSPECTS

BYLINE: By Pamela G. Hollie

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 732 words


Unemployed and Illegal Last Friday's report that overall unemployment dipped to
7.1 percent in March, a drop of only one-tenth of 1 percent from February, may
have surprised economists who predicted the rate would go below 7 percent. But
Sam Nakagama of Nakagama & Wallace Inc., says one reason the rate may be stuck
is that in January the Government began including millions of illegal immigrants
in its jobless calculations.

''With falling oil prices devasting the Mexican economy,'' said Mr. Nakagama,
''Mexican workers have been pouring into this country.'' Thousands who enter
illegally will not be apprehended by the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
says Mr. Nakagama. And there will be few jobs for them, with rising unemployment
in the auto, mining, manufacturing, oil and farm industries. The result, he
says: ''The jobless rate will rise to 7.5 percent or more this spring and
possibly stay there.''

Paying Bills Promptly

Speedy bill paying is a sign of business health, and ''this year the bill paying
performance of U.S. business is expected to reach the highest level since
1978,'' said Wynn Bussmann, chief economist at TRW Inc., which compiles a
quarterly Business Payment Index.

In 1978, companies paid 78 percent of their bills on time. From 1979-84,
however, as corporate profits first dropped and then recovered slowly, so did
the bill-paying index -dropping almost three percentage points by 1982 and
climbing to about 75.5 percent in 1984. Interest rates were high during these
recessionary and early-recovery years, and for many companies, delayed payments
were, in effect, short-term loans.

Slow bill-paying does not always mean trouble, says Mr. Bussmann. Emerging and
growth businesses often delay payment to keep cash needed to sustain rapid
growth. But much-delayed payment - waiting 90 days to pay a bill - generally
correlates with high failure rates. ''When you are prosperous, you pay your
bills,'' he said.

Last year, as companies began to prosper and interest rates started falling, the
rate of timely bill-paying was 76 percent. Mr. Bussman predicts that this year
the figure will reach 78 percent. There are exceptions, he notes. Right now,
bills are running more than 90 days past due in the farm and service industries.


Shopping Center Spree

A shopping center glut, already plaguing retailers in Miami, San Antonio and
Denver, is set to spread. ''The rate of shopping center development is outpacing
the growth of most demand indicators, including consumer spending, personal
income and retail sales,'' said Lloyd Lynford, president of The REIS Reports, a
New York real estate and research firm.

The overbuilding is partly the result of the current glut in office building
space. ''Lenders who finally pulled back on office projects are shifting into
retail developments,'' said Mr. Lynford. Despite rising vacancies and falling
rents at many centers, he says, the value of new building permits for shopping
centers this year will nearly equal last year's $9.9 billion, sharply up from
1984's $7.4 billion.

The building boom may fall off soon, however. Low inflation has slowed the the
rise in the value of large regional malls to less that 6 percent annually, down
from about 8 percent two years ago, says Mr. Lynford - ''not bullish signs for
investors.''

On the Road Again

This summer, more American families will take vacations in recreational vehicles
- everything from motor homes to folding tent campers. ''It's patriotism brought
on by the Statue of Liberty celebration,'' said Gary La Bella, vice president of
the Recreational Vehicle Industry Association in Reston, Va., adding: ''It is
also fear of international terrorism.'' Add to those reasons: cheap gasoline,
lower interest rates, and a rise in the number of retired people and of families
with young children, both prime RV customers.

The $8 billion RV industry has been climbing out of a slump. Annual shipments
were down to 180,000 in 1980, when gasoline prices soared. But by last year,
they were up to 359,000 units. This year, shipments are expected to climb 8.3
percent higher, to almost 389,000, says John De Wolf, an independent industry
consultant based in Reston. Americans now own about 7.5 million RV's, and a
survey by the RV industry and the University of Michigan projects that 13
million families are likely to buy or rent an RV soon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph of total U.S. industry accounts receivable that are being paid on
time (Source: TRW)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 30, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

JAKARTA DETAINS, THEN EXPELS CORRESPONDENT OF THE TIMES

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 993 words


The Government of Indonesia yesterday detained and then expelled a correspondent
for The New York Times who was seeking authorization to report on President
Reagan's visit.

The correspondent, Barbara Crossette, who is based in Bangkok, Thailand, was
taken into custody by the Indonesian immigration police and ordered to board a
flight out of the country.

Miss Crossette had been given permission to enter Indonesia on a two-month
tourist visa and was told by American officials before her arrival there that
she would be given a journalist's visa, which Government regulations require of
working reporters.

The Indonesian authorities gave her no explanation for her deportation. She was
refused permission to speak with American or Indonesian officials after her
detention and was also prevented from returning to her hotel room to gather her
belongings and notebooks.

Miss Crossette, who had previously made several reporting trips to Indonesia,
arrived Monday night on the island of Bali, where Mr. Reagan is scheduled to
meet with foreign ministers of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.
Earlier Monday, she had cleared Indonesian immigration in Jakarta, the capital.

''I was in the country legally and I broke no laws,'' Miss Crossette said by
telephone after returning to Bangkok. ''I was attempting to have my work
situation regularized, which I had been assured would present no problem.''

Miss Crossette's expulsion followed a recent order by Indonesia barring
Australian journalists from the country. That action came after an article
published in an Australian newspaper on April 10 charged that the family and
associates of President Suharto had accumulated a fortune of over $2 billion.

A. M. Rosenthal, executive editor of The Times, said in a statement: ''The
detention and expulsion of a New York Times correspondent in Indonesia today is
a clear violation not only of freedom of the press but of any accepted standard
of conduct. Coming at a time when the President of the United States is arriving
in that country, the action also shows disdain for American institutions.

''We are protesting this action to the Indonesian Government, and we hope that
the United States Government will express its point of view,'' he said.

Miss Crossette said she received a telephone call from the Indonesian Embassy in
Bangkok on April 9, advising that her request for a visa during the Reagan visit
had been approved. But when her passport was delivered to the embassy, she said,
officials there told her they had been ordered by Jakarta to rescind the visa.
After many attempts to get information from Indonesian officials, she said, she
was told Sunday by American officials that she would be allowed to return to
Indonesia.

In Denpasar, Bali, this morning, the Indonesian Foreign Affairs Minister,
Mochtar Kusumaatmadja, expressed regret at Miss Crossette's treatment. In a
briefing for reporters traveling with Mr. Reagan, Mr. Mochtar indicated that his
ministry had wanted to give Miss Crossette a visa, but had been overruled by the
Information Ministry.

ASIAN BLOC AT A GLANCE

History And Membership The Association of Southeast Asian Nations, established
by the Bangkok Declaration of Aug. 8, 1967, was formed to bolster the stability
of the region in the post-colonial era. Its six members are Indonesia, Malaysia,
the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Brunei, which joined in 1984. One of
the reasons the regional nations saw a need for the organization was the bitter
confrontation that took place in the mid-1960's between Indonesia and Malaysia
over the incorporation into Malaysia of the Borneo territories of Sabah and
Sarawak.

Goals and Activities

The declared objectives of Asean are to foster regional economic, social and
cultural progress in the interest of stable growth. To that end, Asean
instituted joint research and technological programs, closer cultural ties and
student and teacher exchanges.

In recent years, Asean has devoted much effort to trying to find a solution to
the fighting in Cambodia. The Asean nations have held out to Vietnam the promise
of economic cooperation if it withdraws its troops from Cambodia.

One notable recent development has been the re-emergence of the Philippines as
an active member of Asean under the new Government of President Corazon C.
Aquino. It was announced yesterday that the Philippines would be the host for a
meeting of Asean heads of government in 1987, the first such meeting in a
decade. The only outstanding territorial dispute is between the Philippines and
Malaysia and involves Sabah; the new Philippine Government has promised that the
Sabah dispute will be discussed at the meeting.

Asean has set up joint bodies with the European Community and with the General
Agreement and Tariffs and Trade in Geneva. Business organizations from the
various parties established a Japan-Asean Forum in 1977 to discuss matters of
mutual concern, and there have been growing links with Australia, New Zealand
and Canada as well as the United States, with which it has regular
consultations.

Organization

The highest authority of Asean rests in joint meetings by the heads of
Government of the member nations. There are ministerial conferences that bring
together their foreign ministers every year, in each country in turn. These
meetings often are attended by the economics ministers or other cabinet members.
There is a standing committee that is convened for consultation when necessary
between ministerial meetings, consisting of the foreign minister of the host
country and the ambassadors of the other five.

A permanent secretariat with a secretary general, serving two-year terms, was
created in Jakarta in 1976 to form a central coordinating body. In addition,
there are nine committees dealing with a wide range of subjects and moving in
rotation among the capitals. They are aided by a set of technical bodies and
expert groups.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 14, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. AIDES HARSHLY ASSAIL MEXICO ON DRUGS, IMMIGRATION AND GRAFT

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1032 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 13


Federal officials testifying today before a Senate subcommittee offered what
they characterized as the sharpest public criticism of Mexico that has come out
of the United States Government in many years.

The officials, at a hearing by the Foreign Relations Committee's Subcommittee on
Western Hemisphere Affairs, criticized the Mexican Government's handling of
illegal immigration, drug trafficking, government corruption and the nation's
troubled economy.

Accusation Against Governor

The head of the United States Customs Service, William von Raab, accused the
governor of a Mexican state of growing marijuana and opium poppies on his farms,
which, Mr. von Raab said, were guarded by the Mexican Army.

Senator Frank H. Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, asked the witnesses whether
relatives of the Mexican President, Miguel de la Madrid, were drug traffickers.
The question, Senate aides said, came out of intelligence information given
yesterday during a closed subcommittee hearing on Mexico. Mr. von Raab answered,
''We have no comment on that in a public hearing.''

Leonardo Ffrench Iduarte, the Mexican Embassy's press and public affairs
officer, called the suggestion that Mr. de la Madrid's relatives were involved
in drug dealing ''an irresponsible and preposterous allegation.''

Even the State Department, normally reluctant to publicly rebuke a friendly
nation, joined in the criticism. Elliott Abrams, Assistant Secretary of State
for Inter-American Affairs, lauded the subcommittee and its chairman, Senator
Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina, for holding ''this novel hearing.''

In Mexico City, United Press International quoted the Foreign Ministry as saying
late tonight, ''Mexico categorically denies all the accusations and slanders
that have been made against our country during the hearing. ''Low-level
officials of the U.S. executive branch that spoke during the hearings made
declarations that do not reflect reality and that use distorting information
about what is going on in Mexico,'' the Foreign Ministry said.

The Mexican Ambassador to Washington will present a protest letter to the Reagan
Administration on Wednesday demanding an explanation, the statement said.

The Associated Press said Mexico's top legal official, Attorney General Sergio
Garcia Ramirez, reacted indignantly to reports from United States officials that
corruption at all levels of Mexico's law-enforcement system helped drug
traffickers prosper.

'It May Get to Be Too Late'

Mr. Abrams said drug-related government corruption in Mexico was growing so
pervasive that ''it may get to be too late.'' He said: ''In a number of years,
the traffickers' influence on Government may be so strong that it is hard or
impossible to root it out.''

''This is a very serious business,'' he added, because the Mexican Government
''needs to know how dangerous it is for U.S.-Mexican relations if they don't get
a hold of the situation.''

Roger P. Brandemuehl, head of the United States Border Patrol, described what he
called ''a very alarming'' increase in illegal immigration. His agency estimates
that 1.8 million illegal aliens from Mexico will enter the United States this
year, a 50 percent increase from last year.

As the testimony grew so harsh that Mexican journalists and others attending the
hearing grimaced and shook their heads, Mr. Abrams said, ''The purpose here is
not to call names and throw mud.'' But, he added, ''public pressure and
publicity'' was one of the best methods available to get Mexico's attention,
even though he said the hearing would certainly make the Mexican Government
angry.

Mr. Ffrench, the Mexican Embassy officer, said the hearing was ''quite partial
and biased'' and ''only dealt with negative facts, not with ''the efforts and
accomplishments of the Mexican Government.'' Holding such hearings may be common
practice in this country, he said, but ''it certainly is meddling in Mexican
internal affairs.''

But Mr. Helms said the hearing was just the first of a series on Mexico. He said
he was ''shocked'' by the testimony from intelligence officers and others during
a closed hearing on Monday.

'Laundering' of Funds

As evidence of the drug smuggling problem along the border, Mr. von Raab said
Mexican traffickers were ''laundering'' so much money through American banks
that one bank in the tiny Texas border town of Presidio, southeast of El Paso,
had taken so many deposits recently that it is now the sixth largest bank in the
state. Presidio has a population of about 7,100, and 3,000 of those people live
''at or below the poverty line,'' he said.

David L. Westrate, head of the Drug Enforcement Administration's operations
division, said the efficiency of the Mexican program to spray herbicides on
marijuana and opium poppy fields had improved in recent weeks. But he said
Government corruption made it unlikely that ''progress can be made in the short
term'' to improve Mexican investigations of drug trafficking.
----'International' Problem Cited MEXICO CITY, May 13 (AP) - Mr. Garcia Ramirez,
the Mexican Attorney General, said in comments published by the Government
newspaper El Nacional that the drug trafficking problem ''is a matter of
international delinquency'' that must ''be faced and fought internationally.''

Mr. Garcia Ramirez, who spoke Monday in Zacatecas, said, ''We maintain a
relationship of respect and cooperation with all the countries that with us form
a common front against this delinquency.''

Mexican officials have said repeatedly the problem is as much one of
uncontrolled demand as it is of supply.

The United States Ambassador to Mexico, John Gavin, told a small group of
reporters today that the charge that ''nothing is being done'' by Mexican
officials ''responds to the frustration that is being felt'' in Washington.

''There is no question that there is corruption,'' he said. ''We can't be
sanctimonious about that because there is corruption on our side.''

The Ambassador, who is ending five years of service here this month, noted that
many Mexicans argue that the problem is consumption in the United States. ''I
regret to say that I think they're right,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 1, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

A TOUGH IMMIGRATION POLICY AGAINST UNDESIRABLE VIRUSES

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 826 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


TWO small farms near Belle Glade, Fla., became the scene of unusual activity
last week in the Federal Government's effort to combat exotic livestock
diseases. The threat was African swine fever. Federal inspectors built holding
pens and drew blood samples from 150 pigs in response to a report that the herds
might be infected with the world's most serious swine disease.

Since it was identified in Kenya in 1910, African swine fever has spread to
Europe and South America, killing tens of millions of hogs. But African swine
fever, according to scientists with the Department of Agriculture, has not
killed a single hog in North America. At the end of the week results from the
Belle Glade herds indicated that they were not infected.

The Agriculture Department has maintained a surveillance program since the late
19th century to detect economically damaging diseases in livestock. The program
draws on meat inspectors, veterinarians and state and Federal laboratories. It
also relies on inspectors at ports, airports and border checkpoints to intercept
food and live animals that may carry dangerous diseases.

The department's principal concern is the possibility of a plague. As the flow
of agricultural products, livestock and even people entering the country has
risen in recent years, so has the chance of foreign infection. Turning back that
threat is, in the words of Dr. Wesley Garnett, a staff officer in the division
that investigates livestock disease, ''a matter of vigilance and luck.''

Though farmers maintain vaccination and disease prevention programs, the
potential for infection is always present. When it materializes, the Agriculture
Department must try to isolate infected herds.

In the early 1970's, it halted an outbreak of Venezuelan equine
encephalomyelitis in Texas. The viral disease, which kills cattle, sheep, pigs
and horses, can also threaten human life. It had been spread by mosquitoes
moving north from South America.

Another devastating outbreak began three years ago, when farmers in Pennsylvania
suddenly discovered their coops littered with dead chickens. The cause was avian
influenza, a highly contagious viral disease that had not appeared in the United
States since 1929. Farmers slaughtered birds and disinfected coops, but the
virus, carried by people and wild birds, spread to New Jersey, Maryland and
Virginia, threatening much of the nation's $10 billion-a-year poultry industry.

State authorities called in the Department of Agriculture, and from a center in
Hyattsville, Md., department personnel answered telephone inquiries, monitored
reports on computerized equipment and issued quarantine and slaughter orders.
The disease appeared to be under control by the summer of 1984, but not before
the Government had paid farmers $41.5 million to slaughter 17 million chickens
and nearly one million turkeys. Earlier this year, avian flu appeared again in
Pennsylvania. More birds have been slaughtered, and veterinarians believe the
outbreak is under control.

The Agriculture Department also operates a program to combat plant diseases. Its
recent problems include citrus canker, a bacterial disease that can be stopped
only by destroying trees. The disease was detected two years ago near Winter
Haven, Fla. Within days, nurseries were ordered to destroy more than 19 million
lemon, orange and grapefruit saplings.

According to Glen Lee, assistant director of the Plant Protection and Quarantine
Program, no evidence of the canker has been seen in Florida since last December.
''We spent about $24 million, most of it paying back nurserymen for destroying
trees,'' said Mr. Lee. ''When the value of the industry is $2.4 billion annually
in Forida, the expenditures are worth every penny.''

The Agriculture Department's Veterinary Services Division has long feared
African swine fever, considered one of the most dangerous livestock diseases.
There is no cure, and an outbreak can be controlled only by quarantine and
slaughter. American farmers produce nearly 80 million pigs annually, according
to the National Pork Producers Council, with a market value of $9 billion.

In the late 1970's, the disease spread from Africa and Europe to Brazil and the
Caribbean. American specialists went to Haiti and the Dominican Republic to help
organize a program to slaughter more than a million hogs. Soon afterward the
Agriculture Department initiated a program to monitor herds in New Jersey,
Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Texas and Puerto Rico. Dr. E. C. Sharman,
assistant deputy administrator of Veterinary Services, said the disease could be
spread in garbage used as feed. He estimated that 90 tons of prohibited meat
products are confiscated each year from passenger baggage. ''If we have meat
products that get through, and it's thrown into garbage fed to pigs, you could
introduce a foreign disease,'' he said. ''That's how African swine fever got
into Brazil and the Dominican Republic.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 26, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

87 CHOSEN FOR MAYOR'S LIBERTY MEDALS

BYLINE: By GEORGE JAMES

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 906 words


Eighty-seven prominent people representing about 50 countries have been named to
receive liberty medals from Mayor Koch, who had criticized the selection of 12
prominent Americans by Liberty Weekend organizers as not representative enough
of the ethnic groups that have immigrated to America.

The selection last March by the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation of 12
naturalized citizens who have become leaders in their fields immediately created
a controversy for not encompassing such major groups as the Irish, Italians and
Poles.

The Mayor's list, to be officially released today, includes people from those
groups and Greeks, Swedes, Hungarians and other ethnic groups that arrived in
large numbers, as well as smaller immigrant groups, such as as Cambodians and
Panamanians.

The list represents a potpourri of occupations and professions from the worlds
of the arts, entertainment, business, finance, labor, publishing, medicine,
sports, religion and others.

To Be Presented July 1

The 1986 Mayor's Liberty Award, as it is called, will be presented at ceremonies
in Battery Park on July 1, two days before President Reagan gives the medal of
the foundation at opening ceremonies of Liberty Weekend.

City officials said the selections were made through the Mayor's Ethnic Advisory
Council, which solicited recommendations from major ethnic organizations and
publications and from foreign consulates and embassies.

The council devised a formula that drew from the number of immigrants in New
York City, a breakdown of immigrants and second- and third-generation Americans,
and large and small ethnic communities.

To be chosen, the recipient had to have been born abroad and be an American
citizen or in the process of becoming one, as well as having made a major
contribution to New York and the United States.

Winners of Awards

These are the award winners: Toshiko Akiyoshi, Japan, musician. Licia Albanese,
Italy, opera singer. Theoni V. Aldredge, Greece, costume designer. Daniel R.
Alonso, Argentina, pathologist. Karl G. Andren, Finland, entertainer. Paul Anka,
Canada, entertainer. Claudio Arrau, Chile, pianist. Isaac Asimov, Soviet Union,
scientist and writer. David Bar-Illan, Israel, pianist. Mikhail Baryshnikov,
Soviet Union, dancer. Odon Betanzos, Spain, poet and critic. Zbigniew
Brzezinski, Poland, political scientist. Khalid M. H. Butt, Pakistan. surgeon
and professor. Bernard Castro, Italy, businessman. Christo, Bulgaria, artist.
Alistair Cooke, England, broadcaster and cultural historian. Celia Cruz, Cuba,
singer. Peter Davies, Wales, professor and research scientist. Willem de
Kooning, Netherlands, artist. Oscar de la Renta, Dominican Republic, fashion
designer. Kenan T. Erim, Turkey, professor. Patrick Ewing, Jamaica, basketball
player. James C. Finlay, Ireland, educator. Geraldine Fitzgerald, Ireland,
actress. Milos Forman, Czechoslovakia, film director. Yvette Francis, Jamaica,
scientist. Uta Hagen, West Germany, actress. Geoffrey Holder, Trinidad,
choreographer and director. John Houseman, Rumania, actor. Archbishop Iakovos,
Greece, religious leader. Iman, Somalia, model and actress. Leo Jung,
Czechoslovakia, rabbi. Elia Kazan, Greece, director and writer. Francoise
Kourilsky, France, actress and director. Paul C. Kovi, Hungary, restaurateur.
Nicholas S. H. Krawciw, Ukraine, brigadier general. John E. Lawe, Ireland, labor
leader. Wassily Leontief, Soviet Union, economist. Tom G. Margittai, Hungary,
restaurateur. Peter Martins, Denmark, dancer and choreographer. Ved Mehta,
India, writer. Zubin Mehta, India, conductor. Gian Carlo Menotti, Italy,
composer and director. Zinka Milanov, Yugoslavia, opera singer. Bert N.
Mitchell, Jamaica, businessman and accountant. Archbishop Torkom Manoogian,
Armenia, religious leader. Rupert Murdoch, Australia, publisher. Andre Muzac,
Haiti, surgeon. Antonio Navarro, Cuba, engineer, corporate manager and writer.
Juan Negrin Jr., Spain, doctor. Louise Nevelson, Soviet Union, sculptor. Mike
Nichols, West Germany, stage and film director. Jarmila Novotna, Czechoslovakia,
opera singer. Michael Olatunji, Nigeria, musician. Claes Oldenberg, Sweden,
artist. Patrick A. Ongley, New Zealand, scientist. Cely Carillo Onrubia,
Philippines, actress-singer. Maureen O'Hara, Ireland, actress. Peter Ottley,
Grenada, labor leader. Nam June Paik, Korea, artist. Dith Pran, Cambodia,
photographer. Anthony Quinn, Mexico, actor. Jose Quintero, Panama, theater
director. I. I. Rabi, Austria, physicist. Edward D. Re, Italy, judge. Cleveland
Robinson, Jamaica, labor leader. Felix G. Rohatyn, Austria, banker. A. M.
Rosenthal, Canada, executive editor of The New York Times. Archbishop Philip
Saliba, Lebanon, religious leader. Mongo Santamaria, Cuba, musician. Tadeuscz
Sendzimir, Poland, inventor-metallurgist. Isaac Bashevis Singer, Poland, writer.
Elliot Skinner, Trinidad, anthropologist. Felicien M. Steichen, Luxembourg,
surgeon. Lucia Suarez, Argentina, producer. Jessica Tandy, England, actress.
Robert B. Thomson, Scotland, baseball player. Pauline Trigere, France, designer.
Gerald Tsai Jr., China, investor. Liv Ullmann, Norway, actress. Jorge Velasquez,
Panama, jockey. Diane Von Furstenberg, Belgium, fashion designer. John Weitz,
Germany, fashion designer. Ruth Westheimer, Germany, psychosexual therapist. C.
N. Yang, China, physicist. Franco Zeffirelli, Italy, director. Mortimer B.
Zuckerman, Canada, publisher.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 28, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Congressional Medals Urged for Immigrants

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 168 words


A coalition of ethnic groups that have criticized the selection process for the
12 Liberty medals to be awarded on Liberty Weekend said yesterday that Congress
would be asked to authorize a new series of medals to recognize the
contributions of a wider range of immigrants.

The group, the National Ethnic Coalition of Organizations, said at a news
conference in Battery Park that Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New
York, and Representative Mario Biaggi, Democrat of the Bronx, were introducing
legislation for the Congressional medal, with the sanction of the Statue of
Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation, that would complement the foundation's Liberty
medals. The 12 foundation medals will be presented at the start of Liberty
Weekend ceremonies next Thursday.

On Thursday, Mayor Koch, who had also criticized the selection process of the
foundation as too narrow, said the city would also award its own medals to 87
prominent people representing about 50 countries at ceremonies next Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 28, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

TO ASIAN REFUGEES, U.S. IS STILL LAND OF HOPE

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1258 words

DATELINE: PHANAT NIKHOM, Thailand


Khounphom Sone expects to be living in Brooklyn by the Fourth of July.

''I can't know in my mind what Brooklyn will be like, but I have been told it is
a very big city, with houses 50 or 60 levels high,'' said Mr. Khounphom Sone, a
36-year-old refugee from Laos.

''But I want to go to Brooklyn very much,'' he said. ''Because there is my
brother.''

Mr. Khounphom Sone, his 33-year-old wife, Pratsany, and their five children -
waiting here in a crowded processing center with papers that say, ''Destination:
La Guardia'' - symbolize in a number of ways the Asian newcomer to America in
1986, a year of special significance as America celebrates its immigrant
heritage with the centennial of the Statue of Liberty.

Reuniting a Family

They are refugees. From the Middle East to the South China Sea there are almost
seven million refugees in Asia, about half of them Afghans who have fled to
Pakistan. Others include Vietnamese boat people, exiled Sri Lankan Tamils,
Cambodians and ethnic Melanesian Indonesians.

Mr. Khounphom Sone, whose father was a village leader and who bears a Lao tattoo
on his arm that translates ''Son of a Warlord,'' is seeking to reunite a family
torn apart by war and revolution.

''Asian immigration is increasing in a geometric pattern because of family
reunions and migrations,'' a United States consular official said. ''A family
chain develops; a community grows.'' Under current immigration law, close
relatives of United States residents receive preference in immigration
proceedings and are not counted as part of the quota for people from their
country who are allowed to immigrate.

Mr. Khounphom Sone's family is poor and has had little education; Mr. Khounphom
Sone (pronounced koon-POM so-NAY) had four years of primary schooling and is a
mechanic; his wife was a noodle-shop waitress. Increasingly, refugee and
immigration officials say, people with limited skills, facing hard times in the
developing world, want a chance to be American.

From China to Indonesia, from Manila to Bombay, people tell interviewers that
they want to go ''for a job and so my children can get an education.''

Consular and refugee officials who meet hundreds of thousands of would-be Asian
emigrants to the United States say little has changed in the basic reasons
refugees want to live in America.

Following the Children

''The pull factor is still there,'' an American official said. ''They see the
same gold sidewalks.''

In most of the developing nations in Asia, there remains a belief that life is
better in America - economically and politically, but above all in terms of
education.

Though many refugees have seen ample evidence of American shortcomings in films
and television, most profess a belief that Americans are on the whole ''fair
people,'' as one Southeast Asian put it, and that they will give anyone who
works hard a chance.

In Asia, there are other motivating factors for emigration, according to
consular officials.

An American diplomat here pointed to the elderly Asians, living comfortably in
their own societies, who go to Los Angeles or New York only because the time has
come for the younger generation to look after them, and the younger generation
is no longer in Asia.

''We as Americans, with our looser family ties, don't always understand this,''
this consular official said. ''A grandmother or grandfather who probably speaks
no English may not really want to go. But that's where all the kids are.''

The line frequently blurs between political asylum and economic migration. Boat
people from Vietnam tell reporters regularly that they are leaving because, as
one recent arrival in Thailand said, ''Communism doesn't give us rice or work.''

Mr. Khounphom Sone is also representative of the hundreds of thousands of
Laotians, Cambodians and Vietnamese who have suffered suspicion and retribution
because of their association with the American side in the wars that brought
Communist governments to those countries in the 1970's.

Tens of thousands of Indochinese remain in political prison camps; others are
languishing in Thailand as displaced people, asking any American who comes along
why they have been forgotten.

Mr. Khounphom Sone's case has an ironic twist. A welder in the defeated Lao
army, he was able to escape from seven years of political detention in October
1983 when the truck taking his work gang to a forced-labor project near Pakse,
in southern Laos, hit what was probably an unexploded American bomb.

Crossing the Mekong River

Wounded from the blast, he crept from his hospital bed and fled to Vientiane,
375 miles away.

There his wife, who had been able to visit him regularly in detention, joined
him four days later with their children. When night fell, he put his wife and
three little girls on a bamboo raft. He and his son, Soutchay, then 11, swam and
pushed the family across the Mekong River to Thailand.

More than 300,000 people, almost a tenth of the population of Laos, have fled
the country since the Communist takeover in 1975. Many of them, though not Mr.
Khounphom Sone's family, come from the Hmong and other hill tribes in remote
mountain areas of this landlocked and undeveloped country.

Because the Laotian refugee population in Thailand has soared to almost 90,000,
the Thai Government has recently opened the camps to interviewers from the
United States Immigration and Naturalization Service. Refugee officials say that
Laotians will probably form the largest Southeast Asian ethnic group accepted
for American resettlement this year.

A Brother in Texas

It was in a Thai refugee camp that Mr. Khounphom Sone found his father-in-law
and learned from him that Mr. Khounphom Sone's two brothers, who had fled Laos
earlier, were in the United States.

One brother, Siritham Korakahn, 40, had become a welder in Texas. The other,
Souvanh Vilayvanh, 23, of Brooklyn, has had a succession of jobs and
intermittent illnesses that kept him out of work, Mr. Khouphom Sone said. But
Mr. Souvanh Vilayvanh had married an American, had an apartment and was able to
act as the family's sponsor.

And so the family - Sone and Pratsany, along with Soutchay, who is now 14, and
four daughters: Khanthadokmay, 10; Kasapa, 8; Chanthida, 5, and Thaithouna, who
is 8 months old - wait for the bus to Bangkok airport, and a life they cannot
even imagine.

Drawn from some of the most isolated villages in Asia, the Laotians often face
unexpected trauma in the West, refugee officials say. Learning About the U.S.
Amornpan Nimanan, the Thai commander of the refugee processing center where Mr.
Khounphom Sone's family has been staying, said he had seen Lao refugees weep
with fear in a bus on the Oakland Bay Bridge as they rode to a new life.

Laotians have met harassment and violence in several American cities, as have
Cambodians. Refugee officials say that on the whole the Vietnamese, more
urbanized and more aggressive, have fared better, along with ethnic Chinese and
Korean migrants.

At Phanat Nikhom and other camps throughout Asia an effort is made to teach the
refugees English, with special ''high school English'' courses for teen-agers.
Occasionally, videotapes made in American communities are shown.

While many Asians now trying to come to the United States are poor, there are
indications that a wave of more highly skilled immigrants may be imminent. As
Hong Kong's assimilation by China approaches, an unknown number of Hong Kong
residents is expected to leave the colony, some with considerable fortunes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Khouphom Sone and his family at refugee center in Thailand
(NYT/Barbara Crossette)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 29, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

SANCTUARY FOR ALIENS: FIGURES TELL THE STORY

SECTION: Section 11CN; Page 26, Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 129 words


The June 1 article on the sanctuary movement [''3 Communities Join Sanctuary
Drive''] quotes the deputy director of the Hartford office of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service as saying: ''It's very easy to stand up and say we
deny these people asylum. But if they've never been in the system, how do we
know?''

But according to I.N.S. figures, it granted asylum between June 1983 and
September 1985 to only 9 of the 1,261 applicants who were fleeing the mass
murder of civilians by the United States-backed military in Guatemala. It would
not seem prudent for a Guatemalan refugee to put his head in the lion's mouth
when the lion admits biting it off of 99.3 percent of those who do.WOODY SCHEMPP
MALCOLM H. BELL Sanctuary Committee Wilton Friends Meeting

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 29, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION;
ONCE AGAIN, THE HOUSE TAKES UP IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By Michael Wright and Caroline Rand Herron

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 269 words


For the third time in five years, the House Judiciary Committee last week
approved a broad immigration bill designed to curtail the flow of illegal
migrants from Mexico and other countries. But there were sharper-than-usual
divisions in the committee, suggesting that getting the full House to go along
with the panel's handiwork, never an easy matter even when it is not an election
year, may be tougher than usual.

Under the House committee's bill certain foreign workers could become permanent
residents of the United States, enjoying most of the rights of citizens. Still
more aliens could be admitted if they were needed to work the fields in
subsequent years; they, too, could qualify for permanent resident status.

After intense lobbying by Western growers, the Senate, which approved its
immigration bill in September, created a program through which farmers could
bring in as many as 350,000 aliens a year to harvest perishible fruits and
vegetables. Those workers could stay for up to nine months in any one year.

Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat, said it was essential to
make alien farm laborers eligible for such benefits as welfare payments because
their work was seasonal. And he noted that both houses of Congress had
repeatedly supported the view that in any immigration bill ''agriculture
warrants special consideration.'' But Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, the
Kentucky Democrat who heads the panel's Subcommittee on Immigration, Refugees
and International Law, called the bill's favorable treatment of agriculture
''unparalleled, unprecedented and unacceptable.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 30, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

FLOW OF 3D WORLD IMMIGRANTS ALTERS WEAVE OF U.S. SOCIETY

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 2833 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 29


As the nation prepared to rededicate the Statue of Liberty, a young woman with
an immigrant visa landed here last week, her arrival symbolizing the new reality
of American immigration - and its problematic future.

She was Christina Song of the Philippines, and she came to join her
Korean-American husband in Garden Grove, adding another foreign flavor to an
Orange County suburb already awash with the sights, sounds and smells of the Far
East.

Alongside are other communities, pulsing with Mexican rhythms, while elsewhere
across the country the new sounds are from India, the Dominican Republican and
many other lands in the third world.

Like thousands of new immigrants, Mrs. Song does not come from America's roots
in Europe. And she is part of a sea change in immigration that is altering the
political, social and economic fabric of America in a complex way.

As it celebrates the 100th birthday of the statue that stands in New York Harbor
as a beacon of welcome to the oppressed, the nation that has defined itself from
its beginnings as a land of refuge is once again immersed in a great debate over
just how welcoming to be.

The debate reflects what may be a central contradiction of America, a land that
at once welcomes the downtrodden, if only sometimes because their labor is
needed, but often recoils from the cultural baggage they bring.

A hundred years ago, when ''Liberty Enlightening the World'' was dedicated, 90
percent of the immigrants came from Europe. More than half were still coming
from Europe in 1965, when Congress prompted a new influx by lowering immigration
barriers that had been based on race.

As a result, only 5 percent of the legal immigrants last year came from Europe.
Asians - primarily Filipinos, Koreans, Vietnamese and Indians - accounted for
nearly half of the 570,009 legally admitted newcomers, according to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. Migration from Latin America, mainly
Mexico, made up roughly 40 percent.

While public debate has focused on illegal immigration, the majority of
immigrants today arrive quite legally. More are expected in the 1980's than in
any decade in American history except for 1901-10, about 6 million, as against 4
million in the 1970's. If illegal immigration is included - estimated at from
300,000 to 500,000 people a year - the figure could be even higher than the
record 8.8 million admitted in the first decade of this century.

Last Wednesday, the House Judiciary Committee approved a bill designed to slow
the flow of illegal immigrants. The House will consider the bill later in the
year. The Senate has already passed its own version.

But, though public debates speak of a ''tidal wave'' of migrants, and while
their impact has been enormous on certain areas of the Mexican border, in fact
immigration remains a comparative trickle when taken as a percentage of
population.

Even including illegal entries, annual immigration today amounts to about 0.3
percent of the population, as against 1.5 percent at the historic peak and a 0.6
percent average over two centuries, according to Charles B. Keely of the
Population Council.

All told, the United States population is 7 percent foreign-born, according to
the 1980 census. In comparison, Mr. Keely said, France's population is 11
percent foreign-born, Canada's 16 percent and Australia's 20 percent. ''Compared
to our past, we are hardly being swamped by numbers,'' he said. New Immigrant
Wave: Set Off From the Crowd In California, however, if current trends persist,
non-Hispanic whites will become a minority by the year 2000, according to Philip
L. Martin, an economist at the University of California at Davis. Even as
foreign migration to California swells, net migration to the state from other
states has dwindled to zero. Professor Martin predicts an emerging new social
structure, a ''multi-tiered society dominated by Anglos and Asians at the top
and Hispanics and blacks at the bottom.''

The new wave of immigrants is perhaps more obvious because they are so
different. Along Garden Grove Boulevard in Orange County it is easier to lunch
on pho, a Vietnamese noodle soup with beef, than on a hamburger.

In New York City, where nearly one of every four residents is foreign-born, the
cultural mix is livelier than at any time since the great waves of Irish,
Italian and Jewish immigration three and four generations ago.

The Koreans have a near monopoly on the fruit and vegetable business. The
Pakistanis, Indians and Bangladeshis operate nearly all the newsstands forsaken
by previous immigrants. In about a dozen years, Soviet Jews have turned
Brooklyn's Brighton Beach section into a reasonable facsimile of Odessa, with
signs in Yiddish, conversations in Russian and singing long into the night.

Dominicans have lately been drawn to the city in larger numbers than any other
nationality: on the far Upper West Side of Manhattan a public school's name has
been changed from Fort Washington to Juan Pablo Duarte, after the Dominican
Republic's national liberation hero. And there are substantial numbers from
China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Jamaica, Guyana, Haiti, Korea, Colombia and Trinidad.

In Dearborn, Mich., Fordson High School holds separate gym classes for girls to
accommodate the religious rules of Arab Moslems, and has set aside a quiet place
for Moslems to pray daily. In Bridgeport, Conn., Daniel Nguyen, son of
Vietnamese refugees, this year became the third in his family to be graduated as
the valedictorian of Harding High School.

But there is also a more troublesome side. Gangs of Vietnamese youths roam the
country terrorizing Vietnamese merchants. Police officials along the Mexican
border attribute much violent crime to illegal aliens from Mexico. In Florida
resentment over the widespread use of Spanish by Cubans and other Latin
immigrants has erupted into a political issue; lawmakers are considering an
amendment to the State Constitution requiring that all state business be
conducted in English. And there are growing complaints that newcomers are
depressing wages for low-skilled jobs held mostly by minorities. Historic
Attitudes: Warmth and Resentment Ambivalence over newcomers has been the
hallmark of American political oratory since before independence. Indeed, one of
the justifications for revolution cited in the Declaration of Independence was
King George III's ''refusing to pass others to encourage their migration
hither.''

But through the 19th century, the rising tide of non-English immigrants stirred
deep resentment, culminating in a surge of nativism by the turn of the 20th
century. One academic of the period, Edward Ross, called the newcomers ''beaten
men from beaten races, representing the worst failures in the struggle for
existence.'' Jews, he said, were ''undersized and weak-muscled,'' and made poor
Boy Scouts. Italians, by his account, possessed ''low foreheads, open mouths,
weak chins, poor features, skewed faces, small or knobby crania and backless
heads'' and ''lacked the power to take rational care of themselves.''

By 1965, however, quotas that had limited immigration from outside of northern
Europe had come to be seen as untenably racist. A new set of laws were enacted
that gave equal immigration status to all countries and encouraged the
immigration of close relatives of American citizens - like Christina Song, who
also plans to bring in her twin sons.

Today, those who warn of the perils of unrestricted immigration say the new wave
is different from past ones, that the newcomers are not as digestible as before
and pose a grave threat to national unity.

At a hearing of the Joint Economic Committee of Congress last month, Otis L.
Graham Jr., a historian at the Center for Advanced Studies at Stanford
University, said, ''There seems a spread of ethnically secluded work sites,
entire assembly lines in auto plants where only Arabic is spoken, and in the
Southwest where Spanish-speaking populations are large and growing, entire job
sites and even industries have become entirely Hispanic.''

''For the first time in our history,'' he continued, ''a majority of migrants
speak just one language - Spanish - and most of them live in ethnic enclaves
served by radio and television stations carrying the messages of American
advertising as well as all other communications in Spanish. In such settings,
the assimilative impulses of the national economy have a faint influence.''

GET 1ST-LAST ADD IMMIG The Mexicans, the Filipinos and many Southeast Asian
refugees are not replicating the experience of earlier immigrants and are not
catching up economically to the mainstream, in the view of Roger Conner,
executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform in
Washington. He sees a future in which American cities resemble third world
cities, with a vast gap between rich and poor and ''open political conflict''
between classes.

Others are more sanguine. ''You cannot say America is white Anglo-Saxon
Protestant - that's baloney,'' said the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president of
Notre Dame University, who served on the Select Commission on Immigration and
Refugee Policy. ''The genius of America is that we bring in genetic stock from
all over the world. We need immigration.'' Boon or Burden In New Neighborhoods
The difficulty in evaluating the newcomers is that they are so heterogeneous,
ranging from skilled neurosurgeons from Argentina to illiterate Cambodian
refugees. In some areas, like on Chicago's North Side, they have revitalized
dying urban neighborhoods. Elsewhere, immigrants are proving a growing burden on
schools, hospitals and welfare services.

For many immigrants, there is also conflict with host communities. The Detroit
area, for example, now has the largest concentration of Arabic-speaking people
outside of the Middle East -200,000 Lebanese, Palestinians, Yemenis and
Iraqi-Chaldeans, according to local estimates. The most recent wave has not
assimilated as readily as earlier Arab immigrants, possibly because they come as
refugees who hope to return to the Middle East when the area calms.

The Arabs have been moving into white suburbs like Dearborn, where they have
been made less than fully welcome. Last year, Michael Guido was elected Mayor of
Dearborn promising to deal with the ''Arab problem.'' There has been conflict
between Arab shop owners and blacks. Chaldeans, who are Christians, own more
than 400 liquor stores in the Detroit area. The shooting death of a black youth
suspected of planning to rob one such store nearly caused a riot two years ago.

In other places, newcomers are seen as stabilizing, family-oriented forces in
their communities. Jersey City has become a destination for middle-class people
from India, 15,000 or so according to local figures. City officials say their
children shun drug abuse and are seldom delinquents.

Across the Hudson River in New York, 353,900 immigrants came from 1975 to 1980,
according to the City Planning Office, offsetting in part the city's huge
population exodus of the 1970's. The influx has continued into the 1980's.
Despite problems, Elizabeth Bogen, director of the city's office of immigrant
affairs, has said that the influence of the newcomers was ''unquestionably
favorable.'' She emphasized that they have ''revitalized declining
neighborhoods.''

But she also drew attention to one of the thorniest aspects of the new
immigration - the fact that the newcomers often do better than natives and
depress wages for minorities. According to Census Bureau figures, foreign-born
black and Hispanic people were more likely to have jobs than native-born ones.
Crossing the Line From Illegal to Legal In Texas, the major immigrant group is
Mexicans. They can be seen in Houston, San Antonio and Dallas by the hundreds of
thousands and the line there between illegal and legal is a blurry one. One who
crossed it last month was Mrs. A. R., a native of Monterrey, and a bookkeeper by
training. For eight years she lived in Houston illegally. She tried to get an
immigrant visa through a fictitious marriage, which is why she prefers not to be
identified.

In fact, she learned later that because her mother, who lives in Mexico, was an
American citizen, she was entitled to preference for immigration. Today she
works as a kitchen helper at a club and lives in a nice apartment in southwest
Houston, far from the barrio, harboring American dreams.

Lan Tuyet Nguyen is another immigrant Houstonian, and her experience is perhaps
typical of the early wave of Vietnamese who found new homes in Texas after the
war. The daughter of an army officer, she, her mother and six siblings fled as
Saigon collapsed. Like many other young Vietnamese, she struggled to find her
identity as she went through American high school and college. ''I started
realizing,'' she said, ''that for me to do what I want to do with my life, I had
to be a functioning part of society. I had to figure out how to establish myself
so I could control the process of assimilation rather than it controlling me.''

Today Miss Nguyen is 26 years old, a lawyer and entrepreneur, with an interest
in a car-repair shop and an import-export business. But she remains very
Vietnamese culturally, still, as is the custom, living at home with her mother,
as do five of her siblings.

But if the first pulse of Asian immigrants 10 years ago were educated and
motivated like Miss Nguyen, the newer ones are less-well equipped to deal with
modern American society.

Some local agencies are trying to ease their way; others complain of the growing
cost. In Connecticut last month, 120 social workers from hospitals, clinics and
other agencies attended a session at the University of Connecticut to get a
better understanding of Southeast Asian culture. Assessing the Effect: A
Confusing Forecast All of this has spawned a confusing debate among scholars
over the long-term consequences of the new immigration.

A study by the President's Council of Economic Advisers found the net economic
effects positive. Despite some job displacement along the Mexican border,
according to Beryl W. Sprinkel, chairman of the council, ''over all, and for
most people, job opportunities, real wages, and economic welfare are increased''
by immigration.

One study, ''The Fourth Wave: California's Newest Immigrants,'' by Thomas Muller
and Thomas J. Espenshade of the Urban Institute, found that even though nearly
half of Californians believed that immigrants took away jobs from Americans,
particularly blacks, there was ''little effect,'' positive or negative, on black
family income in southern California.

On the other hand a study by Donald Huddle of Rice University in Houston found
that 65 American workers were displaced for every 100 illegal aliens employed in
certain types of less-skilled jobs.

The picture is complicated by the fact that the American fertility rate remains
extremely low, meaning that a large proportion of population growth will come
from immigration. The Census Bureau has calculated, assuming current fertility
rates persist, that American population would be declining by 2080 even with
immigration of 250,000 people a year.

At current levels of immigration -about 750,000 a year - population would grow
from 230 million today to 325 million in 2030 and 355 million by 2080. Some
experts argue that immigrants will be needed to propel economic growth.
California is expected to create 1.6 million new jobs this decade, far more than
the local labor market can supply. About a third of current immigrants go to
California.

But Mr. Conner of the Federation for American Immigration Reform sees a cultural
and political threat in this. Previous waves of immigrants, he says, came mainly
for ''entrepreneural'' purposes and quickly caught up with Americans. But the
new waves, he says, are coming mainly to join family members already in the
United States and are not as motivated to assimilate.

''The new immigration will not work the same as the old,'' he says. ''For some
reason, Mexican immigrants are not suceeding as well as other groups.''

Others are less alarmed about alien streaks appearing on the American landscape.

The Rev. Silvano Tomasi, director of the Office of Pastoral Care of Migrants and
Refugees of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops in Washington, puts it
this way: ''There is a subtle implication by the restrictionists that the
country will suffer from cultural diversification. That's a code word for Asians
and Hispanics. That runs against the total experience of American history. The
same arguments were made when the Germans arrived in the early 1800's, then the
Irish, the Jews. We cannot builds wall around the United States. We must very
realistic at looking at the future.''

It may be that the last laugh will be had by the last Mexican Governor of
California, who reportedly said in 1847: ''We find ourselves suddenly threatened
by hordes of Yankee emigrants whose progress we cannot arrest.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph of level of immigration to U.S. (Source: Statistical Abstract of
the United States, 1986, ''Department of California'' (Page B5); Graph showing
percentage of immigrants by region of birth, from 1820 to 1985 (Page B5); Graph
of America's current racial mix (Sources: Population Reference Bureau
(Immigration) and Census Bureau) (Page B5)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 1, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

English Comes First

BYLINE: By Richard D. Lamm; Richard D. Lamm, a Democrat, has been Governor of
Colorado since 1975. He recently wrote (with Gary Imhoff) ''The Immigration Time
Bomb: The Fragmenting of America.

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 648 words

DATELINE: DENVER


A nation succeeds only if the vast majority of its citizens succeed. It
therefore stands to reason that with immigrants accounting for about 40 percent
of our population growth, the future economic and social success of the United
States is bound up with the success of these new Americans. Demography, in a
word, is destiny.

This is an important principle to keep in mind as we try to come to grips with
the problems and opportunities presented by the flood of legal and illegal
immigrants from Mexico and other parts of South and Central America, who now
constitute by far our largest immigrant group.

How are we doing in our efforts to assimilate these largely Hispanic newcomers
and provide them with a bright future? Some signs are disturbing.

John Garcia, associate professor of political science at the University of
Arizona, writing in International Migration Review, finds that the average rate
of naturalization of Mexican immigrants is one-tenth that of other immigrant
naturalization rates. The Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy
made a similar finding. Increasingly, immigrants are separated from everyone
else by language, geography, ethnicity and class.

The future success of this country is closely linked to the ability of our
immigrants to succeed. Yet 50 percent of our children of Hispanic background do
not graduate from high school. Hispanic students score 100 points under the
average student on Scholastic Aptitude Test scores. Hispanics have much higher
rates of poverty, illiteracy and need for welfare than the national average.
This engenders social crisis.

Not all the indicators of assimilation are pessimistic: the success of many
Indochinese immigrants has been gratifying. But the warning signs of
nonassimilation are increasing and ominous.

America must make sure the melting pot continues to melt: immigrants must become
Americans. Seymour Martin Lipset, professor of political science and sociology
at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University, observes: ''The history of
bilingual and bicultural societies that do not assimilate are histories of
turmoil, tension and tragedy. Canada, Belgium, Malaysia, Lebanon - all face
crises of national existence in which minorities press for autonomy, if not
independence. Pakistan and Cyprus have divided. Nigeria suppressed an ethnic
rebellion. France faces difficulties with its Basques, Bretons and Corsicans.''

The United States is at a crossroads. If it does not consciously move toward
greater integration, it will inevitably drift toward more fragmentation. It will
either have to do better in assimilating all of the other peoples in its
boundaries or it will witness increasing alienation and fragmentation. Cultural
divisiveness is not a bedrock upon which a nation can be built. It is inherently
unstable.

The nation faces a staggering social agenda. We have not adequately integrated
blacks into our economy and society. Our education system is rightly described
as ''a rising tide of mediocrity.'' We have the most violent society in the
industrial world; we have startlingly high rates of illiteracy, illegitimacy and
welfare recipients.

It bespeaks a hubris to madly rush, with these unfinished social agendas, into
accepting more immigrants and refugees than all of the rest of the world and
then to still hope to keep a common agenda.

America can accept additional immigrants, but we must be sure that they become
American. We can be a Joseph's coat of many nations, but we must be unified. One
of the common glues that hold us together is language - the English language.

We should be color-blind but linguistically cohesive. We should be a rainbow but
not a cacophony. We should welcome different peoples but not adopt different
languages. We can teach English through bilingual education, but we should take
great care not to become a bilingual society.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 1, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

RIGHTS GROUPS SAY U.S. DETAINS REFUGEES FROM MANY LANDS

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1002 words


A detention policy inaugurated by the Reagan Administration in 1981 to curb the
influx of boat people from Haiti has turned into a national program affecting
thousands of refugees from around the world, two human rights organizations say.

Refugees from Afghanistan, Ethiopia, South Africa, Cuba, El Salvador and other
countries are being held in American detention centers while the courts consider
whether they should be granted political asylum, a study by the groups noted.

For 25 years before the policy was changed, the groups say, only a few
immigrants were held - those whose status was challenged and who were considered
likely to flee or endanger national security or public safety. Since 1981,
however, all aliens lacking proper travel documents have been detained, with
parole the exception, not the rule.

A 76-page report on the study, ''Mother of Exiles: Refugees Imprisoned in
America,'' has been issued by the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights and
Helsinki Watch.

''At a time when we are holding national celebrations for the outstanding symbol
of generosity to refugees, we are treating many actual refugees very poorly,
imprisoning them for months and even years,'' Aryeh Neier, Vice Chairman of
Helsinki Watch, said.

Why Policy Was Changed

He said the apparent purpose of this policy was ''to try to persuade some
refugees to return to the lands they fled and deter others from trying to enter
the United States.''

More than 4,000 aliens are incarcerated in detention centers around the country,
the new study said. Most of the detainees say they escaped from persecution at
home.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service defends the practice and disputes
some of the report's conclusions. ''We're just doing what was mandated by law,''
Duke Austin, spokesman for agency in Washington, said.

He pointed out that a 1952 immigration law calls for illegal entrants to be
detained until their status has been determined. Some Administrations waived
this ruling, he said, but the Reagan Administration has enforced it since the
influx of Haitian boat people in 1981.

The largest national group in immigration service detention centers is
Salvadoran, the report says. As of December 1985, 525 Salvadorans were detained.
Mr. Austin said that as of June 20, there were 2,949 aliens in immigration
service detention facilities, apart from the Cubans, said to number 1,800, in
the Atlanta penitentiary. #8 Centers Around Nation Eight detention facilities
with a total capacity of more than 5,000 are in Miami, Fla.; Los Fresnos and El
Paso, Tex.; Centro, Calif.; Florence, Ariz.; Oakdale, La.; New York City, and
Boston. By the end of 1986, the Government plans to have the capacity to detain
more than 10,000 aliens, the report said, although Mr. Austin called that
conclusion a ''total distortion.''

The $17 million Oakdale Center opened in March at a remote site about 200 miles
from New Orleans. It has a normal capacity of 1,000 and, the report says, and a
contingency capacity of another 5,000. Mr. Austin said ever, that the larger
capacity was only to be used for a temporary period ''should we face another
massive influx.''

''Mother of Exiles'' contains accounts given in March and April by 11 refugees
who said they fled persecution only to be incarcerated in this country.

''After 25 years of my suffering, I end up in an American jail,'' said Robert
Gardner, a black South African shepherd. He said he sought refuge here in
November 1985, after his father was burned to death and he nearly suffered the
same fate at the hands of the South African authorities.

Escape From Afghanistan

That same month a refugee identified in the report as Amanullah, 21, arrived in
the United States from Afghanistan. The report said he had been imprisoned and
tortured there for his part in demonstrations against the Marxist Government. He
said that if forced to return, ''I will probably be killed in prison or
'disappeared' without any trace.''

Peter L. Steinberg, a lawyer, wrote of four Iranian clients who opposed the
Khomeini Government. They were detained last year at John F. Kennedy
International Airport without valid passports while in transit to Canada to seek
asylum. They are ''desperate to find a country that will accept them as
refugees,'' the lawyer said.

From 1892 to 1954, it was United States policy to detain would-be immigrants on
arrival if they lacked permission to enter the country, Arthur Helton, Director
of the Lawyers Committee's Political Asylum Project wrote in the report.

In 1954 the immigration service began detaining only those considered dangerous
or unlikely to return for hearings, according to Mr. Helton. He cited a 1958
Supreme Court decision that detaining aliens should be the exception, not the
rule., under a policy reflecting ''the humane qualities of an enlightened
civilization.'''

Cubans and Hatians See Changes

This policy was suspended in 1980 after 125,000 Cubans arrived in a boatlift
from Mariel, Cuba, Mr. Helton reported. Most were eventually released and given
special entrant status, some were returned to Cuba, but 1,800 Mariel Cubans are
in the Atlanta state penitentiary.

Until 1981, Haitians fleeing the regime of President Jean-Claude Duvalier were
released on parole while their status was being determined, the report said. The
Administration changed the policy, detaining all Haitian boat people to deter
others from seeking refuge, Mr. Helton said.

When a suit was successfully brought against this practice in a Florida court,
the immigration service published a general ruling in the Federal Register that
aliens arriving without proper travel documents were not to be released. Only
limited parole was possible, for serious health reasons or ''public interest.''
''The new detention policy is designed to mistreat all equally,'' Mr. Helton
said.Emphasizing that this policy of deterrence ''violates domestic and
international law,'' the asylum specialist insists that it should be stopped.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 2, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

CORRECTION

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 40 words


Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about a New York Times/CBS
News poll on attitudes toward immigration misstated one finding. Of those
surveyed, 42 percent said immigration should be kept at present levels or
increased.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 3, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

ABROAD AT HOME;
Of Thee I Sing

BYLINE: By Anthony Lewis

SECTION: Section A; Page 31, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 748 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


In a Washington taxi a few months ago I heard the driver talking on his two-way
radio in a language unfamiliar to me. I asked what it was.

''Amharic,'' he said - the principal language of Ethiopia. ''We have a network
of Ethiopians driving cabs, and we talk to each other.''

The languages and the faces have changed, but the miracle of American immigrants
goes on. They come to a strange land, often persecuted and without resources.
Yet they quickly make their way, grabbing the bottom rung of the economic
ladder, struggling up, banding together as they adapt to American ways.

We used to think of it as history, the mass immigration that poured through
Ellis Island: Italians, Irish, Jews, Poles and the rest. The scale can never be
the same. But we can see the same process at work now in quite substantial
groups of new immigrants.

It is thrilling when you see the phenomenon, all over this country. In New York,
Koreans work incredible hours to create those wonderful produce markets. Here in
Boston, Ethiopians run most of the parking garages. In California, people from
many parts of Latin America play a growing economic role. In the Southwest and
elsewhere there are hard-working communities of Vietnamese and Cambodians.

Is there something about the United States that liberates the spirit, that leads
immigrants to strive? We should be careful about such cultural boasts.
Immigrants everywhere have an incentive to work hard. Asians in Britain, for
example, outperform others in business - as was so strikingly portrayed in the
movie ''My Beautiful Laundrette.''

But I think there is something special in the American climate. Other countries
are free. Here, freedom has an intense, almost aggressive quality. We resent
authority. Our literature does not celebrate social order. We have no reverence
for history; we act as if we were liberated from its strictures. What we revere
is law: law not as the repressive arm of authority that it is in so many states,
but as the guardian of liberty.

This weekend we celebrate the centennial of the Statue of Liberty, our symbol of
hope and welcome to immigrants. It is not an occasion for negative thoughts. But
one cannot approach the subject of immigration without seeing reasons for
concern in current United States policy.

Two weeks ago agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service raided two
factories on Long Island and swept up a large number of employees who looked
foreign. It held 48 men and women as suspected illegal aliens. They were not
allowed to telephone anyone, I am told, and were not informed of their legal
rights. They were held for 24 hours without food. Then they were shackled, put
on a plane and flown to Oakdale, La.

Oakdale, an isolated place 200 miles from New Orleans, is the site of a new
detention center built for the I.N.S. by the Federal Bureau of Prisons. It has
room for 900 alien detainees now and can handle 5,000 more in an ''emergency.''
Those held in Oakdale have no ready access to lawyers - there are only five
lawyers in the town, none of them familiar with immigration law. The prisoners
may not receive telephone calls. Most of them are hundreds of miles from their
family and friends, and from possible witnesses. Yet the I.N.S. says that any
legal challenges to their deportation must be heard right there.

The purpose of this rushed, intimidating, lawless system is obvious. It is to
see that the detainees get out of Oakdale only one way: by deportation. That in
a country that is celebrating its immigrants and their contributions.

If anyone deserved a welcome from the Statue of Liberty, one might think, it
would be those fleeing political persecution. But they encounter particular
harshness these days from United States policy.

The Reagan Administration routinely denies refugee status to people fleeing El
Salvador. It insists, sometimes in the teeth of brutal evidence, that they are
only seeking economic advantage here. The Administration has planted agents in
the asylum movement and prosecuted some leaders. It has made it a rule to
imprison those who arrive without papers seeking political asylum.

The human costs of current policy are heart-rending. The cost to the American
polity is also great. We are honoring a symbol this weekend while our Government
forgets its substance. We and our forebears came to this country not because
there was a statue in New York Harbor, but because behind it there was the
promise of liberty and justice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 3, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. AND CUBA TO MEET FOR TALKS ON REVIVING IMMIGRATION ACCORD

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 830 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 2


The United States and Cuba have agreed to have emissaries meet in Mexico City
next week for negotiations on reviving a 1984 immigration agreement, Reagan
Administration officials said today.

The agreement was suspended by Fidel Castro, the Cuban leader, after the United
States began broadcasts to Cuba by Radio Marti, a Voice of America station
transmitting from the United States and aimed at the domestic Cuban audience.

The scheduled talks, which have not been announced, are to cover both issues of
immigration and radio broadcasts, the officials said.

Revival of Accord Expected

They said they expected Cuba to agree to reviving the immigration accord, the
most important agreement between Cuba and the United States. They also said
there was no likelihood that the United States would halt its broadcasts over
Radio Marti.

Details were sketchy on what prompted the decision to hold talks on reviving the
agreement. State Department officials said there had been confidential exchanges
through the two nations' third-party representatives in Havana and Washington,
leading to the decision to meet in Mexico City.

They said the Cubans had decided it was in their interest to revive the
immigration accord to improve relations not only with Washington but also with
Cubans both in Cuba and the United States who had resented the cutoff in travel
between the two countries.

Relations between Cuba and the Administration have been very tense. The United
States has linked Cuba to the Government in Nicaragua, whose opponents are being
financed by American funds, and to military aid to rebel forces in Central
America.

In addition, the United States has insisted that Cuba withdraw its forces from
Angola as part of an overall settlement for the independence of South-West
Africa, known as Namibia.

Administration officials said the United States would be represented in Mexico
City by Michael G. Kozak, the principal deputy legal adviser of the State
Department, who negotiated the original immigration accord, which was announced
in December 1984.

Under the accord, the Cubans agreed to repatriate about 2,700 criminals and
mental patients who had come to the United States in the 1980 ''boatlift'' from
the Cuban port of Mariel. In return, the United States said it would admit about
3,000 former Cuban political prisoners and their families and resume normal
immigration of Cubans to the United States, which had been suspended for some
time.

On May 20, 1985, the Administration began broadcasts to Cuba over Radio Marti.
Within hours of the startup of Radio Marti, the Cubans suspended the
five-month-old accord. The Cubans said they regarded the use of the name of Jose
Marti, the Cuban independence hero and poet, as a ''gross insult.''

The Cubans also threatened to interfere with American radio stations in southern
Florida.

Radio Marti broadcasts news, entertainment and sports in Spanish for the Cuban
domestic audience. The news broadcasts are supposed to meet the Voice of
America's journalistic standards of objectivity.

Kennedy Plays Indirect Role

An Administration official said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of
Massachusetts, had played an indirect role in getting the negotiations back on
track. He said Mr. Kennedy's office succeeded in persuading Mr. Castro to
release Ricardo Montero Duque from prison last month.

Mr. Montero, who spent 25 years in prison for his role in the Bay of Pigs
invasion in 1961, was allowed to fly directly to the United States at the
request of Mr. Kennedy's office. According to the Administration official, an
aide to Mr. Kennedy who accompanied Mr. Montero back to the United States was
given a letter from the Cuban authorities in which the idea of reviving the
agreement was broached. Mr. Kennedy also met with Secretary of State George P.
Shultz on the matter, the official said.

It was unclear what concessions, if any, the United States might make to the
Cubans. Officials insisted that Radio Marti would not be given up. #125,000 in
Mariel Boatlift The immigration accord stemmed from the dramatic boatlift of
125,000 Cubans to the United States from Mariel in 1980. The vast majority of
the Marielitos, as they are known, have become integrated into American life.

But President Carter, and later the Reagan Administration, tried to persuade the
Cubans to take back 2,700 ''excludables,'' most of whom were in Federal penal or
mental institutions. In 1983, the Administration told Cuba that until it agreed
to take the excludables, the United States would halt the admission of Cubans to
this country, except for members of the immediate families of American citizens
or of permanent American residents.

This meant that thousands of Cubans normally eligible for visas to the United
States, as well as the 3,000 political prisoners previously promised a haven in
this country, were left without entry to the United States unless they could
somehow make their way to a third country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 4, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

LIBERTY WEEKEND/THE HARBOR;
WE FORMED A NEW NATIONALITY JOHN CORRY

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 993 words


The immigrants are us, an unimpeachable thought, offered frequently in
ritualized invocations. Yes, we are a nation of immigrants, and yes, it was
wonderfully appropriate when Warren E. Burger, the Chief Justice of the United
States, swore in more than 200 immigrants last night in the ceremonies on Ellis
Island. The country was enriched, and across the harbor, people in Battery Park
cheered.

But consider, oaths and naturalization procedures aside, who or what are the
immigrants and when do they become Americans? Zamir Shaikh of India sold
newspapers, cigarettes and Lotto tickets in a stand on Whitehall Street
yesterday; a Colombian nearby, who declined to give his name, had American flags
for $4. Downtown was the usual ethnic collage, and by color, accent or name, the
rest of us could pick out new immigrants.

And we did pick them out, of course; it was the American thing to do. In
retrospect, we sometimes have been unfair and at times we have been brutal. The
know-nothings persecuted the foreign-born, and Klansmen and others lynched
blacks. Japanese-Americans were interned in World War II. Nonetheless, we have
had no pogroms, gulags or death camps, and this has been our glory. At the same
time, those of us who are already here have always wondered, and worried, about
those of us who came after. Will they make good Americans, too?

Who are we, as distinct from them? In Battery Park yesterday, Steven Carlson of
Minnesota, held a big banner, ''The Gift of God is Eternal.'' Mr. Carlson said
he was ''reminding people of God's gifts to this country.'' A few steps away,
Newton Grant of Brooklyn worked trumpet valves with his right hand and an
accordian keyboard with his left, while banging a drum with his foot. A sign
next to him explained, ''One Man Band -Damn I'm Good.''

He was; he played patriotic medleys all afternoon, and people who heard him
applauded. Johnnie Cozart, a big, gentle man from Beckley, W. Va., who was here
with 26 other tourists, said, ''It's wonderful -there's no place like America.''

This was true. Mr. Cozart said his ancestry was ''kind of mixed up -Germany and
England.'' Mr. Carlson's people were Scandinavian, while Mr. Grant, who was
black, had ancestors forcibly removed from Africa. Clearly, Mr. Cozart, Mr.
Carlson and Mr. Grant were Americans, descended, if you will, from old stock.

And where in the collage, this reporter wondered, were the Irish? It came to him
then on the particularly lovely day that he was old stock, too. It did not
matter that his family was only turn-of-the-century American, more recently
arrived than Mr. Cozart's family and Mr. Carlson's family, and of no more than
greenhorn status, certainly, when compared to the family of Mr. Grant.

Ah, but yet: hadn't his family immediately changed its name from Curry to Corry,
and quickly put Ireland behind it? Corry sounded more American; it also sounded
less Irish Catholic. The Corrys, Protestants from Country Armagh, were
determined to note the difference. On St. Patrick's Day in New York, Grandpa
Corry, once Curry, wore an orange sash.

The sash, however, was only once a year, and otherwise Ireland was forgotten.
What was Ireland like? On New Year's Day, Grandpa Corry said, everyone lined up
on the side of the road and bowed while a duke rode by and tipped his hat.

Grandpa Corry's son was persuaded that the world's greatest army could be made
of Irish Catholic privates and Irish Protestant officers - Wolfe Tone, after
all, was a Protestant - but he never thought of Ireland, either. On Dec. 7,
1941, he made his wife cry when he said he wanted to re-enlist in the Navy. I
am, he said, an American.

Thus the Currys changed. First, their name; then Grandma Corry stopped taking in
washing. Eventually, Irish Catholics married into, and otherwise became related
to the Protestant Corrys, and so did American Jews. None of this really
mattered; as it was with all the Irish, the thing was to get ahead.

They did, in their way, and it was how they became old stock. Grandpa Corry and
his son would have understood Mr. Shaikh on Whitehall Street very well; they
also would have understood the Colombian with the $4 flags who refused to give
his name.

''You have to work hard,'' Mr. Shaikh said. ''I was here yesterday morning, and
I have not been home since. You can see by my beard. I sleep here; I sleep
there. If you are not at work, then what do you do? What would you want to do?''
Mr. Shaikh sounded cheerful, considering his day-and-a-half absence from home,
and his reservations about America were minor. There were too many policemen
around Battery Park. Who needed them when the people in the crowd seemed so
nice? Also, when he arrived here seven years ago, subway tokens were 50 cents;
now they are $1. He said this was way too much.

What could be more American than that? Mr. Shaikh sounded positively old stock.
All the Corrys complained when subway fares went from a nickel to a dime.
Scholars argue about the definition of liberty, but most Americans think of it
as having something to do with elbow room. One works, one complains, one gets
about as he pleases.

And the Colombian? It was true he declined to give his name, but he was very
courteous in his refusal. He was afraid, he said, of finding unspecified
''problems.''

The Corrys worried about problems, too, usually with institutions. This had
nothing to do with breaking the law; none of them would even have bent the law.
The social contract, as they saw it, did not allow it. At the same time, a man's
life, including his name, was his own private business. The Colombian felt the
same.

So, where were the Corrys, once Currys, in Battery Park yesterday? All over the
place, actually, along with all the other Irish and other people who had become
Americans, too. They were smiling, and when Mr. Grant played ''Anchors Aweigh''
and ''God Bless America'' in his one-man band, they were the ones who were
tapping their feet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of some of the thousands of people who crowded South Street
Seaport (NYT/William R. Sauro)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 4, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

IN THE NATION;
The Most Unfortunate Immigrants

BYLINE: By Tom Wicker

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 720 words


It's an appropriate coincidence that at a time when the nation is celebrating
its immigrant heritage the Supreme Court should have issued its important
decisions upholding race-conscious remedies in certain cases of employment
discrimination against minority groups.

The coincidence is appropriate because American blacks - though not the only
beneficiaries of the Court's actions - are generally seen as those most in need
of the ''affirmative action'' programs the rulings upheld. And blacks were
immigrants, too -the most unfortunate and degraded of the millions that have
poured into the United States over the centuries.

Alone among these millions, blacks came here in the chains of chattel slavery;
alone among them too, they did not find new freedom and new opportunity in a
land of liberty. Centuries had to pass, and an immense, destructive war had to
be waged before the chains were broken and blacks could ''cross Jordan'' into
freedom.

Even then, for nearly another century, discriminatory attitudes, customs and
laws - far more onerous than any applied to other once-despised groups - kept
most blacks in legally inferior status. Even now, the consequences of this harsh
heritage play their sad part in the low social and economic positions of so many
American blacks - a status that is improving for too few and actually is
declining for some.

How large a part does that heritage play in the plight of the black community
today? That is properly the subject of intense debate - not least among blacks
themselves - to which the Supreme Court rulings will not and should not put an
end.

But for the foreseeable future the Court at least has settled one troublesome
dispute. It rejected the Reagan Administration's argument that civil rights
legislation permits race-conscious affirmative action only to those suffering
personal and specific racial discrimination.

The Court decisions not only prevented the nation from moving backward in racial
equality, in employment and in other fields where the Administration had
asserted this position. It also left the Administration, on one of the most
vexing domestic questions, with no policy save its dogmatic view that in a free
society and a free market anybody worth his or her salt should be able to ''make
it.'' And if not, too bad.

But that's not a policy; as Senator Moynihan of New York recently said: ''By all
means let us go on about self-reliance, gumption and go-gettingness. But if that
is all there is to be by the way of social policy, no one needs Democrats. And
if that is all the social policy there is to be, Democrats will have earned
their eclipse.''

The Senator was speaking in New York at a Democratic Party gathering that in
itself demonstrated that the country still does need the Democrats; because it
is within that party, if anywhere, that the problems of the black community will
be seriously discussed and such political approaches as may be necessary will be
developed. The party of Ronald Reagan will do neither; instead, as Governor
Cuomo observed, the Administration has made ''the denial of concern acceptable,
perhaps even respectable.''

The Democrats don't have ready answers, as the New York meeting showed. It was
not clear to what extent blacks like Glenn Loury of Harvard may be right that
old approaches have ''underwritten'' dependency and self-destructive behavior in
the black ghetto. Nor could anyone define precisely how to answer the call by
former Gov. Charles S. Robb of Virginia for ''a new targeted offensive against
joblessness, poverty and dependency.'' But from political necessity, the
Democrats have concern. Most blacks are Democrats and the party has little hope
of returning to power unless it can win in the urban areas most affected by
ghetto conditions. For good or ill, moreover, modern social policy has been
primarily the work of Democrats; they cannot evade the issue.

But ''it has become a belief, bordering on prejudice, that the social ills of
the present are the consequence of misguided Democratic social policies of the
past two generations,'' Senator Moynihan lamented. That is ludicrously untrue;
and the new approaches that now are needed are likely to arise, if at all, not
from free-market platitudes but from the Democratic Party's tradition of
innovation and concern.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 4, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Judge Gesell Has It His Way, Without TV

BYLINE: By BARBARA GAMAREKIAN

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 826 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 3


In the solemnity of the Ceremonial Courtroom of the United States District
Court, and without the ballyhoo of television, 98 foreign nationals from 41
countries took the oath of United States citizenship here this afternoon from
Judge Gerhard A. Gesell.

''You are now a part of a great experiment in government, which has relied
heavily on the talents and energies of its naturalized citizens,'' Judge Gesell
told the new citizens in a quiet, steady voice.

''Do not be willing to leave government to others,'' he continued.
''Participate, demand competence in your leaders. Ours must be a vital, not a
complacent, conforming, wholly materialistic society.

''Seek out the good, shun the bad. Vote. Work. Help others. Be useful. Obey the
law. Speak out against intolerance. Get involved. Use your minds, not your
fists. Your voice will be heard.''

The 76-year-old judge surprised immigration officials and Liberty Weekend
television producers last week when he announced he would not conduct the
swearing-in on the steps of the Jefferson Memorial as part of a televised
nationwide ceremony tonight.

That ceremony involved thousands of immigrants at various locations around the
country pledging allegiance en masse as part of the four-day celebration of
Independence Day and the centennial of the Statue of Liberty, with Chief Justice
Warren E. Burger administering the oath to all by television hookup from Ellis
Island in New York.

But, in Judge Gesell's words, the proposed introduction of television
commercials into the proceedings meant ''our usual dignified naturalization
court is being turned into a pageant over which I have no control as the
presiding judge.''

And so he held his own ceremony this afternoon, reminding the 98 new citizens at
the close of the proceedings that, on the invitation of local immigration
officials, they could still take part in the symbolic ceremony at the Jefferson
Memorial tonight. But without the presiding judge.

Shortly after 9 P.M. about 15 of the new citizens took up the invitation to
participate in a symbolic oath.

Citizen Gavri's Story

One of the 98 new citizens, Prakash Lal Gavri, said earlier he would happily go
through the ceremony twice.

''I don't even know what is going to happen yet at the Jefferson Memorial,'' he
said with abandon. ''But today is the most exciting moment of my life and I am
going to be there.''

Mr. Gavri's long journey to American citizenship began Nov. 4, 1979, when the
United States Embassy in Teheran was seized. In the chaos that followed, Mr.
Gavri, an Afghan citizen who had been working for the United States Information
Agency in Iran since 1976, managed to slip out a back door.

Today the 34-year-old Mr. Gavri is a husband, father and successful Washington
businessman.

''All this just wouldn't have been possible if Jim Tully hadn't opened doors for
me,'' he said, referring to the owner of Global Leasing Company, where Mr. Gavri
is now vice president for operations. ''I worked my way up, but he had the
confidence in me, he gave me all the freedom and decision-making power.''

Seven years ago Mr. Gavri's main problem was negotiating his passage out of
Iran. Lacking an exit visa, he said it took him ''exactly one month and 20
days'' to wheel and deal his way onto an airplane headed for the United States.

In his pocket was a United States visa that he had secured earlier that year for
a planned vacation here, a country he had never visited.

Aside from his State Department contacts, Mr. Gavri knew just one person in
Washington, Kate Dougherty, whom he had met in Kabul in 1974.

''She has been like my American mother,'' said Mr. Gavri as he told how she and
her husband, John, a former Justice Department employee, took him in and helped
him find his way in a strange city, a strange land.

'Typing for Dollars'

He applied for political asylum, received a work permit, rented a typewriter and
started ''typing for dollars.''

''I used to type and I thought, that's one way to start,'' he said.

By and by he received an offer to become an office manager at Global Leasing.
Today, he oversees 130,000 square feet of rental space for the company, which
specializes in setting up and equipping offices to sublet to clients who want to
share secretarial and other support services.

Meantime, Mr. Gavri had been here a bit over a year when he met the woman he
would marry, Kathleen Doyle, a State Department employee.

''I couldn't even hear what he was saying over the noise,'' Mrs. Gavri recalled
of their meeting, in a bar. ''But I knew from the moment I met him that he had
quality, he is a very special person. I knew we were going to be married.'' They
now have one son, Justin, 3. ''What I really love about the United States,'' Mr.
Gavri said before his citizenship ceremony today, ''is the value that is placed
on every individual human being here. That is very different from other parts of
the world I have known.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Judge Gerhard A. Gesell (NYT/Ken Heinen); photo of Prakash Lal
Gavri (NYT/Paul Hosefros)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 4, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

NATION REKINDLES STATUE OF LIBERTY AS BEACON OF HOPE;
ACROSS U.S., A CEREMONY FOR HISTORY

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 766 words


Under starlit skies, in view of a newly resplendent Statue of Liberty, Ron
Ranvindran, Sadye Lee Vassil, Riva Sagalova, Thanh Tran, Mikhail Baryshnikov,
Arman Amazallag, Samson Arshansky and Pirkko Antonopoulos became Americans last
night.

Along with 268 other men, women and children who had come to the United States
from 100 countries, they were sworn in by Chief Justice Warren E. Burger on
Ellis Island, the gateway to this country for more than 12 million immigrants
and refugees.

''Now I'm American!'' shouted the jubilant Thanh Tran, 22 years old, who fled
his native Vietnam eight years ago aboard a fragile, overcrowded boat.

''I'm happy,'' said Iluminada Rodriguez, 24, from the Dominican Republic, the
first member of her family to become an American citizen. She was accompanied by
her 80-year-old father, Bienvenido Rodriguez, who had worked as a dishwasher at
the Waldorf-Astoria so that he could afford to bring his wife and six children
to America. Last night, Mr. Rodriguez, too overcome to speak, just smiled and
smiled upon his daughter.

Ceremony in Orange Bowl

The oath-taking was a focal point for what surely was the most extraordinary
naturalization ceremony in the nation's history. Simultaneously, from New York
to Miami to Kansas City, Mo., to San Francisco - at 44 sites all around the
country - more than 25,000 immigrants joined in the oath. In the Orange Bowl in
Miami, 14,000 people became new Americans. In Chrissey Field in San Francisco,
1,000 people took the oath.

On Ellis Island, about 200 were from New York, two of them, including Mr. Tran,
chosen by Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the others selected from regular
lists of those seeking naturalization. The others taking the oath on the island
came from 31 states, chosen by their governors. Nineteen states chose not to
send representatives. It was in many ways a made-for-television ceremony. There
were huge color television screens mounted on each side of a podium on the south
lawn of Ellis Island. The candidates sat through several commercials that were
shown after the first few speeches and before the administration of the oath.

Shortly after 9 P.M., Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d stepped to the podium and
presented the candidates to the Chief Justice. Saying that many of the ''most
honorable men and women'' in the history of the nation had ''passed through this
isle in pursuit of freedom,'' he said he was confident that ''many of you will
follow in their footsteps.'' Then he formally recommended that the oath of
citizenship be administered.

Chief Justice Burger pointed out to the candidates that the ''great Lady of
Liberty faces not the West, to our land, but out to the sea as a welcome to
those who seek our kind of freedom.''

He asked the candidates ''to raise your right hand and, on this Bible, repeat
after me.''

In reciting the Oath of Allegiance, they declared, ''freely and without any
mental reservation,'' that they ''entirely renounce and abjure all allegiance
and fidelty to any foreign prince, potentate, state or sovereignty'' and that
they would ''support and defend the Constitution and laws of the United States
of America.''

Five of the new citizens were under 14 years old. And as befits a modern
American ceremony, one was a bona fide celebrity - Mr. Baryshnikov, the ballet
dancer and choreographer, from the Soviet Union. But last night, in what may
have been the moment that most embodied the meaning of Liberty Week's
festivities, they were all stars. Some of those standing on Ellis Island, with
their right hands raised, had endured great hardship and suffering in other
lands. They had fled wars, religious persecution and economic oppression.

Before being ferried to the island, the soon-to-be-citizens, their friends and
families, all dressed in their best, mingled in the courtyard of Castle Clinton,
the old fort at Battery Park. They smiled. They wept. They took pictures of one
another. And they spoke of why they had come to this country.

Mr. Tran, a 22-year-old senior at the State University of New York Maritime
College who hopes to become an officer in the Merchant Marine, was 14 when he
escaped from Vietnam aboard a 22-foot boat packed with 22 refugees. Mr. Tran,
who left his entire family behind, survived 22 days at sea and two years in a
refugee camp in Manila before coming to New York in October 1980.

Imagining what he might write in his next letter home, Mr. Tran - standing tall
in his black cadet uniform, brass buttons gleaming and a miniature American flag
in his breast pocket -said: ''Mom, I'm American!''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of people on Ellis Island being sworn in as United States
citizens (NYT/Jim Wilson) (page B6)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 5, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

OBSERVER;
They Keep The Pot Stirred

BYLINE: By Russell Baker

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 750 words


Here's to every immigrant and immigrant offspring who didn't measure up:

To those who didn't become presidents, governors, tycoons, fathers of new
weapons, judges, or stars of stage, screen, radio, television, video or
as-told-to books on the best-seller lists.

To those who thought liberty absurd, and those who despised the idea of
equality, and those whose dream was a dream of greed that brought them here to
get rich, from slave labor if necessary, and go back to the old country where
stay-at-home peasants would have to lick their boots.

Here's to the pickpockets, too, and burglars, thieves and killers, to all those
exported in European chains who regarded the New World as a prison. To those who
fled from the gallows, seeking a hideout where rascals could safely flourish.

Here's to the traitors, like Tom Paine, who fled England to avoid being hanged
for his radical politics.

Lucky timing made Paine's radicalism heroic. Other immigrants were not so lucky,
so here's to Sacco and here's to Vanzetti, doomed for their anarchism by a
hanging judge and a hanging governor and a whole nation in a hanging mood.

Here's to all hanging judges, and to all hanging governors, and to the Supreme
Court justices, who have the power to indulge the whole nation in its hanging
moods. All are immigrants' heirs. Here's to all the troublemakers: To the union
organizers who made life hard for the sweatshop profiteers, who preferred to be
just plain hard-working businessmen; to the hard-working businessmen, too, and
to their goons who clubbed the skulls of the immigrant and immigrant-offspring
working stiffs.

Here's to the bankers, including embezzlers and cheaters of widows and orphans.
Until immigration there wasn't a single banker anywhere in the land. Salutes to
you, ye banking fruit of immigration.

Salutes, too, to widows and orphans, including widows and orphans who are
landlords cruel to their tenants, especially in winter when they go to Jamaica
to escape hard-luck tales of icicles on the radiator.

Here's to the gangsters created by Prohibition and here's to the bank robbers
created by the Depression.

Here's to the pistoleros created by the national craving for drugs and here's to
the Ku Kluxers created by ignorance.

Here's to the bigots, to the nigger-haters, the fag-bashers, the
no-wops-kikes-Irish-need-apply people and to every immigrant and immigrant's
child, grandchild and multigreat-grandchild who ever said the only good Indian
was a dead Indian.

You say you wouldn't want your sister to marry one? That's neither here nor
there.

The point is that without them America wouldn't be the same country we celebrate
this weekend.

The point is that it's unfair to ignore all the results of immigration except
its big shots.

The point is that in an America without rogues, felons, psychopaths, bigots,
swindlers, liars, cheats, brutes, frauds, crooked politicians and corrupt cops
liberty would have collapsed of terminal flabbiness shortly after the first few
boatloads of saintly immigrants fell to their knees weeping pure thoughts upon
first glimpsing Liberty Enlightening the World.

To retain their muscularity, people committed to liberty require constant
challenge from people who don't know the difference between liberty and making a
mess.

It is only fitting then to salute the mess-makers, for they far outnumber the
glittering successes who resulted from immigration to the New World.

For every Lee Iacocca bestriding the motor world like a colossus there are
thousands of immigrants or bearers of immigrant heritage on the production line
putting the wrong bolt in the car. For every Mayor Koch doing government work
with zest there are thousands of government workers, the bureaucratic result of
immigration, who wish the governed would go away.

So here's to everybody the $5,000-per-head crowd doesn't want to think about
when they think about the meaning of immigration.

Here's to the wife-beaters, and here's to the car thieves.

Here's to the people who cancel your insurance, here's to the guy who steals
your television set, here's to everybody with enough money to buy Congressmen,
and here's to Congressmen who rather wish they didn't have to jump at their
buyers' commands and if pressed on the subject say, ''But let's be realistic -''

Here's to the losers, the failures, the rats, the finks, the louts, the
finaglers, the boors, the chiselers. We have immigration to thank for them all.
What would America be without them?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 6, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE WORLD;
U.S., CUBA TO TALK OVER IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By Milt Freudenheim, James F. Clarity and Richard Levine

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 199 words


Relations between the United States and Cuba have been strained in recent years,
but last week Washington and Havana agreed to discuss the revival of a 1984
immigration pact.

Reagan Administration officials said that the meeting would be this week in
Mexico City.

The immigration agreement was suspended by Cuba in May 1985, after Radio Marti,
a Voice of America station, began broadcasts to Cuba. The Havana Government said
the use of the name of Jose Marti, the Cuban independence hero and poet, was a
''gross insult.''

The Mexico City talks were expected to cover both immigration and the radio
station.

The 1984 agreeement was a result of the 1980 flight of 125,000 Cubans sailing
from the port of Mariel to the United States. About 2,700 of these were
criminals or mentally ill people known as ''excludables,'' and many were
confined to prisons and mental institutions in this country.

Under the agreement, Cuba was to take back the 2,700; the United States said it
would admit about 3,000 former Cuban political prisoners and their families, and
resume normal immigration of Cubans to this country.

There was no immediate comment on the talks from the Government of Fidel Castro.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 6, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

12CITIES WIEGH ENCOURAGING LATINS TO BE CITIZENS OF U.S.

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 14, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 556 words


Twelve cities with high concentrations of Hispanic residents have been
considering resolutions aimed at encouraging Hispanic aliens who are legally in
this country to become naturalized citizens.

In conjunction with the Fourth of July, City Council members in New York,
Chicago, Los Angeles and the other cities called last week for support of such
efforts, mostly through education. Many Hispanic aliens simply do not know that
they are eligible for citizenship, said Harry Pachon, executive director of the
National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials, which is
promoting the resolutions.

In 1984, according to the Census Bureau, more than three million Hispanic aliens
were eligible for citizenship but did not apply. To be eligible, an alien must
have been a legal resident of the United States for five years.

Stereotype Is Seen

Hispanic people made up two-fifths of the 7.4 million aliens with legal
documentation in 1984, according to the Census Bureau.

''Hispanic legal immigrants are typically overlooked in public debate by the
tendency to view all Hispanic immigrants as illegal aliens,'' Mr. Pachon said.

Most Hispanic aliens are Mexican, and resident Mexicans have a 7 percent rate of
naturalization, as against a rate of 80 percent for all other groups.

Mr. Pachon attributed the low rate in part to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, which he said failed to promote naturalization among eligible
residents. ''The I.N.S. emphasizes the 'I' and ignores the 'N' in its name,'' he
said, noting that naturalization accounts for just $14 million out of a total
agency budget of $560 million.

Duke Austin, a spokesman for the agency, said Hispanic aliens were treated the
same as other immigrant groups. ''What do we do for these other people that we
don't do for Mexicans?'' he asked rhetorically. ''Why do other nationalities
have no problem naturalizing?''

In 1982, the last year for which figures are available, 11,000 Mexicans were
naturalized. Last year 61,000 Mexicans entered the United States legally.

Nationalism Is Cited

Mr. Austin said many Hispanic aliens decided against becoming citizens. Again
using the figures from Mexico, he said many Mexicans were highly nationalistic.
''They identify with Mexico and eventually want to return there,'' he said.
''They don't want to renounce their citizenship.'' Renunciation is a requirement
of naturalization.

The 12 cities' resolutions come at a time of heightened interest in
naturalization and immigration as the country celebrates the 100th year of the
Statue of Liberty. Last week a total of 26,000 immigrants were sworn as
citizens. Mexican immigrants made up the largest number of new citizens,
according to Joan Anzalone, a research assistant at the National Association of
Latino Elected and Appointed Officials.

At the same time, Americans are divided about immigration. Forty-nine percent of
all adult Americans say they want immigration decreased, as opposed to 42
percent who say it should be increased or kept at present levels, according to a
recent New York Times/ CBS News Poll.

In addition to New York, Chicago and Los Angeles, the cities considering the
resolutions are San Jose, Sacramento, Sunnyvale and Oxnard, Calif.; San Antonio
and Corpus Christi, Tex.; Hialeah, Fla,; Phoenix and Denver.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 11, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

TALKS WITH HAVANA COLLAPSE OVER ITS RADIO RIGHTS IN U.S.

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 400 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 10


The State Department said today that efforts to revive an immigration agreement
with Cuba had collapsed.

Officials said two days of talks in Mexico City had foundered over disagreements
about possible Cuban radio broadcasts to the United States.

Bernard Kalb, the State Department spokesman, said Cuba ''insisted on proposals
that would have required major and disruptive changes in the organization of
radio broadcasting in the United States.''

Other officials said that to match the ability of Radio Marti, the Voice of
America station, to reach Cuba, the Cubans sought permission to use ''clear
channel'' frequencies that could be heard throughout the United States.

A clear channel provides exclusive use of a frequency in an area and no other
station is permitted to beam its signal into the protected area.

The United States was prepared only for a more general agreement under which the
two sides would then work out a frequency that would not interfere with American
broadcasting.

The officials said they did not know whether the Cuban request had been just an
opening gambit or a final position. No date has been scheduled for another round
of talks.

The question of radio broadcasts arose because Cuba suspended a 1984 immigration
accord last year after the Radio Marti broadcasts to Cuba began.

Until recently, Cuba had said that the immigration accord could not be restored
until Radio Marti was closed. That position was altered, American officials
said, as a result of recent messages between the two governments and through
intermediaries, such as Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts.

Mr. Kalb said the Mexico City talks were held after Fidel Castro, the Cuban
leader, had indicated that ''he would be prepared to see implementation of the
agreement restored under certain circumstances under the pretext of free
competition of ideas through radio broadcasting.''

The spokesman said the United States had proposed ''free competition of ideas
without interference to U.S. broadcasting.''

''In view of Cuban insistence on their own proposals, no agreement was
reached,'' he said.

The immigration agreement provided for the return to Cuba of 2,700 former
criminals and mental patients who were part of the boatlift from Mariel in 1980.
In return, the United States would take 3,000 Cuban political prisoners and up
to 20,000 regular immigrants a year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 14, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

While We're Feeling Good About Immigrants ...

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 355 words


To the Editor:

Although we are dismayed by the results of The New York Times/CBS poll of the
American public's views of immigrants (front page, July 1), we also realize that
they reflect a traditional ambivalence in this country's attitude toward
newcomers. The history of American immigration law is one of wide swings between
policies of restriction and those of welcome.

No nation can be more proud of its efforts to embrace and integrate newcomers
into its midst. Yet there have been times when our fears have overcome our
generosity and we have failed to respond to desperate people in need - and that
has more than once led to overwhelming human tragedy.

All reliable evidence shows us that immigrants contribute greatly to the economy
as well as to the richness of our culture. The vast majority of newcomers are
productive members of the work force, and through the taxes they pay and the
ingenuity and skills they bring to their employment and to their communities,
they have enriched the fabric of life in America. Often, they work in unskilled
and low-paying jobs that others are loath to accept, jobs that are vital to the
health of the economy. The rapid social and economic rise of many new Americans
testifies to their industriousness and perseverance.

The crisis of the world's dispossessed is growing fast. According to World
Refugee Survey, refugees number more than 10 million. An international response
to this dramatic situation depends greatly upon the leadership of the United
States.

We are celebrating the Statue of Liberty's centennial and all that she
represents to those who yearn ''to breathe free'' - refugees and immigrants
seeking the same promise and opportunity as our ancestors did. It would be a
tragic irony if, in the midst of paying homage to our most lofty impulses, we
surrendered to our unfounded fears. A welcoming attitude toward refugees and
immigrants is an integral part of the American tradition, reflecting the best of
our past and the most noble of our social values.ROBERT L. ISRAELOFF New York,
July 2, 1986 The writer is president of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 14, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

While We're Feeling Good About Immigrants ...

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 564 words


To the Editor:

Your front-page articles on third-world immigrants and on public support for
immigration restriction (June 30 and July 1) prompt this joint response.

The central question of these articles is whether or not new immigrants will
replicate the experience of groups that arrived at the turn of the 20th century,
specifically whether their economic, social and cultural adjustment to American
life will match that of their predecessors. Too often, commentators deal with
this from a narrow point of view, without adequately understanding the history
or current reality of immigration.

For years, our organizations -which represent descendants of turn-of-the-century
European migrations and current immigrant generations -have worked together on
issues of immigration and adjustment to American society. Despite disparate
pasts, we share common perspectives on several issues you raise:

* In both the early 1900's and today, advocates purporting to speak for the
public interest have questioned whether newcomers would resist learning the
language or becoming an integral part of United States society. In no case,
however, has this been the intention or experience of the immigrants themselves.
They have never desired to remain apart from American life and have always
enriched it with their talents and energies.

* It is true that newcomers - both old and new - have usually established ethnic
enclaves in major cities which have often been viewed by outsiders as obstacles
to full participation in American life. Experience indicates that these fears
are unfounded. Ethnic communities have served as places where immigrants can
maintain their culture while they learn about American life and values.
Immigrants generally remain in them for only a short time before they and their
children relocate to surrounding areas. In this process, American society gains
from their labor and entrepreneurial drive, as well as their contributions to
our pluralistic culture.

* Immigration should not be discussed in isolation from other social issues. We
are now struggling, for ex-ample, to introduce family values and productive work
attitudes into our welfare programs. Yet these values are embodied in our
immigration laws, which give families preferences for entry and bring productive
workers into our country. We need to emphasize the benefits of our immigration
policy even as we work to make it more fair and effective.

* Immigration is not only a social or economic issue. Many newcomers have moved
to escape repressive regimes of both the left and the right. They help make our
ideals of freedom and justice into concrete reality.

Your articles appeared on the week of the Statue of Liberty's centennial. When
the statue was placed in New York Harbor, vocal critics asserted that Jews,
Italians and others then arriving would never become ''true Americans.'' History
has proved them wrong. We believe that the later-day critics of immigration are
equally wrong in making dire predictions about Asian and Hispanic
newcomers.DAVID GORDIS RAUL YZAGUIRRE (Rev.) LYDIO TOMASI S. ANDREW CHEN New
York, July 2, 1986 The writers are, respectively, executive vice president of
the American Jewish Committee, president of the National Council of La Raza,
executive director of the Center for Migration Studies and president of the
Organization of Chinese Americans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               July 23, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Think of Immigrants as Mostly Women

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 300 words


To the Editor:

Your otherwise informative news article contrasting mass immigration at the turn
of the century and now (front page, June 30), neglects to mention one of the
most striking differences: immigrants then were mostly men, while immigrants now
are mostly women.

Indeed, women have outnumbered men as immigrants to the United States in every
year since 1930. By failing to recognize this, you help perpetuate the myth that
most international migrants are men seeking employment opportunities in
countries other than those of their birth. Women predominate as immigrants from
many regions of the world. Only a few Asian countries, such as Vietnam and
India, send mostly male immigrants, while Korea, the Philippines and Thailand
predominantly send females. Women dominate most immigration from Europe, while
men dominate the relatively smaller flow from Africa. Women also outnumber men
from most countries in the Western Hemisphere, except Mexico.

There is no obvious explanation why some countries send predominantly female
immigrants while others send mostly men. As you discussed, changes in the
national origins of immigrants are attributed to the 1965 and 1978 amendments to
the Immigration and Nationality Act, which finally eliminated all
national-origin quotas.

However, these changes go only so far to explain the peculiarly female
immigration from some countries and not others. For example, an emphasis on
family reunification in the 1965 and 1978 amendments is a partial explanation
for the predominance of women immigrants as a whole, since parents and spouses
of U.S. citizens and alien residents are mostly female and exempt from the
admission preference system employed by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. KATHARINE M. DONATO Stony Brook, L.I., July 4, 1986

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 28, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRANTS' HURDLES REFLECT FEW CHANGES, SCHOLAR FINDS

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 702 words


The problems confronting the current wave of immigrants in New York City are
more similar to those of earlier immigrants than is commonly recognized,
according to one of the nation's leading sociologists, Nathan Glazer.

It is often argued that today's immigrants are ''much more distant in culture,
religion, race and ethnicity than the immigrants of the early 1900's,'' Mr.
Glazer said at a symposium last week at the Brooklyn campus of Long Island
University. In reality, though, immigrants of that period faced many of the same
accusations, he said.

As an example, he cited remarks by the New York City Superintendent of Schools
in the early years of this century, William Henry Maxwell.

''The influx of vast hordes of people from abroad, alien in language, alien in
modes of thought and alien in tradition have combined to present our schools
with the most serious obstacles yet discovered in the upward progress of public
education,'' Mr. Maxwell said in 1912.

Earlier Optimism

Mr. Maxwell was speaking of ''Jews, Italians, Greeks and Poles, whom we now
consider part of the white majority,'' said Mr. Glazer, a professor of education
and sociology at Harvard University and author of ''Ethnic Dilemmas.''

Mr. Glazer did point to one fundamental change in public attitude toward
immigrants and their education: the prevailing mood of optimism in the school
system that existed earlier, the feeling that all problems confronting
immigrants could be overcome, has largely disappeared, he said.

''There is a feeling that we have been doing badly in education,'' Mr. Glazer
said, ''whereas that was not the feeling in the first two decades of this
century.''

Immigration-related issues are of particular urgency in New York City, Mr.
Glazer said during the symposium, part of a six-day conference on ''Education
and the American Immigrant.''

Hundreds of Thousands a Year

Citing figures from the United States Census Bureau and the Department of City
Planning, Mr. Glazer said that more than 700,000 legal immigrants had arrived in
New York City in the last decade and that the city's legal immigrant population
continued to grow by up to 80,000 a year.

With only 3 percent of the nation's population, New York City is home to 16
percent of all new immigrants, he said. Many of the new arrivals are young
people just starting families, so their impact is particularly noticeable in the
city's public schools, he added.

Mr. Glazer also argued that the notion that ''all kinds of people rubbing
shoulders together'' had made it easier for earlier immigrant groups to
assimilate has been exaggerated. An analysis of public school enrollments in the
early years of the century found, he said, many schools with enrollments that
''were 99 percent-plus Jewish'' or Italian. ''This pattern of immigrant
concentration is not new,'' Mr. Glazer said.

Many of the ethnic stereotypes that are widespread today could also be found
then, though they were applied to different ethnic groups. Mr. Glazer noted that
Jewish children were described as ''the delight of their teachers because of
their cleverness, obedience and general good conduct.''

''If you didn't know they were Jewish students, you would think these were
teachers describing Asian students today,'' Mr. Glazer said.

Same Complaint, New Group

On the other hand, much was written at the same time about what was called ''the
Italian problem.'' The supposed ''ill-adaptiveness'' of Italian students to
American education, which disappeared as a topic as Italian-Americans made
social and economic strides, has its counterpart today in what some mistakenly
call the ''backwardness'' of Puerto Ricans, he said.

While noting the need for bilingual education programs in a city of immigrants,
Mr. Glazer also said he was concerned that ''some of these classes go on for
years.'' When he visited elementary, middle and high school classes here and
asked when students are moved over to English-language instruction, he said he
was told ''why bother,'' let the next level of school ''worry about that.''

''It was my impression that you could get a wonderful education in Spanish in
the American school system,'' Mr. Glazer said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 16, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

MYSTERY SHROUDS EFFORT TO DEPORT JAPANESE INSTRUCTOR LIVING ON L.I.

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD D. MAY

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1177 words


Last month, Choichiro Yatani, a Japanese citizen who for the last nine years has
lived quietly in the United States as a student and a teacher, returned from an
academic conference in the Netherlands.

Upon his arrival at Kennedy International Airport on July 7 he was arrested
because, an immigrations official said, the United States Government believes
Mr. Yatani is ''a terrorist or engaged in other subversive activites.''

Since his arrest, the 39-year-old Mr. Yatani has been imprisoned in a Manhattan
detention center with no possibility of release on bail, pending the possibility
of deportation as early as Tuesday.

Charges Called 'Absolutely Absurd'

''This has just been a nightmare,'' he said. ''I don't understand why this is
happening.'' The charges against him, he added, ''are absurd, absolutely
absurd.''

Dr. John H. Marburger 3d, president of the State University of New York at Stony
Brook, where Mr. Yatani is an instructor and a Ph.D. candidate in social
psychology, said yesterday that ''the situation is Kafkaesque.'' He added, ''We
are at a total loss to understand why immigration and the State Department are
sending this valuable person out of the country.''

Requests to the Government for information, he said, have been answered with
''formal and uninformative'' replies. ''It's been impossible for us to learn why
they have acted as they have.''

Ruth van Heuven, a State Department spokesman, said yesterday that Mr. Yatani's
visa was revoked for a number of reasons, chief among them that he has belonged
to ''a Communist Party or an organization affiliated with a Communist Party.''

Asked to provide the name of the organization, the dates of membership or
evidence substantiating that charge, she replied: ''I'm not free to comment.''

In an interview, Mr. Yatani denied that he had ever been a member of the
Communist Party or any radical organization.

Immigration lawyers said the case illustrates an ironic twist in the laws and
procedures concerning aliens and their rights in the United States.

As immigration officials concede, had Mr. Yatani entered the country illegally,
without a visa, and been arrested on criminal charges - for example, selling
cocaine - he would enjoy a battery of rights to which he is not now entitled,
despite being a longtime resident of the United States with a clean record, a
home, a job and two children who are American citizens.

But because Mr. Yatani was arrested while attempting to legally enter the United
States, Federal officials consider that he is not yet back in this country and
therefore is not entitled to the same constitutional guarantees, including bail.

''The logic of current policy encourages people to lie to gain admission to the
U.S. and to improperly circumvent inspection procedures,'' said Arthur Helton of
the New York-based Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, a nonprofit organization
that agreed yesterday to represent Mr. Yatani.

Mr. Helton said that the Government policy of imprisoning people like Mr. Yatani
without the possibility of release on bail or bond ''is a device meant to
discourage their pursuing their case for admission.''

In telephone interviews with Mr. Yatani at the Federal detention center on
Varick Street, where he may receive but not place calls, he said he did not know
why the United States Government views him as a danger.

He said he had never been involved in terrorist or subversive activities of any
kind nor belonged to the Communist Party or other radical organizations.

Under the provisions of the McCarran-Walter Act of 1952, aliens may be excluded
from the United States on such grounds.

An Arrest in 1968

The only infraction in his past, he said, was his arrest in Tokyo in 1968 at the
age of 21 along with about 70 other students who were taking part in a
demonstration against the Vietnam War.

''According to an English translation of his record of convictions, he was
convicted of 'violations of the road traffic control law,' '' one of Mr.
Yatani's attorneys, Alan Stopek, said. ''He was put on probation for one year
and under Japanese law at the end of the probationary period the conviction
expires.''

Mr. Yatani first came to the United States in 1977, arriving in Seattle.
Immigration officials there detained him for three days.

''I never understood what that was about,'' he said. ''No one explains. But in
the end I was released and I went to Utah State to study. I thought whatever
problem there was had been cleared up.''

Moved to L.I. 4 Years Ago

Scott Blackman, the assistant director for deportation at the Immigration and
Nationalization Service, said in answer to a question Thursday that ''it would
appear he has been here legally and properly.'' Asked the same question
yesterday, Mr. Blackman said, ''It is not entirely clear whether he has been
here legally or not.''

About four years ago, Mr. Yatani, his wife and their two children moved to Stony
Brook, L.I., where he has been studying social psychology and teaching
psychology and Japanese.

''He's only about a year away from finishing his Ph.D.,'' said Dana Bramel,
director of studies in social psychology and Mr. Yatani's adviser. His friends
are taking care of his family while he is in detention.

Mr. Yatani's thesis is to be on Japanese business management techniques and the
American character, Professor Bramel said.

Granted a Visa

At times, Mr. Yatani said, he has expressed his opinions on such issues as the
arms race and nuclear disarmament. The paper he delivered in the Netherlands, on
a trip sponsored and partly paid for by Stony Brook, was ''an analysis of the
nuclear disarmament movement,'' he said.

The United States Embassy in Amsterdam granted him a visa to return to the
United States.

According to Mr. Blackman, Mr. Yatani was arrested when immigration officers
found his name in the ''lookout system,'' essentially a list of people ''who may
be excludable from the U.S.''

A recent study by the General Accounting Office found that the lookout system
does not keep a record at entry points of all illegal aliens who have criminal
records or who have been deported previously. Answering that charge, an
Immigration Service spokesman, Charles Troy, said that the agency's policy was
to record only deportees convicted of the most serious crimes.

Mr. Blackman declined to reveal what charges against Mr. Yatani were contained
on the list or the sources from which those charges were derived.

Before his immigration hearings could be completed, Mr. Yatani's visa was
revoked by the State Department, leaving the Immigration Service with ''no
recourse but to deport him,'' according to a spokesman, Duke Austin.

Mr. Yatani's lawyers said yesterday that they planned to file papers Monday
aimed at reopening his case and staying his deportation.

Mr. Yatani said he hoped that further investigation would reveal that the affair
had been an error of some kind. ''It's unbelievable,'' he said. ''Nine years of
work is being destroyed in just a few days for no reason at all.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of Choichiro Yatani, his wife Nanako and children Wii and Sohra
(NYT/Dith Pran and Tony Jerome)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 21, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. ABANDONS ATTEMPT TO DEPORT L.I. DOCTORAL CANDIDATE TO JAPAN

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD D. MAY

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 952 words


The Federal Government abandoned its efforts yesterday to deport a Japanese
doctoral candidate whom the State Department had accused of being a Communist.

''He will be able to stay here as a student,'' said an Immigration and
Naturalization Service official, Scott Blackman.

Shortly after the announcement, the student, Choichiro Yatani, was released from
the lower Manhattan detention center where he had been held since he tried to
re-enter the country on July 7.

Mr. Yatani, a doctoral candidate in social psychology at the State University of
New York at Stony Brook on Long Island, said he had ''no words to express how I
feel -I'm just so happy and so relieved.'' Later, he added: ''It was a
nightmare. Some people in the United States Government believe I'm a Communist
or a terrible person. But I am not.''

The State Department had objected to Mr. Yatani's re-entry to the United States
saying it had evidence that he had engaged in subversive activities and belonged
to a Communist or Communist-affiliated party.

Yesterday officials there would not say why they had withdrawn their objections.
But one Government official said that because of wide publicity over the case,
high State Department officials had concluded that ''this isn't really worth
keeping the guy in jail over.''

Arthur Helton, a director of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, which late
last week volunteered to represent Mr. Yatani, said that yesterday afternoon the
office of the United States Attorney in Manhattan offered to release Mr. Yatani
and to admit him to the country.

The State Department, he said, also informed the immigration service that it was
waiving earlier objections to his admission.

In return for the waiver, Mr. Yatani and his lawyers agreed to drop a lawsuit
filed against the State Department yesterday charging that the agency had acted
improperly and illegally in revoking Mr. Yatani's visa and seeking to exclude
him from the United States without a hearing.

Mr. Yatani said, however, that ''I would like the American Government to admit
their mistake - I suppose they don't want to lose face.''

He has repeatedly denied that he ever belonged to a radical organization or that
he was involved in subversive activities. He said he was arrested once, in Japan
in 1968, along with other students protesting the war in Vietnam.

James Callahan, a State Department spokesman, said he could not comment on the
charges against Mr. Yatani or the sources from which they had been obtained. He
confirmed, however, that ''we are waiving his ineligibilities'' and added that
''as far as State is concerned, we see no problem with him finishing his studies
in the U.S.''

A U.S. Resident for 9 Years

Mr. Yatani has lived in the United States for the last nine years. He teaches
psychology and Japanese at Stony Brook, where he is also in the final year of a
Ph.D. program.

''His release is a wise and thoughtful gesture,'' said John H. Marburger 3d the
president of Stony Brook. ''His record during nearly a decade of residence in
this country has earned him the right to complete his education.''

Mr. Blackman, the immigration agency's assistant district director for
deportation, said Mr. Yatani's residence in the United States over the past nine
years had ''apparently been legal and proper.''

Mr. Yatani was detained by immigration officials when he returned to this
country from an academic conference in the Netherlands. Although he had a visa
issued by the United States Embassy in Amsterdam, his name showed up on
immigration service and State Department ''lookout lists.''

'All Just a Big Mistake'

''The first thing I will do when I get home is hug my wife,'' Mr. Yatani said.
''Then I want to explain to my son that I wasn't really in jail, that I was only
in detention, and that it was all just a big mistake.''

Mr. Yatani has two children, aged 7 and 4, both born in this country. His wife,
Nanako, is Japanese.

''It's so exciting,'' she said. ''I was depressed for a while and didn't think
it would work out, but now I believe in the American people.''

Mr. Yatani said he had asked his wife to phone his parents and his in-laws in
Japan. They have been upset over the publicity his case has received in that
country, he said.

''The Japanese newspapers gave the impression that I was being kicked out for
something I did wrong here,'' Mr. Yatani said, ''and that I would be
investigated when I returned to Japan.''

Disappointment With Japan

Mr. Yatani said he was also disappointed that ''the Japanese Government didn't
do anything for me.''

''They said this is a problem of the American Government and that they would not
intervene.''

A spokesman for the Japanese Consulate in New York said yesterday that in the
last few days his Government had provided information regarding Mr. Yatani's
background to the State Department. The spokesman, Itaru Umezu, director of the
Japan Information Center, refused to disclose whether that information had
confirmed or contradicted the charges against Mr. Yatani.

''There is a working rule between the governments,'' Mr. Umezu said. ''The State
Department doesn't want us commenting.''

One of Mr. Yatani's lawyers, Theodore Ruthizer, said that the Yatani case
''points up a serious civil liberties issue: A man is tainted with the charge of
being a Communist and is not provided with any of the facts on which that charge
is made or an opportunity to rebut them.''

Even if Mr. Yatani were or had been a Communist, Mr. Ruthizer added, the
Government would still be responsible, under the McGovern Amendment of 1977, to
show why his admission to the United States would be ''prejudicial'' to American
interests.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Choichiro Yatani (NYT/Jack Manning)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 22, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

EFFORT TO DEPORT SCHOLAR BRINGS CALLS FOR CHANGE

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD D. MAY

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 913 words


When Federal authorities released Choichiro Yatani Wednesday, saying they would
no longer seek to deport him as a Communist, that apparently ended the matter
for the 40-year-old doctoral candidate and teacher.

But many civil libertarians, legal experts and politicians say the case
illustrates the need for reform of the laws and procedures that determine who is
barred from entering this country, the grounds on which entry is denied and the
rights of those accused to defend themselves.

Mr. Yatani, who denies ever having been a Communist, is by no means the first
person to be labeled by the Government as an ''undesirable'' based on beliefs,
background or associations. State Department and Immigration and Naturalization
Service ''lookout lists'' include some two million names.

In recent years, a number of well-known figures - from the left-wing Colombian
writer Gabriel Garcia Marquez to the right-wing Salvadoran leader Roberto
D'Aubuisson - have been refused visas to the United States. Also on the lists
are people suspected of crimes, homosexuality, mental illness or carrying
venereal disease.

'Normal Family Man Victimized'

But the Yatani case ''illustrates how even a normal family man can be victimized
by the laws as they now stand,'' said Arthur Helton, a director of the Lawyers
Committee for Human Rights. ''This sort of thing may be happening to a lot of
people.''

Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat who is author of a bill
aimed at changing current immigration law, said: ''It's the one area in which we
are clearly in violation of the Helsinki Accords on freedom of travel for those
with different ideological beliefs. It makes America look bad.''

An Immigration and Naturalization Service official, Scott Blackman, countered
that he viewed the Yatani case as ''an isolated circumstance.'' And a spokesman
for the State Department - which revoked Mr. Yatani's visa based on charges that
he belonged to the Communist or communist-affiliated party, then Wednesday
agreed to waive objections to his admission -said yesterday that he, too, saw
this case as ''pretty much of an anomaly.''

''In 1985, we issued 250,000 visas with waivers, so it certainly is not an
unusual thing.'' said the spokesman, James Callahan.

Civil libertarians say the key issue is whether an individual's beliefs and
associations should be grounds for barring him from the United States, as the
McCarren-Walter Act of 1952 allows.

Evidence Not Disclosed

In Mr. Yatani's case, he steadfastly denies that he is or ever was a Communist,
radical or subversive.

The State Department has refused to disclose the evidence or sources on which
its charges are based. A Japanese law-enforcement official in Tokyo, however,
said that in the 1960's Mr. Yatani was campus leader of a left-wing extremist
group called the Socialist Student League.

''I was not a leader or even a member of this organization,'' Mr. Yatani said
from his Port Jefferson, L.I., home yesterday.

''I was the president of the student body,'' at Doshisha University in Kyoto, he
said. ''I was elected to that position and it was a democratic organization. I
belonged to no other groups.''

In 1968, as Japanese records show and Mr. Yatani admits, he was arrested along
with other students after a demonstration in nearby Osaka against the war in
Vietnam. Mr. Yatani was placed on probation for a year on charges of interfering
with Government officials and a minor weapons violation, though the nature of
the violation is not clear.

No Records of Activities

The Japanese law-enforcement official said there are no records indicating that
Mr. Yatani was involved in any political activities after his 1968 arrest.
Evidently, however, the arrest and the allegation that Mr. Yatani belonged to
the Socialist Student League resulted in his inclusion on the lookout lists.

Mr. Frank said that once an individual's name is on the lookout lists, getting
it removed is almost impossible.

''The only sure way to get off that I know of is to become Prime Minister of
Canada,'' he said. He was referring to Pierre Elliott Trudeau, the former
Canadian head of state for 16 years, until 1984. who he said ''was on the list
before he was elected.''

Mr. Frank said that, under his bill, ''You would have to show that an individual
actually did something wrong or intended to before you could put him on the
list.''

When Mr. Yatani first came to the United States in 1977, he was detained for
three days, then granted a waiver allowing him to enter the country. The waiver
was allowed by the McGovern Amendment of 1977, which, according to Mr. Helton,
provides that no one should be barred from the United States ''on ideological
grounds alone.''

Lack of Hearings Faulted

Civil rights activists say they are also concerned with the Government's failure
to provide people such as Mr. Yatani with a hearing or other forum in which to
contest or rebut charges.

They note that had Mr. Yatani entered this country as an illegal alien, rather
than obtaining a valid visa and presenting himself for inspection at a port of
entry, he would have been entitled to hearings and appeals in front of
Immigration and Federal court judges.

''A person from a friendly country should have access to information regarding
the charges against him,'' said John H. Marburger 3d, president of the State
University of New York at Stony Brook, the institution where Mr. Yatani studies
and teaches.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Choichiro Yatani with his wife and son (NYT/Tony Jerome)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 23, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

SCHOLAR WILL TRY TO CLEAR NAME FROM VISA LIST

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD D. MAY

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 803 words


No longer facing the threat of deportation, the Japanese scholar Choichiro
Yatani says he now intends to fight to clear his name of the State Department
charge that he was a Communist.

He and the civil libertarians who have volunteered to assist him say that, by
pressing the case, they will raise serious questions about the legality and
philosophy behind the ''lookout lists,'' the computer indexes of individuals the
Government considers undesirable and ineligible to enter the United States.

''The list is a black hole,'' said Theodore Ruthizer, one of Mr. Yatani's
lawyers. ''Once you fall in, you can't get out.''

Mr. Yatani, a 40-year-old doctoral candidate in social psychology at the State
University at Stony Brook on Long Island, was released Wednesday after more than
six weeks in detention. Yesterday, he was formally given his student visa, which
included a State Department waiver of objections to his presence on American
soil.

Charges Not Withdrawn

But the Government has not withdrawn its charges and Mr. Yatani's name remains
on the lookout lists of both the State Department and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. So should he leave the country once his visa expires, he
could be denied re-entry again.

''Very little is known about the lists because the Government has been very
secretive about them,'' said Steven R. Shapiro, a staff attorney for the New
York Civil Liberties Union.

''This may be a good opportunity to learn more,'' said Lucille Loiselle, special
assistant to Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan. Mr. Moynihan, a New York Democrat,
agreed yesterday to assist Mr. Yatani's lawyers in their efforts to have his
name deleted from the lists.

According to a State Department spokesman, James Callahan, the Automated Visa
Lookout System, as that agency's list is officially known, contains information
on about two million individuals excluded for reasons that fall within 33
different categories.

Politics Said Rarely Cited

The vast majority of those on the list, Mr. Callahan said, are ''suspected of
applying as tourists while actually seeking to enter the United States as
immigrants.'' Others on the list include convicted criminals, terrorists and
those with infectious diseases.

''Probably no more than 50,000 names are listed because of membership in
subversive organizations, terrorist activities, espionage or a history of
Nazism,'' Mr. Callahan said.

He would not say how a name gets on the list. But other Government officials
said that information provided by local authorities, the Central Intelligence
Agency and diplomatic reports can all result in an individual's name appearing
in the computer.

Apparently, Mr. Yatani was included after his arrest along with a number of
student radicals in a 1968 protest against the Vietnam War in Osaka, Japan. Mr.
Yatani denies he ever belonged to any radical organization.

One Government official said yesterday that ''in the 1950's and 1960's, a lot of
names were put in without a lot of checking on who they were.''

Those listed on ideological grounds generally remain on the lists ''until the
age when the average lifetime would end,'' Mr. Callahan said.

Removal Easier for Radicals

Getting one's named removed from the list earlier appears to be simpler for an
individual who had actually been a radical than for one wrongly accused.

A former radical can go to a United States Embassy or consulate abroad and
submit documents showing that he resigned from the organization in question at
least five years earlier and has publicly renounced it.

But an individual who, like Mr. Yatani, claims never to have been a radical must
establish his nonmembership in any organization and his nonparticipation in any
subversive activities.

''It's a classic McCarthy situation where somebody stands up and says 'I have a
list and you're on it,' '' Mr. Shapiro said. ''But he won't say how you got on
it or how you can get off it.''

Beliefs Called Immaterial

Representative Barney Frank, the Massachussetts Democrat who has written a bill
that would change immigration law, said that in his view it should not matter
what Mr. Yatani's beliefs are. ''We should only worry about keeping out those
who would do damage to the United States by breaking laws or spreading
illness,'' he said.

Early next week, Mr. Moynihan is expected to request that the State Department
remove Mr. Yatani's name from the list. If they do not, said Ms. Loiselle, ''our
next request will be for access to the information so that Mr. Yatani can rebut
it.''

If that is also denied, said Arthur Helton, a director of the Lawyer's Committee
for Human Rights, he said a lawsuit would be filed.

Mr. Helton said he could not estimate the chances for success. ''I don't think
this has been tried before,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 5, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

The McCarran-Walter Mischief

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 296 words


The McCarran-Walter Act, passed in 1952, is a mischievous vestige of the
McCarthy era that each year bars dozens of controversial foreigners from
visiting the United States. The especially embarrassing case of Choichiro Yatani
makes clearer than ever the need to overhaul the law.

Mr. Yatani, a Japanese citizen who has resided in the United States for nine
years, was nearly deported because Federal authorities concluded he had lied
about a past affiliation with the Communist Party. The case was flimsy: Mr.
Yatani acknowledged an arrest in 1968 when he was a student leader in Japan, but
denied ever being a member of the party. He has pursued his education in the
United States without incident since 1977. Yet he was detained on return from a
trip abroad and rescued from deportation only by widespread media attention.

Such a travesty was possible because of the breadth and vagueness of the
McCarran-Walter Act. Along with sensible grounds for exclusion, like former
membership in the Nazi Party or previous criminal convictions, it raises
outmoded standards like polygamy and ''sexual deviation.'' Most offensive are
the act's fuzzy objections to any individual whose visit would be
''prejudicial'' to the public interest.

A 1977 amendment permits the State Department and immigration officials to admit
Communist Party members. But that obviously did not end abuse of the law's loose
standard. Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts would sensibly limit the
restriction to persons ''likely to engage'' in espionage, subversion, terrorism
or criminal activity. Similar legislation awaits Senate action.

Administration officials contend that Mr. Yatani's case was an aberration. But
bureaucratic discretion is too great when it produces such injustice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 12, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

SPORTS PEOPLE;
Support for Swimmer

SECTION: Section D; Page 26, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 218 words


The United States Senate has passed a bill, sponsored by Jeremiah Denton,
Republican of Alabama, to grant Peter Berndt, a 22-year-old East German swimmer,
American citizenship four years early. Berndt was granted political asylum in
the United States on Jan. 7, 1985, after he defected at an airport in Oklahoma
City while he was traveling with the East German team. He wants to compete for
the United States in the 1988 Olympics but must be an American citizen to do so.
Berndt, a former world-record holder in the 40-meter individual medley, has
enrolled at the University of Alabama and is competing on the team. The
legislation may run into a snag in the House of Representatives, however, where
a similar bill is being sponsored by Representative Ben Erdreich, Republican of
Alabama. Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, chairman of the
House Subcommittee on Immigration, Refugees and Law, has written Representative
Erdreich, saying that the panel considers private immigration bills an
''extraordinary remedy'' for aliens with unusual problems. Representative
Mazzoli has said there is no precedent for granting permanent residence or
expedited citizenship, but Representative Erdreich said Monday that the swimmer
was almost certain to get permanent residence status next year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Peter Berndt (NYT)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 15, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

FOR FINNISH WOMAN, STRUGGLE FOR A U.S. WELCOME

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1169 words


A year and a half ago, on a park bench in Federal Plaza in Manhattan, Leila
Eways gathered her thoughts, took out a pad and pencil and tried to explain to
the Immigration and Naturalization Service why she had joined the Communist
Party eight years earlier, why she had quit shortly afterward and why the United
States should therefore welcome her as a potential citizen.

Later that afternoon, the agency failed to provide that welcome, as it has in
the many months since. Mrs. Eways has so far been denied legal permanent
residence and her case, a tricky one, illustrates the gray areas of the
immigration law and the difficulty certain aliens have in proving that a
political affiliation is a thing of the past.

That was Mrs. Eways's goal when she composed her affidavit on the park bench,
describing her decision to join the Finnish party while a student at Tampere
University, a hotbed of Communist and Socialist activity. ''Peer and social
pressure encouraged my participation,'' she wrote. ''My own concern for peace in
the world seemed to coincide with Communist propaganda. But I realized my
understanding of Communist policies and practices was naive and incorrect.''

Surprised by Decision

Mrs. Eways, a native of Finland, had come to the immigration service interview
with her American husband expecting a fairly routine acceptance of an
application for permanent legal residency. ''I anticipated a little trouble -
questions maybe,'' she said, ''but not they would actually try to deport me.''

''It would be against fact, justice and our whole so-called heritage,'' said her
husband, Philip, a former security guard for The New York Times who owns and
operates a small grocery store in the Brighton Beach section of Brooklyn.

Legal permanent residence normally falls routinely to foreigners wed to
Americans, but Mrs. Eways's original application, filed in March 1985, was
denied, which led to a deportation notice last February. The Ewayses then hired
a lawyer, Lucas Guttentag of the American Civil Liberties Union, who assembled
extensive documentation and re-applied.

Now, as summer turns to fall, and the couple's infant son celebrates his first
birthday, the Ewayses wait for word of whether she will be allowed to remain.
''This country,'' Mrs. Eways said recently, as she sat in her sun-splashed
apartment in the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn. ''It is my home.''

Opposition to Law

Mrs. Eways's case is covered by the terms of the McCarran-Walter Act of 1952,
which was passed over President Truman's veto during the McCarthy era and says
among other things that members of the Communist Party are barred from the
United States. In order to clean the slate, an alien must establish that he
severed ties to the party at least five years previously and has ''actively
opposed'' its doctrines.

Mrs. Eways's lawyer argues that his client meets the five-year provision but he
nonetheless quarrels with a law that excludes foreigners for activity that is
protected by the First Amendment for American citizens.

Legislation to alter the ideological exclusions has been proposed in the Senate
by Charles McC. Mathias Jr., a Maryland Republican who will shortly retire, and
in the House of Representatives by Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat. Both
bills have been opposed by the Reagan Administration.

A spokesman for the immigration service, Duke Austin, said that current law does
not explicitly state the steps to demonstrate active opposition to the party.
''You can cleanse yourself of that exclusion,'' Mr. Austin said, ''but it is not
an easy thing.''

Agency Is Defended

Often, Mr. Austin said, the agency denies an application like Mrs. Eways's
because the situation is not clear-cut, and then an immigration judge overrules.
''There's a strong motive for a bureaucrat to deny an application when it's not
a clear yea or nay,'' Mr. Austin said. ''And some people perceive that as overly
cautious and mean-spirited.''

The Ewayses, in fact, say their biggest complaint is the ''insensitive'' way
they have been treated. Their latest interview, in July, lasted five minutes,
they said, and ended without the examiner explaining when a decision would be
made. The uncertainty is agonizing, they said. They worry about leaving behind
Mr. Eways's 82-year-old mother and his teen-age daughter from a previous
marriage, but cannot contemplate dividing their own new family.

''The humanistic aspect is totally overlooked,'' Mr. Eways said. ''Even if we
win, I can't forgive that they put us through this.''

Mrs. Eways's troubles began because she told the truth on an application for a
tourist visa in 1978, when she volunteered that she had been a member of the
Communist Party and was granted a waiver. ''I admitted it because I had respect
for the laws of this country,'' she said. ''Every country has a right to protect
its borders and select the people it lets in.''

Under Pressure to Join

Mrs. Eways remained here as a student, earning a master's degree from the New
School of Social Research, then met and married Mr. Eways. She then applied for
permanent residency, explaining that she had felt pressure to join the party
when so many of her classmates and professors were members.

She had only attended a few meetings in 1977, she said, and had resigned in
writing early the next year. Her handwritten affidavit ended with a plea that
''this short episode of my youth not obscure the totality of my beliefs.''

An assistant district director of the New York office of the immigration
service, William Slattery, said such an affidavit might be ''a self-serving
statement.'' Mr. Slattery declined to discuss the specifics of Mrs. Eways's
case, but said more documentation generally was necessary to establish that a
person had renounced Communism.

In Mrs. Eways's second application, filed last spring by Mr. Guttentag, who
supervises the Immigration Law Clinic at the Columbia University Law School, she
included written acknowledgement of her resignation from the party. Among the
documents, as well, were letters from friends and neighbors, who described her
political positions on current events, her church attendance and her
encouragement of her husband's decision to start his own business.

Also in the packet of documents were letters from Mr. Eways's brother, a retired
army lieutenant colonel, and from his 13-year-old daughter from a previous
marriage.

Alfred Eways, his brother said, is a man of staunchly conservative views, whose
35-year military career was spent mainly in intelligence. ''If he thought I was
a threat, he'd turn me in in a minute,'' Philip Eways said, proudly displaying
his brother's letter of support for his wife, which begins ''I do not do this
lightly.. . .''

The letter from Janan Eways struck a more emotional chord. ''If she is deported
I would lose not only a loving mother, but my father and baby brother as well,''
the teen-ager wrote. ''She loves this country - please don't change her
feelings.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Leila, Philip and Eric Eways (NYT/Keith Meyers)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 27, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

HOUSE REFUSES TO CONSIDER BROAD BILL ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1037 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26


The House of Representatives today refused to consider a comprehensive
immigration bill, and supporters of the legislation said it was dead.

By a vote of 202 to 180, the House defeated a resolution to bring the bill to
the floor. The resolution would have set the stage for three days of debate
under a plan limiting consideration of key amendments.

The resolution would have forbidden proposals to amend a fragile compromise on
the use of foreign agricultural workers in the United States.

Republicans voted against the resolution by 145 to 13. Democrats supported it,
167 to 57. Republicans complained that they would not have any opportunity to
amend or delete a section of the bill that they regarded as much too generous to
illegal aliens who have been working on American farms.

Senate Bill Passed in 1985

The Senate passed its latest version of the legislation in September 1985 by
vote of 69 to 30. Similar bills, designed to curtail the influx of illegal
aliens were passed by the Senate in 1982 and 1983. They died as Congress rushed
toward adjournment.

Asked if today's action meant the bill was dead for this year, Representative
Peter W. Rodino Jr., chairman of the Judiciary Committee, who is chief sponsor
of the House legislation, said, ''So far as I'm concerned, it is.'' He said he
saw ''no possibility'' that the bill would be revived this year.

Supporters of the bill, including the Reagan Administration, said it was needed
because, with the deterioration of Mexico's economy, growing numbers of aliens
have crossed the border without visas. The Immigration and Naturalization
Service expects to catch 1.8 million illegal aliens this year, about 50 percent
more than last year.

Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d lamented today's vote and said the ''House
Democratic leadership'' was responsible because of the way it tried to limit
debate on amendments to the bill. ''Immigration reform is too important to die
because of a ham-handed effort to force an unpopular position upon a majority of
House members,'' he said, referring to the proposal on foreign agricultural
workers.

'No One Was Pushing the Bill'

But Mr. Rodino said in an interview that the Reagan Administration and other
Republicans were responsible. ''No one was really pushing the bill, least of all
the President,'' he said. By contrast, he said the President had lobbied
intensively to win House approval Thursday of a sweeping tax bill.

The immigration bill, as approved by the Judiciary Committee, had three major
elements: penalties against employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens, legal
status for many illegal aliens already in the United States and permanent
resident status for foreigners who can prove that they were agricultural workers
in this country for at least 60 days from May 1, 1985 to May 1, 1986. In
addition, Congress would provide additional money to strengthen enforcement of
the immigration laws.

The 99th Congress, which convened in January 1985, was originally to have
adjourned Oct. 3 of this year. But lawmakers are now striving to finish work by
Oct. 10. All legislation dies with the final adjournment of Congress. Similar
bills can be introduced in the next Congress, but would again be subject to
hearings, lengthy debate and amendment.

Schumer Offered Proposal

The proposal on foreign agricultural workers was originally offered by
Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat, to resolve a dispute
between farmers and farm labor unions. Many growers of fruit and vegetables in
California and other Western states have depended on illegal aliens to harvest
their crops.

Mr. Schumer, deeply disappointed by today's vote, said that Representative Dan
Lungren of California, the ranking Republican on the immigration subcommittee of
the Judiciary Committee, had ''waged all-out war'' to defeat the resolution on
the immigration bill.

Mr. Lungren said he opposed the resolution because ''it did not allow us to vote
effectively on the Schumer amendment.'' Mr. Lungren, who generally supported the
immigration bill, said he wanted to replace the Schumer amendment with a
proposal to admit up to 350,000 aliens as temporary workers to pick fruit and
vegetables. The Senate bill includes such a proposal and growers strongly
supported it.

Penalties Brought Objections

Wade J. Henderson, a lobbyist for the American Civil Liberties Union, asserted
that ''grower greed and Republican intransigence were responsible for the defeat
of immigration legislation this year.'' The civil liberties union objected to
the proposed penalties for hiring illegal aliens on the ground that they might
cause employers to discriminate against citizens and legal aliens of Hispanic
origin.

Mr. Lungren called the Schumer amendment ''an abomination.'' He also denounced a
provision of the bill that would bar the Government from deporting Nicaraguans
and Salvadorans for the next 18 months. Supporters of this proposal said the
United States should give refuge to people fleeing turmoil in those two
countries.

In a statement issued by the Justice Department, Attorney General Meese urged
the Rules Committee to ''send this measure back to the floor in a way that
allows the full House to vote its conscience.''

In theory, the committee could issue another resolution more acceptable to the
House. But the panel normally acts only at the request of the chairman of the
committee that drafted the bill, and Mr. Rodino said he had no intention of
making such a request.

Mr. Rodino has, for many years, sought new laws to prevent the exploitation of
illegal aliens by American employers. But he has adamantly opposed any program
that would admit large numbers of aliens as temporary workers. Mr. Rodino said
that he could not accept a bill with a farm-worker program like the one favored
by Mr. Lungren.

Mr. Lungren said that the House should not bow to such ''legislative
blackmail.'' Indeed, he said, the House would probably approve his proposal if
lawmakers were given an opportunity to vote on it.

Mr. Rodino said it was ''most unfortunate'' that the dispute over farm workers
had blocked the overall effort to stem the flow of illegal aliens into the
United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 27, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. ASSAILED AGAIN ON CURBING CUBAN IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 515 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26


The Reagan Administration's policy toward immigration from Cuba, already under
attack in the House Foreign Affairs Committee, came under strong bipartisan
criticism today at a hearing of the House Judiciary Committee.

Members of the committee told Administration officials from several agencies
that they would introduce a resolution next week to put the House on record as
opposing the policy.

The current policy bars resumption of normal immigration from Cuba until the
Cuban Government takes back 2,700 criminals and former mental patients who
arrived with 125,000 other Cubans in the Mariel boatlift of 1980. The 2,700,
known as the ''Mariel excludables'' because they do not meet the legal
requirements to enter the United States, are being held in the Federal prison in
Atlanta and in other installations.

Castro Ended 1984 Agreement

Under a 1984 agreement between Cuba and the United States, Cuba was to take this
group back and the United States was to accept 3,000 Cuban political prisoners
and 20,000 immigrants a year. But Fidel Castro ended the agreement to protest
the starting of Radio Marti, a Voice of America station aimed at Cuba. With
exceptions for long-term political prisoners, the Administration has refused to
accept Cuban immigrants as long as the Mariel question is unresolved.

At the hearing today, Representative Henry J. Hyde of Illinois, an influential
Republican on the Judiciary Committee, said the linking of normal immigration
with the Mariel issue was serving only to ''punish good and decent people who
would make great U.S. citizens someday.''

Policy Is Called 'Perverse'

He added, ''Frankly, I think we can use all of the anti-Communist Latinos we can
get.''

Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, who called the policy
''perverse'' and ''crazy,'' said: ''I don't understand the logic. We are
punishing innocent victims of Castro's oppression.''

The two Representatives said that by Tuesday they would introduce a resolution
disapproving the policy.

The Administration officials at the hearing did not respond directly to the
criticism. Jonathan Moore, the United States Coordinator for Refugee Affairs,
said, ''The suspension of the Mariel agreement is a major complication we have
to deal with.''

At a hearing earlier this week of a House Foreign Affairs subcommittee, where
the policy also came under fire, Elliott Abrams, the Assistant Secretary of
State for Inter-American Affairs, defended the linking of the two issues, but he
said, ''There is no policy question that has caused me more concern and doubt.''
Aide Explains Logic of U.S.  Mr. Abrams said that Mr. Castro, in a stance
''rare'' for a Communist leader, actively wanted opponents of his Government to
leave the country. Mr. Abrams explained at the Foreign Affairs Committee hearing
that by refusing to accept these immigrants, the United States hoped to ''keep
pressure'' on Mr. Castro to take back the so-called excludables.

''I can't demonstrate that the policy is going to work,'' he said, adding, ''We
hope we're on the right track.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 10, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

3-State House Vote On Immigration Bill

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 25, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 176 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Following are the positions of representatives from New York, New Jersey and
Connecticut when the House today approved the immigration bill. A ''yes'' vote
is to pass the bill; ''xxx'' denotes those not voting.

NEW YORK

Democrats - Ackerman, yes; Biaggi, yes; Downey, yes; Garcia, no; LaFalce, yes;
Lundine, yes; Manton, yes; McHugh, yes; Mrazek, yes; Nowak, yes; Owens, yes;
Rangel, yes; Scheuer, yes; Schumer, yes; Solarz, xxx; Stratton, yes; Towns, no;
Waldon, yes; Weiss, xxx.

Republicans - Boehlert, yes; Carney, no; DioGuardi, yes; Eckert, no; Fish, yes;
Gilman, yes; Green, yes; Horton, no; Kemp, no; Lent, no; Martin, no; McGrath,
no; Molinari, no; Solomon, xxx; Wortley, yes.

NEW JERSEY

Democrats - Dwyer, yes; Florio, yes; Guarini, no; Howard, yes; Hughes, no;
Rodino, yes; Roe, yes; Torricelli, yes.

Republicans - Courter, no; Gallo, no; Rinaldo, no; Roukema, no; Saxton, no;
Smith, yes.

CONNECTICUT

Democrats - Gejdenson, yes; Kennelly, yes; Morrison, yes.

Republicans - Johnson, yes; McKinney, yes; Rowland, yes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 12, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CONGRESS IS NEAR ACCORD ON ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 33, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 875 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 11


House and Senate negotiators made progress today on resolving their differences
over a comprehensive immigration bill, but a Reagan Administration official
expressed ''very serious objections'' to a key portion of the bill relating to
foreign agricultural workers.

The Administration's concerns, stated publicly today for the first time,
injected a new note of uncertainty into Congressional efforts to pass an
immigration bill before adjourning next week.

The Senate approved its version of the legislation by a vote of 69 to 30 in
September 1985, and the House of Representatives passed its version on Thursday,
230 to 166. The compromise on foreign agricultural workers, drafted by
Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, was essential to the
bill's success in the House. Senators most concerned about the issue have
indicated that they support the farm worker provisions of the House bill, which
would offer legal status to certain illegal aliens who have been working on
American farms.

A formal ''statement of Administration policy,'' prepared Thursday before the
House vote, said the Schumer amendment, ''while well-intentioned, is an
inequitable, ineffective and costly scheme for meeting the needs of domestic
agricultural employers.'' Further, it said, ''The Administration is seriously
concerned about both the cost and policy implications of this provision.''

'Very Serious Objections'

In response to a question, Carol T. Crawford, associate director of the Office
of Management and Budget, said the Administration had ''very serious
objections'' to the Schumer amendment. Greg J. Leo, a spokesman for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, agreed, saying, ''We have problems with
the amendment.''

Under the Schumer amendment, illegal aliens who worked in American agriculture
for at least 90 days in the period from May 1985 to May 1986 could become lawful
temporary residents of the United States. After two years in that status, they
could become permanent residents, eligible for American citizenship after
another five years.

The immigration bill would prohibit the hiring of illegal aliens and would offer
legal status to several million illegal aliens already in the United States.

At today's meeting of the conference committee, lawmakers did not vote on the
specific terms of a compromise but discussed the major points of disagreement
between the House and the Senate, and a consensus took shape on most issues.

The atmosphere was much more cordial than in 1984, when a similar conference
broke down after nine days of negotiations.

Differences Are Narrowed

Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, chairman of the conference
committee this year, said it was obvious that the conferees had narrowed their
differences. They plan to meet again Tuesday to work out details of the bargain
that seemed to emerge in principle today.

Under this bargain, the House would accept the Senate's position that the
penalties for hiring illegal aliens would last indefinitely, not for just six
and a half years as in the House bill. But the Senate would accept provisions of
the House bill requiring employers to ask all job applicants for identification
documents to verify that they were citizens or aliens authorized to work in the
United States.

On another issue, conferees said they would probably provide $1 billion a year
for four years to reimburse state and local governments for the cost of
supplying health, education and welfare benefits to illegal aliens who gain
legal status under the bill. Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of New
Jersey, said that in a White House meeting on March 11, President Reagan
''committed himself'' to provide the funding.

However, the official statement of Administration policy recommends $1.8 billion
for the four-year period.

Burden of Public Assistance

The amount of Federal aid is important to state and local officials, who have
been calling members of Congress in the last two days to emphasize the need for
such assistance. Under the House and Senate bills, illegal aliens who gain legal
status would be ineligible for at least five years for most types of public
assistance provided by the Federal Government. State officials fear that a heavy
financial burden might therefore fall on state governments.

The conferees have not yet decided how long illegal aliens must reside in the
United States to qualify for legal status. The Senate bill says they must have
entered before Jan. 1, 1980. The cutoff date in the House bill is Jan. 1, 1982.

Senator Simpson said he preferred the earlier date. He said Congress should not
be ''overly generous'' because ''most Americans do not want'' to give legal
status to illegal aliens.

Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, said it appeared likely
that the Senate would accept major provisions of the House bill forbidding
employers to discriminate against legal aliens and refugees. The Reagan
Administration opposes this portion of the House bill, which would set up a new
office in the Justice Department to investigate complaints of employment
discrimination against aliens who are legally present in the United States and
intend to become citizens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 13, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

WASHINGTON TALK: CONGRESS;
IMMIGRATION BILL: HOW 'CORPSE' CAME BACK TO LIFE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1076 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12


Representative Dan Lungren recently described the immigration bill now pending
in Congress as ''a corpse going to the morgue.'' But on the way, the California
Republican said, ''a toe began to twitch,'' and lawmakers resuscitated the body.

How did it happen? Why did the House pass the bill just two weeks after refusing
to have it brought to the floor for debate?

The answers reveal much about the issue of immigration and about the legislative
process. Passions run strong on immigration; a few small changes in the bill may
upset the delicate balance of liberals and conservatives, Democrats and
Republicans who support it.

The Fluid Legislative Process

The curious saga of this bill, which began five years ago, shows that the
legislative process is very fluid. On immigration, as on many issues, the
results are not preordained. Unpredictability is one of the hallmarks of the
legislative process. Power is so dispersed in Congress these days that the
efforts of a few people can make a big difference. Moreover, delay is not always
a waste of time, but is often a useful way for legislators and lobbyists to
defer action till more of a consensus forms.

House and Senate negotiators meet again Tuesday to work out their differences
over the immigration bill, a landmark piece of legislation designed to stop the
influx of illegal aliens. The versions passed by the Senate last year and by the
House last week would prohibit the hiring of illegal aliens and would offer
legal status to several million undocumented workers already in this country.

Perhaps the most important reason for renewed interest in the bill was the
situation on the border with Mexico. The economy of Mexico has deteriorated in
the last year, the peso has plummeted in value and the number of illegal aliens
caught by the Immigration and Naturalization Service rose 31 percent, to a
record 1.8 million in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30.

Fear of Stricter Controls

The mood of the country appears to have grown more conservative on immigration,
as on many issues, and some liberals feared that if they continued resisting the
immigration bill this year, Congress would adopt even stricter controls in 1987
or 1988. It is possible, for example, that a future bill might prohibit the
hiring of illegal aliens but do nothing to legitimize the status of those
already here. The amnesty provisions of the bill survived by a margin of only
seven votes when they came under attack in the House last week.

The Congressional Hispanic Caucus, which had firmly opposed the bill in the
past, was split last week, with five members voting for it and six against.
Representatives Robert Garcia of the Bronx and Edward R. Roybal of California,
both Democrats, led opposition to the bill.

But Representative Esteban E. Torres, a California Democrat who is chairman of
the Hispanic Caucus, said, ''A preponderance of my Hispanic constituents were
saying I should vote for immigration reform,'' and he did so.

'We Have Been Vacillating'

Representative Albert G. Bustamante, vice chairman of the Hispanic Caucus, also
voted for the bill. ''We must start formulating an immigration policy,'' the
Texas Democrat said in an interview. ''We have been vacillating from year to
year. That foments anger and misperceptions of which Hispanics are often the
target. I want to be for something, not just against something all the time.''

''It's hurting Hispanics, especially those who have been in the country a long
time, not to have an immigration policy,'' Mr. Bustamante said.

Another factor in the bill's revival was the work of Representative Charles E.
Schumer, a 35-year-old Democrat who readily admits that immigration is not a big
issue in his Brooklyn district. Against long odds, he negotiated a compromise
that seemed to meet the demands of Western growers for foreign workers while
protecting the workers against exploitation.

Growers of fruit and vegetables in California and other Western states have long
depended on foreign labor to help harvest their crops. They were so insistent
and so effective in demanding special treatment under the legislation that
Representative John Bryant, a Texas Democrat, declared at one point, ''The
question today is, How much are we going to do for California growers?''

Representative Dan Glickman, Democrat of Kansas, said Mr. Schumer was ''the
catalyst'' in producing a bill that could pass the House. Representative Peter
W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of New Jersey, the chief sponsor of the House bill, said
Mr. Schumer had done ''a remarkable job.''

Mr. Schumer said the measure passed by the House this year was ''a left-center
bill,'' in contrast to the one passed in 1984, which he described as ''a
right-center bill.'' House Democrats opposed the bill in 1984 by a margin of 138
to 125. But last week, after working to shape the legislation, they supported
it, 168 to 61.

To be sure, the bill would make profound changes in the fabric of life around
the country. But after countless hours of hearings and debate over several
years, members of Congress seem to have become more familiar and comfortable
with its provisions.

Last week's debate in the House was, in effect, a graduate seminar in
immigration. Lawmakers received undergraduate training in 1982, when a similar
bill died in the House, and in 1984, when the legislation was approved by a
five-vote margin but died in conference with the Senate.

Mr. Roybal's complaints that the bill was being ''railroaded'' through the House
''didn't ring true after 1982 and 1984,'' Mr. Schumer said.

'Let Us Do Our Own Thing'

Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, a chief proponent of the
bill since 1982, said Reagan Administration officials had not conspicuously
lobbied members of the House before the House vote Thursday. ''They were nice
enough to let us do our own thing,'' he said. ''We did not get torpedoed or
sabotaged'' by the Administration, as sometimes happened in the past.

President Reagan supports the immigration bill in general, having proposed
something similar in 1981. It remains to be seen how forcefully the
Administration will press its objections to specific provisions such as the
Schumer amendment relating to agricultural workers.

Only about 15 percent of illegal aliens work in agriculture, according to the
Government, but the future of these workers remains the most vexing issue in the
immigration bill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Rep. Robert Garcia (NYT); photo of Rep. Charles Schumer (NYT)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 17, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

COLOMBIAN REPORTER BARRED FROM STAYING IN U.S.

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 627 words


The Government yesterday refused to let a reporter for Colombia's leading
newspaper stay in the United States because it believed she might ''engage in
subversive activities'' here.

The journalist - Patricia Lara, 35 years old, a reporter for El Tiempo -was
taken into custody when she arrived at Kennedy International Airport Sunday
night. Immigration and Naturalization Service agents said her name appeared in
the agency's ''Lookout Book,'' which lists people who are not to be admitted. On
Wednesday, the State Department revoked her visa.

Miss Lara, who wrote a book profiling Colombian guerrilla leaders, flew to New
York to attend a dinner for recipients of the Maria Moors Cabot Prizes at
Columbia University. The awards recognize journalists and publications ''for
distinguished contributions to the advancement of inter-American understanding
and freedom of information.''

During the ceremony, Columbia's president, Michael I. Sovern, said Miss Lara's
case was ''anathema to a free society.''

Frederick T. C. Yu, the acting dean of the Graduate School of Journalism at
Columbia, said he was ''deeply concerned'' by Miss Lara's detention. ''As
journalists,'' he said, ''we deplore all kinds of forms of restrictions on the
movement of journalists and we deplore the secrecy surrounding this most
regrettable affair.''

Donald R. Shanor, a journalism professor at Columbia, said, ''It's shocking that
a Government that has spent so much time and effort to free Nicholas Daniloff
turns around and locks up another journalist. It's a public relations disaster
for this country in all of Latin America.''

Earlier in the day, the Colombian Government had asked the State Department to
release Miss Lara into the personal custody of Ambassador Francisco Posada. The
Colombian Government also offered to guarantee her departure from the United
States, according to Colombian officials and her lawyer, Arthur Helton.

Colombia Files Protest

But the State Department denied the request, Colombian officials said.
Ambassador Posada then filed a formal protest.

When asked whether Miss Lara was a security risk, as the immigration service had
suggested, Virginia Varela, a spokesman at the Colombian Embassy in Washington,
said, ''She is a respected journalist, and in Colombia, where we have free
press, she has never been denied the right to write or the right to report.''

Miss Lara spent the day at the Metropolitan Correctional Center, a Federal
prison at 150 Centre Street. She was taken there from the immigration service
detention center on Varick Street after she met with reporters. Authorities
declined to discuss the reasons for the transfer.

Mr. Helton said she was put in a maximum security cell and was crying yesterday
when he visited her. Later in the day, she wrote a statement that was read for
her by a Colombian official in which she complained that a guard had yelled at
her and that officials ''want to pressure me psychologically and make me commit
a crime.''

Charles Troy, an immigration service spokesman, said the acting eastern regional
commissioner, Michael D. Mosbacher, had ruled against Miss Lara but refused to
say what the charges were.

''We can't be specific,'' he said. ''It is based on information concerning her.
It's of a confidential nature.'' Mr. Mosbacher conducted no hearing. Mr. Troy
said Mr. Mosbacher's decision cited three sections of the immigration laws, one
of which covers people who, in the agency's view, are likely to ''engage in
subversive activities.''

A second section, he said, deals with aliens who apply for entry with an invalid
visa, and a third has to do with aliens whose presence ''would be prejudicial to
the public interest or endanger the security of the United States.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Patricia Lara (NYT/Jim Wilson)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 26, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Journalist Was Victim Of U.S. Border Law

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 233 words


To the Editor:

The detention and expulsion of a journalist from Colombia by the United States
is a stark reminder that some barbaric laws still govern the no man's land on
the U.S. border.

The journalist, Patricia Lara, worked for Colombia's leading newspaper, El
Tiempo. Ironically, she had been invited to a ceremony granting awards to media
people who have helped further understanding between the countries of North and
South America. Ms. Lara was detained and expelled without any evidence being
offered to justify those actions. The request from the Ambassador of Colombia to
have her released into his custody was not only denied, but she was also then
shifted to higher security quarters.

Those actions are in striking contrast to the treatment the U.S. demanded and
gained for Nicholas S. Daniloff in Moscow. If the U.S. wants its journalists
treated responsibly overseas, the same treatment must be granted foreign
journalists here.

In no other democratic country is a person denied the right to confront accusers
and hear the charges against him or her. That right is denied any visitor who
falls into the ill favor of a U.S. immigration officer at the border. The law
must be changed to avoid such arbitrary treatment of foreign journalists - or
any overseas visitors - in the future.

ROY MURPHY
   President, Foreign Press Association
   New York, Oct. 19, 1986

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 26, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

RESENTMENT AGAINST NEW IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6, Column 5; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 825 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


A FORMER President demands the deportation of any immigrant who fails to learn
English after five years. Twenty states impose ''Americanization'' programs to
promote what the California Commission on Housing and Immigration calls ''the
language of America.'' And the Governor of Iowa forbids the use of any language
but English in gatherings of three or more people or even over the telephone.

This was America in 1918. The former President, Theodore Roosevelt, was
expressing the nativism of the time, a fear that the waves of European
immigrants were diluting American culture and threatening national unity. With
America at war against Germany, German-Americans in particular were targets: the
teaching of their language was forbidden in the public schools in some states,
and many people changed their names.

Today language is again a symptom of America's fear of losing its unity and
identity. The language this time is Spanish, brought by Mexican and other Latin
immigrants whose commitment to the national ideal of assimilation some people
have questioned.

But how far can parallels to previous waves of nativism, heavily based on the
racial and ethnic hatreds of the day, be carried today?

The reception accorded those who speak, look and act differently has been the
central dialectic of American history. The founding ideal as a land of refuge
has frequently clashed with a need to preserve the American character. The
contradiction has been no less pointed for the immigrants themselves, faced with
the conflicting desires to assimilate for economic gain and to retain a measure
of their original ethnic identities and loyalties.

Against this backdrop, nativism and xenophobia have run through American history
like a contrapuntal theme, waxing and waning, setting the limits of tolerance.
The Germans and Irish were the first to be reviled, in the late 19th century.
The Haymarket labor riots in 1886 in Chicago spread the belief that the Germans
were anarchists, ''cutthroats of Beelzebub from the Rhine,'' as one commentator
put it, adding: ''These people are not Americans, but the very scum and offal of
Europe.'' Later, as the source of immigration shifted to Southern and Eastern
Europe, it was the turn of the Italians, Jews and others. The New York Tribune
in 1882 complained of the ''filthy'' Hebrew immigrants who obstructed the walks
at Battery Park.

'100 Percent Americanism'

This antagonism reached a peak about 1920 with the ''100 percent Americanism''
movement, which demanded social and cultural conformity. Then it subsided as the
immigrants melted into the pot and times changed amid boom, the Depression and a
second world war, with the exception of the anti-Japanese hysteria in the
1940's.

Now resentment is rising against another wave of newcomers, this one from Latin
America and Asia - the first major influx from non-European countries apart from
the involuntary migration of African blacks. ''This is the first time in
American history that we have had massive immigration from non-European
countries,'' said Thomas Bender, a cultural historian at New York University.
''It's harder for people to accommodate.''

In the view of John Higham, a historian at Johns Hopkins University, the country
has absorbed huge numbers of linguistic minorities without suffering the deep
political cleavages such as those of Canada and Belgium because the immigrants
have been so diverse. ''A viable multiethnic democracy in the United States has
required a great diversity of minorities,'' he says. ''We've never had, except
temporarily in particular regions, a really profound threat of ethnic cleavages
brought about by immigration. The only group that has ever threatened the
survival of the union is white Southerners.''

Some believe that the new Spanish-speaking minority poses just such a threat.
Never before has the United States had such a concentration of immigrants who
speak the same language, says Gerda Bikales, executive director of U.S. English,
a group pressing for laws establishing English as an official language. ''I
don't think Yiddish or Italian represented a threat to the union,'' she argues.
''But we are now setting ourselves up for an entrenched language ghetto.''

But Ms. Bikales, like most supporters of the movement, say they reject the
bigotry that marked previous English-language movements. ''We need balanced
pluralism - all balanced on the fulcrum of English,'' she says. And Professor
Higham sees the new nativism as relatively benign ''ethnocentrism,'' not the
militant nationalism of the past.

David Reimers, a New York University historian, agrees that language conflict
pales before the ideological, economic and racist underpinnings of earlier
nativism. But he does not believe it is benign. ''It has become unfashionable to
be openly hostile to various ethnic groups,'' he argues. ''The present hostility
to bilingualism is veiled hostility toward Hispanics.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 26, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION IS DISCUSSED AT A SEMINAR

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 40, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 577 words


In the marble and tapestried grandeur of the Trustees Room at the New York
Public Library, a group of academics clapped to the beat of ''Fifty-Fifty,''
Joseph Rumshinsky's 1916 Yiddish tune about a workers' plan to share their toil
with management.

The singing was part of the irreverent approach taken by 150 scholars and
immigration specialists who met yesterday to confront the distortions and myths
of the immigrant experience and to take a global approach to what has been
called the ''Eurocentrism'' of past studies. Entitled ''Myth, Reality and
History,'' the conference was organized as part of the commemoration of the
centennial of the Statue of Liberty.

''The subject of immigration has been so romanticized that we felt it necessary
to present contributions from serious thinkers,'' said Dr. Virginia
Yans-McLaughlin of Rutgers University and a member of the History Committee of
the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Centennial Commission, which organized the
conference.

Immigration Patterns Discussed

''Perhaps for the first time in an academic conference in this country,
European, African and Asian migrations are discussed alongside each other,''
said Dr. Sucheng Chan, provost and professor of history at the University of
California-Santa Cruz.

Dr. Chan spoke of similarities between the Asian and European immigration
patterns but stressed that Asian immigrants did differ in that ''they were
subjected to far more pernicious forms of discrimination than Europeans,
although the bitterness of their experience can never match that of enslaved
Africans and their American-born descendants.''

An authority on the African slave trade, Dr. Philip Curtin of Johns Hopkins
University, pointed out that contrary to general opinion, the United States was
on ''the fringes'' of the forced population movements, receiving only seven
percent of the total Atlantic slave trade and a small percentage of the
indentured Indians and Chinese.

'American Fever'

Dr. Leonard H. Fuchs of Brandeis University gave a detailed account of what he
called a ''historical reversal'' of American black leaders on immigration since
1980.

He noted that traditionally, the black leadership and communities strongly
opposed immigration as a direct threat in jobs and services. Today blacks and
Mexican-Americans have forged an alliance on immigration questions and black
opinion in general is more sympathetic, he said.

Dr. Sune Akerman, a Swedish scholar, said too much emphasis had been put on
immigration statistics and not enough on the human experience. He said that of
5.2 million Swedes, about half were said to have been seriously considering
moving to North America during what was called ''the American fever'' of the
1870 and 1880's. ''But we don't know anything about the decision-making of those
who decided to go or stay.''

Dr. Ewa Morawska of the University of Pennsylvania debunked the stereotype of
''the huddled masses.'' Even at the turn of the century, she said, most
immigrants were not from the very bottom of the social scale, although the
majority were from the lower and lower-middle class ranks. Today, 20 to 50
percent of those entering the country are white-collar and the remainder mainly
industrial laborers, she said .

On Monday, the day before the 100th anniversary of the dedication of the Statue
of Liberty, 80 Americans from 42 ethnic groups will receive the Ellis Island
Medal of Honor in a ceremony on the island.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 1, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION BILL LIKELY TO HAVE A WIDE IMPACT ON FARM LABOR AND ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT LINDSEY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1524 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 31


Farm experts say the immigration bill Congress passed this month assures that
American agriculture will have a continuing long-term supply of inexpensive
field hands for the forseeable future.

But some say the need for such workers is likely to decline.

This is because of increased mechanization and other steps to improve
efficiency, a surplus of domestic agricultural workers, and rising competition
from foreign growers that is cutting into sales of American growers.

According to the Department of Agriculture, the nation's total number of hired
farm workers, excluding members of farming families, has declined almost
one-third since 1980, to 1.233 million. Although increasing consumer demand for
fresh fruits and vegetables is ameliorating the trend, department economists say
the immediate prospect is for the decrease to continue.

Bill Likely to Be Signed

Farm experts say the bill, which President Reagan has said he will sign,
promises to bring stability into the lives of farm laborers by removing a fear
of deportation that has discouraged many from joining such unions as the United
Farm Workers of America, the organization founded by Cesar Chavez. But they also
say the legislation is not likely to end exploition of aliens who work on the
farms by a minority of growers.

Spokesmen for farm workers say there has been a growing shortage of work in
agriculture, for American citizens as well as for illegal aliens.

''The plums started recently in Delano, and we had people literally fighting for
buckets and ladders so they could put in a day of work,'' Delores Huerta, vice
president of the United Farm Workers, said in an interview.

Farm Workers Opposed Bill

At a recent legislative hearing, she said, ''We have unemployed farm workers
into the hundreds of thousands in the United States of America.''

The United Farm Workers opposed the bill, contending that it would not stop the
flow of illegal aliens. But, finding itself in rare agreement with growers whom
it has battled for two decades, the union endorsed a provision that allows
illegal aliens who worked in the United States as farm workers in the last three
years to remain here and eventually seek American citizenship.

''They will be able to get documentation and organize and defend themselves
against the inhuman conditions in the field without fear of deportion,'' Mrs.
Huerta said.  Some agricultural specialists say that legitimizing the status of
illegal alien farm workers could accelerate a shift of fruit and vegetable
production from California and the Southwest, where it has long been
concentrated, to other parts of the country.

''I tell farmers that in the long run two things are happening that affect
them,'' Philip Martin, a University of California agricultural economist and
farm labor specialist.''One is passage of the immigration law; the other is the
appointment of agricultural extension specialists for fruits and vegetables in
Iowa, Missouri and other states.''

Farmers Seek Alternative Crops

In the nation's troubled Farm Belt and elsewhere around the country, he said,
farmers who in the past have earned their living by producing such crops as
tobacco and soybeans are struggling to cope with surpluses and depressed prices,
and are looking for alternative crops.

Encouraged by an increasing demand by consumers for fresh produce, many state
agricultural agencies are encouraging farmers to plant crops that in the past
came mostly from California and other Western states.

Although Mr. Martin said that it was impossible to anticipate the full impact of
the immigration bill, he warned that politically influential Western growers'
insistence on a generous program that allows up to 350,000 aliens from Mexico or
other countries to work in the United States each year could backfire.

Mr. Martin said improved agricultural technologies were making it feasible to
grow lettuce and other vegetables and fruits over longer growing seasons in such
states as Georgia, where the average prevailing wage for farm workers is about
$3.50 an hour as opposed to $5 an hour in California. Moreover, land and the
cost of shipping produce to Eastern markets are also cheaper there, he said.

Pressure to Raise Wages

He contended that legalizing the immigration status of alien farm workers, who
in the past have tended to be a docile work force because of fear of
deportation, would make it more difficult for California growers to cut labor
costs and could bring pressure to raise wages. Moreover, he added that large
numbers of aliens would be willing to work for lower wages in other states.

Under the bill passed by Congress, aliens who entered the United States
illegally and prove they had worked at least 90 days on an American farm in the
12 months ended last May 1 can apply for temporary legal resident status and
within two years apply for permanent status, with the prospect of full
citizenship in five years.

Those who could prove they had worked 90 days in each of the last three years
could qualify for permanent legal status in one year. If there is a shortage of
seasonal workers, the Government could admit additional aliens in the fiscal
years 1990 through 1993, and after three years they also could qualify for
permanent resident status.

The amnesty provisions for agricultural workers, which Congressional leaders say
were included largely because Western growers threatened to do what they could
to kill the immigration bill if it were not, are much more generous than for
other illegal aliens now in this country.

Curb on Immigration Raids

Nonagricultural workers face deportation unless they can prove they were living
in the United States before Jan. 1, 1982. Also added to the bill at the behest
of growers was a provision preventing raids by immigration agents on farms
without search warrants.

Approval of the special program for farm workers marks the beginning of a new
chapter in a long history of American agriculture in which the labor needs of
the nation's fruit and vegetable growers have been met by workers whose job
security, wages, benefits and living conditions differ from those of almost any
other class of worker.

According to a recent study of agricultural labor in the United States by Dr.
Howard R. Rosenberg of the University of California, wages of American farm
workers in 1983 averaged $4.08 cents an hour, 46.2 percent of the national
industrial average of $8.83. In 1959, the average was 95 cents an hour,
equivalent to 43.4 percent of the wages for other industries.

In California, by far the nation's largest producer of fruits, nuts and
vegetables, the study indicated that farm workers had fared better: In 1983,
their average hourly wage was $4.94, 52 percent of the average for all
industries in the state, up from $1.18 an hour in 1959.

Gains for Farm Workers

California's higher wages are attributed mainly to the efforts of Mr. Chavez's
union, some of whose gains are not easily apparent. After 20 years, the union he
founded in 1965 and fought to keep alive against occasional violent resistence
from growers and the teamsters union has negotiated contracts covering fewer
than 10 percent of the state's 200,000 farm workers.

Still, the relatively few field hands covered by United Farm Worker contracts
average almost $7.50 an hour, and many semi-skilled workers average $12 or more
at piece rates. In addition, they receive pension and medical benefits
unavailable in the past.

Nationally, farm workers have made few gains. This year, the Farm Labor
Organizing Committee led by Baldenar Valasquez reached an agreement covering
several hundred workers who pick tomatoes and cucumbers for the Campbell Soup
Company in Ohio and Michigan, and there have been isolated farm worker
agreements in Florida, New Jersey, Arizona and elsewhere.

But only a tiny fraction of farm workers are covered by union agreements, and
Mr. Chavez's dream of a national union of farm workers seems as distant as it
was 20 years ago. Dr. Rosenberg's study showed that from 1960 to 1983, the
nation's proportion of farm workers covered by such agreements rose from only
0.1 percent to 0.4 per cent, and there was no evidence the proportion had
increased since then.

The vast majority of farm workers, including many in the Southwest, according to
other studies, face economic, social and educational conditions so bleak that
one participant in a 1984 study of migrant workers said they ''represent
subpopulations of the third world within our country.''

Growers have persistently said that foreign labor was essential to them because
American citizens were unwilling to perform the kind of menial labor required to
harvest perishable crops.

But their critics, such as Ed Green, an organizer who tried unsuccessfully to
unionize California farm workers in the early 1960's, always responded there
were would be no shortage of people willing to work on farms if wages were
raised, rather than depressed by a steady flow of cheap immigrant labor.

''There's never any shortage of labor in America,'' Mr. Green said, ''only a
shortage of pay.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Mexican farm workers picking chilies near Anthony, N.M.
(NYT/Bruce Berman)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 7, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

PRESIDENT VETOES CLEAN WATER BILL, CITING HIGH COSTS

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHABECOFF, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1215 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 6


President Reagan today vetoed legislation to strengthen the Clean Water Act,
saying it was too expensive. It had been passed without dissent by both houses
of Congress.

His pocket veto sets the stage for an early test of strength with the 100th
Congress. Several members said today that the legislation would be reintroduced
as soon as Congress convened.

A bill dies by pocket veto if the President declines to sign it within 10 days
of receiving it and Congress is no longer in session.

Immigration Bill Signed

At a White House ceremony, Mr. Reagan signed a landmark immigration bill that
prohibits employers from hiring illegal aliens and offers legal status to many
illegal aliens already in the United States. Surrounded by Administration
officials and members of Congress, the President hailed the bill as ''the most
comprehensive reform of our immigration laws since 1952.'' [Page A12.] In a
memorandum stating why he would not sign the water legislation, Mr. Reagan said
the $18 billion called for in the legislation for sewage treatment facilities
was triple the amount he had requested.

While he said his Administration was still committed to the objectives of the
Clean Water Act of 1971, the President added, ''Unfortunately, this bill so far
exceeds acceptable levels of intended budgetary commitments that I must withhold
my approval.''

Pleas and Advice Ignored

The President's pocket veto of the bill came despite pleas from members of
Congress from both parties and advice of Lee M. Thomas, Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency, that he approve the legislation.

Representative James J. Howard, a New Jersey Democrat who is chairman of the
House Public Works Committee and was a chief sponsor of the legislation, said he
would reintroduce the bill ''word for word on the first day of the next
Congress,'' adding, ''We are not going to fool around with this bill.''

Senator John H. Chafee, a Rhode Island Republican who was the chief sponsor of
the bill in the Senate, also promised to reintroduce the bill. He said he was
''deeply dismayed'' by the President's decision, and called it ''short-sighted
in view of the environmental needs of the nation.''

Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York, also said he would
reintroduce the legislation on the first day of the new Congress and added:
''The President could have avoided a confrontation with the new Congress. Now he
has one.''

The Clean Water Act sets as an interim goal making the nation's rivers, streams,
lakes and other bodies of water ''swimmable and fishable.'' The latest set of
amendments, given final approval by the Senate by a vote of 96 to 0 and by the
House by a vote of 408 to 0, would have added several programs to strengthen the
law.

Controls on Runoff Sought

One such program would have required controls on runoff from urban streets and
farms, which are serious sources of water pollution that are not addressed by
existing law. Another new program would have required special efforts to clean
up concentrations of hazardous chemicals in bodies of water. The amendments
would also have given new authority to the environmental agency to prosecute and
penalize violators of the law.

The amendments would have extended the Federal program of grants to help local
communities build sewage treatment facilities to 1994. The President wanted the
progam to end by 1990.

Mr. Reagan has still not acted on a Water Resources Act, under which Congress
called for up to $16 billion for new dams, canals, ports and other waterway
projects. The Administration supported that legislation and the President is
expected to sign it; he has until Nov. 17 to do so.

Mr. Reagan had been expected to veto the water legislation. White House
officials said for several days that they would probably recommend the veto
because the bill provided far more than the $6 billion that the Administration
said was necessary for sewage treatment.

Budget Director Urged Veto

The advice that Mr. Reagan veto the bill was based entirely on the amount that
might be spent for sewage treatment works and the continuation of the Federal
grant program beyond 1990, according to White House officials. Chief advocates
of a veto, according to Administration officials, were James C. Miller 3d,
director of the Office of Management and Budget, and Donald T. Regan, the White
House chief of staff, along with members of the White House domestic policy
staff.

Criticism of the President's decision from environmentalsts and members of
Congress, including Republicans, was unusually sharp.

Senator Robert T. Stafford, a Vermont Republican who is the outgoing chairman of
the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, said: ''The President was
obviously acting on very bad advice in vetoing this bill. Every state in the
Union wants to see a continuation of the Clean Water Act, and I'm sure all the
new Republican governors will be clamoring for passage as well as all the other
governors.''

Frances Dubrowski, a lawyer for the Natural Resources Defense Council, an
environmental group involved in clean water issues, said, ''This decision flies
in the face of the clear wishes of the American people.'' While the next
Congress will not retreat from the legislation, she said, ''valuable time will
be lost'' because of the veto.

''Now all Americans will have to wait for clean water,'' said Sharon Newsome,
legislative director of the National Wildlife Federation, the nation's largest
conservation organization.

Timing of Decision Assailed

There were many complaints about the President's decision to wait until after
the election to announce his decision on the clean water bill. Rick Hind, a
lobbyist for the U.S. Public Interest Research Group, a public-interest lobbying
and advocacy organization, said, ''It was an outrage that the President didn't
trust the American people by telling them before the election that he intended
to veto such an important public health bill.''

Michael McCloskey, acting executive director of the Sierra Club, a conservation
group, said, ''President Reagan apparently feels that saving dollars is more
important than saving lives.''

In his memorandum, the President emphasized that his action ''will have no
impact on the current conduct of water pollution control programs under the
Clean Water Act.''

He also said his Administration ''will work closely with the next Congress to
pass acceptable legislation.''

Several Other Bills Vetoed

Mr. Reagan has vetoed several other bills since Congress adjourned. On Tuesday
he vetoed a bill on National Transportation Safety Board programs, saying that
it called for 20 percent more spending than recommended in his budget.

He also vetoed legislation setting minimum efficiency standards for household
electrical appliances. The bill was intended to cut the amount of fuel needed
for and the cost of running the appliances. But the President said it would have
made appliances more expensive for poor people.

On Oct. 28 Mr. Reagan vetoed a bill on Federal Maritime Commission programs on
the ground that it failed to eliminate a maritime loan program he found
objectionable. He also vetoed a private bill for the relief of the Merchants
National Bank of Mobile, Ala.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 10, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Immigrants to Be Moved To Minimum Security

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 128 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Nov. 9


Federal officials have announced plans to move some of the Cubans being held at
the United States Penitentiary here to a minimum-security prison to prepare them
for parole.

But they said dangerous offenders would stay at the Atlanta prison, which now
houses about 1,800 Cubans who arrived in the 1980 Mariel boatlift.

''What we're going to end up with is, hopefully, the worst cases of individuals,
who we think require maximum security, being in the Atlanta Federal pen, and
those not requiring it being held in Oakdale, La.,'' Duke Austin, a spokesman
for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said Friday.

Some of the prisoners were arrested when they arrived because they were
considered dangerous or mentally ill, while others committed crimes later.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 30, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

NEW YORK LAWYERS DONATE TIME TO THE NEEDY

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 75, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 935 words


Rhonda L. Brauer, an associate at a major Wall Street law firm, has spent 150
hours in the last year preparing immigration briefs on behalf of indigent
Haitians and other political refugees.

David A. Laverty is a lawyer with a firm specializing in export and import
regulations, but on his own time, he has voluntarily assumed the defense of an
Afghan tailor and his son who are seeking political asylum in this country.

Ken Roth, an assistant United States attorney, has devoted vacation time,
weekends and evenings to a first-hand report on human rights in Poland.

Ms. Brauer, Mr. Laverty and Mr. Roth are among hundreds of young lawyers in New
York City who devote a good part of their time to the Lawyers Committee for
Human Rights.

'Why They're Lawyers'

''At a time when the altruism of young professionals has been questioned by the
public, the contributions made by volunteer lawyers in New York City has been
impressive,'' said Arthur C. Helton, director of the Lawyers Committee's
Political Asylum Project.

''We give people the opportunity to remember why they're lawyers,'' said the
committee's executive director, Michael Posner.

The Lawyers Committee, a private New York-based group set up in 1978, has worked
with some 2,000 volunteer lawyers nationwide to insure basic legal protection
for refugees and monitor human rights violations, particularly in countries
receiving American aid, such as El Salvador, the Philippines and Pakistan.

Asylum seekers, Mr. Helton stressed, are ''a particularly vulnerable group''
since legal services offices are prohibited by law from representing them.

More Than 500 Volunteers

Since 1982, he said, the Asylum Project has recruited, trained and supervised
more than 500 volunteer lawyers from 100 New York law firms. Among the most
active firms, he said, are Davis, Polk & Wardwell, Shearman & Sterling; Cleary,
Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton; Baer, Marks & Upham, and Finley Kumble Wagner Haine
& Underberg.

Last year the Lawyers Committee took steps to set up a national network, modeled
after the Asylum Project's volunteer program in New York. Links were established
with organizations in Boston, Houston, Los Angeles, New Orleans and San Diego.
The Lawyers Committee has made available its 250-page manual, videotapes and
other training materials as well as grants.

As a matter of policy, the Lawyers Committee accepts no government money.
Expenditures last year were about $650,000, with financial support coming from
the Ford Foundation, the Edna McConnell Clark Foundation, the J.M. Kaplan Fund,
the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, the Field Foundation and others.

Mr. Laverty, a 28-year-old corporate lawyer in the New York office of a Chicago
firm, Ross & Hardies, became interested in immigration law last fall when he
attended seminars on political asylum that were sponsored by the Lawyers
Committee and the New York City Bar Association.

One Firm's Support

''Now I feel I'm putting more of myself into this humanitarian case than in
working with corporate clients,'' Mr. Laverty said the other day, adding that
his firm had been ''supportive'' of the project. He had gone to the Lawyers
Committee office after work to study videotapes on the asylum process and human
rights conditions in Afghanistan.

Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton has actively supported the Lawyers
Committee's volunteer program, according to one of the firm's partners, Richard
F. Ziegler. The New York-based law firm, with 275 lawyers, is engaged in all
areas of corporate and business practice and has long been involved in pro bono
legal matters.

''We like to devote our resources to significant matters; it's a natural
outgrowth of our sense of professional obligation,'' Mr. Ziegler said. He
estimated the firm's contribution in volunteer work to be ''in excess of
$100,000,'' through the services of a dozen lawyers.

One of these volunteers is Ms. Brauer, 26, from Gary, Ind., who regularly deals
in international corporate law but has worked with the Lawyers Committee on
several impact cases and represented Haitian, Salvadoran and Guatemalan
refugees. She plans to continue her human rights activities in Brussels, where
she was transferred last month.

Mr. Ziegler, Ms. Brauer and several other attorneys from Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen
& Hamilton helped prepare a friend-of-the-court brief, now before the Supreme
Court, in support of a liberal standard for political asylum.

Mr. Roth, 30, began representing political asylum cases for the Lawyers
Committee in 1981, when he was in private practice, ''looking for a way to
combine my legal interest with a strong attraction to international affairs.''

After he became an assistant United States attorney in Manhattan in 1983, Mr.
Roth had to give up asylum cases. But last November on his own time, Mr. Roth
and a lawyer from Los Angeles, Tom Baer, went to Poland on behalf of the Lawyers
Committee to examine recent changes in the legal system.

''What we have tried to do is to puncture the facade of legality Poland operates
under,'' Mr. Roth said. Their 120-page report on Poland, to be brought out
shortly, demonstrates that most of the emergency laws have been incorporated
into the regular body of law, he said. For example, the new law of summary
procedure gives the right to arrest, try and convict in 48 hours. Another
sweeping law makes it illegal to act ''with the intention of inciting public
unrest.''

Mr. Roth said he hoped to return to Poland but would be willing to carry out a
similar mission in some other country for the Lawyers Committee during his next
vacation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 3, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

SPORTS PEOPLE;
Player Seeks Asylum

SECTION: Section D; Page 28, Column 3; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 104 words


A member of the Polish national basketball team has applied for asylum in the
United States, according to the head of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service office in Providence, R.I. The player, Waldemar Sender, 23 years old,
who had been traveling in the United States with the Polish team since early
November, made the request last week, according to Michael Devine, the
Immigration official. ''Last Wednesday, the team departed New York, heading back
to Warsaw without him,'' Devine told WJAR-TV of Providence. Devine said the
request for asylum was under consideration. He did not disclose Sender's
whereabouts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 14, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

SUBURBS ABSORB MORE IMMIGRANTS, MOSTLY THE AFFLUENT AND EDUCATED

BYLINE: By JOHN HERBERS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1424 words

DATELINE: UNIVERSAL CITY, Tex.


Many new immigrants are bypassing congested central cities and settling in
affluent suburban neighborhoods, skipping what historically has been the first
and most difficult step of becoming assimilated into American life, recent
studies show.

Many of these legal immigrants are members of ethnic or racial minorities -
Asian, black and Hispanic - who are well-educated and have above-average
incomes.

Great numbers of recent immigrants arrive speaking fluent English and holding
advanced degrees in the professions and business. Negotiating Hurdles in U.S.
Indeed, Leon F. Bouvier and Robert W. Gardner, in a new study for the Population
Reference Bureau in Washington, wrote that because of current laws and
regulations ''generally only the better educated and better trained can hope to
pay for and negotiate the hurdles that lie in the path of someone wishing to
immigrate legally to the United States.''

According to population surveys conducted by the Census Bureau from 1975 to
1985, almost half the 4.7 million Asian, Hispanic and non-Hispanic black people
who moved to the United States from abroad in that 10-year period settled in
suburban and non-metropolitan areas rather than in the central cities.

Frequently, as in the case of Stephen and Angela Yang here, they do not live in
compounds among their own, as earlier immigrant minority groups did, but spread
out into communities alongside white Americans.

Degree in Business Law

The Yangs are Taiwanese who live with their two young sons in this suburb of San
Antonio.

Mr. Yang, who is 43 years old, holds a degree in international business law from
Chinese Cultural University in Taiwan. His wife, 33, holds a degree in art from
Christian College in Taiwan.

The couple arrived here only three years ago and began selling Oriental
furniture and jewelry on a commercial strip shared by insurance agencies and
fast-food stores.

They settled in easily with the business community and now have three prospering
stores in the area.

The spreading of minority immigrants through the population is considered
important in part because Census Bureau estimates show that if American
fertility rates remain at a low of 1.8 births per woman, immigration will
account for all the nation's population growth within 45 years.

''With legal immigration remaining at 500,000 annually,'' Mr. Bouvier and Mr.
Gardner noted, ''just under 60 percent of the population in the year 2080 would
be non-Hispanic whites, down from 80 percent in 1980.''

Fewer Europeans Arriving

In contrast to the past, when most of those who moved to the United States were
from northern Europe, the 570,000 legal immigrants in 1985 were 11 percent
European, 46 percent Asian, 37 percent Latin American, 2 percent Canadian and 3
percent African.

In addition, the number of illegal entries into this country has been rising. No
one knows how many there are, but the Immigration and Naturalization Service
made an ''educated guess'' that 500,000 entered this year alone. Congress passed
a law this year intended to slow illegal entry by making it a crime to hire
aliens without proper credentials. But there is controversy as to how much
success the system will have.

Mr. Bouvier and Mr. Gardner said in their study for the Population Reference
Bureau, a private research agency, that pressures for immigration of
dark-skinned peoples, especially from depressed Latin countries, were likely to
grow in the future.

Acceptance Across Country

For the most part, the legal immigrants settling in affluent areas report little
opposition from native whites.

There have been frequent conflicts between native Americans and Asian and Latin
refugees admitted to the United States as a result of military and political
upheavals since the Vietnam War; for example, Vietnamese and Texans have fought
over Gulf Coast fishing waters.

But the refugees made up only a small portion of the minority people admitted -
68,000 out of 570,000 in 1985, for example. And the refugees, in contrast to
those admitted under the regular immigration laws, were mostly poor and
uneducated. Nevertheless, many of these, too, have since quickly adapted to the
American culture and are now prospering.

At the same time, according to recent census surveys, it is mostly American-born
members of minorities - poor black and Hispanic people - who remain
unassimilated in growing urban concentrations of unemployment, crime and
inferior housing as the legal immigrants settle immediately in areas where
employment opportunities are greatest and incomes are highest.

The way foreign immigrants with dark skin have spread out through the population
lends support to the contention of some social scientists that the continued
isolation of large numbers of the black and Hispanic poor in the central cities
is more a result of class than of race. In urban centers virtually all the
blacks, and many of the Hispanic people, are native to this country.

''Over the past decade, census data indicate that the concentration of poor
blacks and Hispanics in poverty areas rose by some 40 percent,'' said Richard P.
Nathan, professor of public and international affairs at Princeton University,
who conducted a study of population and incomes in the nation's 100 largest
cities.

''As avenues of opportunity have opened up for upwardly mobile and educated
members of racial minority groups to move to suburbs and better-off urban
neighborhoods, the people left behind in the ghetto, the hidden city, are more
isolated,'' he said.

By contrast, many of the immigrants from minority groups fit easily into the
larger, more prosperous society. The figures show a large portion of
non-Hispanic black immigrants, though comparatively small in numbers, settling
in the suburbs and earning incomes above the average for all Americans.

Trend in South and West

So far, a greater proportion of the new immigrants in the South and West are
settling in the suburbs than are those in the Northeast and Middle West,
according to the census estimates obtained and analyzed by Prof. John D.
Kasarda, chairman of the sociology department at the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill.

As the immigration patterns have changed, California has replaced New York City
as the nation's chief ''melting pot.'' In California, the Asian and Hispanic
immigrants tend to live in various kinds of communities, in and out of the
cities. In the East and Middle West, most of the immigration goes to New York
City, Chicago and other large cities that have long-established ethnic enclaves.

But, even in these places, integration of suburbs by immigrants is substantial.
In the Northeast, about 292,000 immigrants from ethnic or racial minorities
settled in suburban and nonmetropolitan areas, while 676,000 settled in the
cities. In the Middle West the ratio was 174,000 outside the cities to 261,000
within the cities.

In the South, which includes Texas and Florida, with their large numbers of
Hispanic Americans, 727,000 members of ethnic or racial minorities settled
outside the cities to 602,000 within. In the West the ratio was 985,000 outside
to 949,000 within.

Yang Family Settles In

Here in San Antonio, with a metropolitan area of more than a million people,
about half the population is Hispanic; the Yangs are among about 15,000 Asians.

There are also large communities of military people, both active and retired,
because several bases are situated there. Mr. Yang, seated in his suburban
furniture store, said it was the military population that attracted him to San
Antonio.

''I like them - they say 'yes, sir' and 'no, sir,' to me,'' he said with a
little laugh and the emphasis on ''me.''

Making his way through ornate and lacquered furniture from several countries,
Mr. Yang retrieved a picture made on the day he opened the store. It showed his
parents, brothers, sisters and their children who came from various parts of the
United States, a family that started in China and moved in stages to this
country.

Most legal immigrants come under that provision of the law that permits
naturalized citizens to bring in members of their family, and that is one reason
why Asians, with strong family ties, are predominant among foreigners arriving
in this country.

But with relatively few in the San Antonio area, they are little noticed except
once a year when the city sponsors an Asian festival.

''But we don't even have a Chinatown - we just live all over,'' Mr. Yang said,
his arm sweeping in the vast metropolitan area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of percent of the 2,864,406 people who legally immigrated from 1981
to 1985 and where they come from (Immigration and Naturalization Service); Photo
of Angela and Stephen Yang showing jewelry to Susie Cavanzos at their store in
Universal City, Tex. (NYT/Craig Stafford) (Page 44)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 25, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

DOMINICAN SURVIVOR TELLS ABOUT FATEFUL BOAT TRIP

BYLINE: By MANUEL SUAREZ, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 688 words

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, P.R., Dec. 24


Angela Guerrero sold her meager belongings in the Dominican Republic to raise
$250 for passage on an open boat that was to carry her to a prosperous life in
the United States, but all she found was tragedy when the boat swamped 200 feet
from its destination, carrying at least 14 of her 48 fellow passengers to their
deaths.

Mrs. Guerrero, 25 years old, recalled today how the 28-foot wooden boat swamped
within sight of shore Monday night when the captain veered away after he saw
what he believed was the light of a police car on land.

''We did not have any trouble in the ocean because the waves were not high,''
said Mrs. Guerrero at the police station in the west coast city of Mayaguez in
Puerto Rico where she was being detained until she could be turned over to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

''We were coming into a beach during the night when the captain thought he saw
the light of a police car on shore,'' she said. ''There was a lot of confusion
on the boat because some people wanted to turn around and go back because we
would be arrested, but others wanted us to land because we had not eaten since
we left Punta Junillo,'' the departure point in the Dominican Republic.

Although the crossing had been smooth, the boat was trying to land at Punta
Higuera, which is known to serious surfers as ''the Hawaii of the East,''
because of its excellent waves.

Boat Struck by a Wave

Mrs. Guerrero said the captain turned the boat away from shore and it was struck
broadside by a wave, swamping it.

''I don't know how I made it to shore,'' she said. ''I can't swim. I can't swim.
All I remember is moving my legs to try to stay afloat and let the waves carry
me in. I guess God was watching after me. When I landed, I did not have any
clothes on and collapsed on a beach.''

Washed up with her was the body of a pregnant woman she had met on the voyage.
''They took her body to the same hospital they took me,'' she said When some of
the surfers staying at the Punta Higuera Surfing Resort on the beach heard the
commotion in the water, they took their boats out to look for survivors. The
owner of the resort turned the resort's floodlights toward the ocean to help the
rescue effort.

Adam Morkan, 21, of West Palm Beach, Fla., said that when he heard the
screaming, he jumped into the ocean and paddled out looking for survivors. ''I
could hear people scream but I could not find anyone, it was too dark,'' he
said, adding that he did find what he thought were three survivors but they were
all dead.

Eight bodies were recovered Monday night and Tuesday and six more today. The
body of one woman washed ashore 12 miles to the north of Punta Higuera at a
beach outside the city of Aguadilla.

Survivors Run for Hills

According to Freddie Ruiz, Assistant Director of Civil Defense for the town of
Rincon, many of the survivors ran for the hills and fled.

''One man ran away and remained hidden, but he saw what was happening and he
came back to help,'' said Mr. Ruiz. ''He identified the body of one of the women
and was arrested by the police and turned over to immigration authorities.''

Mrs. Guerrero said she was from the historic town of Higuey on the south coast
of the Dominican Republic near the resort town of La Romana. She said her
husband died in an automobile accident two years ago leaving her with three
children and a sick mother to look after.

''My mother needed an operation and I needed money desperately,'' she said.
''When some boys in the town told me when they were going to take a boat leaving
from Juanillo, I sold some things to get the $250 I needed and went with them,''
she said.

When they got to Punta Junillo, however, the boys decided against making the
trip and stayed behind. She said she had never met anyone on the boat until they
boarded.

William Bryan, the director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in San
Juan, said all the survivors would be returned to the Dominican Republic.

He said the service rounds up about 4,500 to 5,000 illegal Dominican aliens a
year, about 3,000 of them on west coast beaches like Punta Higuera.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of surfer looking at clothing on beach in Puerto Rico (The San
Juan Star/Acevedo)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 4, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IDEAS & TRENDS;
Eight Are Guilty In Sanctuary Trial

BYLINE: By Katherine Roberts

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8, Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 205 words


Was it, as a defense lawyer accurately summarized the prosecution's contention,
''just a plain old alien-smuggling conspiracy''? Or had 11 church workers, in
providing sanctuary for refugees from violence-torn Central America, been
obeying a higher law?

A Federal jury in Tucson, Ariz., did not really have that choice. The defendants
had lost the intended foundation of their case at the start, when prosecutors
succeeded in barring arguments about religious motives. Last week, the panel
convicted six of the activists of conspiring to smuggle Salvadorans and
Guatemalans into the United States. It found two others guilty on lesser
charges.

''What the American people got was a verdict that was based upon the law and
that was based upon the facts,'' United States Attorney Donald M. Reno Jr. said.

All eight of those convicted, including two Roman Catholic priests, a nun and a
Presbyterian minister, face jail terms and fines if an appeal is not successful;
three lay workers were acquitted. After the verdict, the defendants said they
would continue to take part in the four-year-old underground-railroad movement
-and the prosecution said the Justice Department would continue to pursue cases
of alien-smuggling.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 1, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Israeli Interior Minister Quits to Protest Ruling

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 244 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Dec. 31


The Israeli Interior Minister submitted his resignation today to protest a
Supreme Court ruling ordering him to list an American immigrant who underwent a
Reform conversion as a Jew in the population registry.

The resignation of the official, Yitzhak Peretz, will go into effect next
Tuesday at the earliest, the Israeli radio said.

Meanwhile, political efforts are being made to persuade Rabbi Peretz to reverse
his decision, even though his absence will not threaten the future of the
national unity Government, since the Shas Party of which he is a member is not a
crucial partner in the coalition. The Shas Party is predominantly made up of
Orthodox Sephardic Jews.

''The High Court of Justice demanded that I list a non-Jew as a Jew,'' Rabbi
Peretz told the Israeli radio. ''As a Jew and a rabbi loyal to the tradition and
Bible of Israel, I have declared and declare again that my hand will never ever
sign for a fraudulent conversion that was not conducted according to the
Halakha.''

Halakha is the code of Jewish law. The American immigrant, Shoshana Miller, was
converted by a Reform rabbi in Colorado Springs before she came to live in
Israel.

When Ms. Miller immigrated and applied for identity papers, Rabbi Peretz agreed
to list her as Jewish, but added alongside her religion the word ''converted.''
The Israeli Supreme Court ruled Dec. 2 that the additional word was illegal and
that Rabbi Peretz must relist Ms. Miller merely as a Jew.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 7, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

COMPANY NEWS;
A Work Force Of Immigrants

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 207 words

DATELINE: FORT WORTH, Jan. 6


From the looks of the mostly female workers assembling and testing Tandy's new
1000 SX personal computer along a pair of 400-foot production lines, this plant
could be situated in Malaysia or the Philippines, rather than five miles north
of Tandy's headquarters here.

Kenji Nishikawa, a 43-year-old electrical engineer from Tokyo who has been
involved in design and production in Tandy's computer unit since its inception,
is the manager who oversees the plant. Its workers come from 20 countries, and
many are recent immigrants to Fort Worth from Laos, Vietnam and Cambodia.
Because many are still learning English, the training manual relies on
photographs rather than written instructions.

Mr. Nishikawa said employees worked seven-day weeks shortly after production
began in late September. Then a parts shortage forced him to cut back to
five-day weeks in December. Suppliers currently are shipping parts for computers
originally scheduled for April assembly, he said.

The company gives no current daily production figures, but based on outputs
posted one recent afternoon on a video monitor, it probably is close to 1,200
units. That roughly conforms with the six-week wait that Radio Shack salespeople
are quoting to customers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 8, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

TIGHTER VISAS MAY BAR LESSER-KNOWN ARTISTS

BYLINE: By JEREMY GERARD

SECTION: Section C; Page 19, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1150 words


The directors of some of the country's most prominent performing-arts groups
have told the Immigration and Naturalization Service that proposed new criteria
for work visas could significantly limit the variety of international artists
seen on American stages.

At the same time, public discussion of the proposed changes has uncovered a deep
rift between unions representing a largely work-hungry membership, on the one
hand, and service organizations that most frequently bring artists to the United
States, on the other.

The proposed rule change - technically a clarification of policy that does not
require Congressional approval - was published by the immigration service in the
Federal Register last August. When it becomes effective, in the spring, it will
have no impact on the ability of international superstars such as Luciano
Pavarotti or Elton John to work in the United States. Nor will it affect the
State Department's power to refuse visas on political grounds.

But the people who book artists for festivals and nonprofit performing-arts
organizations, as well as lawyers familiar with the problems of bringing alien
artists here, say the criteria are already making it more difficult for artists
from outside the major cultural centers or whose work is not mainstream to get
visas.

In no instance cited by festival administrators had any artist been denied a
visa on appeal. The more common complaints are that the service is demanding
stronger substantiation of artistic eminence than it has in the past; that such
documentation - often acceptable only in the form of original material such as
reviews and box-office receipts - may be impossible for ethnic and folk artists
to come by, and that many performances are scheduled on short notice, requiring
quick action on visa applications that the service cannot always supply.

''It's put a huge burden on the managers,'' said Tom Belote, a former special
assistant United States attorney who once represented the service. As a lawyer
in private practice, Mr. Belote last summer represented the Pepsico Summerfare
performing arts festival in the appeals of four companies - Andrzej Wajda's
Stary Teatr of Cracow, Ireland's Druid Theater Company, Companias Divas of
Mexico and the Bochumer Ensemble of Germany - when their applications for visas
initially were denied.

Standards of Pre-eminence

The immigration service proposal to ''establish realistic standards for
determining who qualifies as an alien of distinguished merit and ability,''
contains separate sections on professions ranging from medicine to engineering,
including artists in the entertainment industry. Those meeting the standards of
''pre-eminence'' are granted special H-1 visas that bypass Labor Department
certification that they are not taking work away from United States citizens.

No section of the rule change has generated as much controversy as the proposed
criteria for artists, Lawrence J. Weinig, deputy assistant commissioner for
adjudication at the service, said in a telephone interview yesterday. The
evidence the service may require in support of an H-1 visa application includes
proof of box-office receipts, high salaries and reviews in major publications.
Some arts professionals expressed concern that such dollar-oriented criteria
will mean that, ultimately, fewer performing artists will be seen here.

''What you're seeing is the service tighten up the definition of who is a person
of distinguished merit and quality,'' said Mr. Belote. ''It's definitely going
to have an impact on people who are not gold-medal winners. They have made some
exceptions for ethnic and nonprofit groups. But the people who will be hit most
are those who are up-and-coming.''

The situation is further complicated by a bureaucracy that has been relocated
from major centers like New York to obscure regional offices such as the one in
St. Albans, Vt., now responsible for New York.

Immigration service officials see the explicitness of the proposed rule change
as its chief virtue, promising to reduce reliance on individual judgment in a
bureaucracy that by its own admission has in the past been ''arbitrary and
piecemeal in determining pre-eminent status,'' according to Vern Jervis, a
spokesman for the service.

But many groups find the service more arbitrary than ever in deciding what
evidence is acceptable in applications for H-1 visas.

''With Michael Clark, we lost our virginity on this issue,'' Joseph Melillo,
director of the Next Wave Festival, said of the avant-garde British
choreographer who appeared last month at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. ''We
made our standard application more than 90 days before the scheduled
performance. We received a rejection about 30 days before the performance. It
was only through our local representative that we were able to get through to
St. Albans.''

''What's insidious about the whole process,'' said Mr. Melillo, ''is that they
are faceless, nameless people, hidden in a bureaucratic morass.''

That view was echoed by Robert Browning and Bar Biszick of the World Music
Institute, a Manhattan group that organizes concerts by ethnic and folk artists.
Last fall, the institute wanted to bring Sitara Devi, an acclaimed Indian dancer
back to New York. Though she was granted an H-1 visa, it came too late for
several of her scheduled performances.

One crucial reason artists who have not attained superstar status find it more
difficult to get an H-1 visa is that the immigration service has traditionally
relied on unions such as Actors' Equity and the American Guild of Musical
Artists for guidance in determining eligibility. In a letter on the proposed
rule change, Alan Eisenberg, executive secretary of the Actors' Equity
Association - whose membership comprises 37,000 professional actors and stage
managers -suggested that the service further narrow the criteria for
establishing pre-eminence. The Actors' Equity letter said that unless the
proposal was amended, availability of the H-1 visas ''will not be limited to
persons with extraordinary skills, and will greatly exacerbate the employment
problems for our members.''

Insisting, however, that the service relies too heavily on the unions in
assessing applications for H-1 visas, a coalition of service organizations
headed by Opera America, whose members range from the Metropolitan to the
Seattle Operas and rely heavily on international as well as American artists,
suggested that groups such as Opera America, the Theater Communications Group
and Dance/U.S.A. be consulted when determining pre-eminence. It also suggested
immediate approval for any artist who had been granted an H-1 visa within two
years.

Although the deadline for public comment has passed and the service has the
authority to institute the rule, Mr. Weinig said it would not go into effect
''until we've solved at least some of these problems.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Mick Lally and Marie Mullan; photo of Sitara Devi

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 15, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

ABIDJAN JOURNAL;
IF THE PHONE WORKS, IT MUST BE THE IVORY COAST

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 806 words

DATELINE: ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast, Jan. 12


Teodore Codo had a simple choice.

He could stay at home in Benin and earn $65 a month as a cook. Or he could
travel for one week by truck, bribe guards at three national borders and enter
the laissez-faire economy of the Ivory Coast, where cooks earn $165 a month.

By choosing the Ivory Coast, Mr. Codo joined a flood of West African immigrants
who now make up almost one-third of the Ivory Coast's population - 3 million out
of 10 million people.

Immigrant workers, a group usually associated with the United States or Europe,
come here to take part in one of Africa's rare economic success stories.

With its free market economy, close links to France and open border policy, the
Ivory Coast has emerged as an African nation marked by smooth roads, a
functioning telephone system, well-stocked shops, near self-sufficiency in food
and high economic growth. $3 Billion in Exports This year, economists predict,
the Ivory Coast may pull ahead of its traditional rival, Nigeria, to have the
highest per capita income in West Africa. In 1985, both countries had a per
capita income of about $700 - well over the $300 average for the 11 other
countries of West Africa.

As a measure of its economic strength, Ivory Coast's exports in 1986 were about
$3 billion - largely coffee and cocoa. By contrast, Nigeria, a nation with 10
times the population, exported $5 billion, largely oil.

''If you travel the region, it is obvious that it has been our economic boom
which has attracted so many people in,'' Paul Koffi Koffi, employment director
of the Labor Ministry, said here last week.

In Abidjan, people from Benin, like Mr. Codo, are largely cooks and
cabinetmakers. Senegalese are tailors and jewelry merchants. Malians sell cloth
in markets and work as laundrymen. Burkinabe work as gardeners, street sweepers
and night watchmen.

''They generally do the manual labor that an Ivoirian would never touch,'' an
Ivoirian journalist said of immigrants from Burkina Faso, an impoverished nation
of the Sahel.

National Census Awaited

In the countryside, Burkinabe perform most of the labor on Ivoirian coffee and
cocoa plantations. On pineapple plantations, Ghanaians provide most of the
labor.

In Abidjan, there are so many Ghanaians that one neighborhood is named Koumassi,
after the Ghanaian city of Kumasi.

A national census is to be held this year, and Mr. Koffi Koffi predicted that it
will show that one half of Abidjan's population of two million is foreign born.

His labor surveys indicate that one-third of employees in the private sector are
foreign born and that 60 percent of those employed in the ''informal'' private
sector - street merchants and the like - are foreigners.

The large number of immigrants has caused spasms of xenophobia here.

In the early 1980's, when coffee and cocoa prices dropped, Ivoirians pushed for
a program of ''Ivoirization.''

Program Is Slowed

Under this program, the percentage of Ivoirians in middle-level jobs rose from
45 percent in the late 1970's to 53 percent today.

But with the resumption of growth here in 1985, the Government slowed the
program. Last year the Ministry of Labor and Ivoirization reverted to its
original name, the Ministry of Labor.

''The President thinks a little like the Americans,'' the Ivoirian journalist
said of Felix Houphouet-Boigny, who has led the Ivory Coast since independence
from France in 1960. ''He thinks that what built the United States is its
openness to the outside world.''

Indeed, in a recent speech the President said, ''In this way, this tiny country
of 7 million souls - with 3 million of our brothers, bringing us to 10 million -
is a country without a passport: one comes, one leaves, one stays, but more
often one stays.''

'A Very Nice Platform'

As part of this open-door policy, foreigners can buy land here and can vote
here, and three ministers are foreign born.

''The Ivory Coast has created a very nice platform where young Africans can
contribute their talent,'' said Seth Dei, an American-educated Ghanaian, who
owns a computer distributorship here.

Mr. Dei and other West Africans say they see immigration here as part of a
tradition of free movement of populations along Africa's west coast.

''You can't legislate against it - it has been going on for centuries,'' said
Lawrence Ekpebu, Nigeria's Ambassador to the Ivory Coast. ''We tried expulsions,
but most of them came back again.''

Immigrants here say they left home for the Ivory Coast to better their lot in
life.

''In Senegal, my family can never get enough work and they take all my money,''
Fall Abdoulaye, a Senegalese vendor in Cocody market in Abidjan, said as he
stood surrounded by ivory combs, malachite bracelets and ebony necklaces. ''Here
- no mother, no father, no brothers - I have enough money left over to go
dancing.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of immigrants washing laundry in stream near Abidjan, Ivory Coast
(NYT/James Brooke); Map shows location of Abidjan (NYT)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 15, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Correction

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 49 words


Because of an editing error, an article on the Washington Talk page yesterday
about immigration visas incorrectly listed the three Soviet republics eligible
for such visas. The three are Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania; Liechtenstein is a
sovereign European nation outside the Soviet bloc.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 1, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

AUSTRALIA DEBATES TOUCHY IMMIGRATION ISSUE

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 830 words

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia


A WELL-KNOWN Sydney businessman recently stunned his colleagues by suggesting
that Australia quadruple its population by allowing more people to immigrate.
Jaws fell further when Kerry Packer, one of Australia's most successful media
magnates, added that more Asians, already settling here in record numbers,
should be encouraged to immigrate.

''It's time to realize we can't survive with just 16 million people on this
enormous island,'' he said.

In a country almost the size of the United States but with a population only
about as great as Texas's, immigration is one of the most sensitive political
issues. With two-thirds of its population concentrated in six coastal cities,
Australia has long been aware of its large and empty center. Historically, the
refrain ''populate or perish'' has been a staple of national rhetoric.

Recently the debate has taken on a new and, many believe, more rational tone.
Until the last 10 years, European immigration, the only kind that was officially
sanctioned, was popularly viewed as a defense against what national leaders
portrayed as an imminent land grab by crowded Asian countries to the north.

During the 1970's and early 1980's, in recognition of unemployment at home,
immigration was cut to a trickle, allowed only on humanitarian grounds, an
exception made largely for Vietnamese refugees.

Although there has been little improvement in the unemployment picture,
Immigration Minister Chris Hurford is advocating a rise in immigration as a way
of beefing up the skilled labor force. Last year, 95,000 immigrants landed on
Australian shores, most of them from England and Ireland, with Vietnam in third
place. This year, Australia expects 115,000 new arrivals, the largest number
since the heyday of European immigration in the 1950's and 1960's. These
immigrants will include entrepreneurs and businessmen from Hong Kong, who are
now being welcomed with open arms if they have more than $150,000 to invest in
Australia. Given Australia's declining birth rate and aging population, a
constant annual flow of 115,000 would result in a population of only 19.2
million by 2001, according to estimates by officials at the immigration
department.

Mr. Hurford has bought the argument of the Australian business community that
more immigration - although not on the scale envisioned by Mr. Packer -would
mean an increased demand for domestic goods, greater productivity and lower
prices. This thesis has been rendered more palatable by a report from the
Committee for Economic Development of Australia, finding that immigrants, by
opening new businesses, increased the job prospects of unemployed Australians.

To the business community, the need for more skilled workers is evident. The
work ethic, businessmen say, has never been strong in the Australian character;
indeed, diligent workers are often ridiculed as ''conchies,'' a diminutive for
''conscientious.'' Compounding the problem, they add, are the high wages paid to
unskilled workers.

''The economic incentive for a young person to acquire skills is very slight,''
said Ralph Evans, a partner in a management consultancy firm. ''Unskilled jobs
are relatively well paid, particularly for young people and compared to other
countries. And it's not part of the popular ethic to invest in the future.''

Increasing the population by immigration is not entirely popular with the
Australian public. ''The issue is politically untouchable because people think
immigrants will take jobs away from them,'' said the West Australian state
premier, Brian Burke.

But just as great as the economic fear is what a leading Sydney newspaper
columnist called ''the still-strong undercurrent of racism.'' The ''white
Australia'' policy that prevented Asians and blacks from settling here was
abandoned in 1973, but the sentiment lingers. The president of the Victorian
Returned Services League, the local equivalent of the Veterans of Foreign Wars,
called Archbishop Desmond M. Tutu of South Africa a ''witch doctor'' when he
visited here last month, and added that black and Asian immigration should be
stopped; radio talk shows and letters-to-the-editor columns were filled with
statements of approval. A Perth radio station received 13,000 calls on the
subject, 10,000 of them in favor of the old policy.

The environmentalists are not happy with Mr. Hurford either. Jon Nevill, a
member of the Australian Conservation Foundation, argues that as the world's
driest continent, Australia cannot sustain a larger population. ''We simply do
not have the agricultural capacity which many people imagine,'' Mr. Nevill wrote
in a paper for the foundation.

Like many scientists, and indeed many Australians, he advocates ''zero net
immigration,'' meaning that 20,000 to 30,000 newcomers could be admitted each
year on humanitarian grounds. ''The key question,'' he wrote, is ''Should we try
to plan our future or should we rely on 'gambler's luck,' when the dice are
loaded against us?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Immigrants from South Africa arriving in Australia (Reuters)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 3, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

WASHINGTON TALK: BRIEFING;
The Carlucci File

BYLINE: By Wayne King and Warren Weaver Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 190 words


The Archives Department at Washington's Catholic University of America has been
poring over items in the Terrence Vincent Powderly Collection and recently
turned up an interesting letter.

Mr. Powderly was a labor leader of the late 1800's who went on to become
director general of the United States Bureau of Immigration. In that post he
wrote a letter to a colleague in 1909 in which he opposed a proposal that new
immigrants be required to speak English.

''In 1882,'' he wrote, ''a young Italian came to Scranton, Pa. I was Mayor of
the city at the time and was instrumental in getting employment for him, at his
trade, stone cutter, with the Lackawanna R.R. Co. He couldn't speak a word of
English. In 1898 I, as Commissioner General of Immigration, passed upon the
contracts for the erection of the Ellis Island Immigrant station. The contract
for the stone work in the foundation of the building was let to Frank Carlucci,
the Italian immigrant boy of 1882. Just take another trip to Ellis Island and
note how well the work was done.''

Frank Carlucci was the grandfather of Frank C. Carlucci, the new national
security adviser.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 5, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

McCarran-Walter Chills the Flow of Ideas

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 504 words


To the Editor:

Your Jan. 6 review of ''Do Not Enter'' - a documentary on the McCarran-Walter
Act that was broadcast on public television - contains statements that seriously
misinform the reader about McCarran-Walter's scope and effects. Your reviewer
concedes that the documentary, which is opposed to McCarran-Walter, ''is a
responsible piece of work,'' but claims that it ''makes its case too easily.''
Perhaps this is because such a case is not difficult to make.

The harassment of the Mexican novelist Carlos Fuentes is dismissed by the
statment that he was denied a visa ''once.'' Mr. Fuentes has been denied visas
at least twice, and on numerous occasions has faced bureaucratic delays and
travel restrictions. When ''The Death of Artemio Cruz'' was published in this
country, he was allowed to travel here for five days, confined to Manhattan.
Since a well-publicized 1969 incident, when Mr. Fuentes was not allowed to spend
four hours sightseeing in San Juan while en route to Mexico by ship, he has not
been denied entry to the U.S. but remains on the Immigration and Naturalization
Service's list of excludable aliens, and must apply for a waiver every time he
enters.

His experience is, unfortunately, not unique. Not taken into account are those
who do not apply for visas because they fear the humiliation of interrogation
and denial; those who receive visas only after intense, insulting questioning
and long waits, and those who receive visas after they have missed their plane
reservations or, in the most egregious cases, their speaking engagements in this
country.

Yet your reviewer finds it ''unlikely'' that the McCarran-Walter Act has
''really impeded the flow of ideas,'' pointing out that Mr. Fuentes ''lectures
at American universities.'' He ignores the fates of those less famous, whose
writings are not read, whose voices are not heard, because the U.S. Government
has made it difficult or impossible for them to reach a U.S. audience. (The new
rules preventing artists not well known from obtaining visas to perform in the
U.S. will compound the problem.) Your reviewer puts words into the mouths of
McCarran-Walter's opponents, asserting that leftist opponents of the act are not
angered when right-wing figures are kept out of the U.S. He asks if the
Nicaraguan Government would want Patrick J. Buchanan, the White House spokesman,
to speak in Managua and suggests it would not allow him to do so - as if
policies in Nicaragua justify repressive policies in the U.S.

He further conjectures that the playwright and human-rights activist Arthur
Miller would support the Nicaraguan Government in such a decision. Mr. Miller,
who has fought for decades for what he calls ''the right of all opinions to be
heard everywhere,'' told PEN that, if the question arose, he would try to
persuade the Nicaraguan authorities to allow Mr. Buchanan to speak.

FRANCES FITZGERALD
ROSE STYRON
New York, Jan. 14, 1987
  The writers head the PEN American Center's freedom-to-write committee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 12, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Khao I Dang: Refugee Job Not Finished

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 539 words


In announcing the closing of the Khao I Dang refugee camp Thailand pleads with
the West: Resettle these 15,000 Cambodians as you have pledged or back they go
to the border with Cambodia. The West needs to heed the message if it is to
protect the carefully assembled international structure for handling refugees.

The resettlement over the last decade of almost two million Indochinese refugees
has been a remarkable humanitarian endeavor, led by the United States. Across
the country, churches and volunteer groups have refurbished houses, stocked
cupboards, found jobs for and welcomed into their communities Vietnamese,
Laotians and Cambodians by the thousands.

The experience has brought many Americans to believe that resettling people in
this country is what refugee work means. Only partly true. Most of the work,
whether by individual countries, the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees or nongovernmental organizations, is overseas. Two-thirds of the U.S.
budget for refugees goes abroad.

Settling refugees in the United States, France, Australia or wherever is the
last choice of refugee workers. The first is repatriation. Since refugees by
definition face a well-founded fear of persecution if they go home, this is
possible only if things at home change. The second solution is resettlement
within the region, in the country of first asylum. Only when the first two are
impossible is resettlement in a third country undertaken.

In the case of Vietnamese and Cambodians, repatriation was out of the question,
and neighboring countries were hostile to them. Thailand itself was loath to
take on the hundreds of thousands who poured across her borders. Only assurances
that the refugees would be resettled elsewhere brought Thai consent.

The United States welcomed 111,000 refugees from Indochina in 1979, 200,000 in
1980, 159,000 in 1981. Then the resettlement process slowed. Today some 15,000
of the Cambodians first sent to the Khao I Dang camp remain in Thailand. They
have no family in the United States, are mostly rural and uneducated and so rank
lower on the classification scale than those who came earlier. Many of them were
judged ineligible for having given inconsistent stories or for associations with
the brutal Khmer Rouge regime. Thailand, unwilling to settle them permanently,
has closed the camp and says it will move them back to the border.

Fifteen thousand lives are in jeopardy. So is the refugee program generally if
other first-asylum countries don't see to it that Thailand gets help.

Thailand has mostly done its part, but needs to persevere a little longer. In
the meantime, the U.S. Embassy there, the State Department, the Immigration
Service and the White House have to get back into the act. That means additional
money.

Just as important, it means supporting the United Nations High Commissioner in
his talks with Thailand about how to handle the Khao I Dang refugees short of
returning them to the border. Refugee workers say many cases have been
arbitrarily classified as ineligible and need further review. Additional
remedies are available, notably finding ways to admit the refugees under other
provisions of law. The issue of Indochinese refugees is still open.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             February 25, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

AT ELLIS ISLAND, GLOOMY RUIN STARTS TO SHINE

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 934 words


Across the harbor's choppy, cobalt waters, the old United States Immigration
Station at Ellis Island is beginning to gleam again, beginning to glisten.

Freshly rebuilt, a copper dome brilliantly reflects the pale winter sunlight
from one of the four towers that mark Ellis so prominently on the waterfront
skyline. The cavernous Registry Hall looks like the inside of a 180-foot-long,
barrel-vaulted ice castle, thanks to the sparkle of the newly cleaned Guastavino
tiles.

A $100 million restoration and remodeling at Ellis Island, which opened in 1892
and discharged its last immigrant in 1954, is about halfway through. Completion
is expected in two years, but the shape of the recreated main building - some of
it immaculately preserved, some of it altered beyond recognition - is already
growing clear.

This is not the brooding, darkened, grimy place captured in so many evocative
photographs of recent years, not the dust-choked ruin crumbling before our eyes,
not the deeply silent vestige of the immigrant waves.

That moody desolation, the patina left in the wake of the 17 million immigrants
whose lives were entwined with this monumental brick-and-limestone barn, has
lifted. In its place is a surprisingly beautiful building.

With the removal this week of a forest of scaffolding from the Registry Hall,
the great chamber now looks as it must have in 1918, when workers had finished
the new ceiling. Each one of the 28,258 ceiling tiles had just been inspected.
Only 17 had to be replaced. All were cleaned. ''It's unbelievable,'' said John
Belle of Beyer Blinder Belle, the restoration architects, as he walked into the
hall and gazed at the ceiling 60 feet overhead. ''This is wonderful to see. It
was so grubby, so dirty. Now, all I can say is that it looks like
mother-of-pearl.''

Even on a day when he has to wear a hard hat and shout over the construction
workers' clamor, Mr. Belle knows that after the building reopens, visitors will
wonder why the architects chose to make the place so pristine.

''It's an enormous dilemma,'' he said. ''If you leave a building to decay, the
decay will accelerate. You have to go back, diligently and honestly use the
original materials to rebuild it and let the aging process begin again.''

Mr. Belle described a three-part project: restoration, preservation of those
spaces ''that should be kept'' and remodeling of the rest for use as a museum
that would tell the story of Ellis Island and the history of immigration to
America.

He outlined a trip to Ellis as visitors two years from now might experience it,
arriving in the broad, sycamore-lined channel that divides the island and is
flanked by small hospital buildings on the south and the imposing main building
on the north.

Into this channel came the lighters that carried immigrants off the ocean-going
ships on which they had arrived in New York Harbor. Once, a long canopy extended
from the central arch of the main building almost to the water's edge. A
contempory equivalent will be built.

We'll have an entry to the main building exactly as the immigrants did - off the
gangplank, under the canopy and into the baggage area.''

Before entering the main building, it will be worth pausing to see the enormous
limestone eagles that face one another sternly across the central arch, each
perched on a massive shield ornamented by the stars and stripes.

It will be even more inspiring to turn around. On the horizon, to the left of
the pitch-roofed hospital buildings, is the Statue of Liberty as the new
arrivals saw her: back turned, seeming to face the old world that they were
about to leave behind.

Visitors will enter through the baggage room where the immigrants left the bulk
of their luggage. Except for new display panels, this room will be largely left
in a preserved state, complete with baggage.

From there, they will go up on a on a rebuilt version of the ''six-second
medical examination,'' as the staircase from the baggage area was called.
Examiners waited at the top, chalk in hand, to mark an ''H'' (for heart
condition) on those who were wheezing by the time they climbed the last flight
or a ''T'' (for the eye disease trachoma) on those who had stumbled in their
ascent.

The Registry Hall, where immigrants waited to be questioned, will be - as it has
always been - the centerpiece of the Ellis Island visit. It will also be devoid
of almost any modern intrusions.

''There was a great deal of discussion over what kind of exhibitry we should
have here,'' Mr. Belle said. ''We decided: nothing. Just the benches.''

That is not to suggest that the space will be empty. ''Imagine the voices,'' Mr.
Belle said. ''You're sitting here with your family and your whole future depends
on that man at the far end behind a desk. You are inching along and all the
rumors start coming back: 'They're not taking any more people today. They're not
speaking Russian.' This space was literally a Babel.''

The west wing will include a recreation of one of the legal hearing rooms where
immigrants who had been denied entry went to appeal their cases. It will also
have the space needed for a computerized, genealogical search service.

The east wing will be radically altered and contain two movie theaters, a
photographic gallery, meeting room, bookstore and gift shop, bathrooms and a
coat check room, among other conveniences.

''These will replace dreary, bureaucratic spaces with little architectural
distinction. Hopefully - history will be the judge - the areas we chose for
reuse will be seen as those that had the less important historic significance.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 13, 1987, Friday, Late City Final Edition

CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 25 about the former United States Immigration Station on
Ellis Island misidentified the architectural team in charge of restoration. It
is Beyer Blinder Belle/ Notter Finegold & Alexander Inc.

GRAPHIC: Photos of Ellis Island being renovated (NYT/Don Hogan Charles)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 1, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

ISRAEL ASKING U.S. TO BAR SOVIET JEWS

BYLINE: By ARI L. GOLDMAN

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 765 words


The Government of Israel, hoping that Jews will soon be allowed to leave the
Soviet Union in greater numbers, has asked the State Department to help insure
that more of them will settle in Israel rather than in the United States.

Since 1979, as many as 80 percent of the Jewish emigres have chosen the United
States instead of Israel.

Emigration from the Soviet Union is restricted for all citizens, but Jews have
been allowed to leave in large numbers over the years, ostensibly on the ground
of reunification with relatives in Israel. The exodus reached a peak of 51,320
in 1979, and has since declined to a trickle - 914 in 1986.

Shamir Opposes Special Status

On a recent visit to the United States, Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir of Israel
asked Secretary of State George P. Shultz to stop offering special refugee
status to Soviet Jews, outside of any national immigration quota.

Mr. Shamir argues that the emigres travel on Israeli immigration visas issued by
the Dutch Embassy in Moscow and should proceed to Israel. Once in Israel, the
argument goes, the Soviet Jews may, if they choose, apply for immigration into
the United States on the regular Israeli quota.

The Israeli position has not been supported by Jewish organizations in the
United States. Although the National Conference on Soviet Jewry has said that it
will consider the suggestion, other organizations oppose it outright.

In a meeting with American Jewish spokesmen in New York, Mr. Shamir said the
main issue was to ''bring more people to Israel.''

''We explained to the United States Government this is one of our goals,'' he
said, ''and if they are interested in a strong Israel, they have to support us
in our effort.''

Arthur S. Berger, spokesman for the State Department's Bureau of Near Eastern
Affairs, which handles Israeli matters, said:

''We understand Israel's concern on the issue, but our policy has been that the
refugees should have the freedom of choice to decide where they want to go.''

Mr. Berger said he knew of no plans to change the policy.

In a private gathering with heads of Jewish organizations, Mr. Shamir said the
Government needed to see signs of support from them before it would reconsider
its stand, according to participants in the meeting.

Morris B. Abram, chairman of the National Conference on Soviet Jewry, said that
Mr. Shamir had ''placed the issue squarely on the agenda'' and that it presented
a ''serious dilemma.'' On the one hand, he said, American Jews want to see a
strong Israel, on the other, they are troubled at having to tell emigres where
they must settle.

Even groups that have supported virtually all Israeli policies, such as the
Zionist Organization of America, have been reluctant to endorse the idea.

Israel's concern about where emigres will settle comes at a time when there has
been a slight increase in Soviet emigration. Through Thursday, for example, 130
Jews were granted exit visas in February. This compared with 84 during February
1986.

The Israeli approach to Washington has stirred concern among the 200,000 Soviet
Jews who have already settled in the United States. Some of them fear that a new
rule would make it difficult for relatives now living in the Soviet Union to
join them.

Seymour Reich, president of B'nai B'rith International, said:

''B'nai B'rith believes that Jews permitted to leave the Soviet Union should
decide for themselves where they want to live. Having been granted freedom, they
should not be denied freedom of choice.''

'Personal, Democratic Option'

Albert Vorspan, senior vice president of the Union of American Hebrew
Congregations, a Reform group, said, using the Hebrew word for the act of
settling in Israel: ''Aliya is a great calling, but it must reflect a personal
and democratic option and not the imposition of a monolithic policy.''

Karl Zukerman, executive vice president of Hias, a Jewish immigrant aid society,
said: ''We will resist strongly any effort by the American Government to make it
more difficult for a Jew to come to the United States.''

Mr. Zukerman said he sympathized with the Israeli position that Jews from all
countries should be encouraged to settle in Israel, but he said the important
thing is that Jews get out of the Soviet Union, not where they go.

Mr. Shamir, in his meeting with Jewish groups, framed the question differently.

''The aim of our struggle is not just to get them out of Soviet Russia, but to
bring them to their homeland, Israel,'' he said. ''Our struggle is not to change
for our bretheren one place of dispersion for another.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              246 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 10, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION SERVICE PLAYS THOUGHT-POLICE ROLE;
Violent and Murderous

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 366 words


To the Editor:

Anthony Lewis's column (Feb. 13) opposing the deportation of eight members of
the radical Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine notes that the group
is dedicated to the establishment of a Palestinian state, but fails to point out
that the P.F.L.P. also advocates wiping Israel off the map of the Middle East
and the slaughter of all Israelis.

Mr. Lewis says that the Immigration and Naturalization Service is attempting to
deport the Palestinians because they publish magazines promoting their views. He
neglects to mention that the P.F.L.P. is one of the most violent and murderous
factions of the Palestine Liberation Organization; indeed, so vicious that the
P.L.O.'s Yasir Arafat is labeled a ''moderate'' compared with George Habash, the
P.F.L.P. leader.

The P.F.L.P. bears responsibility for airplane hijackings, including the 1976
Entebbe piracy, and the 1976 abduction and murder of Francis E. Meloy, United
States Ambassador in Beirut, among numerous other heinous acts of cruelty and
barbarism.

Mr. Lewis portrays the deportation case as a freedom-of-speech battle. But it is
obvious the I.N.S. believes the eight Palestinians pose a threat to the security
of Americans and America. The P.F.L.P. has used publication offices as a front
for terrorist activities. The terrorist group Black September, which murdered 11
athletes at the Munich Olympics in September 1972, was formed in the newspaper
offices of the P.F.L.P. weekly, Al Hadaf.

This case has nothing to do with freedom of speech. What it has to do with is
the right of the United States to protect our nation and its citizens from
terrorist groups who have a clear, undisputed mission to export terrorism to the
West. The Palestinians facing deportation and anyone else residing in the United
States have a right to publish and express their thoughts, no matter how
radical, to anyone who will read or listen. But our nation does not have to
tolerate the presence of alien members of terrorist groups openly promoting
genocide and dedicated to reddening the Mediterranean Sea with the blood of
Israelis.

JAMES H. SCHEUER
Member of Congress, 8th Dist., N.Y.
  Washington, Feb. 24, 1987

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 10, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

HIGH COURT RULES U.S. MUST EASE RULE IN GRANTING POLITICAL ASYLUM

BYLINE: By STUART TAYLOR Jr., Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1621 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 9


The Supreme Court today ruled that the Government must relax its standard for
deciding whether aliens who contend they would be persecuted in their home
countries are eligible for political asylum.

In another decision today, the Court voted to broaden an exception to the Fourth
Amendment rule barring use of unconstitutionally seized evidence in criminal
trials.

The 6-to-3 decision on the aliens was hailed as a major victory by immigration
lawyers, who said the ruling would help many applicants, particularly from
Central American countries.

The Court rejected the Reagan Administration's position that to qualify for
asylum, aliens must prove a ''clear probability'' that they would be killed,
tortured or otherwise persecuted for their beliefs if returned to their home
countries.

The Court said the Government's position was contrary to the intent of the
Refugee Act of 1980, which provides that aliens are eligible for asylum if they
are unwilling to return to their home countries ''because of persecution or a
well-founded fear of persecution on account of race, religion, nationality,
membership in a particular social group, or political opinion.''

''To show a 'well-founded fear of persecution,' an alien need not prove that it
is more likely than not that he or she will be persecuted in his or her home
country,'' Associate Justice John Paul Stevens said in the majority opinion.

'10% Chance of Being Shot'

He suggested that any applicant would be eligible for asylum if ''persecution is
a reasonable possibility.'' He suggested that a person with a ''10 percent
chance of being shot, tortured, or otherwise persecuted'' might be eligible, for
example.

Justice Stevens said the Government's position was refuted by the ''plain
language'' of the 1980 law, its legislative history and the 1967 United Nations
Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees, to which the United States acceded
in 1968 and with which Congress sought to comply in the 1980 law.

The decision upheld a lower court decision requiring the Board of Immigration
Appeals to reconsider the application for asylum of Luz Marina Cardoza-Fonseca,
a 38-year-old Nicaraguan who asserted she would risk torture at the hands of the
Sandinista Government if she returned to Nicaragua because of her brother's
political activities.

Hailed by Advocates for Aliens

Immigration experts said the decision would help people who assert they are
refugees from persecution in a number of countries, like El Salvador and
Guatemala. In recent years, only a small percentage of asylum applications from
people fleeing those countries have been granted.

Many church groups and other private groups have accused the Administration of
denying asylum to refugees from Central America and elsewhere who are legally
eligible for it. The Administration has denied these charges.

''It is a tremendously significant decision,'' said Ira J. Kurzban, an
immigration lawyer who is president-elect of the American Immigration Lawyers'
Association. ''It recognizes at least implicitly the difficulty that asylum
applicants have in proving their claims, so more people will be eligible for
asylum who should be eligible.''

The effect of today's decision could be limited, the Court noted, by the fact
that the Attorney General retains discretion to deny asylum, even to refugees
who are legally eligible for it under the definition applied by the Court today.


Dissent by Powell

Mr. Kurzban and other immigration lawyers, including Arthur C. Helton, who
represented the Lawyers' Committee for Human Rights and others in the case,
argued in the case that the Attorney General's discretion was so broad that he
could still deny all asylum applications that did not meet the ''clear
probability'' standard the Court rejected today.

Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr. dissented in the case, Immigration and
Naturalization Service v. Cardoza-Fonseca, (No. 85-782). He was joined by Chief
Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justice Byron R. White.

They supported the Government's position that the legal standard for determining
eligibility for asylum was the same as for determining an alien's right not to
be deported to a particular country. The Court held in 1984 that the ''clear
probability'' standard should apply in such deportation cases.

But Justice Stevens said Congress had chosen to use a less restrictive standard
to determine eligibility for asylum.

Associate Justice Harry A. Blackmun, in a concurring opinion, assailed the
Immigration and Naturalization Service for ''years of seemingly purposeful
blindness'' to the clear meaning of the law.

Associate Justice Antonin Scalia, in another concurring opinion, said the
language of the law made it ''obvious'' that the Government was wrong but
objected to much of Justice Stevens's reasoning.

On the Exclusionary Rule

In another decision, the Court voted 5 to 4, over a strong dissent by Associate
Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, to expand the ''good faith'' exception it created
in 1984 to the Fourth Amendment rule barring use of unconstitutionally seized
evidence in criminal trials.

The Court held that evidence obtained in a search under an unconstitutional
regulatory statute authorizing warrantless searches of certain businesses may be
used if the police reasonably believed the law to be constitutional.

The case involved an Illinois law authorizing warrantless inspections of the
records and the premises of automobile junkyards for regulatory purposes. The
law was declared unconstitutional after stolen cars had been found in one such
warrantless search.

Solicitor General Charles Fried, who filed a brief in the case as a friend of
the court, hailed the decision as a major victory for law enforcement.

''It is a very important decision, because it is the first time that the Supreme
Court has extended the good faith exception out of the warrant area,'' he said.

In the 1984 decision, the Court ruled that the Fourth Amendment exclusionary
rule did not apply to evidence obtained by police officers who acted in
reasonable reliance on a judicial search warrant, even if the warrant was later
found to be invalid.

Associate Justice Harry A. Blackmun's majority opinion today reiterated the 1984
decision's emphasis of the ''substantial social costs exacted by the
exclusionary rule'' in terms of letting criminals go free. He said the rule
should be applied only when it would deter police misconduct.

Excluding evidence obtained under a statute that had not been held
unconstitutional at the time of the search would deter few unconstitutional
searches, Justice Blackmun said, because ''unless a statute is clearly
unconstitutional, an officer cannot be expected to question the judgment of the
legislature that passed the law.''

He dismissed the possibility that the decision would encourage legislators to
adopt unconstitutional search laws. ''We are given no basis for believing that
legislators are inclined to subvert their oaths and the Fourth Amendment,'' he
added.

But Justice O'Connor assailed the majority for disregarding the intent of the
framers of the Constitution and creating ''a positive incentive to promulgate
unconstitutional laws.''

In a dissent joined by Associate Justices Stevens, William J. Brennan Jr. and
Thurgood Marshall, she said the decision would provide ''a grace period for
unconstitutional search and seizure legislation during which the state is
permitted to violate constitutional requirements with impunity.''

''Statutes authorizing unreasonable searches were the core concern of the
framers of the Fourth Amendment,'' Justice O'Connor said, citing the widespread
resentment of Acts of Parliament authorizing general searches that contributed
to the American Revolution. ''Fourth Amendment rights have at times proved
unpopular; it is a measure of the framers' fear that a passing majority might
find it expedient to compromise Fourth Amendment values that these values were
embodied in the Constitution itself.''

Justice O'Connor's dissent was noteworthy because she has sided with the police
against criminal defendants in most criminal cases, including search and seizure
cases.

The decision, Illinois v. Krull, (No. 85-608), overturned a ruling by the
Illinois Supreme Court that had barred the use of evidence found in the search
of the junkyard against three defendants who were charged with various crimes.

On Agreements Not to Sue

In another hotly debated 5-to-4 ruling, the Court upheld the legality, in some
circumstances, of agreements in which prosecutors drop criminal charges in
exchange for the defendants' agreeing not to sue for violations of their
constitutional rights.

The Court ordered the dismissal of a New Hampshire business executive's suit
against the Town of Newton and its officers for violating his civil rights by
arresting him without justification on a charge of tampering with a witness to a
rape.

Reversing an appeals court ruling, the Court upheld an agreement signed by the
executive, Bernard E. Rumery Jr., and prepared by his attorney to release any
claims he had against the town and its officers in exchange for dismissal of the
criminal charge.

The appeals court had ruled that all such agreements violate the ''public
policy'' of the civil rights laws because they ''tempt prosecutors to trump up
charges in reaction to a defendant's civil rights claim, suppress evidence of
police misconduct, and leave unremedied deprivations of constitutional rights.''

But Justice Powell wrote for the majority today that while abuses may occur,
such agreements could sometimes serve a useful purpose.

Justice Stevens dissented, joined by Justices Brennan, Marshall and Blackmun.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 11, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a Washington dispatch yesterday about a Supreme
Court decision on political asylum for aliens misstated the position of two
lawyers who commented.

The lawyers, Ira J. Kurzban and Arthur C. Helton, said the Attorney General did
not have discretion to reject all asylum applicants who cannot establish a
''clear probability'' that they would be persecuted if they returned to their
home countries.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Associate Justice John Paul Stevens (NYT)

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 18, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Federal Abduction Story in Question

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 579 words


To the Editor:

Anthony Lewis has made several very serious allegations regarding the conduct of
Federal agents and the policies of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
(''Is This America?'', column, Feb. 10; ''Yearning to Breathe Free,'' column,
Feb. 13). Your readers deserve to know more than the inaccurate presentation he
provides.

In his Feb. 10 column, Mr. Lewis discusses the purported case of a woman
referred to by the pseudonym ''Evelyn Bitar,'' who was allegedly taken into
custody by a Federal agent in late January simply because of her ''Palestinian
origins'' and who was supposedly subjected to serious mistreatment.

Based on initial review, there appears to be no truth to this story. I have
ordered the I.N.S. office of professional responsibility to check out the
allegations. It is an independent office that investigates charges of official
misconduct. If there is any truth to them, appropriate corrective action will be
taken.

You and your readers will find it interesting to learn that all efforts by the
office of professional responsibility to obtain information about the alleged
''Evelyn Bitar'' incident have been rejected out of hand by her lawyer, Dan
Stormer. He was contacted the day the column appeared, and nearly every day
since, and has thus far refused to provide any information he has or to allow
the office of professional responsibility to interview her under any conditions,
even with a promise to protect her anonymity and to conduct the interview by
phone.

This raises several important questions: Did this incident actually take place?
Is it an attempt to gain publicity to influence a pending court case? Is its
purpose to cast doubt upon the Government in this case without ever having to
substantiate the allegations? Is Mr. Lewis the unwitting accomplice in a
disingenuous effort to impugn Federal agents?

In deciding whether to place credence in his account, one should consider the
following:

* There were no I.N.S. or Federal Bureau of Investigation agents working on any
related matter the evening this woman's abduction allegedly occurred.

* Neither the I.N.S. nor the F.B.I. employs a person of the description of the
person who supposedly participated in the abduction in the Los Angeles or San
Diego areas.

* The alleged methods of interrogation - handcuffing a person to a metal post,
interrogation in a private residence, attempting to bribe, mentioning how much
money is in a person's bank account, etc. - are so far outside the bounds of
permissible investigative behavior as to be incredible.

Until Mr. Stormer or Mr. Lewis can produce real evidence, and not just
unsubstantiated allegations, you and your readers should be skeptical of the
allegations. We should all expect greater efforts to ascertain the facts from
journalists and lawyers. After all, government officials also are entitled to
fairness and due process.

As to the other attacks on the I.N.S. by Mr. Lewis, his allegations also must be
examined closely; they are blatantly incorrect. As I.N.S. commissioner, I can
assure you that expressions of political belief have not been, are not now and
will not be used by this agency as criteria for deportation. The case in Los
Angeles involving the arrest of eight Palestinians and a Kenyan will be tried in
a court, where evidence can be presented and openly examined.

ALAN C. NELSON
Commissioner, Immigration
and Naturalization Service
  Washington, Feb. 16, 1987

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              249 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 13, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

GOING OUT GUIDE

BYLINE: By C. Gerald Fraser

SECTION: Section C; Page 21, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 503 words


COTTAGE TO TENEMENT Between 1763 and 1863 most Irish immigrants to New York were
cotters, or, to use the American term, sharecroppers. In the 1840's all 500
residents of the Irish farming village of Roscommon emigrated to New York. Not
only was the journey hazardous, but once here immigrants also had to make the
adjustment from life in rural cottages to living in city tenements.

Robert J. Scalley, a professor of history at New York University and author of
articles on English and Irish history, is writing a book on early 19th-century
Irish immigration. And today, in celebration of St. Patrick's Day next week, the
lunchtime lecture at Fraunces Tavern Museum (425-1778) will be given by Mr.
Scalley. He will show slides and discuss ''The Irish Community in Early New
York.''

Admission is free. Those attending may bring their lunch. The tavern is at 54
Pearl Street.

A PLAY FOR THE EAR

''Snow Orchid'' is a play by Joseph Pintauro. He calls it ''a very strong,
vulgar fairy tale about a princess locked in a tower.'' It is the story of a
Sicilian woman in Brooklyn who is afraid to leave her house. The return home of
her abusive husband following a year of psychiatric treatment sets off family
hatred and resentment and forces the wife to resolve her situation.

The author contends the play is better in a reading than in full production.
''It is a listening piece, like an opera with four equally-weighted roles that
form a quartet,'' he said. Therefore, the New Directions Theater (722-1200) is
presenting a reading of the play, directed by Steve Stettler, at the Little
Church Around the Corner, 1 East 29th Street, tonight at 8 o'clock. Admission is
free; donations are accepted.

BARD OF HARLEM

The poet and writer Langston Hughes came to New York from Ohio, where he was
born. He settled in Harlem and became a major figure in Harlem's literary
movements in the 1920's. He knew the community and its residents intimately and
wrote incisively about them, their views and their dreams. One of his poems gave
Lorraine Hansberry the title for her award-winning play. In ''Lenox Avenue
Mural'' Hughes wrote: ''What happens to a dream deferred? Does it dry up like a
raisin in the sun?'' He died in 1961.

As part of the 11th Langston Hughes Festival, sponsored by the City College of
New York (690-5407), a symposium is scheduled to be held today. Roscoe Lee
Browne, the actor, will read from Hughes's writings and a panel will discuss
''The Achievements of Langston Hughes.'' Panelists are the writers Toni Cade
Bambara and James deJongh; Roy DeCaravc, the photographer who collaborated with
Hughes to produce the book ''The Sweet Flypaper of Life,'' and Hale Smith, the
composer. Hughes's biographer, Arnold Rampersad, will moderate.

The two-hour program will begin at 10 A.M. in Aaron Davis Hall on the City
College campus, on Convent Avenue at 134th Street. Admission is free and there
is free, attended parking.

Entertainment Events is on page C16. Thursday Sports is on page B12.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 14, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

SICILY'S JUDICIAL LEGACY TO NEW YORK

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 950 words


In the rocky hills of western Sicily, the little town of Santa Margherita di
Belice - St. Margaret the Blessed -is known for wine, olive oil and the poverty
of its hardscrabble farming. In New York, it is known for judges. Legal scholars
and lawyers say that for reasons bound up in both the cultural environment in
western Sicily and the immigrant experience in New York in the late 19th and
early 20th centuries, law became something of a cottage industry and a generally
shared dream among Santa Margherita's immigrants and their descendants.

The numbers that dream produced are remarkable and far out of proportion to a
place that has apparently never had more than about 7,000 souls: between 1924,
when Gasper Liota, the first Santa Margherita-descended judge in New York, was
sworn in as a city magistrate, and 1980, when Joseph J. Saladino - believed to
be the most recent - was sworn in as a district court judge in Nassau County,
Santa Margherita's immigrants and their descendants have produced at least 16
state and Federal judges, and a bumper crop of lawyers.

Descendants of the town claim among their numbers the first Italian-American to
serve on the bench in New York (Judge Liota); the first Italian-American Federal
judge (Matthew T. Abruzzo, appointed by President Franklin D. Roosevelt in
1937); the first Italian-American to run for State Attorney General (Anthony J.
DiGiovanna), and the first Italian-American graduate of St. John's University
School of Law (Judge Abruzzo), which became a traditional place of study for
Santa Margherita descendants.

An 'Emphasis on Education'

The hows and whys of this peculiar immigrant story stretch from the
turn-of-the-century streets of Bushwick section of Brooklyn to the Manhattan law
office of 25-year-old Ted J. Abruzzo, who was admitted to the New York State Bar
last month.

Mr. Abruzzo, a second-generation descendant of a Santa Margherita family, said
that none of the three judges in his family ever pressured him to enter law
school or follow in their footsteps. However, he said, they were obviously
pleased when he did, and even more so when he became the third Abruzzo to
graduate with a St. John's law degree last year.

''The story of Santa Margherita was always talked about in our family,'' said
Mr. Abruzzo, who grew up in Forest Hills, Queens, and has never been to Italy.
''But it wasn't just the attorneys. It was the whole emphasis on education.''

But he added that the stories about the judges in his family and the mystique
that surrounded them ''did have some effect on me.''

The roots of the Santa Margherita legal experience, say retired judges and
attorneys of the descendants, are to be found in Bushwick, where many Sicilian
immigrants began settling just after the Civil War. It was there that Msgr.
Ottavio Silvestri, an ambitious and politically well-connected Roman Catholic
pastor, cast his influence in the early 1900's over a group of bright, young
Italian children, who in turn would inspire others.

''My father always said that if it weren't for Monsignor Silvestri, he would
have been a mason - and he didn't mean a member of the religious group,'' said
Vito J. Titone, a Santa Margherita descendant who is a judge on the State Court
of Appeals, New York's highest court. Judge Titone's father, an 88-year-old
retired lawyer living in Florida, came to Bushwick in 1907. His generation would
produce the first big batch of Santa Margherita lawyers and judges.

Justice DiGiovanna, who served 27 years on the State Supreme Court in Brooklyn,
was a member of that group. He says he remembers vividly the day when he was 12
years old and his father, a Bushwick barber whose customers included many
lawyers, brought the young boy into the shop.

''He said, 'Anthony, you're going to be a lawyer,' '' said Justice DiGiovanna,
who is 80 and lives in Brooklyn. ''I never had any alternative. I think that
happened with many of the sons of Santa Margherita.''

Judges as Role Models

In families like that of another son of Santa Margherita, Frank A. Gulotta, who
retired as presiding justice of the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court in
1983 at age 76, the tradition has continued. All three of Mr. Gulotta's children
- two sons and a daughter - are lawyers.

''There were two people my parents always held up and said, 'Look, they came
from Santa Margherita and look where they are,' '' Judge Gulotta said. Both of
those people were judges, one of them Judge Gulotta's cousin, Paul Livoti, who
served as a city court judge in New York in the late 1920's. The other was Judge
Liota, who also served in the 1920's.

''Liota was always the star that I was taught to aim my star at,'' said Judge
Gulotta.

The veneration for law, some say, goes back much further than
turn-of-the-century Bushwick.

''It's in the Greek origins of southern Italy, the schools of rhetoric,'' said
Professor Bruno Arcudi, who teaches Italian at the State University at Buffalo,
and who has written widely on Italian-American affairs. ''There's a veneration
for the spoken word that I don't think we ever acquired in this country, a
respect for eloquence, the ability to 'convince with the rod of your tongue.' ''

Just as Bushwick has evolved and is no longer a predominantly Italian
neighborhood, so too the younger generation of Santa Margherita descendants
seems to have moved away from the tradition of service through the law.

According to Mr. Abruzzo, none of his cousins or anyone else he knows with Santa
Margherita ancestors has gone into the law. And as far as becoming a judge
himself, he says it is too early to tell.

''But I guess I'm the last shot at it for this generation,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 15, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

DEFENSE RESTS IN TRIAL ON ALIENS WITHOUT QUESTIONING ITS WITNESS

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 737 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, March 14


After Government witnesses testified for three months about the smuggling of
Central Americans into the United States, defense attorneys for 11 church
workers rested their case today without questioning a single defense witness.

The first scheduled defense witness, an immigration investigator who directed a
nine-month undercover inquiry into the movement to provide sanctuary to Central
American refugees, was about to take the oath when the defense lawyers rose one
by one and told Federal District Judge Earl H. Carroll that they were resting
their case. The judge dismissed the jury until next week.

The defendants, who include two Roman Catholic priests, a nun, a Presbyterian
minister and church layworkers, are charged with conspiracy to smuggle Central
Americans into the United States. The church workers contend that religious and
humanitarian motives compel them to provide sanctuary to refugees fleeing
persecution.

Defense attorneys said after the court session today that they had decided
against calling witnesses because of what they termed serious flaws in the
Government's case. They cited repeated contradictions in the testimony of the
prosecution's main witness, Jesus Cruz, who infiltrated churches in the Federal
undercover investigation.

Witnesses Seen as Helpful

In addition, defense lawyers said 14 Central Americans called to testify for the
Government instead did more to help the church workers.

A defense lawyer, Michael Piccarreta, said after the session today, ''When
you're ahead 27 to nothing, why bother playing the fourth quarter?''

Several of the witnesses, while in some cases corroborating specific smuggling
charges, testified that the church workers acted out of humanitarian motives.

At a news conference, James Corbett, one of the defendants said, ''It's quite
appropriate that we not spend vast sums of money to try to prove a case that
we've already proved. The prosecution has really proved our case for us.''

The trial, which began Oct. 22, was expected to last only six weeks but has been
extended far beyond that by numerous legal skirmishes.

Defense attorneys, arguing that their clients were singled out for prosecution
because of their outspoken views on United States policy in Central America,
have called repeatedly for a dismissal of the indictment against them. On three
occasions, they accused Judge Carroll of bias and asked him to step down. The
motions in each case were denied.

This week Judge Carroll dropped 12 charges against the church workers, reducing
the total number of counts to 32.

Restrictions on Testimony

In resting their case without questioning a single defense witness, defense
attorneys also cited rulings by Judge Carroll that bar testimony on religious
motivation, conditions in Central America or United States policy in the region.
He has allowed limited testimony on those issues, however.

Referring to the restrictions, Ellen Yaroshefsky, a defense lawyer, said today,
''It would have been impossible for the defendants to raise their hands and
swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, because the truth is not allowed in
this trial.''

This afternoon, Judge Carroll ordered the release of three church workers and a
Salvadoran woman cited for contempt and placed under house arrest four weeks ago
for refusing to testify against their ''brothers and sisters in the sanctuary
movement.'' This morning Judge Carroll had taken a request under consideration
that he release them now that no other testimony will be given in the case.

Closing statements in the trial are expected to begin next week. A verdict could
come by the end of the month.

Donald M. Reno, the Federal prosecutor, said in an interview that he was
''somewhat disappointed'' by the defense's decision not to call any witnesses.

''I was certainly well-prepared, and I was looking forward to the defense
putting on a case,'' he said.

At the news conference after the close of the defense's case, the church workers
expressed anger that the government had prosecuted them for what they described
as the ministry of the church.

''But it's very clear that President Ronald Reagan, the Administration, will not
stop sanctuary ministry until they stop the bombing in El Salvador, until we
stop paying for, promoting and sponsoring the death of innocent men, women and
children in Central America,'' said Peggy Hutchison, one of the defendants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 23, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

NEW JERSEY OPINION;
HUMANITARIAN ACTS CAN HAVE UNFORESEEN RESULTS

BYLINE: By DAVID LESTER; David Lester is a professor of psychology at Stockton
State College, Pomona.

SECTION: Section 11NJ; Page 26, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 562 words


WE OFTEN act in ways that we think are humane yet that turn out later to have
consequences that cause suffering.

This happens in our personal lives but, more importantly, in social policies,
too. ''More importantly'' because social policies can affect the lives of
thousands, even millions.

Let me present some examples from very different areas:

IMMIGRATION When refugees flee from countries such as Haiti or Cuba, it seems
humane to accept these immigrants. How could we do otherwise?

Yet the consequences of accepting, even encouraging, immigrants from such
countries means that the government of the country gets rid of its dissidents.
Most of those who might overthrow an oppressive regime are now in some
less-oppressive country, becoming citizens of a new homeland.

FAMINE

People in various nations have experienced famine again and again. When a new
country receives attention from the press, there is a flood of help.

And then the focus passes. We are concerned about Ethiopia, but we have
forgotten Uganda.

What does the food do? It prolongs the survival of people for a month, or a year
or more.

What quality does their life have? Probably incredible suffering, near
starvation, unemployment, hopelessness.

Typically, little is done to help the country increase its food production or to
encourage birth control, steps that might alleviate the problem in the future.

PSYCHIATRIC EXCUSES

Dr. Seymour Halleck, a psychologist and the author of ''The Politics of
Therapy,'' has repeatedly shown how giving people psychiatric excuses for
special consideration prevents reform.

For example, the fact that the rich and the educated could find doctors to
provide psychiatric reasons for a legal abortion meant that these people had no
need to press for reforms. But the rich and the educated were the very people
who could press for and achieve reforms.

Dr. Halleck makes the same point about providing psychiatric excuses to avoid
military service, and he has given an example from his work at a university:

To get out of a dormitory contract, a student needed a psychiatric reason. Dr.
Halleck regularly provided such excuses until he saw that, by letting the
dissatisfied leave the dormitories, he was preventing reform.

He stopped granting psychiatric excuses. Within a year, a tenant group had
pressed for and obtained important changes in living conditions.

STREET PEOPLE

Mental hospitals are not the best places for people to live in. Being in an
institution leads to mental deterioration and various kinds of pathlogical
behavior (similar, in fact, to that seen in caged animals in a zoo).

It seemed humane to release people from such institutions, but what was the
result?

A major result was that these former patients were physically and
psychologically abused by the owners of the halfway houses in which they stayed;
they preferred to wander the streets alone.

Now we have thousands of street people huddled over hot-air vents in the winter.
Is this better?

Many other analagous examples could be given. What often seems to be a quick,
humane solution to a problem can lead to greater suffering in the future -
consequences that we failed to anticipate.

We are humane. But often in being so, we cause suffering. And too often we have
moved on to a new humane project so that we do not see the suffering we have
caused.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Cuban refugees aboard a freighter heading towards Key West

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 29, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

REPORT FINDS IMMIGRATION SERVICE VIOLATED RULES

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 630 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 28


The Immigration and Naturalization Service violated Federal regulations and
wasted taxpayers' money in awarding a $61.3 million computer contract to the
International Business Machines Corporation, according to a Congressional report
made public today.

The General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress, said in the
report that the contract was manipulated by officials in the immigration
service. Violations included a late-night meeting between officials of the
immigration service and I.B.M., held after the company and a competing concern
submitted their ''best and final offers,'' the Congressional agency said.

The report said that in the meeting, 12 days before the contract was awarded in
May 1984, I.B.M.'s ''final'' offer was reduced by $3.3 million. That made it
$2,713 lower than the comparable offer from the competing concern, Electronic
Data Systems, according to the report.

'No Funny Late-Night Meeting'

A spokesman for immigration service, Verne Jervis, said there would no comment
from the agency.

Jim Harroun, an I.B.M. spokesman, said, ''There was no funny late-night meeting.
We did not knock down our bid. We were asked to come in and clarify the bid and
we did that. The meeting was open and above board.''

The contract was for computer equipment and instructions for the field offices
of the immigration service.

The report, prepared for the chairman of the House Government Operations
Committee, Representative Jack Brooks, Democrat of Texas, said the immigration
service acted improperly when it did the following:

* Evaluated I.B.M.'s offer of a decentralized system favorably and effectively
downgraded the proposal of Electronic Data Systems for a centralized system,
even though the immigration service told each bidder that a centralized system
was required.

* Evaluated the equipment price offers on the basis of a lease with the option
to buy. However, the contract was awarded to I.B.M. on an installment purchase
basis, against which Electronic Data's comparable offer was at least $1.8
million lower than I.B.M.'s, even after the changes made after the late-night
meeting.

* Accepted, nine days after the contract was awarded, I.B.M.'s proposed changes
on the size and configuration of the system. The changes increased the
immigration service's computing capacity fourfold and also increased the costs.

''The total contract price now exceeds an estimated $100 million,'' the
accounting office said.

However, the report asserted that the immigration service maintained that its
current costs for computer equipment were comparable to those it would have
incurred under the original I.B.M. contract. The immigration service said the
costs were fair and reasonable.

According to the report, the late-night meeting resulted in a protest and
litigation by Electronic Data. The report said the immigration service
negotiated an out-of-court settlement under which Electronic Data would install
I.B.M.'s equipment at the same cost to the immigration service, and under the
same terms and conditions stated in the I.B.M. contract.

''These terms have since been changed and the cost of I.N.S.'s hardware contract
has increased substantially,'' the researchers reported. The changes, made in
January 1985, allowed Electronic Data to add a fee to the base prices in the
contract to cover the concern's general and administrative expenses and a
profit. The report said the result had been that ''the prices I.N.S. paid have
exceeded both published I.B.M. list prices and I.B.M.'s originally awarded
prices by between 9 and 25 percent.''

The General Accounting Office said the contract should be canceled. The Justice
Department announced last December that only the final phases of the contract
would be canceled.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 31, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

NICARGUAN FIGHTS OUSTER BY U.S., CITING MILITARY DRAFT IN HOMELAND

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 372 words

DATELINE: By BEN A. FRANKLIN WASHINGTON, March 30


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has issued an order for the
deportation Monday of a 28-year-old citizen of Nicaragua who says that at home
he will be drafted into the army of the Sandinista Government, which President
Reagan has called a brutal Communist aggressor.

The Nicaraguan, Marcos Perez-Roblero, who says he opposes the Sandinista
Government, came to the United States in 1979 to visit his mother, according to
David Carliner, a lawyer representing him in efforts to delay the deportation.
Mr. Perez's mother has permanent resident status here.

Mr. Carliner said that Mr. Perez, in violation of his status as a visitor, which
prohibits temporary immigrants from holding jobs, had been working as a parking
lot attendant, and had also overstayed his original six-month visa.

Mr. Carliner said Mr. Perez's difficulties began when he wrote to the
immigration service office here last fall to apply for admission as a permanent
resident. His mother's resident status would give him preference for admission.

Return to Nicaragua

Under immigration service rules Mr. Perez was required either to leave the
United States and make his application at an American consulate in his own
country or to obtain an exemption that would permit him to make an application
for readmission in Mexico.

Mr. Carliner said that immigration officials had declined to grant his client
the exemption and that if Mr. Perez returned to Nicaragua immigration service
rules would require him, as an alien deported by the United States, to wait five
years before applying.

Officials of the immigration service familiar with Mr. Perez's case could not be
reached today. But Vernon Jarvis, a spokesman for the service, said, ''I am sure
no one is deported without having a hearing before an immigration judge and
exhausting his appeals.''

Mr. Carliner filed a motion Thursday for an emergency stay of deportation with
Joan Arrowsmith, a judge in the Office of Immigration Review. Mr. Perez said
that if the motion was not granted before he was put aboard an airplane for
Nicaragua Monday he would be ''drafted to fight against the interests of the
United States on behalf of a Government which the United States views as
hostile.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              255 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 5, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

DEFENSE LAWYER IN TRIAL ON ALIENS ASSAILED FOR RELIGIOUS ARGUMENTS

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 605 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., April 4


A Federal district judge reacted sharply today to closing statements by a
defense lawyer in the trial of 11 church workers accused of smuggling Central
Americans into the United States.

In beginning the arguments for the defense Thursday, the lawyer, Robert J.
Hirsh, accused the Government of ''trying to sinisterize, trying to make
criminal'' the actions of the workers.

Mr. Hirsh, in a flamboyant style that sharply contrasted the sober arguments of
the Federal prosecutor, Donald M. Reno, drew an analogy comparing the
Immigration Naturalization Service to Hitler's Gestapo. He also said there was
something ''wicked'' about how the Government paid expenses to its main witness.

The judge, Earl H. Carroll, charged today that Mr. Hirsh was ignoring his orders
against bringing the issue of religion before the jury. The defendants contend
they gave sanctuary to refugees because of religious motives.

'A Spirited Effort'

''I perceive a spirited effort by Mr. Hirsh to get before the jury in this case,
jury nullification,'' Judge Carroll said before the jury was seated today.

''Some of the matters approach and go beyond the scope of what I consider
reasonable and appropriate,'' he said.

In response to Judge Carroll's reprimand for his reference to the Gestapo, Mr.
Hirsh said, ''I think it's ludicrous that I have to get up and defend that.''
Mr. Hirsh noted that in opening statements by Mr. Reno in November, one of his
clients, the Rev. John Fife, was ''characterized as a 'general' in a criminal
conspiracy.''

Mr. Reno, who concluded his closing arguments Thursday, referred to the ''alien
smuggling conspiracy'' as ''an evil'' and a ''threat against society.'' He urged
the jurors to disregard any religious motivation the defendants might have had.
On several occasions, he cited Government testimony that the defendants urged
Central Americans to say they were Mexican citizens to avoid deportation if
caught by the authorities.

Avoided 'Horrors'

Mr. Hirsh argued before the jury Thursday that by claiming Mexican citizenship,
the Central Americans had avoided deportation and the consequent ''horrors'' in
their homeland. Telling immigration officials they were Mexican, he argued, was
similar to a Jew in Nazi Germany ''telling the Gestapo you're Catholic.''

Calling the comments ''a tyranny of misstatements,'' Mr. Reno today accused Mr.
Hirsh of testing the court and urged Judge Carroll to ''put a rein on Mr. Hirsh
and set some specific guidelines before this gets out of control.''

He also accused Mr. Hirsh of trying to prejudice the jury by introducing
defenses that have been ruled out by Judge Carroll, including references to
religious or humanitarian motives, conditions in El Salvador and Guatemala, and
Federal policy in the region.

Judge Carroll today accused defense lawyers of creating a plan to sabotage the
case by suggesting that he was biased. The lawyers have asked Judge Carroll on
at least three occasions to disqualify himself, twice for bias.

'Perverse' and 'Wicked'

Mr. Hirsh, who gripped the lectern and waved a stack of immigration payment
vouchers, attacked the credibility of the Government's main witness, an
undercover informer, Jesus Cruz, who spent nine months infiltrating churches and
Bible study meetings to gather evidence for the indictment.

''There's something terribly perverse and wicked about the way Mr. Cruz was
taken care of by the Government,'' said Mr. Hirsh, referring to the amount of
money paid to Mr. Cruz for ''expenses'' in the investigation. The payments, he
said, were based on the number of people Mr. Cruz could turn in.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              256 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 17, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Quotation of the Day

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 58 words


''I would personally - not just as a Government official, but personally - have
trouble sending people from a Communist country back to that country. Morally
and ethically it would be wrong to send people back to Nicaragua when we are at
great odds with that Government.'' - Perry Rivkind of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. [A1:1.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              257 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 17, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

A Monument to Immigration Takes Form in New York Harbor

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 559 words


To the Editor:

Recent articles on Ellis Island fail to convey the essential point, that a $100
million immigration museum, in one of the largest historic structures in the
National Park System, programmed and designed by preservation architects and
exhibition designers and paid by donation, is under construction and will open
in a few years.

Ellis Island is the only National Park site dedicated to the common man, the
steerage-class immigrant. The visitor will retrace the immigrant route from the
boat to the great hall, in the footsteps of the 16 million who went that way. In
the processing rooms the visitor will learn of the legal inquiries or the
medical exams our forefathers so feared. Stopping at either of the two theaters
in the main building, the visitor will be able to view an inquiry into
immigration by an Academy Award film maker. Two floors of museum will tell the
fuller story of life in the homeland and the passage to America. The
railroad-ticket office will introduce a ''Peopling of America'' theme.

Exhibits will examine the Ellis Island era in the context of our immigration
history. The exhibits will also begin to explore what mass migration has meant
for American society and culture. This building will also house a restaurant, a
school-group area, facilities for ethnic events, curatorial and library areas,
reading rooms, an oral-history television studio, office space and, of course,
the great registry room, with its 60-foot ceiling.

The next three building on the north side of the island will expand the
''Peopling of America'' theme. This will require all the projected millions
being raised by the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation Inc. We expect
over 1.5 million visits a year to this largest immigration museum in the world.

The south portion of the island, the hospital complex, containing 27 additional
buildings, is more problematic. Several plans are being reviewed by the Statue
of Liberty-Ellis Island Centennial Commission appointed by Secretary of the
Interior Don Hodel. Our goal is to save these structures. Combined with the
immigration museum, these buildings, unfortunately, exceed what museum guests
could visit. With the main building, a handsome, architecturally ornate campus
would be formed - without a use.

Further, we have neither the funds to rehabilitate the south portion (as much as
$70 million) nor the millions to heat and operate it. Therefore the Park Service
proposed to lease the buildings on the south side. An international conference
center is among the proposals under consideration. The commission will review
and evaluate it and other potential uses for this part of the island.

An international conference facility, if done tastefully, as we would demand,
could be compatible with the site's program and resources, a living monument to
the study of immigration and a logical recycling for an old hospital.

Commercialization at Ellis Island is unacceptable. The National Park Service
will not support any proposal that cheapens the spirit or unduly compromises the
preservation of the island's structures, or of any other historic structure. We
have always been in the forefront of the battle to save our historic legacy, and
we will stay there. MICHAEL ADLERSTEIN Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Project
Manager, Natl. Park Service New York, April 9, 1986

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              258 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 18, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

ARIZONA JURY DELIBERATING ISSUE OF CHURCH SANCTUARY

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 866 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., April 17


The case of 11 church workers accused of smuggling Central Americans into the
United States went to the jury today, almost six months after the start of
proceedings that have been as rancorous, emotional and complex as the
immigration issue itself.

At its close, the trial revolved around the same fundamental disagreement in
which it began. The prosecution said it was a simple smuggling case and nothing
more. The defense said the church workers had acted on religious and
humanitarian grounds and in keeping with Unites States law, which grants safe
haven to those with a ''well-founded fear of persecution.''

In his instructions to the jurors today, Federal District Judge Earl H. Carroll
said they should consider the case on issues of immigration and conspiracy law.
He said the moral issues raised by the church workers had no legal bearing on
the case and the belief that an alien was a ''refugee'' and thus entitled to
enter the country without being processed by immigration officials was ''a
mistake of law.''

''Good motive is not a defense to intentional acts of crime,'' he told jurors
before they began deliberating at 11 A.M.

Instructions to Jury

He also told jurors it was not necessary for the prosecution to prove that the
church workers had personally helped smuggle aliens. He said the existence of a
conspiracy to do so was one of the criminal acts for which the defendants were
being tried.

''The crime is the agreement to do something unlawful,'' the judge said. ''It
does not matter whether it was successful or not.''

The 11 church workers, including two Roman Catholic priests, a nun and a
Protestant minister, are being tried on 30 different counts alleging violations
of immigration law.

All are charged with being part of a smuggling conspiracy. Conviction could
bring a five-year jail term and $10,000 fine.

Other counts involve various charges that the church workers encouraged aliens
to come here illegally, helped them do so, and then concealed, harbored and
shielded them once they arrived here.

The original indictment included 71 counts, but the rest were dropped in the
course of the trial.

Only two of the remaining counts involve bringing illegal aliens into the
country. Defense attorneys say that indicates the prosecution's contention of
battling ''an alien smuggling conspiracy of major dimensions'' has not panned
out.

''Gone is the thunder from the government's case,'' James Brosnahan, one of the
11 defense attorneys said in his final arguments to the jury.

Jurors Retire for Day

The jury, which has not been sequestered, retired this afternoon without
reaching a verdict. It will resume deliberations Friday morning. If no verdict
is reached by the end of the day, it will resume deliberations next Tuesday.

Along with the relatively technical issues of immigration law, a major factor in
the case has been the credibility of the prosecution's main witness, a
Government informer, Jesus Cruz.

Defense attorneys have cited contradictions in his testimony and said he was the
instigator of many of the illegal acts for which the church workers have been
charged.

In his instructions to the jury, Judge Carroll said jurors should consider Mr.
Cruz's testimony in light of the fact that was paid by the Government. And he
told jurors that if a witness was shown to have knowingly testified falsely, as
the defense contends Mr. Cruz did, they ''have a right to distrust such witness'
testimony in other particulars.''

Still, the backdrop to the trial, and the source of the incessant friction
within the courtroom, was the questions that the judge ruled immaterial to the
case.

The prosecutor, Donald M. Reno, insisted throughout the trial that it was an
ordinary smuggling case. In his closing arguments, Mr. Reno presented the jury
with detailed charts illustrating the charges against the defendants.

On many of the charts he pointed to neatly drawn cars, churches and stick
figures, black for the defendants and green for the aliens, as if to underscore
the technical, impersonal thrust of the state's case.

Clash in Summations

''The drafters of the Constitution and this court and the law of this land do
not permit people to commit criminal acts and then say it was a religious
example,'' he said.

Defense attorneys tried to use Mr. Reno's approach against him. Pointing to the
green aliens on Mr. Reno's chart, a defense attorney, Ellen Yaroshefsky, said,
''These are not people from another planet, but human beings fleeing
persecution.'' She compared the sanctuary movement, which has grown to include
more than 300 churches and synagogues offering protection to Central American
refugees, with the civil rights movement of the 1960's.

Judge Carroll ruled repeatedly throughout the trial that testimony about
conditions in Central America, the defendants' religious views or American
immigration policy would not be allowed in the case.

As the case developed, he did allow some testimony, but his rulings brought on
repeated clashes with defense attorneys. There were also frequent clashes
between defense attorneys and Mr. Reno in a trial that seemed to grow
increasingly discordant as it developed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              259 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 20, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

STATUS OF IMMIGRANTS FROM INDIA IS DEBATED

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 37, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 628 words


Scholars and community leaders met for three days last week to exchange views,
sometimes impassioned, about immigrants from India, one of this country's newest
and least-examined minority groups.

In a conference at the Asia Society in Manhattan entitled ''The Indian Immigrant
Experience,'' immigrants from India were described as generally affluent and
highly educated professionals who are clinging to their own identities as they
seek a more active role in American life.

But some speakers said the rapidly growing community of Asian Indians, many of
them concentrated in the New York metropolitan area, was also encountering
strains of division, cultural contradictions and what they perceive as job
discrimination.

''If you look at the world with two eyes, you see more; it is possible to live
in two worlds,'' said E. C. G. Sudarshan, a physicist, in the opening address of
the conference, which was held in conjunction with the 1985-86 India Festival.
#526,000 Asian Indians The Asia Society was founded 30 years ago by John D.
Rockefeller 3d to educate Americans about Asian life and culture.

Peter C. Smith, research associate at the East-West Population Institute in
Hawaii, said there are 525,600 Asian Indians in this country, according to
estimates based on the 1980 census, which recognized this ethnic group for the
first time. One-quarter of the total is found in the New York area, he said,
with other major groups in the Washington area, Illinois, Texas and California.

Most immigrants from India arrived here after 1970, he said, are concentrated in
the middle-age level, have four years or more of college and are mostly in
professional and managerial positions. Their median family income in 1980,
according to the census estimate, was $25,000. The median for white Americans
was $20,800.

A different picture of the most recent Indian immigrants was given by Johanna
Lessinger, research associate at the Southern Asian Institute of Columbia
Univeristy. She said that where the earlier wave of doctors, engineers and
businessmen achieved high incomes, newcomers were having difficulty because of a
shrinking job market.

''An increasing number of new arrivals are facing loss of status, personal
anguish, downward mobility,'' Miss Lessinger said. She spoke of highly educated
Indians working in subway newsstands or as cooks, waiters, taxi drivers and shop
attendants, often for Indian employers.

Job Discrimination Cited

Paratma Saran, a leading authority on Asian Indians in the United States, stated
that the earlier immigrants were also facing ''real problems in professional
mobility'' and complained of employment discrimination. As a result, he said,
some professionals preferred to start their own businesses.

Until recently, according to Amrita Basu, assistant professor of political
science at Amherst College, the generally prosperous and successful Indian
community was politically inactive. But she said that obstacles to professional
advancement that Indians widely perceived to result from discrimination were
leading associations of Indian-Americans into greater political activity.

There was considerable debate over the role Indian immigrants in America should
play in regard to their homeland. Nearly 75 percent of the immigrants retain
Indian citizenship and say they plan to return to India.

But Maharajakrishna Rasgotra, a former Foreign Secretary of India, accused the
immigrants of viewing India ''with an air of unreality.''

''We have heard nothing about India's problems of poverty; I want you to focus
on that,'' Mr. Rasgotra stressed.

''There is a role of a bridge,'' he added, ''because you are in touch with both
worlds, and there is great misunderstanding about India in the United States.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              260 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 23, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

WATCH ON LIBYANS STEPPED UP IN U.S.

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 533 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 22


The Reagan Administration is tightening surveillance of Libyans living in the
United States, Federal officials said today.

The officials said the step was taken after the Administration decided against a
proposal to deport the Libyans, who are thought to number 3,500.

''We have considered whether to send them home and have decided not to,'' Deputy
Secretary of State John C. Whitehead said at a hearing of the House Foreign
Affairs Committee.

He said the Administration had decided not to force the Libyans out because
''there will be a Libya after Qaddafi,'' a reference to Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi,
the Libyan leader. In a post-Qaddafi Libya, he said, the United States might be
aided by Libyans who have been exposed to American ways.

Rumors Are Checked Out

In recent days, law enforcement officials said, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation has contacted its sources among the Libyans here, seeking
information on rumors that Libyan groups might be planning terrorist operations
against Americans.

Immigration agents have been reminded to watch closely for Libyans trying to
enter the United States using non-Libyan passports. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service said it had asked the Canadian Government to stay alert
to the activities of Libyans in Canada.

Law enforcement authorities said that they had no direct information that
Libyans were planning terrorist operations in the United States, but that the
United States bombing raids on Libya last week had raised concerns about
security.

''It's not red alert time, but there is acute sensitivity to anything that would
suggest terrorism,'' an F.B.I. official said. He said the bureau would be using
''all techniques available'' to monitor Libyans in the United States and ''that
certainly would include electronic surveillance.''

Libyans in the United States have been under careful surveillance for several
years. The surveillance grew stricter after Colonel Qaddafi's threats last
January to place ''suicide'' teams in the United States if American forces
attacked Libya.

Secondary Inspection Status

Several months ago, the immigration service placed Libyans in so-called
secondary inspection status, which requires them to undergo a stringent
interview and search when entering the United States.

''It means that they are taken out of line at the airport and taken to another
area where they are inspected more closely,'' said Verne Jervis, an immigration
service spokesman. ''There is questioning about where they have been and where
they are going.'' He said that their baggage is also more closely searched.

Travelers holding passports from Iran, Jordan, Lebanon, Yemen and Tunisia are
also required to undergo the stringent questioning. ''We have found Libyans
holding passports from those countries,'' Mr. Jervis said.

According to Federal estimates, nearly 1,700 of the Libyans living in the United
States are students. Most of the rest are here on business or tourist visas.

Law enforcement officials say they have been particularly concerned about the
activities of the students; two were convicted last year on charges of
attempting to buy automatic weapons from an undercover F.B.I. agent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of Nezar Nawaf Mansour Hindawl, and police bomb squad members
disposing of suspected briefcase bomb (AP; Agence France-Presse)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              261 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 29, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

MEESE DOUBTS AN EARLY DECISION ON BARRING WALDHEIM FROM U.S.

BYLINE: By LESLIE MAITLAND WERNER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 443 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 28


Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d indicated today that a decision on whether to
bar former United Nations Secretary General Kurt Waldheim from the United States
as a result of his wartime activities was unlikely to come before Sunday's
presidential election in Austria, where Mr. Waldheim is a candidate.

The matter ''has not even started up the decision-making levels of the
department,'' Mr. Meese told reporters when asked about an inquiry into charges
that Mr. Waldheim might have taken part in war crimes as an German Army officer.

Neal Sher, director of the Justice Department's Office of Special
Investigations, has recommended that Mr. Waldheim's name be placed on an
Immigration and Naturalization Service list of people to be excluded from entry
because of association with World War II war crimes. Mr. Waldheim has denied
involvement in war crimes.

A spokesman for the department said that the recommendation of the Office of
Special Investigations, which is responsible for tracking down and deporting
Nazi war criminals, is ''routinely accepted as the position of the department.''

''But Waldheim is not a routine case,'' the spokesman said. ''How many suspected
former Nazis are running for president of a country and are former Secretaries
General?''

In a news conference, Mr. Meese also said that he would be meeting soon with
immigration officials to determine whether it was ''necessary or desirable'' to
reduce the numbers of Libyans in the United States. There are believed to be
about 3,500 Libyans in the United States, 1,700 of them students.

Mr. Meese noted that the countries of the European Community had decided to
reduce the size of Libyan embassies. In meeting with Western European law
enforcement ministers in The Hague last week, he said, he indicated that the
United States would soon look at the issue as well.

Plans to expel some Libyan nationals, including diplomats and students, have
been announced by Britain, West Germany, Denmark, Luxembourg, Belgium, France,
Spain and the Netherlands.

Mr. Meese said, ''I have no reason to believe there is any more problem with
Libyan students in our country than any other group.'' But he said a decision on
taking action would be made in a couple of weeks.

Mr. Meese, when asked about a new book by David Stockman, the former budget
director, who portrayed the President as failing to understand economic issues
in any depth and as having been ill-served by his advisers from California,
said:

''It is pretty unprofessional to serve a person for a period of time and then
write a book that has a lot of negative characterizations and a lot of revisions
of history.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              262 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 2, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

PROSECUTION OF LAWYER HALTED

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 462 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 30


A Federal district judge in North Carolina dismissed criminal charges Wednesday
against a prominent immigrationlawyer who was accused of mail fraud and making
false statements to the Government on behalf of a British businessman seeking an
American visa.

The judge, David B. Sentelle of Asheville, dismissed the charges against Dale M.
Schwartz, who is president-elect of the American Immigration Lawyers'
Association.

The United States Attorney in Asheville, Charles R. Brewer, asked that the
charges be dismissed. He said that the general counsel to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service believed the statements in question would not support the
prosecution of Mr. Schwartz and had not had a ''material'' influence on the
Government's decision to issue a visa to the British businessman.

Efforts for British Businessman

Federal officials said last October that they were investigating ''a substantial
number'' of lawyers who specialized in immigration as part of a wide inquiry
into fraudulent schemes to obtain visas, work permits and other documents for
aliens. Officials of the Immigration Service declined to give the specific
number of cases under investigation other than to say there were ''several
dozen.''

Mr. Schwartz, an Atlanta lawyer, was indicted last September by a Federal grand
jury on eight counts of mail fraud and false statements on behalf of the British
businessman, who came to the United States in 1980 to work for an American
aerospace concern. Mr. Schwartz pleaded not guilty in October.

In the last five years he has become prominent by representing Cubans who
resisted deportation. As a result of his efforts, more than 3,000 Cubans have
been released from the Federal penitentiary in Atlanta.

'No Criminal Offense'

Sam Bernsen, a former general counsel to the Immigration Service, testified
''there would be no criminal offense'' even if the facts of the case were as
described by the Government in the indictment of Mr. Schwartz. The Government
asserted that the British businessman intended to live here permanently even
though he was seeking a temporary visa.

''Under the law,'' Mr. Bernsen said in an interview, ''an alien can have the
dual intent of coming to the United States temporarily and permanently so long
as he is willing to comply with provisions of the law relating to temporary
workers.''

Reached at his home in Atlanta Wednesday night, Mr. Schwartz said: ''I feel
elated. The system of justice has worked. All over the country, immigration
lawyers have been suffering at the hands of renegade Government investigators in
a bureaucracy run amok. We in the American Immigration Lawyers' Association have
urged Federal officials in Washington to use their powers to stop these
investigations.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              263 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 4, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

SPEAKING PERSONALLY;
REMEMBER, YAAR, IT IS WE WHO FEEL SORRY FOR YOU

BYLINE: By VINAYA SAIJWANI; Vinaya Saijwani lives in West Windsor.

SECTION: Section 11NJ; Page 35, Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 703 words


AMONG the least understood (misunderstood?) of Asian immigrants is the Indian.

Indians come here in a variety of hues and accents, from the turbaned Sikh of
the Punjab with a ''yaar'' (friend) that punctuates every sentence, to the dark,
wiry statisticians from the south, and from the Shah and Patel merchants of the
west coast to the cultured Bengali professors of the east.

West Indians unite and Filipinos unite, but Indians translate their regional and
religious differences into separate groups and associations: the Hindu Temple
Society of North America, the Durga Puja Society, assorted Moslem federations
and so on.

This divisiveness is unique to us. In India, it exists side by side with a
strange nationalism, which becomes most fervent when Pakistan or China threatens
our borders.

In the United States, this nationalism is more of a defense against ''them'' -
the ''foreigners'' (the white Americans); we get on fine with other groups in
the American racial hierarchy.

The primary reason the Indian emigrates here is to make a lot of money. Of
course, almost every Indian plans to return to the familiar warmth of his
homeland. Living among foreigners here makes this a hardship post.

However, few Indians ever return home because they establish a curious set of
roots in the States. Curious because the Indian will never really admit that he
will live out his life here. Curious because he cannot accept this as home or
Americans as his people.

The Indian cannot understand the foreigner. Why is the American so cool in his
friendships?

Meet a fellow Indian on the New York-Edison train or bus (Indians favor this
Middlesex County town, but I don't know why) and within 30 minutes you will be
invited to his home for dinner. You will also learn his entire personal history
(including that of his wife, his parents, grandparents, children, etc.) He will
also know everything about you (your wife, parents, etc.) That is the Indian
idea of friendship. To understand is to love.

Why, then, are these foreigners so reserved? Why are they not spontaneous and
direct? Why don't they invite us into their homes? Above all, why don't they
gossip?

In the office, the Indian puts up a brave front. Somehow, these foreigners
cannot understand our accents. Why do they constantly and infuriatingly pretend
astonishment when we speak in English - especially when we pay more attention to
the rules of English grammar than they do.

What language do they think is spoken in Indian offices, anyway? On what
language did our great poet, Tagore, imprint his immortal ''Gitanjali''?

There is also a constant sense of frustration in knowing that the silent color
barrier that divides America will generally favor the white employee over the
colored one. This color complex is hard to accept.

Our school history books constantly remind us that we are descendants of the
Aryans who emigrated from Central Asia 2,000 years ago. How we became brown
along the way has never been satisfactorily explained by our historians.

In India, shades of brown matter. The lighter-skinned your daughter, the easier
it will be to get her married. Imagine, then, the agony on coming here to find
ourselves on the wrong side of the Great Divide.

Confused and frustrated at the inability to enter the office old-boy network,
the Indians form their own cliques (in unity lies strength). The strength to
face the ravages wrought on our fragile egos by the white sahibs.

The ultimate calamity of life among the heathens would be if our children
married among them. Every Indian mother shudders at the thought. Any daring soul
who ventures into such a relationship becomes the focus of delicious gossip.

To prevent such a betrayal, cultural brainwashing begins early. Our children are
constantly reminded of the stability (superiority) of our marriages and the
tradition of respect for elders. These shining beacons guide the unwary
adolescent through the sea of blase moral attitudes that surround us.

And so my fellow (?) Americans, the next time you see one of us walking down the
street, clothed in our colorful garb and in our even more-colorful accents,
remember not to feel sorry for us.

It is we who feel sorry for you.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              264 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 18, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THAILAND CLOSES LONG-USED REFUGEE CAMPS

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 22, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 681 words

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Thailand, May 17


The Thai Government has closed three refugee camps housing Vietnamese and
Laotian exiles, among them the Songkhla reception center on the Gulf of Siam,
where arriving Vietnamese ''boat people'' have been sheltered for more than a
decade.

Another camp for Vietnamese at Sikhiu in Northeastern Thailand is also being
closed, along with a camp for Laotians at Ubon, also in the northeast.

At the same time, however, American immigration officials have begun accepting
thousands of Laotians for resettlement in the United States, after a Thai
decision late last year to make the Laotians available for interviews, according
to refugee officials.

This year, Laotians - both ''lowland'' Lao from Vientiane and the Mekong River
valley and tribe people from the Laotian highlands - are expected to dominate
the 23,000 places set aside for immigration by ethnic Indochinese. Nearly 90,000
Laotian exiles are now in Thai camps, and more arrive each month.

Interviewed by Officials

Under an agreement between Bangkok and Vientiane that went into effect last
July, Laotians arriving in Thailand - many by swimming or taking boats or rafts
across the Mekong - are interviewed by local officials at their point of
arrival.

Those determined not to be refugees are held in police stations awaiting
repatriation to Laos. But Laos has so far refused to take any of the exiles
back, despite the accord. More than a thousand of them are now living in one
police compound alone at the Thai river town of Nakhon Phanom.

As camps around Thailand close, Vietnamese refugees will be moved to a
resettlement reprocessing center in eastern Thailand, officials say. Future
Vietnamese arrivals will therefore go straight to the center, at Phanat Nikhom,
theoretically making their movement to a third country much more certain and
quicker.

Some refugee workers are concerned that when this news reaches Vietnam, as all
news about refugee matters quickly does, more people may again risk the
pirate-infested Gulf of Siam. Recently, many Vietnamese boat people had been
heading away from Thai waters toward Malaysia, Indonesia or the sea lanes
leading to Singapore, where pirate attacks are rare and resettlement is faster.

Camp a Safety Hazard

Most exiles from Laos will be grouped with other Laotians at the large camp at
Na Pho near the Mekong River, or will be returned voluntarily to Laos, officials
say. The Na Pho camp, built for about 15,000 refugees, now houses more than
32,000 and has long been considered a safety hazard. In late February, a fire at
the enclosure destroyed the homes of 7,000 people, camp workers say.

The move to reduce by three the 11 refugee camps in Thailand - the country of
first refuge for about a million and a half Indochinese refugees since Communist
governments came to power in 1975 in Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos - is seen by
Thai and international refugee officials as an attempt to constrict and finally
phase out the long-running refugee program here.

Officials in Thailand, which still provides shelter to more than 125,000
refugees and about 240,000 displaced Cambodians camped along the Thai-Cambodian
border, say they are concerned that the flow of resettlement to Western and
other nations has been reduced.

Many refugees remaining in Thailand have been rejected by most if not all
resettlement countries, and Thailand does not want them to become a permanent
burden on a tightening local economy. Thailand is suffering the results of
falling commodity prices, and many farmers who live in the areas where the
refugees are temporarily housed are complaining of food and other supplies going
to the camps.

Questions are again being raised about the future of Thailand's best-known
refugee center, Khao I Dang, several miles from the Cambodian border in eastern
Thailand. Thai officials indicate that this center, with more than 25,000
people, some of whom have been in the camp nearly a decade, will sooner or later
be closed also.

Its inhabitants, unable to find homes in the West, are expected to be moved back
to the Cambodian frontier.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              265 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 21, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

CONCERN IN ISRAEL OVER IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 370 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, May 20


Immigration to Israel this year is expected to be at the lowest level in the
nation's 38-year history, while emigration is rising sharply, according to
reports here.

Minister of Absorption Yaacov Tzur said at a news conference that since Jan. 1,
only 2,800 new immigrants had arrived in Israel and that he expected total
immigration this year to reach only about 9,000.

The previous low in immigration was set in 1985, when only 11,298 new immigrants
arrived in Israel, while some 15,000 Israelis left the country, Mr. Tzur added.

He did not issue a projection for emigration for 1986. But the number of Israeli
emigrants last year was up 47 percent from the 10,400 Israelis who emigrated in
1984, according to a special report by the Central Bureau of Statistics. In
1983, only 8,600 Israelis left on a permanent or semi-permanent basis.

According to the Central Bureau of Statistics, many of the Israelis who have
emigrated were new immigrants from The United States, Canada, South America and
Western Europe who came to Israel for a time and then returned to their
countries of origin.

The emigration statistics came after a report to the Israeli Cabinet last week
about the shrinking Jewish population around the world.

Prof. Roberto Bacchi, head of the Hebrew University statistics department, told
the Cabinet that today's 9.5 million Jews living outside of Israel would shrink
to about 8 million by the year 2000 if current demographic trends in
assimilation, intermarriage and low birth rates continue.

The reports have set off a debate in the Government, with each official offering
solutions in terms of his own political outlook and agenda.

For example, Minister of Religious Affairs Yosef Burg said the statistics proved
that legislation was required to reduce the number of abortions in Israel.
Minister of Communications Amnon Rubinstein said the demographic picture proves
that Israel cannot afford to annex the West Bank and Gaza strip.

Prime Minister Shimon Peres said the answer is that every Jewish family in
Israel should have four children. On Sunday the Cabinet approved in principle
the allocation of as much as $20 million to help 6,000 infertile Israeli couples
to have children.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              266 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 30, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

LIBERTY GALA STIRS MIXED EMOTIONS FOR BLACKS

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1214 words


For at least some American blacks, the Fourth of July Statue of Liberty
centennial celebration evokes mixed feelings and emotions well short of
enthusiasm.

Some say a celebration that focuses attention on the nation's immigrant heritage
serves as a disquieting reminder of the way in which blacks arrived in America
and how they have fared since. Others say they accept the celebration of the
statue's symbolism for immigrants as long as black immigrants from the Caribbean
are recognized. Still others view it as someone else's celebration.

The ambivalence was also suggested in the approach of the Schomburg Center for
Research in Black Culture in Harlem toward planning and naming its exhibit
marking the centennial.

The result was an exhibit titled ''Give me your poor . . .?: Voluntary
Immigration of Blacks to the U.S.''

Roy Bryce-Laporte, curator of the exhibit, said ''caution'' was necessary
because the statue's symbolism of liberty and opportunity was not universally
viewed as a reality for all blacks. He said the title of the exhibit also had to
distinguish between those blacks who were in America as a result of choices made
by their ancestors and those whose ancestors had no choice. He said the question
mark in the title was necessary because there had been few studies of black
immigrants and therefore many questions remained unanswered.

Reflecting the views of some blacks toward the festivities, John Hope Franklin,
a historian of the slavery era who is a professor at Duke University, said:
''It's a celebration for immigrants and that has nothing to do with me. I'm
interested in it as an event, but I don't feel involved in it.''

Eleanor Holmes Norton, a professor at Georgetown University's Law School and a
former chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, had a different
view.

''The liberty notion is stirring to anyone, and to attach negativism to the
renovation of a statue proclaiming liberty is not my interest,'' she said.
''American symbols should not be taken to be the property of a particular group
in our heterogeneous society, and the ironies of the symbol have to be
embraced.''

William H. Harris, a historian and adviser to the National Parks Service who is
president of Paine College in Augusta, Ga., said he believed the celebration
would reflect only the European immigrant experience.

''If you can't communicate to blacks that when you are talking about liberty you
are talking about more than just European immigrants but about the entire
peopling of America, then there just isn't much in it for me,'' he said.

Roger L. Green, a Brooklyn Assemblyman who is chairman of the state's Black and
Puerto Rican Legislative Caucus, said, ''I'm ambivalent and most blacks I've
talked to are ambivalent about the whole thing.''

A More Critical View

Mr. Green is part of a coalition of groups, the Campaign for Economic and Social
Justice, which will offer a more critical view of the celebration. The group
plans to stage a program and demonstrations June 28 on the campus of the City
College of New York as ''sober reminders'' to liberty weekend celebrants, he
said.

They plan to highlight how blacks arrived and how they fared once they got to
America, he said, and to contrast the concept of liberty with current problems
of the homeless, black veterans and black children living in poverty.

''The concept of liberty has universal appeal,'' Mr. Green said, ''but everyone
appears to be noticing only the statue's torch and not looking at the manacles
on her ankles.'' The statue by Frederic Auguste Bartholdi has broken chains at
her feet. Most interpret the broken chains as symbolizing an escape from
oppression.

David Wolper, who is planning the three days of events, said blacks would be
well represented among the thousands of musicians, athletes, dancers, other
performers and the production staff involved in the festivities. He said the
celebration was not only about the nation's immigrant heritage, in which blacks
from the Caribbean share in a small way, but also about the concept of liberty.
But he said there would be no attempt to depict routes by which other ethnic
groups came to the country nor how they fared.

''My assignment was to produce a celebration and not a review of all that went
on in the nation's history,'' he said. Just as the events do not touch on the
subject of black slaves, he said, they do not touch on the often dreary physical
conditions, sweatshops and hostile attitudes that many European immigrants faced
once they sailed past the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island.

'Talking About the Positive'

''You can see the negative in anything, but we're talking about the positive,''
he said.

Mr. Wolper and others involved in the planning pointed out that among the 12
immigrants who are to receive the first Medals of Liberty from President Reagan
in the celebration is Dr. Kenneth B. Clark, the black New York psychologist. Dr.
Clark, a native of Panama, came to the United States when he was 5 years old.

His research on the effects of racial discrimination on the education of black
children figured prominently in the arguments that led to the landmark Supreme
Court decision outlawing segregated schools.

''Blacks, too, were immigrants to this country and the events and the award show
that,'' said Mr. Wolper. Noting that Italian and Irish groups had been angered
that they were not represented among the 12 recipients, he said that members of
the selection committee were not instructed as to which immigrant groups should
be among the winners.

''Some people on the committee might have thought deliberately in their own mind
to pick a black immigrant, but it was not the subject of a particular
discussion,'' he said.

Mr. Bryce-Laport, the curator of the Schomburg exhibit, said it was difficult to
determine how many black immigrants there were since many arrived from Canada or
colonies of England or France and are listed on records by those countries of
origin and not race. His best estimate was that from 1820 to 1980, more than two
million blacks had voluntarily immigrated.

The Schomburg exhibit, which begins June 15 and runs to Sept. 7, will use some
original documents, photographs, diaries and other memorabilia to sketch the
experiences of black immigrants dating back to 1820, Mr. Bryce-Laporte said.

'I'm Going to Celebrate'

The inclusion of Dr. Clark was for some an important step in representing some
facet of the black experience in the United States. Earl Graves, the publisher
of Black Enterprise Magazine and a member of the Ellis Island Centennial
Commission, said: ''I think it was important that a black person be recognized
in all of this. I still see enormous inequities in this country, but I'm going
to celebrate like anyone else.''

Mr. Clark declined to comment on his selection.

''If I were Ken Clark, I'd feel a little uneasy,'' said the Rev. Jesse Jackson,
who added that he viewed the celebration as being focused on the immigrant
tradition to the exclusion of the slave tradition. He said this was a distortion
of the nation's history. ''This would be an excellent time to redeem and amend
the Statue of Liberty just as we redeemed and amended our Constitution to outlaw
slavery,'' Mr. Jackson said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              267 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 2, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

THE TALK OF PATERSON, N.J.;
IMMIGRANTS AND INDUSTRY: OLD FORMULA REVIVING A MILL TOWN

BYLINE: By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1256 words

DATELINE: PATERSON, N.J.


In a city that knows all the woes of urban America, the morning-after has
arrived.

This revival has little to do with grand schemes for renewal, several of which
have failed here, leaving parking lots and housing projects as residue. Rather,
it is the product of industry and immigrants, the same symbiosis that gave
Paterson its glorious past.

On the streets where Jewish shopkeepers once catered to Belgian lacemakers and
Irish millworkers now stand Borinquen Furniture, the Roma Sports Club and
Kaleli's House of Deals. Around corners and up stairs, small garment factories
and machine shops flourish.

The French artisans who built a new flame for the Statue of Liberty have set up
shop in here, while the People's Republic of China bought an abandoned
cardboard-box factory, hired 50 local workers and paid off $400,000 in back
taxes on the plant. ''These days,'' said Mayor Francis X. Graves Jr., ''Paterson
needs a foreign policy.''

Which is not to say rebirth will come easily. The unemployment rate of 9.9
percent surpasses the New Jersey average of 5.7, the bond rating is the lowest
in years, and the wine-and-dice crowd dominates plenty of street corners.

But some old-timers never left, a handful of expatriates are returning, and
newcomers like Bob Mantie are giving Paterson a try. Mr. Mantie lives and works
in a subsidized apartment complex for artists fashioned from the 140-year-old
Essex Mill. In a building that once turned out mosquito netting, he makes
stained glass.

''I kind of fell in love with the area,'' Mr. Mantie said. ''It certainly has
its problems, and whether it's going to bounce back I don't know. But very
slowly something seems to be happening.''

Paterson began with a dream. Alexander Hamilton founded the city as the
industrial capital of a new nation and in 1794 its first mill started making
calico. By 1983, however, Paterson found itself remarkable in only one respect.
By Census Bureau figures, it was the fifth poorest city in the country.

Gone was the vigor that let Paterson declare itself variously the Silk City,
Iron City, Cotton City, Aviation City and even Submarine City. The home of
William Carlos Williams and Allen Ginsberg, the labor battleground for John Reed
and Big Bill Haywood, this bustling, brawling place suffered something crueler
than decline alone: the sense that it no longer mattered.

''Everything that could happen to a city happened to Paterson,'' said Mayor
Graves, who was re-elected two weeks ago. ''Everyone who could afford to leave
did.'' And did he think he would live to see things turn around? ''Hey,'' Mayor
Graves said, ''I'm only 60.''

No institution has symbolized Paterson's miseries, and embodies its current
hopes, more than Eastside High School. The alma mater of Senator Frank R.
Lautenberg and the school where Allen Ginsberg's father, Louis, taught English,
Eastside was most striking by 1979 for its violence, drug use and academic
futility.

A report by the Passaic County Prosecutor's office called it ''a caldron of
terror and violence,'' and when the principal's job opened in 1982, only one
person volunteered.

His name is Joe Clark, and on a recent morning he was stalking the halls, his
trademark bullhorn in hand, picking up what little litter there was and offering
high-fives and the greeting ''peace'' to dozens of Eastside's 3,200 students.
These were the survivors of Mr. Clark's rigorous regime - he expelled more than
300 students in his first year at Eastside.

A list of rules and regulations, in both English and Spanish, hangs at the
entrance to the school. But marks of achievement abound, too - photographs of
recent Eastside graduates now attending major universities, charts showing the
near doubling of Eastside's scores on state basic skills tests.

President Reagan has singled out Mr. Clark for praise, and Secretary of
Education William Bennett is expected to visit the school Tuesday.

In his typically outspoken style, Mr. Clark said President Reagan had been
''fantastic'' for blacks because he cut social programs, ending a ''parasitic''
cycle. In a 10-minute walk through Eastside, Mr. Clark also inveighed against
''lethargy and stagnation,'' ''roaming hoodlums and thugs and pathological
deviants'' and ''spineless, toothless, gutless cowards'' - all of these being
his perceived foes.

The candor, the strength and the rules seem to have worked. In an entirely black
and Hispanic school, where half the students come from single-parent families,
Mr. Clark offers the stability so often missing at home. ''I'm a father
figure,'' he said. ''It's that simple.'' Recently, for example, Mr. Clark grew
concerned that so few boys were running for school offices. To encourage them,
he ordered girls barred from being candidates. ''The civil liberties people have
called already,'' he said, smiling, a born battler smelling the next fray.

Thirty-three years ago, Ramon Soria left the life of a sharecropper behind in
Puerto Rico and came to Paterson. His first job was washing dishes for 50 cents
an hour. After years of factory work by day and college classes by night, Mr.
Soria began a real-estate agency and serves as a central figure for Paterson's
growing Hispanic populace.

Newcomers ask him about jobs, and many of them bring applications that he helps
fill out. Sometimes it is a matter of finding a doctor or a lawyer. Mr. Soria
said he used to take the immigrants to find assistance in person, but he said
that lately his wife had been ill, so he simply provides a name and address.

With its industry and small stores, Paterson has always been a magnet for
immigrants, and its newest include Chileans, Peruvians, Dominicans, Arabs,
Yugoslavs and Italians. And in a city whose 150,000 residents are split equally
into black, white and Hispanic communities, and which suffered a major race riot
in 1964, survival depends on tolerance.

''In the last 15, 20 years, we have come a long way,'' Mr. Soria said. ''My days
were so much more difficult. There was such prejudice. Now, when someone new
comes, I tell them learn the English language, learn the culture and be a good
citizen - obey the law, stay away from vice and find a job and work hard at it.
If you come to Paterson with an open mind, you can have 10 cents today and $10
tomorrow.''

From the afternoon in 1827 when a drunken cotton-mill foreman named Sam Patch
leapt from the top of the Great Falls into the Passaic River -thereby finding a
second career and fame as ''The Great Descender'' -Paterson has loved its
eccentrics.

Few are more eccentric or more beloved than Frank Perretti, the owner of the Fat
Man's restaurant and, to some of his regulars, the Toots Shor of Paterson. In
addition to making his famous ''Monte Crisco'' sandwiches and greeting his
customers as termites, reptiles and stiffs, Mr. Perretti emcees the occasional
stag party for $100.

Mayor Graves once said, ''Paterson is history,'' and in his 80 years Mr.
Perretti has seen much of it. He said he still remembers the trolley-car routes,
the all-night restaurants, the touring burlesque shows at the Hotel Manhattan.
Then he saw it all pass into history. ''This was the best city in the world one
time,'' said his partner, Catherine Staub, sighing.

But now Mr. Perretti feels the stirrings of new life. ''Some people criticize
the city,'' he said. ''They get a few extra bucks and leave. Go to Wayne or
somewhere. Take pot shots at Paterson. They forget when they didn't have a
dollar in their pocket. But the city will always be the city.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 3, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

CORRECTION:
A map in Metropolitan Report yesterday with an article about economic
improvements in Paterson, N.J., positioned the center of the city incorrectly.
It is north of Route 80 on the right bank of the Passaic River.

GRAPHIC: Map showing location of Paterson, N.J. (NYT); Photo of The Phoenix Mill
Apartments, which were converted from a former mill (NYT/Jack Manning); Photo of
Nouri's, a Syrian bakery

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              268 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 7, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Why the Omissions on Medal of Liberty List

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26, Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 278 words


To the Editor:

I write as a member of the Medal of Liberty selection committee, which was
charged last March with choosing a dozen foreign-born citizens for special
recognition during the commemoration in July of the 100th anniversary of the
Statue of Liberty.

After scrupulous consideration of more than 200 names, the selection committee
completed the exceedingly difficult - and evidently thankless - task of picking
12 naturalized citizens to receive the Medal of Liberty for distinguished
contributions to American life.

The final list has provoked cries of wrath from self-appointed representatives
of ethnic interest groups. No one can conceivably deny the significant role that
Irish-Americans and Italian-Americans have played in our history. But the great
wave of Irish and Italian immigration took place before the First World War. It
is therefore hardly surprising that most Irish-Americans and Italian-Americans
are American by birth, not by naturalization.

As for one wondrous complaint -namely that nobody even thought about naming an
American Indian -it need hardly be said that Indians are not naturalized
citizens.

In any case, the selection committee's charge was not to provide ethnic
representation, but to honor individual achievement. The attack on certain
members of the committee for failing to place candidates of their own national
origin on the final list displays a grievous misunderstanding of the whole
enterprise. Such an attack is unjust, unwarranted and unnecessary.ARTHUR
SCHLESINGER New York, May 22, 1986 The writer holds the Albert Schweitzer chair
in the Humanities at the City University of New York's Graduate Center.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              269 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 16, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

'THE LADY NEXT DOOR,' FROM 'PROJECT LIBERTY'

BYLINE: By HERBERT MITGANG

SECTION: Section C; Page 16, Column 3; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 486 words


ALTHOUGH most black people came to this country in chains from Africa rather
than in steerage from Europe - and many were here long before the great waves of
immigration early in this century - they are represented in an hourlong
WCBS/Channel 2 documentary tonight at 10 called ''The Lady Next Door,'' another
Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island program. Mention is also made, though without
their participation, of American Indians, who were here ahead of everybody.

Since much of the hype surrounding Liberty Weekend is attuned to show business
and souvenirs and not necessarily to historical subtleties, it does no violence
to the costly extravaganza to stretch a point and give prominence to everybody
because, as promoted, Liberty Weekend is supposed to be a unifying event. As
President Franklin D. Roosevelt once said, ''All of our people all over the
country - except the pure-blooded Indians -are immigrants, or descendants of
immigrants.''

The most original segments of this WCBS ''Project Liberty'' program feature
Cleavon Little, the actor. Reflecting on what has happened to black and Hispanic
people, he says that some are still waiting to achieve the goals symbolized by
the Lady in New York Harbor.

On a street corner in Harlem, Mr. Little says: ''She wasn't our mother. Hasn't
been yet. And we've been at these sea-washed, sunset gates almost as long as
anybody. I guess it's not the Lady's fault really that she couldn't watch over
black people. Even so, a lot happened on these streets to change us and change
America since the 90's, when Harlem was a ritzy white suburb.'' He recites lines
by Countee Cullen, Langston Hughes and others about black pride.

Colleen Dewhurst and Bruce Adler, the actors, talk about the Irish and Jewish
immigrant experience. They stress each nationality's contributions in song and
laughter, in politics and manufacturing, in building the strands of the city
with their intelligence and labor in the streets and sweatshops. These points
are illustrated with period pictures and segments from the play ''The Golden
Land.''

After mentioning her own Boston Irish roots, Miss Dewhurst picks up one of the
program's pointed themes: ''At the height of the 20's boom, the increased
harshness of anti-immigration laws raised new questions about the Statue's role.
Now there are restrictive quotas and acts excluding Asian peoples. Earlier,
there was the literacy test. And so the Lady's invitation was rescinded for
millions, and Europe's huddled masses were made unwelcome.''

''The Lady Next Door'' has a high-minded, though often pretentious-sounding
script, and the performances are too stagy. Nevertheless, like another WCBS-TV
program addressing immigration - on the Sanctuary movement - broadcast a few
days ago, this program reveals some of the reality behind the ceremony. The
documentary was written by Howard Enders, who also served as director and
producer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              270 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 16, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Tribute to Immigrants Set for Public Library

SECTION: Section C; Page 15, Column 4; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 129 words


A tribute to immigrants is planned with the opening of exhibitions on the Statue
of Liberty and Ellis Island this Saturday at the New York Public Library, Fifth
Avenue and 42d Street. Several hundred items, ranging from bronze models to
engravings, are included in ''Liberty: The French-American Statue in Art and
History,'' which will be on view through Aug. 30 on the main floor. The show is
made up of works from private and public collections here and in France.

''The Ellis Island Experience,'' a collection of photographs, manuscripts, maps,
letters and memorabilia from the library's permanent collection, will be on show
through Sept. 13 in a third-floor gallery; among the photographs will be works
by Lewis Hine and Augustus Sherman. Information: 869-8089.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              271 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 16, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

OLD NEW YORK IS BEING UNEARTHED ON ELLIS ISLAND

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 857 words


Under the Great Hall on Ellis Island, the door through which millions of
immigrants entered America, archeologists last year discovered the skeletons of
two American Indians.

They are believed to be Munsees, a local branch of the Delawares, who gathered
oysters around the island before the arrival of Europeans.

''Somehow it is very appropriate that the only remains we find on Ellis Island
represent the one group that was here before the waves of immigrants that came
to make America,'' said John Belle, the main contracting architect for the Ellis
Island restoration project for the National Parks Service.

The Indian remains are to be interred on the island before the Great Hall opens
to the public as a national museum of immigration in 1992.

Preserving Historic Graffiti

Mr. Belle said the discovery of the skeletons was one of a series of finds that
offered new insights into Ellis Island and the 12 million immigrants who passed
through the red brick building.

Historians have spoken of the Babel of tongues that rose and fell when thousands
of immigrants crowded the cavernous Great Hall in the early part of this
century.

Today, conservators are working to preserve the surviving traces of that hubbub
- snatches of graffiti scribbled on plaster walls or carved in wooden
windowsills.

''They used pencils, penknives and the same blue chalk that doctors used to mark
comments on people's coats,'' said Christy Cunningham, a paintings conservator
contracted by the Parks Service. ''Some are just names, dates and villages of
origin. But there are also sketches of the boats they came over on, with flags
flying and steam billowing out of the funnels.''

The 25 areas of graffiti selected for preservation speak of America's
multinational roots. There are scrawls in Arabic, Armenian, Chinese, French,
German, Hebrew, Hungarian, Polish, Greek, Italian, Russian and Serbo-Croatian.
Some are prosaic. ''If there were no mosquitoes, one would probably be
healthier,'' reads a scrawl in Hungarian. Others are more discursive. ''Thinking
of home brings tears,'' one writer scribbled in Chinese on the marble wall in a
men's room. ''Lucky just to arrive in Flowery Flag country. I expected peace
with no worries. Who knew the immigration guards would detain us? Left locked up
without any reason. How can we change these harsh laws?''

''Let's devote ourselves to return to China and kill our enemies,'' the man
concluded. ''When I have the opportunity to see my father, brothers, wife and
children, I will be overjoyed and tell about my Western journey.''

An Italian immigrant wrote in the men's room: ''Women make men suffer because
they are venomous and loose and don't look after their husbands.''

Two graffiti in obscure Armenian dialects continue to puzzle translators.

Impression Owed to Acoustics

Mr. Belle, an immigrant from Wales, believes he has solved the mystery of why
the Babel of tongues had so impressed visitors to the Great Hall.

''The wall plaster is reinforced with horse hair to give it body,'' he said.

This 19th-century construction technique - mixing wet plaster with horse hair
purchased from slaughterhouses - was also used in the construction of Carnegie
Hall and several Broadway theaters.

''Sounds were clear as a bell in the Registry Room,'' Mr. Belle said, using the
formal name for the Great Hall.

The acoustics are also good because of the fine workmanship of the vaulted
ceiling of the main hall. Constructed around 1917 by the Guastavino Brothers,
the same tile contractors who built the ceiling of Grand Central Terminal, the
ceiling is almost perfectly intact today.

''We inspected every tile with a rubber hammer,'' said Mr. Belle, who is
managing partner of Beyer Blinder Belle Architects and Planners of New York.
''Less than 40 tiles out of the thousands had to be repaired or replaced.''

Finding Old Manhattan

On the outside of the main building, contractors digging trenches for power
lines have uncovered evidence that supports a theory that much of today's Ellis
Island was created by landfill produced when the New York subways were dug at
the turn of the century.

''Two feet under the front lawn, we found pottery, silverware, plates and
lanterns from the 1820's and 1830's,'' said Michael Alderstein, Parks Service
project manager for Ellis Island. ''As we dig through Ellis Island, we find old
Manhattan.''

From the late 1700's to the early 1830's, Ellis Island was also used as an
execution ground, largely for sailors convicted and hanged for piracy or mutiny.

When the human bones were unearthed below the building foundations, some
restoration workers speculated that they might be the remains of executed
convicts.

However, John Pousson, staff archeologist for the Parks Service, said that
during the time the northern end of Ellis Island was used for executions, the
remains of executed convicts were usually sold or donated to medical schools.

Furthermore, he said, examinations of the teeth show they have a wear pattern
characteristic of American Indians.

''There are no cavities, which indicate that these are not Europeans,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              272 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 16, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

LINK IS SOUGHT AFTER SLAYING OF 2D RUSSIAN

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 464 words


A Russian immigrant shot dead in Brooklyn Friday night may have been slain in
reprisal for the murder of another Russian immigrant last February in what the
police call an increasingly violent rivalry among criminal elements in the
Russian emigre community.

Investigators said the latest victim, Vladimir Reznikov, 44 years old, of
Hartsdale, N.Y., who was shot in his car in the Brighton Beach section, was
questioned four months ago as a suspect in the Feb. 3 murder. Three Russian men
were wounded, one fatally, in the machine-gun shootout at a gasoline
distributorship in the Sheepshead Bay section.

Detectives said that they had no suspects in the gangland-style shooting of Mr.
Reznikov but that they were looking further into his possible ties to the
February shootings. The investigators are also looking into what they said was a
growing involvement of Russian emigres in loosely organized criminal activities.


Victims Indicted Earlier

Michael Vax, 27, a Russian immigrant described by the police as Mr. Reznikov's
business partner, was charged in April with the Feb. 3 murder of Ilya Zeltzer,
34, in the shootout at the Platenum Energy Company at Avenue U and Batchelder
Street.

Mr. Vax, who was shot in the chest and forearm in that incident, is free on bail
awaiting trial. Mr. Zeltzer, of 2387 Ocean Avenue, and another Russian who was
in the office but unhurt in the shootings, were indicted in Brooklyn last year
on charges of buying more than $200,000 worth of furniture using bogus credit
cards.

On Friday shortly before 7:20 P.M., the police said, Mr. Reznikov emerged from
the Odessa restaurant at 1113 Brighton Beach Avenue, and walked to his
automobile, parked in front of Mr. Vax's residence at 1130 Brighton Beach
Avenue.

Dead at the Scene

Witnesses told the police that a light-green Plymouth sedan carrying two men
drove near. One man got out, approached Mr. Reznikov's car, drew what was
believed to be a silencer-equipped .380-caliber automatic pistol and, firing
through an open window on the driver's side, shot the victim six times.

Mr. Reznikov was shot in the head, left side, hip and leg. He died at the scene.
The assailant walked back to his car, which sped away, witnesses said.

Brighton Beach is the heart of the largest Russian community in the metropolitan
area.

The investigations of the two slayings are part of an inquiry, law-enforcement
officials said, into activities involving Russian immigrants, including
protection rackets, gambling, counterfeiting, smuggling, burglary and drug and
weapons selling.

Investigators were trying to determine whether the distributorship where the
shootings occurred in February had been involved in a scheme to evade local,
state and Federal taxes on the sale of gasoline and oil.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              273 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 19, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Window Opens Into New York's Immigrant Past

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 279 words


To the Editor:

While preparing to celebrate our immigrant heritage, we are losing a great
opportunity to learn how some immigrants actually lived. New park construction
in lower Manhattan has exposed the earth on a historic site, but no
archeological work is being done.

The southwest corner of the construction site, at Baxter and Worth Streets, was
part of the old Five Points, the first place in New York City settled by Irish
immigrants in the 1820's. By midcentury, the Five Points had a solid reputation
as the most desperate locale in New York. Its notoriety spread through Europe,
partly because of Charles Dickens's shocking descriptions in ''American Notes.''

The northern half of the construction site was part of the block known as
Mulberry Bend, immortalized by Jacob Riis in ''How the Other Half Lives.''
Writing in 1888, two years after the Statue of Liberty was completed, Riis
observed, ''There is but one 'Bend' in the world, and it is enough.'' By then,
southern Italians had replaced the Irish, but living conditions had not
improved. A tenement housing commission found that 155 children younger than 5
had died on that one block in 1882.

In the 1890's, the tenements of the Bend were demolished and replaced by a park.
Between the mounds of bricks turned up in the current park construction, one can
see the tops of old basements. Reports on the area throughout the 19th century
refer to underground tunnels, warrens and even illegal burials. Undoubtedly much
was exaggerated. But we are missing a chance to find out what was true. BRIAN
FERGUSON New York, June 6, 1986 The writer is assistant professor of
anthropology at Rutgers University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              274 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 22, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

NEW JERSEY JOURNAL

BYLINE: BY Albert J. Parisi

SECTION: Section 11NJ; Page 3, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1525 words


THE former reception center on Ellis Island, where 17 million immigrants were
processed, will be 100 years old in 1992, and celebration preparations already
are under way.

Part of a museum scheduled to open in July 1988 will be an oral-history studio
to ''lock those first impressions, hopes and aspirations forever into the
nation's mind,'' said Hank Nielsen, a spokesman for the New York-based Statue of
Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation.

Earlier this month, the nonprofit organization received a $1 million grant from
the William Randolph Hearst Foundation. That, plus a $250,000 grant from the
California-based W.M. Keck Foundtion, will go toward building two recording
studios, a control room and several listening booths. The studio will be on the
site of a room where immigrants answered questions for, and gave medical
histories to, examiners.

The oral reminiscenses, which foundation officials say will become the world's
most extensive such collection, will pull together memories of immigrants and
Immigration Service employees who worked on Ellis Island during its peak
periods.

During the mid-1970's, the National Park Service, which oversees the island's
operation, taped some 150 interviews in anticipation of the project. In its
initial stage, 200 interviews will be added. The former immigrants interviewed,
said Henry Neiger, also a foundation spokesman, were traced in part through
mailings to centers for the elderly throughout the country.

''The collection will include photographs of the person interviewed, along with
a complete transcript of his or her oral history, as well as a memento or two
that that person might wish to donate,'' Mr. Neiger said. ''Many of those who
came through the island in the early part of the century did so as children and
are elderly now. Theirs is a living history that must be written down before it
is too late.''

Another project awaiting funds, Mr. Nielsen said, is finding and computerizing
immigrant passenger-ship manifests ''so that anyone whose parents or relatives
entered the country will be able to sit down at a computer base, punch in a
proper name and find out an exact date and time when those relatives were
processed on the island.''

Contributions to the oral history studio can be sent to the Liberty-Ellis Island
Foundation, 101 Park Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10178.

Those who passed through Ellis Island soon learned that a key to success was
learning English, and enrollment in English classes for the foreign-born soared
in those New Jersey communities where ethnic neigborhoods abounded.

To recognize such education efforts, the Alumnae Association of Seton Hall
University in South Orange organized a Statue of Liberty centennial project
entitled ''Education: The Second Passage To Liberty,'' which will end with a
harbor festival cruise on July 4.

''This is a very appropriate way for Seton Hall alumnae to join in the national
salute,'' said Mary Jo McDonough of Newark, an education graduate who proposed
and heads the project. ''We ourselves represent many ethnic backgrounds, and we
are very proud of Seton Hall's long tradition of serving the educational needs
of so many ethnic groups.''

As part of the project, high school students from across the state were invited
to compete in an essay contest describing the importance of education for
immigrants. Last week, university officials announced that Eric Sansen, an
18-year-old senior at Fair Lawn High School, had won. His prize? A four-year
scholarship to Seton Hall.

On Saturday, a man whose roots are in Italy -Col. Clinton L. Pagano, the State
Police Superintendent - will receive the ''Man of the Year'' award from the Long
Branch chapter of UNICO International. (The Italian word means ''we are one,''
and its letters here stand for Unity, Neighborliness, Integrity, Charity and
Opportunity.) ''Every year,'' said Michael B. Ruggiero of Long Branch, the
state's southern district governor of UNICO International, ''we try to honor
those people of Italian-American heritage who have proven themselves time and
time again to their communities and the state.''

In addition to awarding annual scholarships, the 75-member local chapter raises
funds to help underprivileged and handicapped children. Proceeds from the Pagano
event (tickets are $50) will help Hope University in Anaheim, Calif., a
UNICO-sponsored school for the mentally retarded.

''I'm deeply moved by the group's choice and by the fact that the proceeds will
go toward helping young people help themselves,'' Colonel Pagano said last week.
''It's an honor to myself, my professional organization and my family.''

A 34-year veteran of the State Police force and its Superintendent since 1975,
Colonel Pagano was one of three brothers who entered its ranks in the 1950's. He
is the only surviving brother.

The ''Man of the Year'' award, said the 57-year-old colonel, who lives in
Milford, Burlington County, and whose family emigrated in the early 1800's,
sends a message to others of Italian extraction:

''Always be proud of your heritage and culture. Many ethnic groups have
contributed greatly to this country of ours, but Italian-American contributions
have touched all aspects of our society.''

For tickets for Saturday's program, to be held at the Shore Casino in Atlantic
Highlands, call Mr. Ruggiero at (201) 571-0123.

King Tut's sneakers came loose and the lightning bolt did not quite strike Ben
Franklin's kite, but it was, those present agreed, an end-of-school show that
would have made Cecil B. DeMille proud.

Cast in two and sometimes three roles each, 50 kindergarten and first-grade
pupils from the Sundance School in North Plainfield presented ''Cosmos,'' their
version of the history of the earth from a spooky, fog-filled creation of the
universe to the signing of a world peace treaty in the year 2000.

Narrating through the ages were pint-sized actors playing the astronomer-author
Dr. Carl Sagan (David Gucker, 6, of Bound Brook) and Dr. C.S. Wu, the first
female president of the American Physics Society (Chessa Ring, 6, of Watchung).

The children dramatized both high and low points in history, including
Archimedes (Michael Warren, 6, of Scotch Plains) explaining how water is
displaced; a horde of sword-waving barbarians invading Rome; Copernicus (George
Dapper, 7, of South Plainfield) arguing that the sun, not the earth, is the
center of the universe; a seasick Charles Darwin (Reza Watts, 6, of Scotch
Plains) sailing to the Galapagos Islands and Marie Curie (Rachel Eberle, 6, of
Watchung) discovering radium and polonium.

Just before the utopian last scene, newsreel footage of the first atomic bomb
was shown.

Judith Panaccione, assistant director of the school, who wrote the script, said
that many scenes were extensions of classroom topics.

''Adults have greatly underestimated the creative talents of young children,''
she said. ''Kids do not have to stick to fairy tales or Mother Goose. There is
no limit to what they can learn when they get involved in a project like this.''

Some parts may have been a little over the children's heads, acknowledged Donna
Simons, a teacher. ''But,'' she said, ''later on, when someone mentions Galileo
or Halley, these kids will have a concrete association.''

Lee Loewinger, 6, of Scotch Plains, who played Sir Isaac Newton, said he had
learned a lot about gravity, the orbits of the planets and ''how scientists
worked.''

Somewhere between the Dark Ages and the Renaissance, the two young narrators put
it more philosphically:

''We realize that, the more we learn, the more there is to discover,'' they
said.

The Appellate Division of Superior Court in Trenton has reversed a lower-court
decision awarding profits from a convicted killer's biography to the family of
his victim.

In 1975, Maria Fasching of Leonia, a 21-year-old nurse, was murdered by a father
and son who broke into a home she was visiting. The father, Joseph Kallinger, a
Philadelphia shoemaker, was arrested, tried and convicted, and his 12-year-old
son was made a ward of the court.

In 1983, Simon & Schuster published ''The Shoemaker; Anatomy of a Psychotic,''
by Flora Rheta Schreiber, which examined the murder. Miss Fasching's family sued
the publisher and author, arguing that, under state law, criminals profiting
from accounts of their crimes must turn over such profits to the state's Violent
Crimes Compensation Board.

Last year, Judge J. Emmet Cassidy of Superior Court in Trenton ruled that both
the publisher and author had ''indirectly contracted'' with Mr. Kallinger
concerning the book. Mrs. Schreiber received a $525,000 advance, but Simon &
Schuster asserted in court that the book had sold poorly.

During that time, Mr. Kallinger had agreed to turn over his share of the profits
to pay for legal fees.

According to the three-member appellate panel, ''The manifest purpose of the
statute was to prevent criminals from profiting from media re-enactment of their
crimes. The foreiture provisions do not extend to authors and publishers of such
re-enactments.''

Frank Lucianna of Hackensack, the Fasching family's lawyer, said he planned to
appeal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Col. Clinton L. Pagano; Photo of students from North
Plainfield's Sundance School during their end-of-year play

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              275 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               June 25, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

UPROAR IN ISRAEL OVER CONVERTS' ID'S

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 850 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, June 24


Israel's Interior Minister has ordered that the word ''converted'' be stamped
onto the identity cards of anyone who immigrates to Israel after being converted
to Judaism.

The step, which was disclosed in the Supreme Court late Monday, has touched off
a major controversy.

The new procedure came about after the Interior Ministry tried and failed to
deny automatic citzenship to an American immigrant, Shoshana Miller, because she
had been converted to Judaism by a Reform rabbi in Colorado Springs.

After failing to show cause why Miss Miller should not be granted automatic
citzenship under Israel's Law of Return, the Interior Ministry decided that it
would identify her, and others, as converts on their identity papers so that if
and when they tried to get married in Israel, the rabbinic authorities would
make sure their conversion was authentic.

Issue of 'Doubtful' Conversion

The Orthodox rabbis in Israel, who control all matters of personal status such
as marriage and divorce, will not marry two Jews if one of them has had a
''doubtful'' conversion, usually meaning a conversion not performed by an
Orthodox rabbi.

Prime Minister Shimon Peres promised today that the ruling - which was
apparently made by the Interior Minister, Rabbi Yitzhak Peretz, on his own
authority - would be debated in Parliament on Wednesday and discussed by the
full Cabinet on Sunday. It is an extremely sensitive issue because it touches on
the unresolved question of ''Who is a Jew?''

The Minister of Absorption, Yaacov Tzur, and the head of the Jewish Agency,
Aryeh Dulzin, both demanded today that the order be nullified. Identifying
someone as a convert is unheard of in Jewish tradition. Many rabbis, Orthodox as
well as Reform, have also condemned the move.

''Why destroy and shame them?'' Shlomo Goren, a former Chief Rabbi, said of the
converts in an interview with The Jerusalem Post. ''At a time when we should be
putting out fires, building bridges and making peace,'' he said, some people
''are looking for ways to light new fires and cause more strife.''

In Israel, Orthodox rabbis control the entire rabbinical establishment. The
American-style Reform and Conservative branches are not recognized as authentic
by Israel's rabbinical authorities, and anyone converted to Judaism by a Reform
or Conservative rabbi is not considered Jewish in their eyes.

The laws of the State of Israel are different, however. In the eyes of the legal
system - and in the past, this has been all that counted - converts to Judaism
from all three branches are recognized equally and are free to immigrate to
Israel and be immediately recognized as full citizens under the Law of Return.

That law states that a Jew is ''a person who is born of a Jewish mother or who
is converted and is not a member of another faith.''

Orthodox Cite Jewish Law

For years now, rigorously Orthodox parties in Israel have been trying to get the
Law of Return amended to say that a Jew is ''a person born of a Jewish mother or
who is converted according to Halacha,'' or Jewish law. In their view, this
amended version would rule out those converted by Reform and Conservative rabbis
because they are supposedly not according to strict Halachic traditions. The
amendment has failed to win a majority in Parliament.

As a result, Rabbi Peretz, who comes from the Shas Party, a strictly Orthodox
group, tried to change the law through administrative action, and the test case
turned out to be Miss Miller.

When she arrived in Israel a year ago, after having served as a cantor in her
Reform synagogue in Colorado Springs, Miss Miller applied for an identity card,
or basic citizenship.

Officials at the Interior Ministry asked for proof of her Judaism. She showed
them her Reform conversion certificate. They told her it would have to be
validated by the local Orthodox rabbinate. In the meantime, they said, she could
not be registered as a Jew.

Unofficially, Rabbi Hirsch said, Miss Miller was told that she would have little
trouble undergoing another conversion in Israel by Orthodox rabbis and that that
would settle the matter. Miss Miller rejected this as a repudiation of her
American Reform rabbi, and with the help of the Reform movement she filed a
lawsuit four months ago.

The High Court of Justice demanded that the Interior Ministry show cause why
Miss Miller could not be registered as a Jew, according to the existing Law of
Return. After several months of delays, the ministry ruled on Monday that there
was no legal reason why she could not be registered.

But in its reply to the court, the ministry, represented by Yehoshua Cahana,
head of the population registry department, said that, starting now, converts
from ''a Reform community or a ceremony which is doubtful in the eyes of the
Interior Ministry,'' will be ''requested'' to appear before a board of Orthodox
rabbis to determine whether their conversions were authentic.

But since converts cannot be forced by law to do so, on their identity cards in
the space reserved for nationality will be written: ''Jewish (Converted).''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              276 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 28, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

LOVE STORY: FROM THAILAND CAMP TO MASSACHUSETTS WEDDING

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 866 words

DATELINE: AMHERST, Mass., June 24


The last-minute rush is under way for the wedding on Saturday. ''It's going to
be close,'' worried the foster mother of the bride, biting her lip.

The bride will wear a floor-length white gown of lace embroidered into organza.
The bridegroom will be dressed in a black tuxedo when they arrive at the North
Congregationalist Church, of picturebook-prim New England white clapboard,
steeple and dark green shutters.

Today they hug, snuggle and gaze into each other's eyes, a long way from
Battambang Province in Cambodia, from the threat of starvation, arrest and
execution by the Khmer Rouge, the Communist insurgents who took over their
country after the Vietnam War, from the nighttime trek through the mined woods
to cross the border into Thailand in 1979.

When ChamNan Sophanny Koy becomes a June bride and Huy Kean Tan realizes his
ambition of six years by marrying her, it will represent fulfillment of a love
story played out over three continents and a triumph over the vagaries of
immigration policy.

They Meet in Refugee Camp

After long months in a refugee camp in Thailand where they met and fell in love,
Miss Koy was accepted into the United States for placement in a foster home here
in 1982. But Mr. Tan said he had been told that if he came here his two brothers
and two sisters would be placed separately. So the next year he accompanied them
instead to Adelaide, Australia, where the siblings could live as a family, and
he pined.

''We have a lot of memories that we can't forget,'' he said this week, recalling
when they had to share rice when there was little food or when they helped one
another deal with sorrow over relatives lost or killed when the Khmer Rouge
drove Cambodians into work camps in the countryside.

Miss Koy's foster mother, Phyllis Agard, said that she and her husband, Robert,
had not seen a way to unite the two. But when an Australian social worker came
to visit a colleague in Massachusetts with whom she had worked in the refugee
camps in Thailand, all those involved with Miss Koy contrived to help out.

With $1,800 in airfare that came from a job as a counselor, a stipend meant for
Miss Koy's support that was unused while she was at camp, and a contribution
from the Agards, she flew to Adelaide last summer to see if love endured after
three years.

After a Long Separation

It did, and Mr. Tan arrived in Boston Monday after a 24-hour flight, carrying
the tuxedo he bought after she mailed him a photograph she had chosen from a
catalogue. They had planned for him him to return to Australia without her after
his 30-day visa expires, to allow her to enter a community college here and wait
until August 1987, when she can apply for citizenship, but that plan slipped
away when he got off the plane.

''I don't want to lose him again,'' she said today as they hugged.

The couple first met at a Thai refugee camp for children in late 1979, although
they grew up in the same province of Cambodia.

Mr. Tan fled Cambodia after his parents, an older brother and a younger sister
were killed and a 3-year-old brother disappeared. The Khmer Rouge had found Mr.
Tan's certificate for Tae Kwon Do, a martial art, which had been given to him by
an American instructor of Korean origin. The Khmer Rouge could not read the
certificate but recognized the language as English, Mr. Tan said, so they
denounced him as an agent for the Central Intelligence Agency.

He reached the border in the summer of 1979 with his four surviving siblings,
then ranging in age from 7 to 12, but after a month Thai soldiers forced them
back into Cambodia. They walked 30 kilometers a night, about 19 miles, often
without food, until they could re-enter Thailand, he said.

Miss Koy's mother died in 1976 while performing forced labor in the rice fields.
One of 10 children, Miss Koy was separated from all her relatives by the time
she fled, she said, although she learned a year ago that her father was still
living in Cambodia.

Abandoned in Flight

She joined a group fleeing to the border, but all but one of them abandoned her
because she had a hacking cough that they thought would betray their presence to
Vietnamese troops.

''We had to step on footprints, so no one got killed,'' she said.

Both Mr. Tan and Miss Koy lied about their age to stay in the refugee camp, she
said, because while minors and families were given shelter, young adults were
sometimes pushed back into Cambodia. Miss Koy's immigration papers list her as
21 years old, but she is 26, she said. He is 31.

After the wedding she will seek a visa to go to Australia and will study nursing
at the Royal Adelaide Hospital School of Nursing, she said. Mr. Tan works as a
bookbinder in Adelaide.

Despite their backgrounds, or perhaps because of them, the wedding is to be a
traditional affair. The honeymoon may include a few days at a borrowed cabin on
a lake, but maybe not. ''He doesn't want to go, because I'm a bad driver,'' Miss
Koy said.

In Cambodia, women do not change their names when they marry, but Miss Koy will
become Mrs. Tan, in Western style, at her husband's request. And the dress, with
long sleeves and a lace V-neck, was Miss Koy's careful choice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of ChamNan Sophanny Koy and Huy Dean Tan (NYT/Steve Miller)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              277 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 28, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

JUDGE, CITING COMMERCIALS, DROPS TV CITIZENSHIP OATH

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1029 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27


A Federal district judge here has refused to participate in a nationwide
naturalization ceremony on July 3 because he says the dignity of the proceeding
would be diminished by the introduction of television advertising.

The judge, Gerhard A. Gesell, today canceled naturalization proceedings for 106
prospective citizens that were to have been held at the Jefferson Memorial as
part of the nationwide ceremony on the evening of July 3.

The ceremony is part of a four-day celebration of Independence Day and the
centennial of the Statue of Liberty.

Capital Ceremony Rescheduled

Judge Gesell said that instead of the ceremony at the Jefferson Memorial he
would hold a naturalization proceeding for the same people on the afternoon of
July 3 in the ceremonial courtroom of the United States Courthouse here.

Chief Justice Warren E. Burger is to administer the oath of naturalization by
television hookup that night from Ellis Island in New York to some 15,000 people
in New York, Miami, St. Louis and San Francisco, but not to the group in
Washington.

In a letter to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Judge Gesell said he
was distressed because immediately after the oath ''one or more commercials are
to be telecast into the court proceedings while the Chief Justice makes a
helicopter flight.''

'Turned Into a Pageant'

''Thus,'' he said, ''our usual dignified naturalization court is being turned
into a pageant over which I have no control as the presiding judge.''

Judge Gesell said the televised proceeding would violate some of the assurances
he received in a letter on March 12 from Robert B. Neptune, district director
here of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

''The Court was advised in the March letter that the television program would be
in good taste, which this is not, and that our normal procedures would be
conducted,'' Judge Gesell said. ''Obviously this is not the situation now.''

Producers Are Disappointed

Jonas Halperin, a spokesman for David L. Wolper, producer of the four-day
celebration, said he was stunned and disappointed by Judge Gesell's withdrawal.

''You could have had these people on the steps of the Jefferson Memorial,'' Mr.
Halperin said. ''It could have been seen by a billion and a half people around
the world. I just don't understand these people, the judges.''

Manuel L. Real, chief judge of the Federal District Court in Los Angeles, said
in an interview today that he had also refused to participate in the televised
naturalization ceremony that the producers of Liberty Weekend had wanted to hold
in Dodger Stadium or the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum. ''We are not in the
entertainment business,'' Judge Real said.

Timing of Commercials

Naturalization proceedings were not scheduled for July 3 in Los Angeles because
the Federal judges there expressed their concern at an early stage of planning
for Liberty Weekend.

Aides to the Chief Justice said he knew of Judge Gesell's objections but did not
know the timing of the television commercials in relation to the naturalization
ceremony. Chief Justice Burger has strenuously resisted televising of Supreme
Court proceedings.

Toni House, a spokesman for the Supreme Court, said, ''We have been assured that
there will be no commercial interruption of the proceedings'' to be conducted by
the Chief Justice on July 3. However, Judge Gesell pointed out that the formal
naturalization ceremony at the Jefferson Memorial, as originally scheduled, was
to continue after the Chief Justice finished his role.

Immigration officials said that Judge Gesell would have had to readminister the
oath because under the law it is not valid unless given by a judge at the site
where the aliens are naturalized. The oath will also have to be given again by
judges in the other locations, except in New York.

Liberty Weekend was conceived with television in mind, and rights to cover key
portions of it were sold exclusively to ABC-TV for $10 million. Mr. Wolper, the
producer, maintains that it is essentially an entertainment event that could
validly be sold to television.

ABC initially agreed to let its rivals cover nine minutes of news events
including official speeches in the period from 8 P.M. to 11 P.M. on July 3.
After complaints from CBS, NBC and the Cable News Network, ABC allowed them to
cover another seven minutes as well, including Chief Justice Burger's remarks.

Commercials Called Necessary

Audrey Fecht, a spokesman for ABC, said the network had no comment on Judge
Gesell's withdrawal. Spokesmen for ABC said that all commercial time in the 17
1/2 hours of special programming scheduled for Liberty Weekend had been sold.
But they refused to disclose the names of advertisers planning to run
commercials after Chief Justice Burger's part in the naturalization cerermony.

Mr. Halperin said the commercials were necessary, but would not come at an
inappropriate moment. ''Who's going to break in for a commercial if Chief
Justice Burger is on the screen?'' he asked. ''What are they going to say? 'Wait
a minute, Chief, we want to do a McDonald's spot'? It's ludicrous.''

Judge Gesell said he originally understood that the televised portion of the
naturalization ceremony would involve only the administering of the oath of
citizenship by the Chief Justice. But he said, ''As plans have proceeded, I have
been advised that the telecast portion has been greatly expanded to include not
only a series of speeches but arrangements for prospective citizens to sing
'America the Beautiful' and 'This Is My Country.' ''

'Most Inappropriate'

In view of all this, Judge Gesell said, ''I have concluded that it will be most
inappropriate to authorize televising of the naturalization service suggested
for the Jefferson Memorial on July 3.''

Judge Gesell said that naturalization was ''a formal court proceeding,'' and he
added: ''Motions are made by the Government. The oath has to be administered in
a particular way.''

In the oath of citizenship, an alien promises to support the Constitution of the
United States and to renounce allegiance to ''any foreign prince, potentate,
state or sovereignty.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              278 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 29, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

America In the Mind of Israel

SECTION: Section 6; Page 58, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 221 words


In his article ''America in the Mind of Israel'' (May 25), Thomas L. Friedman
suggests that young Israelis would stay in Israel - rather than immigrate to the
United States - if Israel would make itself more attractive by freeing itself
from the influence of ''ultra-Orthodox messianic Jews [and] right-wing
extremists, such as Rabbi Meir Kahane.''

Yet it is precisely these ''ultra-Orthodox'' and followers of Rabbi Kahane who
remain in Israel despite its economic hardships, while secular and liberal
Israelis succumb to the lure of materialism that the West offers. The reason for
this lies in the nature of the Israeli educational system. Israel's elementary
and high-school curriculums were designed under the Labor Party regime that
governed Israel throughout its first 29 years. The Laborites, as secularists and
socialists, played down traditional Jewish values and emphasized, instead, the
importance of material progress. Young Israelis, following this ideology to its
natural conclusion, realize that there is more opportunity for material progress
in the West than there is in the Middle East. Hence, they migrate. The only way
to stem the tide of migration is to infuse the Israeli educational system with a
hearty dose of traditional Judaism. R. BEN-CHAIM Department of Information KACH
Movement Jerusalem

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of parade participants carrying Israeli and American flags (Ricki
Rosen/Sipa-Special Features)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              279 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 29, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CABLE TV NOTES;
FROM MANY SOURCES, CELEBRATIONS OF THE COUNTRY'S DIVERSITY

BYLINE: By Steve Schneider; Steve Schneider regularly reports on developments in
cable.

SECTION: Section 2; Page 26, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1413 words


The outsized tribute and the extravagant gesture seem to be setting the tone for
the Centennial Celebration of the Statue of Liberty this coming weekend. Joining
in the festivities is CUNY-TV, the television facility of the City University of
New York, which is pre-empting more than five days of its schedule with dramas,
documentaries and discussions devoted to immigrants in America -their origins,
their aspirations, their experiences here and their contributions to American
culture. CUNY-TV is carried on Channel A in Manhattan.

The programming begins tonight at 8 with the first hourlong episode of
''Destination America,'' a nine-part series produced by Britain's Thames
Television in 1975, which focuses on various immigrant groups from Europe and
their lives in the United States. Tonight's offering, ''Old World, New World,''
is an overview of the 16 million immigrants who passed through Ellis Island.
Subsequent chapters will look at newcomers from, among other countries, Ireland
(Monday at 1 P.M. and Friday at 2 P.M.), Germany (Tuesday at 1 P.M. and Friday
at 4 P.M.), Italy (Tuesday at 8 P.M. and Friday at 5 P.M.) and Poland (Wednesday
at 8 P.M. and Friday at 7 P.M.).

Also this evening, at 9:30, is ''Hester Street,'' Joan Micklin Silver's 1975
drama about a young Jewish couple staking their claim on a piece, however
humble, of Manhattan's Lower East Side at the turn of the century. The film,
which will be repeated Wednesday at 2 P.M., Thursday at 9 P.M. and Friday at 10
P.M., stars Carol Kane and Steven Keats. At 10:30 P.M., an installment of ''CUNY
Conversations,'' a monthly hourlong show, will feature City University
Chancellor Joseph S. Murphy discussing the subject of immigration with Irving
Howe, author of such books as ''World of Our Fathers.'' This program will be
rebroadcast Wednesday at 3:30 P.M. and Friday at noon.

Starting tomorrow, and continuing through Friday, CUNY-TV will devote its entire
noon-to-midnight schedule to immigration. Among the high points is ''The New
Immigrants,'' six half-hour segments produced in 1979 by WNET that profile
groups that have recently immigrated to New York, including Koreans (Monday at
noon and Thursday at 7:30 P.M.), Jamaicans (tomorrow at 7:30 P.M. and Thursday
at noon) and Israelis (Wednesday at 7:30 P.M.).

Also noteworthy is ''Reflections: Puerto Rican Culture and History,'' a series
of five 30-minute documentaries produced by the New York State Education
Department in 1981. The programs explore such subjects as the tradition of the
extended family in Puerto Rican life (Wednesday at 12:30 P.M.) and provide an
unsentimental portrait of a Puerto Rican ghetto (Tuesday at 12:30 P.M. and
Thursday at 6 P.M.).

''The festival is meant as a celebration of the diversity of this country and
particularly of New York City,'' Robert S. Hirschfield, director of CUNY-TV,
said of the upcoming shows. ''Virtually all of the programs attempt to indicate
that while there were many specific reasons for immigration, the search for a
freer and a better life underlies all of them. And all in all, the American
society has allowed for this.''

Yet Dr. Hirschfield also pointed out that the festival was designed to reveal
the underside of the immigrant experience - the discrimination and struggle that
was often part of the immigrant's lot. For example, ''Invisible Citizens -
Japanese Americans,'' an hourlong 1984 production by Downtown Community
Television that will be screened Tuesday at 6:30 P.M. and Wednesday at 9 P.M.,
explores the plight of Japanese-Americans who were relocated to internment camps
during World War II. And ''Chinatown: Immigrants in America,'' to be shown
tomorrow at 6:30 P.M., Tuesday at 3:30 P.M. and Wednesday at 10 P.M., deals with
problems in such areas as housing and employment in New York's Chinatown. The
60-minute documentary was produced by Jon Alpert in 1976.

These programs demonstrate, Dr. Hirschfield said, that frequently ''the American
dream is not easily come by. But many persevered nonetheless, and that's part of
the story. For them, it certainly has not been idyllic - heroic, maybe, not
idyllic.''

The Melting Pot

In his 1985 film ''Alamo Bay,'' the director Louis Malle explored in a dramatic
context the effect of Vietnamese immigration on a coastal town in Texas. In
''And the Pursuit of Happiness,'' HBO's latest ''America Undercover''
presentation, Mr. Malle turns to the documentary form for a broader look at
immigration - how newly arrived Latin Americans, Asians and Africans around the
country interact with their new American communities. The 90-minute film will
have its debut Friday at 8 P.M.

''After Hollywood - with all the actors and producers - sometimes you need to
get back to the real world,'' said Mr. Malle, who was born in France and came to
the United States to work 10 years ago. But on another level, he added, the film
represents an act of self-discovery. ''I've been through some of the things that
these people have,'' he said, ''and I've always asked myself, 'What am I doing
here?' ''

Thus, he noted, one of the documentary's principal concerns is how America and
its values have affected its adoptive population. In the home of an East Indian
family now living in San Jose, a barbecue pit has been converted into a shrine,
and the children play video games with perhaps more zeal than they practice
their traditional Indian musical instruments. The daughter of a Laotian refugee
in Southern California prefers pizza to her native food. And the brother of the
deposed Nicaraguan ruler, Anastasio Somoza, living in exile in an affluent Miami
suburb, spends his time tending his garden and watching Mexican soap operas,
while his three sons try to establish themselves by operating restaurants.

''I think we developed a closer rapport when they found out I was not an
American citizen, and I also think it made it easier for me to ask the right
questions,'' Mr. Malle said. ''The secret of this kind of film making is to
first become friends with the people you're filming.''

Fancying the Plain

Perhaps the most surprising thing about ''The Amish: Not to Be Modern,'' is that
it exists at all. The hourlong documentary, which receives its American
television premiere Wednesday at 9 P.M. on Arts & Entertainment, penetrates the
insular world of the Amish people in north-central Ohio, an agrarian community
descended from 16th-century Swiss Anabaptists.

Their steadfast adherence to Biblical doctrine usually forbids photographing any
aspects of their lives -pictures are considered ''graven images'' and thus not
allowed. But after living within the community for several months in 1983 and
1984, Victoria Larimore and Michael Taylor, two independent film makers,
persuaded these very tradition-minded people that a documentary film could
portray them accurately and sympathetically.

By examining Amish life through the four seasons of the year, the film gives a
sense of the community's closeness to the land and to nature, as well as many of
its daily practices. We see a father and his son husking corn, a group of
neighbors making hay, an elderly woman sewing quilts and the bustle of a horse
auction. Throughout, the Amish are given an opportunity to speak - and sing -
for themselves, providing the narration and the traditional hymns that fill out
the sound track.

Part of what distinguishes the Amish, Miss Larimore said, is ''their gradual and
very systematic use of technology. They question every little thing - how it
will affect the community and how it conforms to their religious requirements.''
And herein lies some of the film's lessons, she believes - ''how our
unquestioning acceptance of technology can be very dangerous, and what we may be
losing because of it.''

Channel Hopping

''Slow Burn,'' an original Showtime film based on the Arthur Lyons mystery novel
''Castles Burning,'' has its premiere tonight at 8. Set in Palm Springs, Calif.,
this homage to film noir stars Eric Roberts as a newspaperman-turned-detective
and Beverly D'Angelo as an affluent businessman's wife, in a plot that mixes
kidnapping, drug dealing and romance . . . Willie Nelson, Neil Young, Alabama,
Dave Mason, Rita Coolidge and Arlo Guthrie are among more than 25 performers in
''Farm Aid II: The Picnic,'' a concert on behalf of America's needy farmers that
VH-1 will broadcast live from the University of Texas Memorial Stadium, from
Friday at 9:30 A.M. to Saturday at 1:30 A.M.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Cambodian immigrants

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              280 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 2, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

KOCH PRESENTS LIBERTY AWARDS TO 86 IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By JOYCE PURNICK

SECTION: Section B; Page 5, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 819 words


The Statue of Liberty centennial celebration made its unofficial debut
yesterday, at a good-natured ceremony marked by the rumpled charm of New York
relaxed.

The event was Mayor Koch's presentation of New York City's Liberty Awards to 86
immigrants, and it was Mayor Koch's idea. Critical of Liberty Weekend official
organizers, who selected only a dozen prominent naturalized citizens to be
honored this weekend - ''idiotic'' the Mayor called the original list, saying it
was not representative of enough ethnic groups - he decided to play host to his
own awards ceremony.

''To award such excellence, to say thank you to so many who have come here both
to do their best and to make this city the best, is what these liberty medals
are all about,'' the Mayor said, standing on a wooden podium at the Eisenhower
War Memorial in Battery Park, the Statue of Liberty serving as his backdrop.

He did not mention the other awards, the 12, but did not have to. It did not
escape notice yesterday at the sun-drenched tip of Manhattan Island that the
Mayor's ceremony was held two days before the official start of Liberty Weekend,
when President Reagan is to relight the Statue of Liberty.

If such events can be, however, the mayoral awards ceremony was nonpolitical.

Sitting before him was an audience of well-wishers, guests and family members as
diverse as the award-recipients - young people wearing red white and blue caps,
women in aqua and magenta saris, men in business suits, children waving American
flags.

Seated behind the Mayor were the award recipients, men and women who have
succeeded at everything from scientific research and journalism to banking,
fashion designing and ballet dancing. They were selected from thousands of
candidates, chosen by the Mayor and his Ethnic Advisory Council as people who
have made a major contribution to New York and the United States. (The full list
of winners appeared in The New York Times last Thursday.) From 50 Countries
Joining the winners was the commonality of establishing themselves in a city
that is as competitive as it is diverse, and doing so after emigrating from 50
different countries. ''I spent part of the time thinking of coming here on the
S.S. Bremen in 1939,'' the director Mike Nichols, who came from Germany,
recalled after the ceremony.

Throughout, pomp and circumstance were at a minimum at the occasion, replaced by
an informality (at times an unintentional one) that gave the ceremony the kind
of humorous touch rarely associated with such events. The tone was set at the
beginning, with ''The Star-Spangled Banner.'' The pianist played the first six
notes several times, in different keys. But the singer, Bebe Neuwirth, never
began to sing.

Mayor Koch shrugged, smiled, looked puzzled and eventually turned to one of the
award-recipients who was sitting on the platform, Cely Carillo Onrubia, and
asked her to sing the national anthem. ''In C, please,'' she told the pianist,
and then belted it out.

According to a mayoral aide, Herb Rickman, Ms. Neuwirth's regular accompanist
did not appear so a substitute was warming up when Ms. Onrubia, an actress and
singer originally from the Philippines, was called upon to step in.

''In a way the start of the ceremony is sort of reflective of how America
works,'' the Mayor said with a laugh. ''It works well.'' It also works with some
disorder at times.

That became even clear a few minutes later, when many of the engraved medals
were given to the wrong people. For instance, Geraldine Fitzgerald, the actress
(Ireland), got the medal that was supposed to go to Patrick Ewing, the
basketball player (Jamaica). A. M. Rosenthal, executive editor of The New York
Times (Canada), said that for ''10 glorious minutes'' he was Archbishop Torkom
Manoogian, primate of the Diocese of the Armenian Church in America. Ved Mehta,
the writer (India), got a medal meant for Rabbi Leo Jung, a Talmud scholar
(Czechoslovakia).

The mix-ups, which were all eventually resolved, seemed to tickle a lot of the
award recipients, who wound up socializing a bit more with their colleagues up
on the platform than they counted on, since they had to find and exchange
medals.

Even the fireworks, by the Grucci family, were a bit delayed, but nobody seemed
to mind, particularly when tiny American flags on parachutes floated out of the
sky.

The only negative note involved the artist Claes Oldenberg (Sweden). He did not
attend the ceremony because he rejected his award.

His wife, Coosje van Bruggen, said in a telephone interview that her husband did
so because he did not think there should be a distinction drawn between older
and newer generations of citizens, and because ''he did not want to accept
support from an administration supporting a nuclear harbor for New York.'' That
was a reference to the Mayor's support for stationing battleships that can carry
nuclear weapons on Staten Island.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              281 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 2, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

TO BE A CITIZEN: NEWCOMERS' QUEST

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1860 words


In this week of parades, celebrations and spectaculars, there are to be short
and simple ceremonies rich with meaning. Across the country today, tomorrow and
Friday, some 26,000 immigrants will raise their right hand, renounce their
loyalty to the lands of their birth and swear an oath of allegiance to a new
country - the United States of America.

Almost all Americans, of course, were immigrants or the descendants of
immigrants - some who came by choice, some driven here by hate, some pulled from
their homeland against their will.

With each new citizen comes a story, a saga, really, of flight or quest, of love
or lament.

What follows are the stories of four people who will this week become Americans:
Armand Amzallag from Morocco, Mikhail Chernyak from Russia, Diego Bautista from
Colombia and Thanh Quoc Lam from Vietnam.

JOURNEY FROM COLOMBIA

MIAMI, July 1 - Diego Bautista's American odyssey began on a hot day in
September 1969 when, with his brothers and three sisters, he said goodbye to his
grandparents and boarded a plane in Cali, Colombia. By nightfall the children
were in Jersey City, taking stock of the gritty tenement apartment rented by
their mother, a worker in a knitwear factory.

''It was a lonely, scary adventure,'' recalls Mr. Bautista, now a 29-year-old
cameraman for a Spanish-language television station here. ''For two years I
begged my mother to let me return to my home in Colombia.''

His mother, long divorced from her Colombian husband, worked making sweaters in
a factory beside a railroad track. She had saved her money and yearned for her
children.

When her son pleaded to return, she told him to be patient. Things would get
better, she promised.

On Thursday, her prophecy will be fulfilled. Diego Bautista is to take his place
in the Orange Bowl along with 14,000 other men, women and children and take the
oath of citizenship.

Most of those who will be in the stadium are Cubans who fled the regime of Fidel
Castro. Others, like Mr. Bautista, are Hispanic people from across the Western
hemisphere who came to the United States seeking economic opportunity after a
1965 change in immigration laws relaxed barriers.

''When I was a boy in Cali,'' Mr. Bautista says, ''it was the dream of everyone
to go to the United States. My mother went first with two of my aunts to find
work. Then we were sent for. After that, it seems like we were going to the
airport every week to greet aunts and cousins.''

The seven children in his family went to college, he said. Five of the siblings
have married, all to other Colombians. Mr. Bautista followed his fiancee's
family to Miami in 1980.

In Miami, he said, ''It was strange to hear everyone speak Spanish and see all
the signs in Spanish.''

''On my first visit back to New York a lady dropped a package, and I said
something to her in Spanish and I was surprised when she had no idea what I was
saying,'' he said.

Mr. Bautista and his wife, Maria, were married in 1981 and live with their
2-month-old son, Alexandrio, in the suburb of Pembroke Pines. Today they seem
well settled.

''When I was a young scared boy living in Jersey City,'' he said, ''a teacher
said this to me, 'Once you start thinking in English you will know you are an
American.' In my mind, I have been an American a very long time.''

FLEEING MOROCCO

Armand Amzallag says he was caught in the tensions of the times.

In 1967, during the bitter fighting of the Six Day War, Mr. Amzallag - the son
of a family of Moroccan Jews who had survived and sometimes prospered for 700
years in an Arab world -heard a Moslem friend praise the Arabs for taking the
lives of so many Israelis.

''That's when I realized what was going on,'' he said. That's when the growing
tensions between the Moslems and Jews of Morocco began to prompt tens of
thousands of Jews to leave.

''I knew that sooner or later, I had to leave,'' Mr. Amzallag said. Tomorrow,
Mr. Amzallag, a real estate broker who lives in Manhattan, will be sworn in as
an American citizen. And for him, the timing of the oath -as America celebrates
the centennial of the Statue of Liberty - is no coincidence.

''I really wanted it to be special,'' he said. ''I planned to have it this
way.''

Last year, when Mr. Amzallag read about the pageantry planned for this week, he
decided to time his application for citizenship with the centennial. And he
wrote to the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service telling them
of his plans.

''The woman at immigration, she said, 'No way,' '' he recalled. ''She threw the
letter away.''

Mr. Amzallag is not sure why his wish was ultimately granted. He simply
attributes his good fortune to chance. ''I'm very excited,'' he said. ''My wife,
she's even more excited.'' After studying management for several years in Paris,
Mr. Amzallag arrived in this country in 1979, joining relatives. He knew a
little English and had less money, so he went to work for a cousin who was an
antique dealer.

He later got a job with a Manhattan real estate agency and last year, started
his own agency.

And four months ago, he and his wife, Kim, opened a store in Manhattan, modeled
on a popular Parisian concept, which combines shoe repairs, key making and
printing under one roof. He met his wife, an American, two years ago playing
volleyball in Central Park.

''When I think of what I had when I arrived - the opportunity is really there,''
he said.

What has most impressed Mr. Amzallag in America, he said, is the country's
commitment to religious freedom. In New York, he said, ''you can wear a
yarmulke, you can do anything. When you come to the U.S., you feel free, you
really do.''

FAMILY'S FREEDOM

ST. LOUIS - Mikhail Chernyak and his wife, Bella, left the Soviet Union five
years ago, driven from their homeland by hate, drawn to a new country by
promise.

''The discrimination that my family and I faced as Jews in Russia was too
difficult to bear,'' said Mr. Chernyak, who is 45 years old. ''I did not want my
daughters growing up with that hatred.''

Along with 300 other immigrants in St. Louis, the Chernyaks will be sworn in as
American citizens Thursday evening on the steps of the Old Courthouse in St.
Louis as part of the nationally televised swearing-in ceremony.

He is now employed by Mallinckrodt Inc. as an expert in cyclotron technology and
lives with his wife, 44, and two daughters, Ludmila, 14, and Svetlana, 7, in a
ranch-style, suburban home. He bought it last year -the American way, he said,
on credit.

''If you have money in America,'' he said, ''you can go anywhere. You don't have
to ask permission.''

The family - Mr. Chernyak, his wife, children and wife's parents -applied twice
for permission to emigrate from Bobruisk, where all of them had been living in a
two-bedroom apartment.

''This is a dream,'' said Mr. Chernyak, looking around the stucco family room of
his new home in Creve Coeur. ''In Russia, I waited nine years to get my own
apartment and was turned down. We lived with my parents-in-law, six of us in a
two-bedroom apartment. Now we come here and we have all this room.''

Mr. Chernyak attended a military school in Russia. As the only Jew in his
platoon, he said, he became a target for barbs and insults.

''Anything that went wrong in the country was automatically blamed on the
Jews,'' he said. ''It was 'dirty Jew' this. Jews were made out to be evil,
bad.''

Mr. Chernyak says he is not a religious man. He does not attend synagogue or
take part in formal services. ''I am an atheist,'' he said. ''Being Jewish is my
nationality. I do not want to hide that. I never want to hide that or feel I
have to. I am proud of my heritage.''

He says he wants his children to ''become good citizens with good moral
standards.'' His eldest daughter listened as he spoke, and she smiled.

''Listen to her,'' he said to a visitor. ''The children are truly Americans
-they speak English without an accent.''

After he and his wife take the oath of citizenship, their children automatically
become American citizens. The Chernyaks plan to celebrate with an elaborate
party at their home. But the joy will be mixed.

''I am excited about becoming an American citizen, but we are alone here,'' he
said. Although his wife's family came to St. Louis with the Chernyaks, his
81-year-old mother, older sister and other relatives remain in Russia.

''I want my children to have some connections with my mother,'' Mr. Chernyak
said. ''A telephone is something that she can only dream about there. I wish so
I could bring my family here, but I think that is impossible.''

VIETNAM REFUGEES

SAN DIEGO - He was a child when he fled the war, 10 years old, a child of the
boats. They made their way to the harbor in Saigon, while the enemy moved on the
city's gates. There were six - Thanh Quoc Lam, his mother, three of his brothers
and a sister.

Mr. Lam is now a 21-year-old electrical engineering student at San Diego State
University, and he, with 580 other immigrants, will become an American citizen
on Thursday at a ceremony at the Cabrillo Monument.

Mr. Lam, who lived with his parents and 11 brothers and sisters in a suburb of
Saigon, saw very little of the devastation of the war, he said.

''When we left Saigon, we didn't know where we were going,'' he said. ''I didn't
know what was going on.'' Each member of the family took only a duffle bag full
of posessions with him. ''We thought we would stay for only a month or two like
we had once before,'' Mr. Lam said. ''My mother would never have left her other
six children behind if she thought she wasn't coming back.''

They fought to board the fishing boat in the harbor, the boat packed with 4,000
other refugees. ''It was scary,'' Mr. Lam said. ''The waves were high, and we
started taking on water in the engine room. The captain kept ordering us from
one side of the boat to another.''

After they spent three days at sea with no food, but plenty of fresh water, a
Danish ship picked up the refugees from the water-ravaged fishing boat and
brought them to Hong Kong.

Mr. Lam's memories of the refugee camps - one in Hong Kong and one later at Fort
Chafee, Ark. - are the memories of a child. It was fun, he said. ''There were
other families around, so there were other children to play with.''

The family found a sponsor in the First Christ Reformed Church at Oskaloosa,
Iowa. The church provided clothing and a place to live, Mr. Lam said.

Asylum, however, does not always carry good fortune with it. One of Mr. Lam's
older brothers died in an automobile accident shortly after they arrived in the
United States. And in 1977, Mr. Lam's mother, Tam Thi Biu, died of a heart
attack.

Mr. Lam plans some day to marry and begin a family. He said he hopes citizenship
will be the tool to bring his 67-year-old father to America. He hopes to sponsor
his father and a brother in Canada.

''I still have two brothers who are missing,'' he added.

He talks about visiting Vietnam, but feels he is too much the American to make a
home there.

''It's a big change to move here from Vietnam, a different life style,'' he
said. ''I think it would be even harder to go back.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Bella and Mikhail Chernyak (NYT/Bill Stover); photo of Armand
Amzallag (NYT/Kim Garnick); photo of Diego Bautista (NYT/Susan Greenwood); photo
of Thanh Quoc Lam (NYT/Robert Burroughs)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              282 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 2, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

CITY PRESENTS LIBERTY AWARDS:

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 30 words


With Statue of Liberty and barge for Friday fireworks in background, Mayor Koch
officiated yesterday at ceremony honoring 86 prominent immigrants. Page B5.
(NYT/Neal Boenzi)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              283 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 3, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

No Celebrations For Some Immigrants

BYLINE: By Charles Gordon and Maurice A. Roberts; Charles Gordon was general
counsel of the Immigration and Naturalization Service from 1966 to 1974. Maurice
A. Roberts was chairman of the Board of Immigration Appeals from 1968 to 1974.

SECTION: Section A; Page 31, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 694 words


Tomorrow, amid a good deal of hoopla, we will rededicate the Statue of Liberty,
one of our most cherished national symbols. Yet even as the fireworks go off in
New York Harbor, thousands of refugees seeking asylum in this country will be
languishing in detention centers, awaiting consideration of their cases by the
Immigration and Nationalization Service.

The increasing numbers of such incarcerated asylum seekers - there are said to
be thousands - represent a sad betrayal of our tradition of providing refuge to
the poor and oppressed of all nations. Our rhetoric of compassion has been all
but forgotten in practice.

Virtually all foreigners without valid passports who arrive in America seeking
asylum are now automatically incarcerated - even when there is no suggestion
that they have a criminal history and even if they can show that they will not
abscond or pose a security threat. These newcomers are imprisoned in facilities,
including local jails, owned or leased by the Immigration Service.

There are nine immigration prisons in seven states with a total capacity of more
than 5,000 people. Hundreds of asylum seekers - they include Haitians,
Salvadorans, Guatemalans, Nicaraguans, Iranians and even Afghans - are now being
transferred from these makeshift prisons to a large, new facility in the
isolated town of Oakdale, La., where they will almost surely have no access to a
lawyer. In the last three months, some 2,000 have been deported from Oakdale.

Detainees, most of whom do not speak English, are isolated from family and
friends and are unable to communicate with lawyers, other detainees or sometimes
even with the authorities. Physical conditions of confinement, documented in
detail in a report released last week by the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights
and Helsinki Watch, vary widely but are generally similar to jail conditions.
Facilities designed as short-term detention processing centers are used
increasingly to incarcerate long-term detainees. Boredom is excruciating.
Overcrowding is a recurrent problem. Hunger strikes, riots and even suicides are
increasingly commonplace.

This policy is as illogical as it is inhumane. By requiring detention of
everyone without travel documents, it falls most harshly on these fleeing
persecution. It would be bizarre to expect, say, an Afghan refugee to obtain a
passport from the Soviet authorities in Kabul. But the policy is also an
invitation to injustice, especially when it is applied to people who pose no
threat to our society and are not likely to run away while they await
consideration of their asylum application.

How did we come to this sad juncture? The new policy arose in response to the
influx of Cubans and Haitians in the early 1980's - and represented a symbolic
effort by the Reagan Administration to show that it had gotten control of our
borders. The detention of more than 3,000 Haitians was a dramatic gesture aimed
in part at appeasing domestic critics frustrated by lax immigration policies.
Now, however, immigration authorities concede that there is no backlog of asylum
cases to be adjudicated. Nor is the detention policy deterring Central American,
Afghan or other refugees from coming to America.

What's needed is a more humane policy, a policy that does not rely on prolonged
and arbitrary detention. Instead of seeking to deter refugees, the United States
should encourage those who seek refuge to apply for asylum while living and
working at liberty. Instead of being forced to languish in prison until they
give up hope and go home, they should be allowed to prepare their cases
properly, with adequate access to legal counsel, and we should make a good-faith
effort to determine which ones qualify for asylum.

The Administration's detention policy violates our refugee statutes, which are
based on the United Nations Refugee Protocol, by creating a right to seek asylum
and then penalizing people who avail themselves of that right. The policy also
shows a serious disregard of the right to seek refuge - a basic human right,
once at the center of our American tradition and celebrated this week by the
Statute of Liberty rededication.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              284 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 6, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

LIBERTY WEEKEND/THE FESTIVAL;
A CHEERFUL CELEBRATION OF THE GOOD-HEARTED AMERICAN IDYLL

BYLINE: By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 17, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 755 words


Amid the joyous jumble that was lower Manhattan this weekend, an Indian
immigrant named Shailesh Patel was frantically unpacking boxes of Statue of
Liberty T-shirts. He did not have a free second to look up from his newsstand
and admire the statue itself, not so far away in the harbor.

A passer-by asked Mr. Patel if he minded working while everyone else celebrated.
''No, no way,'' the 25-year-old answered. ''My business has no holiday. Seven
days. Long hours.'' What Mr. Patel's experience and his words remind us is that
this weekend America saluted an immigrant heritage that is ongoing and dynamic.
It is not some dusty museum piece, a 90-year-old from the old country trotted
out to polite applause, but a vibrant and replenishing part of society, central
to American history and American mythology.

Role as Refuge

The 1976 Bicentennial festivities may have played a more healing role, coming
with the country still divided by Watergate and the Vietnam War and New York
shaken by the fiscal crisis. But in a nation that for all its fissures exudes a
reborn confidence, and in a city renewed by a foreign-born population
approaching 40 percent, Liberty Weekend appealed to a different part of the
collective psyche, America's role as refuge.

Whatever the formal events proved to be -a spellbinding spectacle of fireworks
and tall ships, and a triumph of logistics besides -the less calculated side of
the holiday offered the most genuinely moving tableaux. When Liberty Weekend was
most lighthearted, it was most profound.

'There's a Brotherhood'

A Vietnamese refugee and his family drove overnight from Boston to get to
Battery Park for Independence Day. A Sikh man in his turban posed for a portrait
next to a war monument. A Hasidic woman strolled through a street fair, wearing
a long dark skirt, a blue kerchief and a button saying ''I H NY,'' with a
photograph of Miss Liberty inside the heart.

When one could wander through the Harbor Festival from gyros to burrito and from
polka to calypso, when one could watch a half-dozen blue-eyed blonds dance to
the sound of Puerto Rican jibaro, a music many of them had never heard before,
the easy commingling of so many ethnic pasts offered a vision of the American
idyll, a country as compassionate and good-humored as anyone could desire.

In a nation without a state religion, Liberty Weekend amounted to a convocation
of a common secular faith. And that cut two ways. Religion can be as
oppressively regimented as some of the events were. Or it can be as surprisingly
stirring as the individual discovery, or rediscovery, of devotion.

These last days have been filled with stories of newcomers who found themselves
swept with tears, of native-born families who raised their hands along with the
immigrants being sworn in as citizens, of subway passengers spontaneously
bursting into patriotic song.

Issues Remain

And what happens, it is fair to ask, when the party is over? All the old issues
remain, from the racial and sectarian strife that pit man against man to the
bitter and complex national debate about immigration policy. All the fun solves
none of the problems. But this weekend was not meant to answer any questions. It
provided a beautiful pause in such deliberations and a chance to think of how
much we share. The Statue of Liberty extended a promise, but not the guarantee
that it would be met. And that is why amid revelry some feel frustration,
betrayal and rage.

Immigrants keep the promise alive and in daylight - not only their promise, but
ours. When 25,000 newcomers all around the country recited the oath of
citizenship on Thursday night - people with names like Thanh Tran, Riva Sagalova
and Illuminada Rodriguez - they represented all who had preceded them and all
who would follow.

For the aspiration and verve and toil that every immigrant brings to America
seems to abate a bit with each generation down the line. Nobody works so hard as
his parent or grandparent who first reached this land. Nobody is ever as
selfless again. The United States will never mean quite so much to the little
American-born children one saw attending the festivities as to the foreign-born
parents who held their hands.

Mr. Patel was too busy becoming an American this weekend to toast the idea; but
he was integral to it. For the immigrant does more than work on everyone else's
day off. The Indian newsdealer, the Haitian cabby, the Greek cook - with their
energy and their dreams, they nourish and redeem a nation's soul.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              285 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 8, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

PLAN FOR ELLIS ISLAND DEVELOPMENT STILL IN QUESTION

BYLINE: By MARTIN GOTTLIEB

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 962 words


Even amid the euphoria of Liberty Weekend, officials continued debating one
unanswered question of the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island restoration effort:
what to do with the former hospital buildings and wards on the 17 acres of Ellis
Island nearest Liberty Island.

One proposal for the buildings, which are severely deteriorated, calls for
rehabilitating them as a privately financed conference center that would provide
tourist accommodations in the summer. The National Park Service favors this
plan.

A second proposal, calling for what has been characterized as an ''ethnic
Williamsburg,'' originally proposed demolishing many of the buildings. A
revision of that plan would save the buildings and add a large new structure to
display immigrant contributions to this country.

Other plans for the site, which is separated by a ferry slip from the Great Hall
of the island, have mentioned an arts center, an Immigration and Naturalization
Service training center, and replacing the buildings with a park.

The debate at times has been so explosive that Lee A. Iacocca, the chairman of
the private foundation that has raised $277 million for the rebuilding, blames
it for his dismissal as chairman of a Federal advisory commission considering
the issue. Interior Secretary Donald P. Hodel, who dismissed him, disputes this.


Planning Called Difficult

''I think planning for Ellis Island is as difficult as shaping immigration
policy,'' said the National Park Service's project manager for Ellis Island,
Michael Adlerstein.

''Unlike the Statue of Liberty, which has clear unstainable symbolism as
standing for liberty and freedom and so many of the things we don't question,
Ellis Island represents the steerage class immigrant,'' Mr. Adlerstein said,
''and I think Americans, like citizens of all countries, have always maintained
ambivalent feelings toward immigrants.''

Over the last 30 years, the Government has rejected more than 50 plans to sell
Ellis Island or to use it for purposes ranging from a drug treatment center to
time-share condominiums.

A consensus has been reached over its core - the northern 10 acres that include
the Great Hall. The Hall, designed at the turn of the century by the firm of
Boring & Tilton, is being restored with more than $100 million from the Statue
of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation and will house a museum.

As for the rest of the island, Armen G. Avedisian, a businessman appointed by
Mr. Hodel to replace Mr. Iacocca, said: ''Many people look upon Ellis Island as
a shrine, and they wish and they hope that nothing is done to detract from what
it stands for as a national symbol of immigration. They don't want
commercialism.''

Plan Wins Competition

One focus of the debate is whether the development on the hospital site should
be self-sustaining, such as the proposed conference center, or a public
attraction, such as the proposed exhibition center.

In 1982, the proposal for the conference center won a Park Service-sponsored
competition for private development of the island's southern half. Some original
features, however, including a swimming pool and a marina, were removed from the
plan.

The $75 million plan, by a New York-based group called the Center for Housing
Partnerships, now calls for 300 hotel rooms and two dozen conference rooms,
financed through a combination of Federal grants, bank loans and tax shelter
investments possible under the Historic Preservation Act of 1981.

Widely endorsed by area Congressmen and groups concerned with Ellis Island, the
conference center would be operated by universities not yet chosen.

In 1983, before Interior Secretary James G. Watt could act on the Park Service
choice, Mr. Iacocca, newly named to head the Federal advisory commission, asked
that the panel be allowed to consider alternatives.

Iacocca's Reservations

Mr. Iacocca soon voiced strong reservations about the plan, which he described
as ''a tax break for the rich'' and ''a luxury hotel'' that would exclude
tourists from much of the island. He also said the plan had been chosen under
criteria designed more to free the Park Service from extra expense than to
result in the best possible use for the island.

But Herbert Cables, regional director for the Park Service, said, ''There was
never an intention to have a grand, lavish hotel facility over there.''

Mr. Iacocca asked the architect John Burgee to develop a concept in which
financing was no obstacle. The plan, which has gone through several changes, now
calls for building a large glass exhibition hall on a quadrangle between the
wards and hospital buildings. With the exhibits in the Great Hall and those in
the new building, Mr. Burgee said at a recent public presentation, Ellis Island
would reflect the entirety of the nation's immigrant experiences ''right up
until today's immigration problems.''

The plan is estimated to cost from $100 million to $150 million, but the prime
potential source of financing -Mr. Iacocca's ability to raise funds -dried up
after he was dismissed. Mr. Iacocca has said he is no longer interested in
getting directly involved on the south side of the island.

Meanwhile, critics have attacked the Burgee plan as heatedly as Mr. Iacocca has
attacked that for the conference center. They say, among other things, that it
would destroy the sense of place on the southern half of Ellis Island and that
its exhibits of ethnic arts and industries would be contrived versions of what
exists on the streets of New York and elsewhere.

At a harmonious meeting Saturday, the 50-person commission, made up largely of
business people, agreed to move slowly and to establish precise criteria by
which to make a choice that will be submitted to Mr. Hodel, possibly within the
year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Ellis Island (NYT/Jim Wilson)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              286 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 9, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

NEIGHBORS NOTED TRAITS OF VIOLENCE IN SUSPECT

BYLINE: By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1252 words


During nine years in the United States, Juan J. Gonzalez showed increasing signs
of violence and paranoia, those who knew him say, until those traits finally
erupted Monday, when, the police say, the Cuban refugee killed two people and
wounded nine others in a sword attack on the Staten Island ferry.

Yet he was a man who largely slipped through the cracks. With no living
relatives and few friends in this country he moved amid the boarding houses and
apartments of immigrant neighborhoods in three states. Until Monday he rarely
attracted more than the fear and disapproval of those around him.

Despite a pattern of violent and unpredictable behavior that seemed to escalate
over the years, Mr. Gonzalez was never treated in any New York State or city
hospital for a mental disorder until he entered Columbia-Presbyterian last week,
according to officials at that hospital. And then he was released on his own
promise, a promise he never kept, to seek outpatient services.

Despite arrests and convictions for 11 gambling offenses in New York City, Mr.
Gonzalez was never brought up for deportation by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. It remains unclear, in fact, if any of the crimes ever
came to the agency's attention.

'Just One of Many'

''He was just one of many aliens,'' said Walter Connery, the assistant district
director in charge of investigations for the immigration service. ''There's
nothing that would've brought him to our attention. Except for this incident.''

As Mr. Gonzalez was charged with murder and assault, the immigration service
Monday revoked his status as a legal alien and filed for his deportation. It was
the latest step in the 43-year-old Cuban's nine-year odyssey to and through the
United States, an odyssey recounted yesterday by acquaintances, neighbors and
public officials.

Mr. Gonzalez and seven other Cuban refugees reached Florida in a 13-foot rowboat
on March 21, 1977, two days after leaving their homeland. Mr. Gonzalez, who
reported to immigration authorities in Miami, received indefinite parole status,
allowing him to work and to get a Social Security card. He also qualified for
$120 a month in food and medical benefits from a private resettlement agency.

Ability With English

Mr. Gonzalez told the immigration service and two refugee resettlement programs
that he had been a farmer in Cuba. He said he had lived in Cerro, a
working-class district of Havana. He spoke ''fair English,'' according to an
immigration service report, suggesting he had some higher education.

But he was arriving in a nation where he knew virtually no one. He had one
cousin in Miami, Wilfredo Gonzalez, with whom he lived until October 1977.
Wilfredo Gonzalez died of a stroke in early 1984. Maria Gonzalez - who is not
related and who described herself as Wilfredo's best friend - yesterday recalled
Juan Gonzalez as ''nervioso,'' a Spanish word that can mean nervous, jumpy or
mildly disturbed.

''We didn't know whether to attribute this to the difficulty in adjusting to
American society,'' Ms. Gonzalez said through an interpreter, ''or whether he'd
been like that all the time.''

In October 1977, Juan Gonzalez told a Catholic refugee agency in Miami that he
wanted to go to New Jersey, where he said a friend had a job for him. He was
given an airplane ticket to Newark.

From Jersey to Manhattan

Mr. Gonzalez lived for about a year at 534 Fulton Street in Elizabeth, a rundown
residential area near Port Elizabeth. It is a transient neighborhood and
yesterday nobody interviewed in the building or on the 500 block of Fulton
Street could recall Mr. Gonzalez.

But it was not long before Mr. Gonzalez came to the attention of both the
authorities and his neighbors in the Washington Heights section of Manhattan, to
which he moved in 1978.

On Nov. 28, 1978, the New York police arrested Mr. Gonzalez on a charge of
fraudulent accosting and promotion of gambling. Like the 10 arrests to follow,
this was for running a three-card monte game in midtown Manhattan. And like the
other 10 offenses, Mr. Gonzalez pleaded guilty. He generally paid fines ranging
from $25 to $100, although on one occasion he served the maximum sentence of
four days in jail.

Yet Mr. Gonzalez's criminal record either never reached the immigration service
or was misplaced once it was there. Deputy Police Commissioner Alice T.
McGillion said yesterday that in six of the arrests, Mr. Gonzalez was identified
by the police as an alien, and department policy was to inform the immigration
service in such cases.

Role of Immigration Service

Mr. Connery of the immigration service, however, said there was no record there
of Mr. Gonzalez's criminal activities. ''It wouldn't be normal to call our
attention to it because of the minor nature of the crimes,'' he said. In the
case of an legal alien who commits misdemeanors, the immigration service makes a
judgment whether to seek deportation.

At the time Mr. Gonzalez's police record was building, his Washington Heights
neighbors began taking note of his odd and bellicose behavior. ''I heard him out
on the street saying he was going to kill people,'' said Nevarz Ricardo, whose
husband ran a dry cleaning store near Mr. Gonzalez's apartments in the
neighborood, first at 219 and then at 227 Audubon Avenue.

The former superintendent at 227 Audubon, who declined to give her name, said
Mr. Gonzalez was a quiet tenant who paid his rent on time. But on the streets,
she added, he often ''yelled and cursed at people'' in Spanish. The only job
anyone could recall Mr. Gonzalez having held was driving a gypsy cab in 1983.

During 1983, Mr. Gonzalez moved from bustling, working-class Washington Heights
to a two-room apartment at 163 W. 170th Street in the more depressed High Bridge
section of the Bronx. There his penchant for making violent threats became even
more pronounced, say the neighbors who were often on the receiving end.

Neighbors Worry About Threats

''He was dangerous to other human beings,'' Tony Cruz, the superintendent of the
building, said of Mr. Gonzalez. He said that on one occasion Mr. Gonzalez pulled
a gun on him, and that he also owned a knife and a length of pipe.

Mr. Cruz said that Mr. Gonzalez often claimed to have heard noises and voices -
a foreshadowing, perhaps, of what Mr. Gonzalez told police Monday were orders
from God to kill. ''I asked Gonzalez once about these voices,'' Mr. Cruz
recalled, ''and he began speaking in a strange voice. The guy was speaking in
tongues. I couldn't understand.''

Mr. Gonzalez left the $200-a-month High Bridge apartment without warning in
January, Mr. Cruz said. Among the belongings he left behind, the superintendent
added, were magazines about witchcraft and pictures of saints, possible
indications of an interest in Santeria, the Cuban mixture of Catholicism and
African polytheism.

From that point on, Mr. Gonzalez's whereabouts grew sketchy. He stayed on June
19 and July 1 at a city shelter for homeless men at 216 Fort Washington Avenue
in Manhattan. Last Thursday, shelter attendants said they saw him outside
shouting, ''I'm going to kill. God told me so.''

They called the police, who took Mr. Gonzalez to Columbia Presbyterian Hospital.
He was diagnosed as having a psychotic paranoid disorder, but he was released
July 5, when he promised to seek outpatient psychiatric aid from Harlem
Hospital. The path of his next days remain unclear, until the Monday morning he
boarded the Staten Island Ferry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Tony Cruz, superintendent of Bronx building where Juan
Gonzalez lived (NYT/Angel Franco)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              287 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 9, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

CUBA, IN IMMIGRATION CONCESSION, SAID TO DROP BAN ON A U.S. RADIO

BYLINE: By BERNARD GWERTZMAN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 793 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 8


As part of a possible agreement on reinstating an immigration accord with the
United States, Cuba is reported to have dropped its insistence that Washington
cease operations of Radio Marti, which broadcasts to Cuba, Administration
officials said today.

Instead, the Cubans indicated in advance of new negotiations that they are
seeking an agreement from the United States recognizing their right to broadcast
over an AM frequency in the United States to match the Voice of America's Radio
Marti transmissions, the officials said.

Negotiations began today in Mexico City on resuming the 1984 immigration accord
that was suspended last year by Fidel Castro, the Cuban leader, when Radio Marti
began broadcasting to Cuba.

Until now, the Cubans had insisted that the immigration accord could not be
reinstated until Radio Marti went off the air. No details on today's talks were
available, and it was unclear how long the talks might last.

Termed More Acceptable

The chief negotiators are Michael G. Kozak, principal deputy legal adviser of
the State Department, and Ricardo Alarcon de Quesada, the Cuban deputy foreign
minister. They negotiated the original accord.

The new approach on seeking access in the United States was described as more
acceptable by Administration officials, since there is no practical way of
stopping Cuba from broadcasting. One official said the United States was
prepared to have a joint statement recognizing the right of both countries to
broadcast, so long as it was consistent with the rules of the International
Telecommunications Union, which seeks to isure that one country's broadcasts do
not drown out another's.

The 1984 immigration accord, the only significant agreement between the Reagan
Administration and the Castro Government, was worked out in December 1984. It
provided for the repatriation to Cuba of 2,700 Cuban criminals and mental
patients, who came to this country as part of the 1980 boatlift from the Cuban
port of Mariel.

In return, the United States agreed to resume processing the emigration from
Cuba of 3,000 former political prisoners and to once again issue normal
immigration visas to as many as 20,000 Cubans a year.

Suspended in 1985

Mr. Castro, angered by the use of the name of Jose Marti, the Cuban independence
hero and poet, suspended the immigration accord on May 20, 1985, within hours of
Radio Marti's inaugural broadcasts. Radio Marti broadcasts news and
entertainment on the regular AM band, at 1180, as well as in short wave.

It replaced a regular Voice of America program for Latin America that had been
on AM. The regular Voice of America programs are meant to report about
developments in the United States, with a particular emphasis on relations with
Latin America. The Radio Marti programs are meant to serve as an alternate
domestic service for Cubans, much as Radio Free Europe serves Eastern Europe,
and Radio Liberty, the Soviet Union.

According to American officials, the Cubans signaled to Washington a desire this
spring to reinstate the immigration agreement. This was conveyed initially by
two sources. In Moscow, Soviet officials told American diplomats that Mr. Castro
had acknowledged to them that he had overreacted when Radio Marti began its
broadcasts.

And in Havana, an aide to Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts,
conveyed a letter from Mr. Kennedy to Mr. Castro urging that the immigration
accord be revived as a first step toward improving relations. Mr. Castro gave
the aide a letter for Mr. Kennedy that was in turn provided to Secretary of
State George P. Shultz, also indicating that Cuba was prepared to resume the
immigration accord.

Sensitive Negotiations

Because of fear that publicity might cause the Cubans to have second thoughts,
the United States has treated the negotiations with utmost sensitivity. The
State Department, for instance, has refused even to acknowledge publicly that
the talks began today.

American officials were particularly interested by what was apparently Cuba's
decision no longer to seek the closing down of Radio Marti. Mr. Castro had been
advised by Mr. Kennedy, an aide said, that there was wide bipartisan support in
Congress for Radio Marti and there was no point in seeking to have it closed.

The Cubans in recent weeks have also allowed the resumption of flights to Cuba
by Cuban-Americans visiting relatives, as an apparent sign of a desire to ease
relations, Administration officials said.

They have also freed additional political prisoners.

But officials said that they did not foresee at the moment any broadening of
relations, given the strong Cuban commitment to aiding the Sandinista Government
in Nicaragua and to providing 25,000 combat troops in Angola.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              288 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 15, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

THE REGION;
Facing Hearing, Alien Leaves U.S.

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 16, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 118 words

DATELINE: ROCHESTER, July 14


A Salvadoran facing a deportation hearing has apparently slipped out of the
United States along with his wife and children, according to members of a
movement to give sanctuary here to aliens.

The Salvadoran, Alejandro Gomez, apparently left the country over the weekend,
Isabel Morrison, a spokesman for the Rochester Sanctuary Committee, said today.

She said the family left a note saying they feared for their children's lives
and had lost faith in the legal measures to obtain asylum in the United States.

Benedict J. Ferro, director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Buffalo, said his agency will not continue deportation hearings if Mr. Gomez
does not return to the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              289 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 15, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

OUR TOWNS;
SKATING THROUGH BARRIERS IN AMERICA

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 944 words

DATELINE: MONSEY, N.Y., July 12


Poor kids? ''You get very few here,'' said Debbie Milne, a coach at the
Sport-o-rama figure-skating camp. ''I'll get a talented 6-year-old skater, and
when the parents realize the cost, they drop out. It's sad, because a lot of the
talented are not from the rich families.''

For a 15-year-old like Julia Simkin - considered top 20 in her age group
nationally - it costs about $25,000 a year for figure-skating lessons, ice time,
travel, equipment.

Julia's parents are Russian immigrants who cannot afford to keep their daughter
skating, but they do. It has become their obsession in America.

In Leningrad her father was Dr. Boris Simkin, but here he is Boris Simkin only.
Since immigrating in 1978, he has twice failed the medical board exams for
foreigners. His English was not the best and it was difficult to find time to
study while supporting a family.

He drove a taxi, assisted in autopsies at a city hospital, sold life insurance
to other Russian immigrants, and now, is working as a masseur. He has always
made a living in New York City, but not the living he and his wife, Alla, had
envisioned. They had heard the possibilities for a doctor in America were
unlimited.

Today, the Simkins live in the same Washington Heights apartment building they
moved to when they first immigrated. ''The view is the one thing,'' said Mr.
Simkin, pointing to his fifth-floor window that looks out over trees and
rooftops. ''At least we do not face a wall, thanks God.''

If Mr. and Mrs. Simkin have not achieved what they hoped for in this country,
they feel that in Julia, their only child, they have someone who might.

Julia can ice skate. They found out accidentally, six years ago. A social
worker, saying it was bad for the small girl to be cooped up in an apartment,
suggested the Riverdale skating rink on 238th Street. The family took the subway
uptown to see.

Very quickly it was apparent that Julia was good. The figure-skating medals
piled up in the little apartment. She seemed to have the will, too, waking at 5
A.M. to practice before school. Peter Burrows, who has trained such stars as
Dorothy Hamill, tells people that Julia Simkin has the potential to be an
Olympic contender.

The Simkins were familiar with the Soviet state-supported Olympic program. They
were not prepared for the American way.

For them, Julia's progress has been a dream and a nightmare all in one; the
better Julia did, the more it cost. ''We realize she need more and more and
more,'' said Mr. Simkin, ''like snowball, you know? We get so many debts, debts,
debts.''

They felt caught a second time. As Jews in the Soviet Union they knew their
daughter's future would always be limited; without money in America, it could be
too.

Mr. Simkin began visiting foundations and businesses, handing out a letter of
recommendation from Mr. Burrows and asking for money. He did not feel
embarrassed, he said, because it was for Julia: ''Our feeling, it's a crime if
you bring kid in a new country for the betterment and opportunities and then
stop. We'd rather kill ourselves.'' He got $600 one place, $200 another, $20
from his landlord. His employer, the New York Health and Racquet Club, decided
to start a foundation for Julia. ''It is big help, thanks God,'' said Mr.
Simkin, ''but still we have debts, debts, debts.''

Mr. Simkin has not had a vacation in America. Mrs. Simkin drives Julia
everywhere. They give her the one bedroom in the apartment, and sleep on the
fold-out couch in the living room. They try not to discuss finances when she is
around.

During the school year, Mrs. Simkin picks up Julia every day after classes in
their 1978 Chevy, and drives her to the Sport-o-rama rink in Monsey. The mother
sits and watches the whole practice, up to seven hours, and then drives Julia
home.

Mr. Simkin says he hasn't had much chance to watch her skate in recent months -
he's been so busy working. The summer skating camp in Monsey costs more than
$4,000.

Monsey is only an hour from the Simkins' by car, but it feels much farther. At
camp, Julia starts practicing at 7 A.M., goes until 1 o'clock, and then often
skates a few hours extra in the afternoon. In her free time she and her skating
friends go to the pool, play tennis or visit the mall nearby. She shares a
townhouse with nine other girls this summer.

''I don't even know how my parents do it financially,'' she said today after
practice. ''They really don't like discussing the financial problems with me.
They don't want me to think about it.''

''I'd feel guilty if I was wasting time,'' Julia said, ''because for my parents,
it's hard to pay for this. I sometimes get upset and say if it costs so much,
maybe I can do without a new skating dress for this competition. They say, 'no
no no.' ''

''A couple of girls here - I don't want to say names - it's like the only time
you see them working is when a pro is on the ice. Their parents are wealthy, so
maybe it doesn't matter but it's like a great deal of money being wasted.''

Her mother loves to watch her skate, Julia says. ''A few years ago when I was
13, I'd skate and then stop and talk to a friend. My mother'd say, 'Julia - it's
time to skate.' Now I'm older, she pretty much trusts me.''

Julia is asked if it feels like she has a responsibility to her parents. ''It
does,'' she said, ''What if I can't do it? My mother said that would be O.K.,
already I've accomplished a great deal. She said whatever I get out of it, she's
glad for me.

''We talk about it and they say they really don't care how they're looked at in
this country,'' Julia said. ''What they want is for me to get in the upper class
and have me represent them.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Julia Simkin (NYT/Alan Zale)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              290 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 17, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

GOING OUT GUIDE

BYLINE: By Richard F. Shepard

SECTION: Section C; Page 24, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 670 words


FESTA - The generally low-roofed Greenwich Village landscape is punctuated
majestically at Carmine and Bleecker Streets, near Avenue of the Americas, by
the tower-topped Church of Our Lady of Pompeii, built in 1926 when the
congregation's nearby church was torn down to make way for the IND subway on
Sixth Avenue. From today through July 27, the church will be even more of a
cynosure than usual by virtue of its 14th Festa Italiana that will occupy
Carmine Street all the way to Seventh Avenue South.

The church, which ministered to the Village's Italian community at its founding
in 1882, has always been responsive to its own culture and to some of the
culture of the artistic community amid which it lives. Its staff members,
priests of the Scalibrinian order, have also been concerned about immigration
questions. That is why this feast will have a dimension beyond the usual
food-and-games format of other such spectacles, although this will also be in
abundance.

In a lot next to the church, beneath a tent covering, there will be a free
exhibition of a hundred photos and several hundred slides that tell the story of
the immigrant experience. There are pictures of immigrant child bootblacks,
Sacco and Vanzetti, Joe DiMaggio, a street organ grinder, striking clothing
workers, anti-Fascist rallies and sheet music that perpetuated the Italian
stereotype. Open from 6 P.M. to midnight (Saturday from noon).

The Greenwich Village Chamber Orchestra, led by Kirk-Holger Bambeck, will give
two free concerts, one at 5 P.M. Sunday with Italian themes and another next
Thursday with American themes.

Information: 989-6805.

NO STRINGS

Lew Bunin is an 82-year-old sculptor who became interested in the late 1920's in
puppet theater, influenced by Meyer Levin, the author, with whom he produced
puppet versions of Marlowe's ''Dr. Faustus'' and O'Neill's ''The Hairy Ape.''
When Paramount News filmed the latter, he was appalled to see puppet strings
looming as large as ropes and devised stringless puppet animation.

Today, ''Puppet Films of Lew Bunin'' takes over the screen of the Thalia SoHo,
15 Vandam Street (675-0498). This retrospective of the work of Mr. Bunin, who
studied sculpture with Antoine Bourdelle and painting with Diego Rivera,
includes his first all-animated puppet film, ''Pete Roleum and His Cousins,''
made for the petroleum industry pavilion at the 1939 New York World's Fair. Also
on view are the puppet prologue he did for the 1946 movie musical, ''Ziegfeld
Follies'' (puppets representing Eddie Cantor, Will Rogers, Fannie Brice); an
excerpt from his ''Alice in Wonderland''; and shorts he made in the 1950's, as
well as some of his commercials done in later years. At 3:30, 6:10, 8:50 and 11
P.M.

Sharing the bill is ''Cartoons in Depth,'' which demonstrates how puppets and
animators do their creations. At 2:10, 4:50, 7:30, 10:10.

Admission: $5.

THE BROOKLYN SHORE

Dinah Shore does not come from Brooklyn, but that's where she's going, at least
for tonight at 7:30, when she opens the 1986 Midwood Field Concert Series, on
East 16th Street between Avenues K and L. The corporately-financed series here
and the Martin Luther King Jr. Concert Series at Wingate Field, also in
Brooklyn, at Winthrop Street between Brooklyn and Kingston Avenues, both have
State Senator Marty Markowitz as impresario and emcee.

Miss Shore, the star of television and concert hall, will perform with a
23-piece band. Also on the bill is Dick Lord, a comedian. Next Thursday the
Brooklyn Philharmonic, led by Anton Cappola, is scheduled. Neil Sedaka will
appear Aug. 7. Limited seating; bring your own folding chairs.

The Martin Luther King Jr. series, at 8 P.M. Mondays, starts next week with
''Rock 'n' Roll - Girl Groups of the 60's''; on July 28, the Brooklyn
Philharmonic, with the jazz violinist Noel Pointer, and Lionel Hampton, Aug. 4.
No seating, bring your own.

Admission is free. Information: (718) 469-1912.

Entertainment Events is on page C15. Sports Today is on page B6.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              291 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 18, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

10 IN A FAMILY ARE ARRESTED IN 5 DRUG RAIDS

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 485 words


Four men and six women, who the police said were heavy suppliers of cocaine in
Washington Heights, were arrested yesterday in a series of raids in upper
Manhattan and in Queens.

The suspects, all members of a family of Dominican immigrants, were seized at
three apartments and at a beauty parlor in Washington Heights, at an apartment
in Elmhurst, Queens, and in front of the offices of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service at 26 Federal Plaza in lower Manhattan.

The leader of the group was identified as Juan Santiago Tejada, 34 years old, of
94-13 46th Avenue in Elmhurst. He was arrested along with his wife, two sisters,
his mother-in law and five other family members.

His mother-in-law was charged with conspiracy. The others were charged with
possession and sale of narcotics.

Mr. Tejada was injured slightly while attempting to flee through a window when
officers tried to arrest him at 133 Fort George Avenue in Washington Heights,
according to Sgt. Edward Jones, a police spokesman. The suspect was treated at
Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center.

During the raids on the Manhattan apartments, the police seized 22 pounds of
cocaine, which they said had a street value of $2 million; 88 vials of crack, a
potent addictive form of cocaine; three .38 handguns, and $145,000 in cash.
Raids End at 9 P.M.  Armed with search and arrest warrants, the police began the
raids at 3 P.M. and finished at 9 P.M last night. The action followed a
year-long investitigation by the Manhattan north narcotics division and the New
York State Special Narcotics Prosecutors Office.

Lieut. Harvey Katowitz of the Manhattan north unit said the investigation began
more than a year ago with a tip about the family's activiites. ''We identified
Juan Tejada and went from there,'' he said.

Three of the arrests occurred in front of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service where the police said the suspects had gone to arrange for passports.
They were identified as Lisandro Barrera, 34, of 14-47 Whitehood Court,
Plainfield, N.J., and Felicia Calderon, 22, and Ana Tejada, 32, both of 615 West
172d Street, Manhattan.

Sgt. Burns said he did not know the immigration status of all the suspects.
However, he said it had been determined that Mr. Barrera was an illegal alien.

At a raid at 820 Riverside Drive in Manhattan, the police arrested Nelson
Pichardo, 35, of 310 Evergreen Avenue, Brooklyn, and Carmen Tejada, 29, of 615
West 172d Street, Manhattan.

At 615 West 172d Street, police arrested Dolores Mercado, 46, of 700 West 178th
Street, Manhattan.

Melinda Cordero, Mr. Tejada's 50-year-old mother-in-law, of 43-14 Fawley Street,
Queens, was arrested inside Nellies Beauty Parlor at 3868 Broadway in Washington
Heights.

Ambiorix Guzman, 26, of 227 Audubon Avenue, was arrested in front of the beauty
parlor.

Mr. Tejada's wife, Iris Cordero, 32, was arrested at the Tejadas' Elmhurst home.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              292 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 22, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

A Touch of Bilingualism for the Melting Pot

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 287 words


To the Editor:

Richard D. Lamm, Governor of Colorado and author of ''English Comes First''
(Op-Ed, July 1), warns against the fragmentation caused by a bilingual society.
Obviously immigrants must master English if they are to realize the American
Dream, but that does not justify a call for English monolingualism. Mr. Lamm
himself says, ''We can teach English through bilingual education. . . ,'' yet he
opposes bilingualism.

I would like to point out three basic reasons for bilingual education. The first
is humanitarian. Having teachers and/or staff who speak a child's mother tongue
can greatly alleviate the trauma of entering school in a foreign country. The
comforting atmosphere of learning a new language in this way is a vast
improvement over being punished for speaking one's home language at school.
Second, the principal goal of bilingual education is to teach English. Third,
bilingual education, by teaching immigrant children literacy in their home
language, is an effective way to insure that the United States will have fully
bilingual citizens, something this country sorely lacks.

Given our dismal failure in effective classroom foreign language instruction, it
seems foolish not to capitalize on the naturally acquired native language
capacity of young immigrants. The dual literacy resulting from bilingual
education would increase opportunities for immigrant mobility and ultimate
success and would be a welcome addition to our predominantly monolingual
society. Preserving and enhancing the necessary ingredients for our famous
melting pot will continue to enrich and vitalize our country. EILEEN K. BLAU
Associate Professor of English University of Puerto Rico Mayaguez, P.R., July 9,
1986

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              293 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               July 30, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

NEW YORK DAY BY DAY;
Aid for Citizenship

BYLINE: By David Bird and David W. Dunlap

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 161 words


Hispanic immigrants living legally in the United States may view the Immigration
and Naturalization Service as more likely to send them back to their original
countries than to help them fill out citizenship papers, according to Dr. Harry
Pachon, executive director of the National Association of Latino Elected and
Appointed Officials.

''A lot of legal residents are afraid of going in and being treated as
illegals,'' he said.

To help legal Hispanic residents in the New York metropolitan area obtain
citizenship, the association is extending its citizenship hot line to the area.
The service has been operating in Los Angeles, Miami, Chicago and Texas and is
expected to be nationwide by the end of the year.

Hispanic residents may dial (800) 44-N-A-L-E-O between 9 A.M. and 5:30 P.M
weekdays to find out how to become citizens, where to take English classes and
what groups in their neighborhoods will them fill out citizenship papers, Dr.
Pachon said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              294 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 1, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

One Language Draws Americans Together

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 362 words


To the Editor:

It is sad to me, a Swede, an immigrant to the United States at 3 1/2 years old
with my widowed mother, then 25, to read the sentiments of many immigrants of
today.

How different we felt, as we struggled to learn English, the language of our new
country. How proud we felt as we progressed in becoming Americans. There was no
fear of forgetting our original language. We spoke it often with Swedish friends
and relatives, as well as with each other.

What dumbfounds me is the new emphasis on bilingualism. Our country has been a
melting pot of people from Afghanistan to Zambia. We will continue to be. But
what we should not do, and never have done, is discourage those who make up our
country from learning and using to their fullest the language of the country
they have chosen to come to and be part of. I resent the assumption that
foreigners entering the United States are incapable of learning English. I
resent, too, obstacles put in the way of their achievement.

Bilingual ballots are surely a bizarre concept to me. I had to demonstrate my
ability to read and comprehend the English language to become a United States
citizen. This was so for me to be able to enter the American mainstream and to
demonstrate that I could effectively understand the ballot and the issues in
order to vote intelligently.

I am appalled that the American Civil Liberties Union believes that ''bigotry,
divisiveness and resentment'' are encouraged by California's Proposition 63,
whose aim is ''insuring the role of English as the common language'' (front
page, July 21).

English to me was the magnet that drew all the people I met from countless
countries together in understanding, in friendship.

Being unable to understand or communicate with one another is what will separate
one American from another. Conversely, of course, sharing a common language will
bring us together. Clearly, the strong emphasis should be on teaching
non-English-speaking residents the language of our country and theirs. How can
anyone doubt that this is for the total benefit of those becoming Americans?

ERIC BIRGER TAGE KINDQUIST
   Southbury, Conn., July 22, 1986

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              295 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 2, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Tatiana Schaufuss Is Dead; Founded Immigrant Center

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 165 words


Tatiana Schaufuss, co-founder of the Tolstoy Foundation, a refugee aid
organization, and founder of the Tolstoy Foundation Nursing Home in Valley
Cottage, N.Y., died July 25 at the nursing home, where she lived, after a long
illness. She was 95 years old.

Mrs. Schaufuss, who was born in Kiev in 1891, emigrated from the Soviet Union to
the United States in 1938. With Alexandra Tolstoy, the novelist's daughter, she
founded the center in 1939 to aid Soviet immigrants and to establish a center of
Russian culture in the United States. President Hoover served as the
foundation's first honorary chairman.

In 1947, Mrs. Schaufuss expanded the foundation by establishing a European
headquarters in Germany. Today, it has offices in a dozen other countries and
has helped more than 80,000 refugees throughout the world.

In 1970, she founded the Tolstoy Foundation Nursing Home in Valley Cottage to
provide services to patients in need of nursing care.

There are no immediate survivors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              296 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 10, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

A RARE STUDY OF BLACK IMMIGRATION

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 39, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 755 words


The exhibit on black immigrants now at the Schomburg Center for Research in
Black Culture seems as natural to the curator as his lingering accent from
Panama or the salt-and-pepper beard that frames his face.

Roy Bryce-Laporte, who began organizing the exhibit, ''Give Me Your Tired, Your
Poor . . . ?: Voluntary Black Migration to the United States,'' a year ago, is
the son of a West Indian mechanic. Born in Panama, Mr. Bryce-Laporte came to the
United States in the 1950's and has since studied, taught and published on the
subject of black migration.

The exhibit, part of the city's centennial celebration for the Statue of
Liberty, provides the 52-year-old scholar with an opportunity to show the fruit
of a field of study that has drawn few scholars. He has often felt like ''a
minority within a minority'' of black scholars.

''Some things you just have to wait until they are appropriate and timely to
do,'' said Mr. Bryce-Laporte, sitting in a sunny office at the center.

'Like a Fishing Trip'

''If there is a forgotten or overlooked fact of black history, it is
migration,'' he said. ''The more specialized use of the word immigration has not
been used very much in connection with blacks who came here through some
exercise of choice.

''And people forget that blacks at various times have left this country and then
their children or grandchildren have come back, so that you have all the
complexities of movement among blacks,'' he said.

Compiling the information has been ''like a fishing trip,'' he said. ''Sometimes
you get other than what you want.'' Months were needed to familiarize himself
with the Schomburg's inventory, look into shelved material, review microfilm and
travel to libraries and private homes.

Though the exhibit, which continues through Sept. 2, is tied to the city's
celebration, Mr. Bryce-Laporte said that few blacks immigrated through Ellis
Island, so that experience represents only a small part of the exhibit.

Movement to Haiti

Many black immigrants have come from African and Caribbean countries since the
1960's. But as the exhibit illustrates, there was also movement to and from the
United States as early as the 1820's, when a group of church workers in
Philadelphia left for the Dominican Republic to set up a permanent colony. About
600 people from the Washington area also moved to Haiti in the early 1860's
after being recruited by companies seeking laborers.

To present this information in exhibit form, Mr. Bryce-Laporte primarily relies
on photographs but also includes, for example, certificates of nationality given
to the laborers who relocated to Haiti and diaries that have been donated to the
exhibit.

For Mr. Bryce-Laporte, the exhibit is the culmination of both professional and
personal experience.

His exposure to education and the practice of immigration began in bustling,
Spanish-speaking Panama City, where he was born in 1933. Shortly before World
War II, his family moved to the Canal Zone, where he attended a racially
segregated school.

'A Western Movie'

During the 1950's, he came with his family to the United States. He spent time
at the University of Nebraska, which he said resembled ''a western movie - very
cold, very different, with no tall buildings.'' After receiving his bachelor's
and master's degrees there, he continued studies at the University of Puerto
Rico and U.C.L.A., where he received his doctorate in sociology in 1968.

Since then he has taught sociology and history at several universities,
including Yale. Before accepting his position at the Schomburg, he was a curator
and senior researcher at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C.

Since the Schomburg's founding 60 years ago, many accomplished black scholars
have used its collection, one of the world's foremost on blacks, to churn out a
plethora of articles, books, or exhibits and programs for the center. More than
90 authors have listed the center in the credits of their books, according to
records kept by the center's reference department.

The center, at West 135th Street and Lenox Avenue, contains as many as 5 million
pieces, including 100,000 books, 20,000 reels of microfilm -which contain
Censuses from 1790 to 1900 - 60,000 photographs, 5,000 hours of oral history and
10,000 records, according to Howard Dodson Jr., chief of the center.

Mr. Dodson said the Rockefeller Foundation had recently agreed to finance two
scholars at the center for the next three years. The first of these scholars
will arrive in the fall.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Roy Bryce-Laporte at the Schomburg Center (NYT/Larry C.
Morris)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              297 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 12, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Border Patrol Pilot Hurt In Manhunt for Escapee

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 121 words

DATELINE: FLORENCE, Ariz., Aug. 11


A Border Patrol pilot was critically injured today when his plane crashed in the
desert while searching for the last of 16 Cuban prisoners who escaped from a
Federal immigration detention center.

The pilot, Bruce Weber, 37 years old, suffered back injuries and was in stable
condition at Good Samaritan Medical Center in Phoenix, a spokesman said.

Joe Flanders, of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said the
single-engine Cessna 182 was rocked by turbulence before it crashed five miles
south of Florence.

Twelve of the prisoners were rounded up after the escape Sunday and three more
were captured Monday. They fled the Federal Service Processing Service by
slipping through holes they cut in two fences.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              298 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 16, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Ideological Test For Asylum Seekers

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 232 words


To the Editor:

The statements by the spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service
in your news account of recent raids on Long Island (July 28) are inaccurate and
misleading. Contrary to his suggestion, in the first six months of 1986,
immigration authorities approved only 36 of 449 Salvadoran cases (8 percent).
Yet during the same period, the authorities approved 407 of 708 Nicaraguan cases
(57 percent).

Such statistical disparities have been traditional in U.S. asylum practice - and
the authorities have steadfastly denied them and sought to obfuscate the issue
by, for example, saying that ''El Salvador ranks fifth'' - actually now sixth -
''in terms of numbers granted asylum.'' Such tactics are disingenuous at best.

The inescapable fact is that refuge in America is distributed on essentially
ideological grounds. It is far easier to win asylum if a person flees a
Communist-dominated regime than if he or she flees a merely authoritarian
regime, particularly one with which our Government has close dealings,
irrespective of a poor human rights record. The extreme reluctance of the
authorities to face this issue squarely suggests that they, too, consider such a
distortion to be unfair and legally questionable.

ARTHUR C. HELTON
   New York, July 29, 1986

The writer heads the political asylum project of the Lawyers Committee for Human
Rights.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              299 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 19, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Immigration Staff Is Short 150

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 188 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 18


The Immigration and Naturalization Service is 150 agents below strength because
many investigators are quitting the agency, a spokesman for the service said
today.

The spokesman, Verne Jervis, said there were about 700 investigators currently
on duty nationwide.

''We are funded now for about 850, so we're down about 150 for our funding
authorization,'' Mr. Jervis said in a telephone interview in Washington.

In Los Angeles, only 45 agents remain to cover a seven-county region where there
were 130 as recently as five years ago, according to the deputy district
director, Joe Thomas.

Donald McDole, president of the Los Angeles local of the union that represents
many I.N.S. employees, said many had quit out of frustration, in part because of
the agency's concentration on raids in the workplace.

Mr. Dole said some agents thought the raids were conducted because the large
number of illegal aliens that were caught attracted publicity for the agency and
improved its statistics.

Harold Ezell, western regional commissioner for the agency, said the workplace
raids were prompted by complaints made to the agency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              300 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 21, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE WORLD;
U.S. to Interview Prisoners in Cuba

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 7, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 157 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 20


State Department and Immigration and Naturalization Service officers will begin
interviewing more than 100 Cuban political prisoners and members of their
families in Cuba to decide whether they will be allowed into the United States
as refugees, the Reagan Administration said today.

Most of the prisoners, who have been screened by American officials, ''have
served extremely long and arduous sentences in Cuban jails, and many have
serious health problems,'' a State Department spokesman, Charles E. Redman,
said. No date was announced for the interviews.

The interviews, to be conducted by Perry Steele, an Immigration and
Naturalization Service inspector, and Katherine Brown, a State Department
lawyer, are part of a process that began last September. Secretary of State
George P. Shultz announced then that the Administration was ready to resume an
immigration agreement terminated by Fidel Castro, the Cuban leader, in May 1985.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              301 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 23, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

REAGAN ACTS TO TIGHTEN TRADE EMBARGO OF CUBA

BYLINE: By GERALD M. BOYD, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 524 words

DATELINE: SANTA BARBARA, Calif., Aug. 22


President Reagan ordered a series of measures today designed to tighten the
United States trade embargo of Cuba.

Mr. Reagan, in a separate action, also responded to Cuba's decision to suspend
an agreement on immigration, by making it more difficult for some Cubans to
enter the United States.

The actions reflect the continued strain in United States-Cuban relations. Fidel
Castro, the Cuban leader, suspended an agreement on immigration in May 1985
after the United States began broadcasting to Cuba over Radio Marti.

Administration officials in Washington and in California, where the President is
on vacation at his ranch near here, described the new measures as an attempt to
make it more difficult for the Cuban Government to obtain United States currency
and goods through unlawful means.

''The objective is to tighten enforcement of the embargo,'' a State Department
spokesman, Charles E. Redman, said, ''denying to the Castro regime economic
benefits from the United States, while Castro continues to ignore international
obligations and to pursue policies inimical to U.S. interests.''

Attempts to Curtail Companies

The measures approved by the President include an attempt to curtail companies
operating in foreign countries from providing American goods and technology to
Cuba and thus evading the United States trade embargo.

A senior official said the United States had identified about 118 companies and
individuals supplying products to Cuba in this manner. More than half are in
Panama and some are operating out of Mexico and other countries, he said.

The official said the types of products being supplied to Cuba included
consumers goods, hardware, computers and durables, such as television sets. The
official did not know the value of such shipments, but said they were often sold
for hard currency in addition to being provided to Cuban consumers.

Mr. Redman said the Administration would try to identify more quickly and
publicize information on such businesses that are ''fronts from Cuba'' and with
which American companies and nationals cannot conduct business under the
26-year-old embargo.

Mr. Reagan also called for increased scrutiny by American authorities of travel
groups organizing and promoting travel to Cuba and the transmission of money or
goods to Cuba.

Curbs on Emigration

The proclamation signed by Mr. Reagan here would prohibit Cuban citizens from
emigrating to the United States through third countries, such as Panama.
Administration officials contend that the Cuban authorities extort fees ranging
from $3,000 to $30,000 for an exit permit that allows individuals to travel to
third countries to obtain United States visas.

Administration officials said Mr. Reagan's decision to impose the ban had come
in an attempt to restore a December 1984 agreement in which Cuba consented to
taking back 2,700 Cuban criminals and mental patients who came to the United
States in the Mariel boatlift of 1980. In return, the United States agreed to
take up to 3,000 Cuban political prisoners and 20,000 regular immigrants.

Cuba suspended the accord over the broadcasts by Radio Marti.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              302 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 25, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

PRIESTS LEARN LANGUAGES OF NEW IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By ARI L. GOLDMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 12, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 404 words


The communion hymn was sung in Italian, the Gospel was read in Spanish, and the
sermon was delivered in English.

The spirited multilingual Roman Catholic mass said at Cathedral College in
Queens the other day was a fitting way to celebrate the 15th year of the
Language Institute of the Diocese of Brooklyn.

''We are a diocese of immigrants,'' said Bishop Francis Mugavero, the
Brooklyn-born son of Italian immigrants. ''We must have the capacity and
expertise to touch their hearts.''

The bishop noted that mass was offered in the diocese regularly in 17 languages,
including Creole, Vietnamese, Hindi, Korean and Ukrainian. In only 20 percent of
the 232 parishes in the diocese, which covers Brooklyn and Queens, is mass said
only in English.

'They Are Praying for Me'

The Language Institute, an intensive summer program, was set up to help Brooklyn
and Queens priests relate better to their parishioners. In the last 15 years,
more than 1,000 priests, nuns and lay people from around the country have
studied in the program.

Since the institute began, Brooklyn has required its seminarians to be competent
in a second language to be ordained. In addition, active priests have been
encouraged to take a summer off to study at the institute. Tuition is $925, and
most students are subsidized by their parishes or religious orders.

''I'm 26 years a priest and this thing is very difficult,'' the Rev. Richard
Dunne, pastor of the Church of Saint Rosa of Lima in the Flatbush section of
Brooklyn, said with a smile. ''They're praying for me back at the parish.''

The difficulties come not only in class but in the dining hall, the corridors
and even in the swimming pool of the college. ''I tell them they have to yell
'help' in their language or the lifeguard won't respond,'' said the Rev. Ronald
T. Marino, director of the diocese's Catholic Migration and Refugee Office,
which runs the summer institute.

The basic ground rule is that students may not speak English. At meals, the
students eat under the gaze of their teachers.

''The first week there was a lot of eating and very little talking,'' the Rev.
George Hundt, a priest at St. Peter the Apostle Church in Parsipany, N.J., said
over lunch.

At the minimum, Father Hundt hopes to come away from the program able to perform
the mass in Italian. But now, midway through the six-week program, he said, ''I
do a small part and I play altar boy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              303 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 26, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Kennedy Airport Should Beckon Foreign Visitors

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 304 words


To the Editor:

Serious consideration should be given to your editorial ''Traveler's Raid''
(July 20), about the proposal by the Immigration Service to provide more
inspections at Kennedy Airport by taxing foreign visitors and immigrants. Why
should they have to pay for that service?

All this is reminiscent of how travelers at J.F.K. once had to pay 50 cents to
ride the frequently overcrowded airline connection buses. Imagine the
frustration of foreign visitors who did not have the exact fare required even
though they had already exchanged some of their own currency for dollars.

Those same buses also used to waste much travel time by waiting at each of the
terminals to fill before proceeding. Because of this, passengers could miss a
connecting flight, as once happened to me, even though I had an hour to make my
connection. Consequently, I wrote a letter to the Port Authority about this
matter (as I imagine many other people also did), and soon after bus service was
free and more efficient (although the airport needs a more modern system for
moving people).

We may not realize it, but J.F.K. could be a symbol of welcome and hope to those
who arrive from abroad, just as the Statue of Liberty was to the many people who
came to this country by ship. It is the main aerial gateway to our country, just
as New York Harbor was the gateway for ships. Surely, many foreign visitors who
come here for the first time base their impressions of both New York and the
United States on the kind of reception they get at the airport. Surely, they
deserve to be treated with the same kind of courtesy, respect and understanding
that we Americans demand when we travel abroad. Rather than looking for ways to
take their money, we should try to make them feel welcome.

T. J. KLEIN
Groton, Conn., Aug. 8, 1986

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              304 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 31, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

POINTLESS SANCTIONS AGAINST CUBA

BYLINE: BY TAD SZULC; Tad Szulc has just finished a biography of Fidel Castro.

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 950 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Reagan's latest economic and immigration sanctions against Cuba are
absurd and futile gestures. The Cuban actions that provoked him are surely
annoying, but what is the point of getting angry at bad weather?

Announced grandiloquently on Aug. 22 as a National Security Decision Directive,
the new measures forbid the entry of Cuban immigrants through ''third
countries,'' such as Mexico, Spain or Panama, and impose additional controls on
United States trade with Cuba in an effort to seal the economic blockade
established more than a quarter-century ago.

These sanctions are destined to be counterproductive. Instead of seriously
damaging Fidel Castro, they may help to increase his popular support at what is
unquestionably the most critical period in the history of the Cuban revolution.
And the real victims will be tens of thousands of anti-Castro Cubans whom Mr.
Reagan now prevents from emigrating to the United States.

Washington's official explanation for these sanctions stresses that they will
deprive Havana of the trickle of desperately needed hard currency that Cuba
still receives from the United States, including the bribes of $30,000 or so per
head that American officials say the Cuban regime extracts to issue immigration
permits. Administration spokesmen call this ''trafficking in human beings.''
Interestingly, however, even if such a traffic does exist, neither its
beneficiaries nor the familes who sponsor them in the United States have
protested it. In fact, the normally pro-Reagan Cuban-Americans in Florida take a
dim view of the ''third country'' ban that shuts off the last channel of
departures from the island.

The Reagan Administration's fallback justification is that ''in truth'' the
sanctions are intended to force Mr. Castro to take back the 2,700
''undesirable'' Cubans, mainly criminals now in American prisons, who were
dispatched by him among the 120,000 people who came here from Mariel in 1980.
Under an agreement concluded in December 1984, Mr. Castro accepted the
repatriation of these criminals, and Washington committed itself to take 20,000
Cuban emigrants annually. But when the Administration suddenly inaugurated
anti-Castro Radio Marti broadcast operations in May 1985, Cuba suspended its end
of the deal, and Washington soon halted all direct emigration.

Only under immense pressure from the Cuban community in Miami and the Roman
Catholic Church did the Administration relent: earlier this month, it agreed to
allow the entry of fewer than 100 former Castro political prisoners and their
families. And when the ''third country'' route was devised, Mr. Reagan slammed
this door, too. Anti-Castro Cubans and their families are thus the principal
casualties in the cynical and petulant dispute between the two governments.

Both sides' ''humanitarian'' protestations are a sham. In fact, Mr. Reagan wants
to be rid of ''undesirables'' who cause problems and expense, and Mr. Castro,
who publicly admits to major job shortages for ''deserving'' Cubans, would be
delighted to see as many of his opponents leave as possible. Some observers
think Mr. Castro may soon stage another Mariel-type exodus, posing an immensely
embarrassing dilemma for his arch foe Ronald Reagan.

Mr. Castro has recently admitted - to the Communist Party's Central Committee
plenum in July - that the overall situation in Cuba ''is very tense'' and the
country is going ''downhill.'' That, clearly, is why he is manipulating the
immigration issue. But that is no excuse for the Reagan Administration to play
similar games.

Nor will the new sanctions amount to effective economic warfare. True, as Mr.
Castro admits publicly, Cuba is in the midst of the deepest crisis since the
revolution's advent in 1959. He bitterly complained in speeches in July that the
revolutionary spirit is vanishing. He also confessed awesome errors that have
led to ''technocratic and bureaucratic deformations'' and to ''the introduction
of methods which corrupt and instill a lust for money in workers and leaders,''
making ''the entire productive apparatus of the country increasingly inefficient
and dysfunctional.''

Because of the drop in world oil prices, Mr. Castro informed the nation, Cuba
lost $300 million in hard currency last year. (Cuba earns currency by
re-exporting Soviet petroleum received in exchange for sugar sent to the Eastern
bloc.) This was a demolishing blow because at the same time Cuban export trade
in general had faltered badly, making it extremely difficult for Cuba to pay for
any imports from the West. This crisis, together with internal economic and
social problems, seems to have brought the achievements of the Cuban revolution
close to a dead end.

Against this background, President Reagan's new sanctions are insignificant
pinpricks. At most, they will inconvenience the Cubans. More likely, they will
help Mr. Castro politically, allowing him to continue to blame the American
''blockade'' for some of his most glaring economic problems. The Administration
apparently believes that internal disarray will diminish Cuba's role in Central
America and southern Africa, but in this too they are sadly mistaken.

The only realistic policy toward Cuba today is to ignore it. There is no
plausible reason to believe that the two countries will settle their signficant
differences - over Cuban foreign policy - in the foreseeable future. But there
is little point in hectoring and sniping at each other. The United States
virtually never wins rhetorical battles, and it is shameful to engage in duels
with Fidel Castro over the fate of innocent Cubans. Ideological ire may be
satisfying in the short term, but it is not effective policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Op-ED

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              305 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 6, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

POLITICAL PRISONERS IN CUBA ARE TO BE ADMITTED TO U.S.

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 833 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 5


The Reagan Administration said today that it had cleared 68 Cuban political
prisoners for admission to the United States and that the Cuban Government would
probably release them by the end of this month.

Officials from the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the State
Department have been interviewing the Cubans in Havana for the last two weeks.

Craig O. Raynsford, a lawyer with the immigration service, and Gregory Lagana, a
State Department spokesman, said the 68 would constitute one of the largest
groups of political prisoners to leave Cuba since more than 120,000 people were
permitted to leave the Cuban port of Mariel in 1980.

The 68 people involved in the current program have all been in Cuban prisons for
at least 10 years, and some have been detained for more than 25 years, according
to the State Department. Many are elderly, in their 60's or 70's. American
officials say the group includes officials of the former Government of Fulgencio
Batista who were accused of crimes committed before Fidel Castro took power in
1959.

Effect on Relations Unclear

It is not clear what effect the release would have on long-strained relations
between the United States and Cuba. The Reagan Administration recently announced
steps to tighten the United States' economic embargo of Cuba, first imposed in
the early 1960's, and to prevent Cubans from migrating to the United States
through third countries, such as Panama. The Administration says Cuba is still
engaged in ''subversive activities'' in this hemisphere.

State Department officials suggested that Mr. Castro wanted the political
prisoners out of Cuba because they had become an embarrassment to him. The
department has repeatedly cited their detention as evidence that the Castro
Government abuses basic human rights.

American officials in Cuba are interviewing relatives of the political prisoners
to see if they, too, could be admitted to this country.

Verne Jervis, spokesman for the immigration service, said some of the prisoners
would be admitted as refugees, some would receive regular immigrant visas
because they had close relatives in the United States, and others would be
admitted under the Attorney General's discretionary power to grant parole to
aliens.

Role of Catholic Church

Mr. Lagana said State Department officials expected the Cubans to arrive in this
country before the end of September. ''I have learned not to predict the future
where Castro is concerned,'' he said, ''but there does not appear to be any
reason why these people cannot come to the United States.''

Mr. Lagana said travel arrangements for the Cubans would be made by the
Intergovernmental Committee for Migration, an international nonpolitical group
with headquarters in Switzerland.

Mr. Jervis said the United States Catholic Conference, the social action arm of
the nation's Roman Catholic bishops, had helped arrange the release of 54 of the
Cuban prisoners. The church has been involved since several American bishops
visited Cuba and met with Mr. Castro in January 1985.

The other 14 Cubans cleared for admission to the United States are being
released, in part, as a result of an appeal to Mr. Castro by Jacques Cousteau,
the French underwater explorer.

'Pawns' in U.S.-Cuba Conflict

The Cuban political prisoners have often been described as pawns or bargaining
chips in a protracted conflict between the United States and Cuba. Normal
migration from Cuba to the United States was largely suspended after the 1980
exodus, in which thousands of Cubans sailed to Florida in small boats.

In December 1984, the Reagan Administration and the Castro Government reached an
agreement providing for the repatriation of 2,700 Cuban criminals and mental
patients who had come to this country as part of the boatlift from Mariel. In
return, the United States agreed to take 3,000 Cuban political prisoners and up
to 20,000 regular immigrants a year.

Mr. Castro suspended the agreement in May 1985 after the United States began
broadcasts to Cuba over Radio Marti, a Voice of America station. Efforts to
revive it collapsed in July after two days of talks in Mexico City.

Mr. Raynsford, the immigration service lawyer, refused to provide names of any
of the Cubans coming to this country. He said the Administration wanted first to
notify their relatives in the United States. State Department officials said
they planned to disclose the names as the prisoners leave Cuba.

American officials said emphatically that they still wanted to reinstate the
1984 agreement to permit regular migration between Cuba and the United States.

In the last year, the immigration service has been reluctant to accept any large
group of Cuban political prisoners unless the Castro Government agreed to take
back the criminals and mental patients being held in this country. The
prisoners, held at the Federal penitentiary in Atlanta and at county and city
jails, have become a costly burden for the immigration service.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              306 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 13, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
4 Poles Leave Ships; Seek Asylum in U.S.

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 75 words

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., Sept. 12


Four Polish crewmen jumped from two fishing vessels at Coos Bay and sought
political asylum, the Immigration and Naturalization Service reported today.

Three of the crewmen left one vessel, the Amarel, on Thursday, and the fourth
was from the Delfin, said Carl Houseman, district director for the immigration
service.

Mr. Houseman said defections from the Polish fishing fleet off the West Coast
''have been happening for many, many years.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              307 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 14, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

LAWYER IS CHARGED IN FAKE-MARRIAGE CONSPIRACY

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 42, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 492 words

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, Sept. 12


A White Plains lawyer and five other people have been indicted on charges of
arranging sham marriages for 19 Haitians, most of whom are believed to have been
in the United States illegally, to help them gain permanent residential status.

The Federal indictment charges Charles F. Darlington 3d, an immigration lawyer,
with knowingly filing false immigration papers in a conspiracy with the other
defendants, including three United States citizens and two Haitian nationals,
who paid other Americans from $500 to $1,000 to ''marry'' Haitian aliens.

The American partners to the marriages are said to have understood, the
indictment charges, that they ''would not live together with their purported
Haitian spouses and would not adopt other attributes of a genuine marriage.''

Once married, the Haitians applied for a green card, the alien registration card
guaranteeing permanent residence and leading to eventual citizenship. Most of
them succeeded in getting the card.

The indictment was returned Thursday in Federal District Court here. Mr.
Darlington and the other defendants are to be arraigned before Judge Charles L.
Brieant on Tuesday. Mr. Darlington is the son of a former United States
Ambassador to Gabon.

Details of Complaint

Mr. Darlington was charged with conspiring to defraud the immigration agency and
19 counts of knowingly preparing false papers. In addition, Denise Oliver and
Patricia Parris of Mount Vernon, Arlene Cureton of New Rochelle and Angelo
Elusma and Jean Louissaint of White Plains were charged with conspiracy and
aiding and abetting in the preparation of false papers.

The maximum sentence on the conspiracy charge is five years in prison and a
$250,000 fine.

The conspiracy began at least three years ago, according to the complaint. In
one case a woman, Valli Duckett, married a Haitian alien and three months later,
using a different name, married another, the complaint said. Both sets of
immigration papers were filed by Mr. Darlington, according to the indictment.

In an interview Thursday, Mr. Darlington denied any knowledge of that case and
denied participating in a conspiracy. Calling the charges against him
''baseless,'' Mr. Darlington said, ''All of these marriages were unbeknownst to
me.''

In a statement, Mr. Darlington accused the Federal Immigration and
Naturalization Service of trying to damage his law practice and of ''harassing''
him and all immigration lawyers. Such lawyers, he said, ''represent an unpopular
group of clients - basically people who are trying to emigrate to the United
States.''

The conspiracy began, according to Avraham C. Moskowitz, the assistant United
States attorney in charge of the case, when a Haitian cabdriver in White Plains,
Mr. Louissaint, persuaded Miss Cureton to ''marry'' a Haitian alien, after which
Miss Cureton agreed to ''go into business'' with Mr. Louissaint, recruiting
other friends to become marriage partners for the Haitians.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              308 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 17, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

MOST CUBAN PRISONERS FOUGHT CASTRO, OFFICIAL SAYS

BYLINE: By LYDIA CHAVEZ

SECTION: Section B; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 897 words


Most of the Cuban prisoners released to the United States were members of the
Cuban armed forces under President Fulgencio Batista and fought against Fidel
Castro's revolutionary forces, the American official who interviewed them said
today.

''Very few of them were in private business,'' said Perry Steele, district
director of the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service for Latin
America and the Carribean.

''Most of them were in the military, the police or something like that,'' he
said. ''The vast majority of them had only a couple of more years to finish up
on their sentence.''

Mr. Steele spent three weeks in Havana, beginning Aug. 20, interviewing each
man, often for more than an hour, in a private office at the Combinado prison in
Havana. Stephen Vann, American vice consul in Cuba, and Catherine Brown, an
attorney with the State Department, also attended the interviews.

The 51-year-old I.N.S. official interviewed some people who had already been
released from prison and the family members at the American Interest Section in
Havana.

'Surprised by Their Enthusiasm'

Mr. Steele said that in the interviews he found the prisoners in good health and
spirits. ''We remarked among ourselves that no one seemed mistreated or
emaciated,'' he said in a telephone interview from Mexico City. ''I was
surprised by their enthusiasm, surprised that people who had been in prison so
long had such verve.''

Mr. Steele said, however, that he avoided asking the prisoners about their
treatment because he feared they would be punished if they talked of
mistreatment.

When the 69 prisoners arrived in the United States Monday, many talked of
physical and mental abuse. Osvaldo Gomez Orozco, 58 years old, who spent more
than 27 years in prison, gave an example of the abuse he said he and others were
forced to endure.

In March 1981, he said, a group of prisoners who refused to wear prison uniforms
were put by threes in 5-by-3-foot cells, wearing only their underwear and kept
there, except for a one-month interval, until December 1981. After they staged a
hunger strike, he said, prison officials let them wear clothing other than the
prison uniforms. At one point, Mr. Gomez Orozco said, they were beaten.

The Selection Process

The process of selecting the prisoners who were released began in January 1985
when the Cuban Government was given a list of names of 146 people by the United
States Catholic Conference, the social action arm of the nation's Roman Catholic
bishops.

After the bishops' representtives had left Havana, however, they were presented
with a counter offer by the Cuban Premier, Fidel Castro, a list of 75 names,
including 31 of those on the bishops' list, said Donald G. Hohl of the Catholic
Conference.

''We got the feeling some of the new names we were seeing were long-term
prisoners held in prison since the days of the Batista regime before the
revolution,'' Mr. Hohl said today.

He said it was eventually determined, through sources in Cuba and in the United
States, that all on the list were bona fide political prisoners and not
criminals.

The Cuban Government then gave the list of 75 names to the immigration service.
Mr. Steele said the 70 prisoners on this list that he was able to interview were
approved for entry into the United States. He added that he was confident there
were no common criminals among them.

Interviews Began Aug. 20

Mr. Steele said one prisoner, who he declined to name, was given ''humanity
parole'' rather than refugee status, which meant that he could leave for the
United States, but would have to press his case for asylym here.

Mr. Steele declined to give any details of the paroled prisoner's case, saying
only that there was a thin line between prosecution for a crime, which could be
legitimate, and persecution, which would make the prisoner elgible for refugee
status.

The prisoner, he said, was unable to get hold of documents that might have
cleared him of the crime he had been convicted of in Cuba. He said he was
confident the man was not a common criminal.

He said that at least three of the elderly relatives of different prisoners were
also given humanity parole. Immigration officials also declined to give the
names of those people approved for humanitarian reasons.

Interviews With Prisoners

The interviewing process began Aug. 20 when all of the prisoners, some clad in
prison-issued blue-gray uniforms and others wearing pajamas as a mark of their
insistence on being distinguished as political prisoners, were gathered and
asked to take an oath swearing that their statements would be true, Mr. Steele
said.

Each prisoner then met separately with the three Americans. He said the Cuban
Government did not hand over the court documents on each prisoner's case, but
instead gave a written account of the charges against each man. In many cases,
Mr. Steele said, the accounts were sketchy.

''My job primarily was to establish that the information they had given us was
credible or whether the person in front of us was credible,'' he said.

The charges against the men ranged from conspiracy to murder. He said he would
tell people accused of murder of the charge and the specifics he had been given,
and then ask the prisoner what happened. He said some explained that they were
in ambushes in which forces on both sides were killed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              309 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 17, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

DETAINED CUBANS FAST A 9TH DAY

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section B; Page 10, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 388 words


Fifty Cuban refugees yesterday entered the ninth day of a hunger strike to
protest their indefinite detention at the Federal Immigration and Naturalization
Service center in Manhattan.

A spokesman for the Cubans, Fidel Fonseca, who is 29 years old and has spent 16
months in the detention center, said all of his fellow Cuban detainees had asked
for political asylum here. ''But the trouble is the U.S. Government doesn't want
us on the streets and Cuba doesn't want to take us back,'' he said.

Scott Blackman, assistant deputy director of the immigration service in New
York, said some of the Cubans ''look good, some O.K. and some pretty weak.'' He
said nurses were taking their vital signs at regular intervals.

Mr. Fonseca said that 50 of about 75 Cubans at the center on Varick Street in
lower Manhattan had refused food since Sept. 7 and were taking only water. The
strikers have been isolated from the nearly 200 other detainees.

Dispute on Nature of Crimes

Mr. Blackman said all the Cuban detainees had been convicted of ''serious
violent felonies and, if denied asylum, would be deported, but Cuba won't accept
them.''

''We would consider reviewing the cases on an individual basis and if it's
determined there are any appropriate cases, we'll nominate them for placement in
halfway houses,'' he added.

Mr. Fonseca said, however, that most of the Cubans had been convicted of what he
called minor offenses - the possession of a weapon or a bag of marijuana or
drunken driving.

Several of the fasters said it was ironic that they were being detained while 67
former Cuban political prisoners were warmly welcomed Monday in Miami.

''It makes us feel very bad because there has always been discrimination against
Cubans who came from Mariel,'' one of the fasters, Guillermo Lopez, said in a
telephone interview.

About 125,000 Cubans came to the United States by boat from Mariel, Cuba, in
1980. They were told that if they broke the law, they would be deported.

Initially, Cuba agreed to take back the ''Marielitos'' who had commited crimes
in the United States but, last year, the agreement was suspended by Cuba in
retaliation for the start of Radio Marti, which broadcasts United States
programs into Cuba.

There are now some 5,000 Cubans in the Atlanta penitentiary and other detention
centers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              310 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 21, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

POLISH SEAMEN ARE FINDING ASYLUM IN CLEVELAND

BYLINE: By ISABEL WILKERSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 25, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 661 words

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, Sept. 20


This city, known for its steel mills and financial crises, has in recent months
become an unlikely symbol of freedom for a small group of Polish seamen who
jumped ship and sought political asylum in this country.

Since December four Polish nationals, including a young couple from Gdansk, have
defected here. Immigration officials say they are uncertain exactly why
Cleveland, which has had no other dramatic defections in recent years, has
suddenly become a miniature Ellis Island.

But Cleveland, like Chicago, Detroit and other cities along the Great Lakes, has
for decades had a sizable Polish-American population, now approaching 80,000.

Cleveland is usually the first stop for Polish freighters hauling rolled steel
to ports along the Great Lakes, but defectors could desert in any number of
cities. ''We're only guessing at why Cleveland,'' said Robert L. Brown, acting
district director for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. ''After
sailing for three weeks, they might figure, 'Why wait another week? I might as
well do it and get it over with.' ''

Welcoming Committees

Potential deserters may also be enticed by the affability of Polish-Americans
here. It is not uncommon for Clevelanders to board visiting freighters to get
Polish beer and news from the home country. A group of volunteers, the Cleveland
Seamen's Service, greets each ship, offers the seamen free coffee and paperback
books, and even arranges soccer game for the crew members.

And, perhaps more important, the seamen somehow know they can find someone who
speaks Polish and maybe even a shot of vodka at the nearby Lake Erie Motel.

Last month, after deciding to jump ship on the last day of his shore leave, Jan
Czeberkus, a seaman from Lobez, sought out Martin Prengler, a Polish immigrant
who runs the motel and whose family was from a village not far from Mr.
Czeberkus's home. After breakfast Mr. Prengler took the seaman to the Cleveland
office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Three weeks later Christopher and Beata Nowakowski left their ship and showed up
at the Lake Erie Motel, too, for lodging and directions to the immigration
office. ''I don't know how they found out about me,'' Mr. Prengler said. ''I
should be an agency.''

Asylum in Duluth

The series of defections began last December when Leszek Kapsa, a cook from
Szczecin, jumped ship on his eighth journey to the United States. Mr. Czeberkus
said he had heard about Mr. Kapsa's defection on Radio Free Europe and decided
to defect the next chance he got. ''I was thinking about taking asylum in
Duluth,'' he said through an interpreter. ''But so many things were going
through my mind, I thought I should get off in Cleveland.''

Both men are now working as machinists at a factory here and live in sections of
Cleveland with large Polish and Ukrainian populations. The Nowakowskis have
since moved to Boston to live with relatives, according to immigration
officials.

The recent defectors to Cleveland are a small number compared with the 8,000
granted asylum each year in the United States, and some question the attention
and privilege given these defectors, whom they suspect are average people
seeking economic gain and not activists seeking political refuge.

Mr. Czeberkus said he preferred life in the United States because ''a person's
not afraid of anything - you can find work and mind your own business.''

The Nowakowskis were surprised that they could go to a grocery store and buy
whatever food they wanted and that they could ''get a job that pays $3 an hour
when in Poland they had to work a week to get a pair of shoes,'' Mr. Prengler
said. But Mr. Brown noted that qualifying for political asylum ''does not
necessarily mean you would otherwise be put to death or in prison back home.''

''I'm sure we've made some mistakes in admitting people who don't belong here,''
he added. ''But we'd rather err in letting them stay than in sending them
back.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              311 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 25, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AGENCY IS FAULTED ON ITS CUBA POLICY

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 7, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 547 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24


A top State Department official joined members of Congress today in criticizing
the Immigration and Naturalization Service over its policy toward immigration
from Cuba.

The critics, speaking at a House subcommittee hearing on Cuban political
prisoners, assailed delays in processing visa applications from released
prisoners and members of their families.

''Long bureaucratic delays'' in processing applications are ''inexcusable,''
Elliott Abrams, the Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs,
told the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Human Rights and International
Organizations.

Acknowledging complaints from subcommittee members of delays lasting more than a
year, Mr. Abrams said, ''We'll certainly carry the word back to I.N.S.''

Agency Accused of 'Stonewalling'

The immigration service declined an invitation to send someone to testify at the
hearing. Representative Gus Yatron, a Pennsylvania Democrat who is chairman of
the subcommittee, accused the agency of ''stonewalling'' and displaying ''a
total disregard of legitimate Congressional concern on these human rights
issues.''

Duke Austin, a spokesman for I.N.S., said the agency had declined to testify
because the invitation from Mr. Yatron, dated Sept. 17, was not received until
Monday. Executive branch agencies ordinarily require two weeks' advance notice
of a Congressional hearing, he said.

Mr. Austin said it was the policy of the service to process applications from
long-term political prisoners in Cuba ''as quickly as circumstances can
permit.'' But he said the agency needed to take particular care with Cuban
immigrants because of the experience of the Mariel boatlift in 1980, when
thousands of convicted criminals and other undesireables from Cuba made their
way into the country.

Deciding who meets the legal standards for entering the country ''is not a State
Department decision,'' Mr. Austin said. ''It's a decision for the Attorney
General, who has delegated it to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.''
The I.N.S. is a unit of the Justice Department.

Among the specific concerns that members of the subcommittee raised at the
hearing was the fate of family members of 26 political prisoners who were
released by Cuba in 1984. The prisoners came to the United States. Although 75
relatives also received permission to leave Cuba, only seven have received visas
to enter the United States.

CUBA ARRESTS 2 RIGHTS ACTIVISTS

HAVANA, Sept. 24 (Reuters) - The Government arrested two rights activists last
month shortly before the dissident leader Ricardo Bofill sought refuge in the
French Embassy, according to Elizardo Sanchez, vice president of the Cuban
Committee for Human Rights.

A Government spokesman confirmed the arrests but described the two men as
''local terrorists.''

Mr. Sanchez told reporters in an interview Monday that the two men were Domingo
Delgado Castro, a legal adviser to the rights committee, and Jose Luis Alvarado
Delgado, who was conditionally released from jail May 30 after serving four
years of a six-year sentence for spreading ''enemy propaganda.''

Both were arrested in the week before Mr. Bofill, president of the Cuban
Committee for Human Rights, sought refuge in the French Embassy here on Aug. 27,
he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              312 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 27, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

INSIDE

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 171 words


Immigration Bill Dies
  The House refused to consider a comprehensive immigration bill, and supporters
of the legislation said that it was dead. Page 8.

U.S. REVIEWS POLISH POLICY
  The Administration is ''actively examining'' whether to lift economic
sanctions against Poland, a State Department official said. Page 6.

ELLIS I. PLAN ADVANCES
  A key Federal panel endorsed the conversion of two dozen dilapidated buildings
on Ellis Island into a conference center. Page 33.

BEIRUT KIDNAPPING FOILED
  A British journalist said he had foiled an attempt to kidnap him in the
predominantly Shiite Moslem southern suburbs of Beirut, Lebanon. Page 3.

MICHIGAN DIVERSIFYING
  Michigan, whose unemployment has been dropping, is breaking away from a long
dependence on heavy manufacturing, experts say. Page 7.

VATICAN AND DISSENT
  Vatican officials say the American penchant for debate conflicts with a papal
goal: clarity in Roman Catholic teaching. News analysis, page 9.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              313 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 12, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

OUTSIDER BACK INSIDE

BYLINE: BY PAUL WEST; Paul West's most recent novel is ''Rat Man of Paris''

SECTION: Section 7; Page 44, Column 4; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 770 words


RESIDENT ALIEN By Clark Blaise. 184 pp. New York: Penguin Books. Paper, $5.95.

FOR anyone who immigrated to this country the title of Clark Blaise's new book
has a magical sound. But it also implies diagnosis of a defect - resident, yes,
but alien still, with citizenship the only remedy. The Canadian phrase ''landed
immigrant'' is less pedantic, evoking as it does landed fish or something
completed, final, with nothing held back; perhaps it suggests a new phrase,
resident immigrant. You never know. In the popular ''Alien'' movies aliens
arrive not through Immigration Service checkpoints, but, with a brutal squeak,
from the chest of a hapless earthly host. Alien is a word with one too many
uses.

None of this interests Mr. Blaise, however. ''My passport says Canadian,'' he
writes, ''but I was born in America; my legal status says immigrant. Resident
Alien. Everywhere I see dualities.'' We brace ourselves for a demonstration of
the author as a man in two minds, an assimilated outsider, and that is what we
get.

Mr. Blaise draws - and quarters - himself in a childhood in the Deep South,
adolescence in Pittsburgh, manhood in Montreal and beginning middle age in
middle America. Poignantly referring to his mother, ''in a nursing home in
Winnipeg, unconscious of her name,'' and his father, buried in a New Hampshire
cemetery in a plot reserved for Canadians, he adds another third world element
when he introduces his wife, the Indian writer Bharati Mukherjee.

In fact his book is a sandwich - four related stories lumped together between
slices of autobiography, all six dealing with the same material and each serving
as a figure to the other's ground. Mr. Blaise thus reminds us that fiction is a
way of doing things in disguise. The trouble here is that the reader gets the
worst of both worlds and the obsessive spell of neither, as if this book like
its author had a double identity. Though lauding William Faulkner's fondness for
the words ''deep,'' ''beyond'' and ''further,'' Mr. Blaise shrinks from what
those words imply - in fiction invention unlimited, in memoir a relativistic
subjectivity. Either way's a liberty taken.

In one story, ''Translation,'' a nurse in a hospital asks Mr. Blaise's fictional
alias about an iron-shaped brand on his father's backside, but the alias, whose
ambivalent American-French Canadian name is Porter or Carrier, only recalls the
smell of ironed clothes now and then. William Faulkner would have done more with
that smell and its smeller, getting beyond it, going deeper and further.

Similarly, in the first of the two autobiographical sections we find the
author's mother walking to school one day ''at sixty-three below,'' in North
Battleford, Saskatchewan. She had told him, he recalls, ''of walking on crusty
snow that sounded like avalanches, of flinching from footsteps two blocks away,
of tasting blood down her throat as capillaries exploded.'' This reads like the
real thing, but Mr. Blaise stops short of his mother's undisclosed emotions and
we have to wait 150 pages for some relevant thoughts on ''the shame and
absurdity of carrying on normal life at forty below zero.'' ''Winnipeg,'' we
read there, ''should not exist.'' All this would have come more tellingly from
the mother. I CAN no more integrate this book's materials than Mr. Blaise can,
and my problems with it get in the way of my seeing how his problems with it
become his theme. It would be better, surely, to ram the autobiographical stuff
into the fiction all through and risk the real amid the faked than tease readers
with fictions flanked by twin parentheses of truth. After all, durable images,
especially of the sociopathic, forlorn father, keep coming through and they give
the book at least a sketchy continuity. And Mr. Blaise has an eye for saliences,
such as ''mudfish nailed by their tails to cypress trees.''

Why then does he waste 50 pages on vapid accounts of writing seminars he has
known? At the University of Iowa, ''Paul Engle, the Director, invited me up for
drinks.'' ''In Toronto, I sat one night at Massey College high table beside
Northrop Frye, across from Marshall McLuhan. In Canada election to Olympus is
possible.'' Has Mr. Blaise no sense of the ridiculous? He even talks about his
wife's salary.

He is too diffident with his best material, which is potent, and too reverential
with his worst. A work of art about a broken marriage, a child subject to the
wanderlusts of incompatible parents, has gone to waste here, mainly for lack of
initiative. Only a writer this tentative, I suppose, would care so much about
why and how he got that way.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              314 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 15, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

LATIN REPORTER, HERE TO ATTEND AWARDS, IS HELD

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

SECTION: Section B; Page 5, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 626 words


A journalist from Colombia, invited to the United States by Columbia University
to attend ceremonies honoring Latin American journalists, was being detained
yesterday by the Immigration and Naturalization Service after her name appeared
in the service's ''Lookout Book.''

Immigration officials declined to specify why the journalist - Patricia Lara, 35
years old, a reporter for El Tiempo, the leading newspaper in Colombia - had
been denied admission to the United States after her arrival in New York on
Sunday night. A State Department official, who did not want to be identified,
said Miss Lara had been placed on the list, ''based on classified information,''
but would provide no details.

Reached at the immigration detention center on Varick Street in lower Manhattan,
Miss Lara said that she had not been informed of specific reasons why her name
was in the book. The Colombian Ambassador to the United States, Francisco
Posada, asked the State Department yesterday for an explanation.

''I don't know what happened,'' Miss Lara said. ''The last time I came here was
in March and April, for vacation, and there was no problem at all.''

'Temporarily Excludable'

''They asked me if I had written things against the U.S. Government,'' Miss Lara
said in describing her arrival at Kennedy International Airport Sunday. ''I said
I have written against the Reagan policy in Central America. I also wrote a
book. Maybe they didn't like the book. It's a profile of three M-19 leaders.''
M-19 is a guerrilla organization in Colombia.

When asked why Miss Lara was being detained, an immigration service spokesman,
Charles Troy, said, ''Based upon information in the I.N.S. Lookout Book, she was
found temporarily excludable, under Section 235C of the Immigration and
Nationality Act.'' Section 235C, he said, deals with aliens suspected of
communist, subversive or terrorist activity.

Mr. Troy said Miss Lara's case would be reviewed by the eastern regional
commissioner for the immigration service, Stanley E. McKinley, within a week.

Asked last night whether Miss Lara was free to leave the country if she chose,
Mr. McKinley said he could not comment on a pending exclusion case.

Mr. Troy, when asked where names in the Lookout Book come from, said: ''From
various sources. We can put names in there; also, other national agencies and
international agencies can put information in there.'' Those agencies include,
he said, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Federal Drug Enforcement
Administration and the State Department.

''Our embassy has issued a diplomatic note to the U.S. State Department,
requesting an explanation and also stating our surprise,'' said a spokesman for
Ambassador Posada, Virginia Verela. ''In Colombia, we have free press.''

Similar Episode Last Month

Miss Lara's lawyer, Arthur Helton of the Lawyer's Committee for Human Rights,
said, ''It sounds to me as though there's a journalist of considerable pedigree
here who's been victimized by these provisions that are relics of the Cold War
era.''

The case is reminiscent of the detention on Sept. 25 of Tom Ronse, a reporter
for a Belgian newspaper, De Morgen, after Customs Service inspectors found
Communist documents in his luggage. He claimed he was doing research on
Communist groups and was eventually cleared by the immigration service.

Miss Lara, who received a master's degree from the Columbia University Graduate
School of Journalism in 1980, had been invited by the school to attend the
presentation tomorrow of the Maria Moors Cabot Prizes. The awards are presented
annually to journalists who make ''distinguished contributions to inter-American
understanding and freedom of information.'' Miss Lara is not a recipient of the
prize.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              315 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 16, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. REVOKES THE VISA OF A DETAINED REPORTER FROM COLOMBIA

SECTION: Section B; Page 13, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 695 words


The State Department yesterday revoked the visa of a reporter from Colombia who
has been detained since arriving in the United States Sunday to attend an awards
ceremony for distinguished Latin American journalists.

A spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service said, however, that a
hearing on the status of the reporter, Patricia Lara, might be held today, in
time for her to attend the awards ceremony tonight.

Miss Lara, 35 years old, reports for the respected Colombian newspaper El
Tiempo. She was invited to be a guest at the Maria Moors Cabot Prize ceremony at
Columbia University.

She was detained, according to an immigration service spokesman, Duke Austin,
because her name appeared in the ''Lookout Book'' as someone who is a Communist,
subversive or terrorist or is affiliated with such people. Miss Lara has
reported about Communists in Colombia and has written a best-selling book about
three leaders of M-19, a major guerrilla organization in her country.

'Painfully Stupid'

Describing Miss Lara's detention as ''painfully stupid,'' Senator Daniel Patrick
Moynihan, Democrat of New York, said last night: ''I feel like calling George
Shultz and saying, 'George, how did you get back in the country? You were seen
consorting with known Communists in Iceland.'

''If you were really trying to draw attention to the stupidity of this
statute,'' the Senator said, ''arrest a Colombian journalist two days before a
prize ceremony at Columbia University for distinguished Latin American
journalists.''

In Puerto Rico, meanwhile, the immigration service detained a Nicaraguan
psychologist who arrived Monday to attend a conference sponsored by an
organization that provides humanitarian aid to day-care centers in Central
America and the Caribbean.

The psychologist, Silvana Mercedes Sequeira, was carrying pamphlets and a book
''that would indicate that she has Communist affiliations,'' according to Mr.
Austin.

'I Haven't Done Anything'

Referring to the Lara case, he said the acting regional commissioner of the
immigration service ''is expected to decide on her admissibility as soon as
possible.'' He added, ''He is aware of her schedule.''

During the State Department's noon briefing in Washington yesterday, a
department spokesman, Pete Martinez, said that Miss Lara's visa had been revoked
under section 212(A29) of the Immigration and Nationality Act. That section, he
said, ''covers a variety of activities that makes one ineligible.'' He added,
''I don't have anything on what specifically she did.''

''I haven't done anything,'' Miss Lara said at a news conference at the
immigration service detention center on Varick Street in lower Manhattan. She
said she believes her name was entered into the ''Lookout Book'' because she had
assisted American reporters in speaking with antigovernment leaders in Colombia.

Miss Lara is being detained, rather than returned to Colombia, because she has
chosen to contest the immigration service refusal to admit her.

Mr. Austin said the service could grant Miss Lara temporary admission even
though her visa was revoked. A visa, he said, is an application to enter the
county, and not, by itself, permission.

'I Am Not a Communist'

Reached at the hotel where she is being detained in Puerto Rico, Mrs. Sequeira,
the Nicaraguan psychologist, said she had attended a conference on women's
rights in the Dominican Republic, then flew to San Juan Monday at the invitation
of Madres, the day-care support organization.

''They reviewed all my luggage,'' she said. ''There were workshops with various
groups of women at the conference, including Communist Party women. One book had
the name of their group on the back.''

Mrs. Sequeira said she also had a book by Juan Bosch, the former president of
the Dominican Republic, about nationalist movements in Latin America.''

''I am not a Communist,'' she said. ''I'm not a member of any organized party.''

Mr. Austin said that the immigration service has no choice but to detain an
alien who is carrying Communist literature. The immigration law, which was
enacted during the Cold War in the 1950's, ''is very explicit.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              316 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 25, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Four Russian Emigres Plan to Return Home

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 196 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 24


Four Russian emigres announced today that they were returning home because their
hopes for a better life were not fulfilled in America.

''I feel that in the Soviet Union I will be much freer than I am here,'' said
Yuri Chapovsky, at 27 years old the youngest of the group. Two of the four, Mr.
Chapovsky and Israel Glickman, are Jews.

Appearing at the Soviet information office here, they spoke of personal and
political frustrations, of divided families and of homesickness. One of them,
Rashid Atamalibekov, a 54-year-old film maker, said he missed the culture of his
homeland, which he left in 1979.

Mr. Glickman, 61, and Alexander Belikim, 41, said they will leave next week. Mr.
Glickman immigrated to Dallas from Odessa in 1974 and has worked as a laborer.
His wife, daughter and two grandchildren remained behind in Odessa. Mr. Belikim,
who immigrated to New York in 1977, was a clothing worker.

Mr. Chapovsky, a Georgia Tech graduate, is leaving his parents and brother
behind in Atlanta. He said he could not find a job, despite a master's degree,
and said his experiences in the United States did not square with the ''words
like democracy and freedom.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              317 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 27, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

PARADE OPENS SECOND SALUTE TO STATUE OF LIBERTY

BYLINE: By MICHAEL NORMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 644 words


True to the indomitable spirit of the American immigrant, hundreds of people
ignored steady rain yesterday to parade down lower Broadway in a celebration of
the country's ethnic diversity, and for a moment, green foam tiaras no longer
seemed passe.

The First International Immigrants Parade began a three-day celebration of the
Statue of Liberty's centennial -this time the real centennial.

The statue will turn 100 on Tuesday, exactly a century after the national
landmark was dedicated in 1886.

Yesterday's parade was suffused with the same giddy enthusiasm that marked the
Fourth of July celebration.

Few Spectators on Hand

Bedraggled Chinese dragons stomped up the street, apparently oblivious to a
dearth of spectators along the route. Panamanians in incongruous summer outfits
flashed warm smiles at chilled police officers who watched their float roll by.

They were joined by groups of Lebanese, Irish, Turks and tens of other
nationalities. In a show of democratic zeal, organizers of the parade declared
each participant a grand marshal.

Today at noon the celebration is to continue in an invitation-only ceremony on
the south lawn of Ellis Island. The Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation,
the organization that raised the money to refurbish the statue and the
immigration center on Ellis Island, will award the Ellis Island Medal of Honor
to 80 Americans from 42 ethnic groups.

A Diversity of Recipients

Some on the list are well known: Muhammad Ali, Cesar Chavez, Claudette Colbert.
A few lead major insitutions: Benjamin Hooks, executive director of the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People; John Brademus, president of
New York University, and Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, publisher of The New York
Times.

But many of the names, while known in circles familiar with their work, are not
that prominent publicly. They are the sons and daughters of the Irish, French,
Hungarian and other immigrants who all landed here in the statue's shadow.

Tonight those who are being honored are to attend a dinner at the
Waldorf-Astoria Hotel. After dinner the foundation will unveil a
seven-and-a-half-foot birthday cake decorated with red, white and blue frosting
and illuminated by 100 candles.

On Tuesday at 10 A.M. the Government will mark the centennial with a public
ceremony on Liberty Island. Among the dignitaries expected are the French
Minister of Culture, Francois Leotard; Treasury Secretary James A. Baker 3d;
Interior Secretary Donald P. Hodel, and Armen Avedisian, chairman of the Statue
of Liberty-Ellis Island Centennial Commission.

Time Capsule to Be Dedicated

The officials will dedicate a time capsule containing souvenirs of the statue's
100th anniversary. Included are summaries of news stories about the statue, tape
recordings of the Fourth of July celebration and Tuesday's dedication, messages
from dignitaries and a videotape featuring highlights of the July festivities.
The capsule will be sealed at the end of this year and placed in the museum at
the statue's base. It will remain sealed until 2086, the statue's bicentennial.

There will be room for 3,000 public spectators at the Tuesday ceremony. The
Circle Line, which operates the ferries to Liberty Island, will keep to its
regular schedule on Tuesday.

The commemoration will conclude Tuesday evening with a ''Centennial Gala,''
scheduled for 7:30 P.M. at Avery Fisher Hall at Lincoln Center. The gala will
serve as the premiere of ''On Freedom's Ground: An American Cantata,'' a
commissioned work by the composer William Schuman.

The host of this black-tie concert is the actor Tony Randall. Zubin Mehta will
conduct the New York Philharmonic, with Placido Domingo, Charles Aznavour,
Sherrill Milnes and Julio Iglesias as soloists.

Tickets are $35 to $100, with $500 to $1,000 dinner-dance packages also
available.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              318 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 27, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

A Salute to Liberty

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 58 words


A group of Sikh immigrants marching down Broadway during the first International
Immigrants Parade.

Hundreds of people ignored the rain to turn out for the march, which began a
three-day celebration of the actual centennial of the Statue of Liberty. The
100th anniversary of dedication occurs on Tuesday. Page B3. (NYT/Chester Higgins
Jr.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              319 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 28, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

TALKING POLITICS;
Glass Houses

BYLINE: By Phil Gailey

SECTION: Section B; Page 19, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 144 words


After Senator Paula Hawkins said in a recent radio interview in Miami that
immigrants from Mexico were not as patriotic as those who come here from Cuba,
her Democratic challenger, Gov. Bob Graham, castigated the Republican incumbent,
saying she displayed ''a mentality of prejudice.'' But then Mr. Graham slipped
into a similiar controversy when he suggested that Japanese could grow larger by
drinking more Florida orange juice.

Speaking to the Florida Chamber of Commerce about this country's trade imbalance
with Japan, the Governor said Japan imports only enough Florida orange juice to
provide every man, woman and child in that country with one eight-ounce glass a
year. ''I think the Japanese would be healthier, happier and maybe even bigger
if they drank more Florida orange juice,'' Mr. Graham said, drawing laughter and
applause from his audience.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              320 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 31, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Texas Catholic Shelter For Refugees Is Closed

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 85 words

DATELINE: SAN BENITO, Tex., Oct. 30


A Roman Catholic shelter that has housed 10,000 Central American refugees over
four years was closed today.

The 500 current residents were bused to a Immigration and Naturalization Service
center, where they faced a review of their status.

Officials said about 50 Salvadorans had arrived at the shelter, Casa Oscar
Romera, Wednesday night, apparently fleeing the recent earthquake.

The City of San Benito in August asked the church to move the shelter because of
a fight between residents and neighbors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              321 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 3, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

SANCTUARY CLOSING HIGHLIGHTS CULTURAL TENSION IN SOUTH TEXAS

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 916 words

DATELINE: SAN BENITO, Tex., Oct. 31


When Casa Oscar Romero opened four years ago, it was envisioned as a modest
refuge where perhaps four or five Central American aliens at a time would stay
for a few days before leaving for the interior of the United States.

This week, when officials of the shelter announced that it would close by
request of the city government, it was housing 523 Central Americans. Some had
been there for months. It was so crowded that some of the men were housed at a
nearby livestock arena.

The story of the sanctuary operated by the Roman Catholic diocese here,
highlights the troubles of Texas' Rio Grande Valley, where the growing number of
Central Americans is leading to increasing tension with the local population.

Casa Oscar Romero, named for a murdered Salvadoran church leader, opened Dec. 2,
1982, and was central to the movement to provide sanctuary to aliens fleeing
from Central America, particularly El Salvador and Guatemala.

Change With Immigration Surge

But as the tide of the immigrants increased, the situation for aliens at the
shelter changed. Most of its recent residents went through the procedures of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. Aliens who fled the Sandinista
Government of Nicaragua had been as common at the shelter as those fleeing the
American-supported Government of El Salvador. Aliens from those two countries
made up about 80 percent of the shelter's residents. The rest were from
Guatemala, Honduras and other countries.

San Benito city officials asked officials of the local Roman Catholic diocese,
who ran the shelter, to shut it because of complaints from city residents. There
were several confrontations in the summer between local people and residents of
the shelter. The local people feared the shelter's population was getting too
large.

Church leaders say they hope to reopen the shelter in a new location near the
border, perhaps in the next two months. Immigration officials do not agree with
that notion.

''Casa Oscar Romero serves as a magnet drawing people to the Rio Grande Valley,
and it's making the situation worse, not better,'' said Omer G. Sewell, director
of the Federal agency for this region, the Harlingen District. ''People are
going to come whether it's there or not, but I think they will come a little
less if they know there isn't a place like that available to them.''

'A Place Where They Can Rest'

Sister Norma Pimentel, a Casa Oscar Romero worker, said: ''These are people
coming to us because of the situation they find in their own countries. Many
come after several days of travel without sleep, without food. No one wants to
come here to sleep on the floor and eat beans. But they need a place where they
can rest, they can regain their strength, they can feel like human beings.
That's why they are at the Casa.''

Part of the shelter's problems stemmed from the surge of illegal immigration.
From Sept. 30, 1981, to Oct. 1, 1982, there were 33,367 aliens apprehended at
the border with Mexico here. In the like period this year, 123,197 were
apprehended.

From 1982 to 1986, aliens from countries other than Mexico, who are not subject
to routine deportation as Mexicans are, increased from 4,292 to 16,104. The vast
majority were from Central America. That increase put added pressure on the
shelter, but changes in immigration procedures also played a role.

Making It Difficult to Leave

In the past, most of the Central Americans caught in the border region were
released on their own recognizance. But virtually all such aliens, once
released, still faced further immigration proceedings, and Mr. Sewell, citing
the difficulty of finding them after release, instituted procedures that made it
difficult for most aliens to leave the Rio Grande Valley.

The district director says this was necessary to keep tabs on aliens who would
otherwise disappear into the big cities. But the move also added more than 1,000
poor, jobless aliens a month to this south Texas region, which is one of the
nation's poorest.

Because it is served by only two main northbound highways and is surrounded by
vast private ranchland, the Harlingen border sector is considered the only one
where immigration officials can be effective in controlling aliens' movement
north.

Valley as 'a Detention Center'

''They've created a detention center, and it's called the Rio Grande Valley,''
said Telma Longoria, a Catholic Social Services worker who has been involved
with the shelter. ''What it's doing is pitting people against one another
here.''

Caught in the uncertain situation now are Central Americans like Nora Huete of
Nicaragua, who is trying to get to Miami with her four sons, or Arturo
Lara-Ponce of Honduras, who has an airplane ticket from Houston to Los Angeles
but no way to raise a $1,000 Federal immigration court bond required to use the
ticket.

About half the shelter's aliens were referred to the immigration service's
processing center in nearby Bayview, where most will get hearings and face
deportation. The others were released on bond or to their families' custody.

Now city officials who wanted the shelter shut say they face a new problem, an
influx of homeless aliens on the streets with no place to go.

''We didn't create this problem - we were trying to help deal with it,'' said
Ms. Longoria, the Catholic Social Services worker. ''The fools who wanted to
close us should have known that if you ask for something, you should think about
what the consequences will be.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              322 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 6, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

SOVIET EMIGRE FAMILY ARRIVES IN ISRAEL IN THE LEUKEMIA CASE

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 288 words

DATELINE: TEL AVIV, Nov. 5


Inessa Flerov arrived here today after an eight-month struggle with the Soviet
Government for the right to emigrate. She wants to give her bone marrow to a
leukemia-stricken brother, Michael Shirman, who lives in Israel.

The siblings said in an airport interview that they would go for hospital tests
on Thursday to determine whether Mrs. Flerov's bone marrow is compatible.

She arrived with her husband, Viktor, a physicist, and their two daughters, as
immigrants to Israel.

The case has attracted worldwide attention. It began in March, when Mrs. Flerov
applied for a travel visa to Israel to try to help her brother. The application
was rejected. Not only emigration, but foreign travel in general is severely
restricted for Soviet citizens.

When Mrs. Flerov applied for emigration, she was offered permission for herself
and her two daughters, but not for her husband on the ground that his father
refused to sign the required financial waiver. Parents' permission is an
essential requirement for emigration from the Soviet Union. The requirement was
ultimately waved in the Flerov case.

Mr. Shirman said today that pressures from the United States and Israel had no
doubt been effective. He said he had been told by an informed Soviet source that
the Soviet authorities were swayed by his own mission to Iceland during the
Soviet-American summit meeting and then to the United States to publicize the
case.

Mr. Shirman, a zoologist, emigrated from the Soviet Union six years ago. He was
married last year and two or three months later discovered that he had leukemia.
He was told the only thing that could save him was a bone marrow transfer and
the only person who might be compatible was his sister in Moscow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              323 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             November 12, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

WASHINGTON TALK: SEEING VISA DENIALS AS PLAN TO MANIPULATE DEBATE;
Some Who Were Excluded

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 327 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 11


Following is a list of some people whose visa requests have been turned down in
recent years. The reason for an exclusion is usually not given in detail by the
State Department or the Justice Department's Immigration and Naturalization
Service, but a general provision of the McCarran-Walter Act that allows the
Government to exclude for reasons of national security is often cited.

Patricia Lara, a Colombian journalist. She was to attend an awards ceremony last
month at Columbia University celebrating the advancement of inter-American
understanding and freedom of information.

Farley Mowat, a Canadian author and naturalist. He wanted to tour the United
States in 1985 to talk about one of his new books.

Gerry Adams, leader of Sinn Fein, the political wing of the Irish Republican
Army. He was to speak in 1985 to an Irish-American club in New York and to
lawyers on the West Coast.

Hortensia de Allende, widow of Salvador Allende Gossens, the President of Chile
who died in a coup. She was to attend the 1983 International Women's Week in San
Francisco and was to speak at Stanford University and to the Roman Catholic
Archdiocese in San Francisco.

Tomas Borge, the Nicaraguan Interior Minister. He was to speak at several
American universities and was to meet with news organiztions, union leaders,
foreign affairs councils and other private groups.

Roberto d'Aubuisson, President of El Salvador's Constituent Assembly. He was to
attend a dinner in Washington.

Olga Finlay and Leonor Rodriguez Lezcano, both from Cuba. They were to speak in
1983 on the role of women in Cuban society.

Ruben Zamora, a spokesman for the El Salvadoran Revolutionary Democratic Front.
He wanted to speak with members of Congress and address forums on Central
America.

Dario Fo and Franca Rame, a husband-and-wife team of Italian political
satirists. They were to perform in 1983 at the New York Shakespeare Festival and
to give lectures at two drama schools.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of Hortensia de Allende, Roberto d'Abulsson, Farley Mowat,
Patricia Lara and Gerry Adams, all of whose visa requests were denied

TYPE: List

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              324 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 14, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
U.S. Increases Armament For Its Border Agents

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 139 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 13


Citing increased violence along the 2,000-mile border with Mexico, the United
States Border Patrol is arming its agents with 1,000 Army M-14 assault rifles
and will supply them with two armored personnel carriers, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service said today.

The M-14s will replace outdated pump-action rifles that many agents considered
inadequate, said Duke Austin, a spokesman for the I.N.S.

The guns will be available for encounters involving criminal activity when the
patrol is alerted to fleeing fugitives or drug runners who sometimes are armed
with automatic weapons. Eight immigration agents have been wounded in the past
year.

Mr. Austin said the two armored personnel carriers were being obtained from the
Army because ordinary trucks ''take a tough beating'' when they are subjected to
rocky, hill terrain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              325 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 16, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

SRI LANKAN TO OPPOSE DEPORTATION TO STAY IN U.S.

BYLINE: By BEN A. FRANKLIN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 31, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 658 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 15


For Kandiah K. Navaratnam, a 35-year-old American-trained agronomist from Sri
Lanka, the news from the Immigration and Naturalization Service was bad. He was
told to pack up his wife and son, pull up roots he has put down in six years as
a Government-financed graduate student in Virginia and return to his native
land.

He said today that he would not go voluntarily.

Mr. Navaratnam learned of the immigration agency's decision on Oct. 24, three
years after he applied for political asylum in the United States. He is one of
several thousand Sri Lankans in this country who the State Department has
effectively barred from gaining asylum here by holding that, while they may be
victims of arrest, injury, torture and death in their own country, ''despite its
problems and difficulties, Sri Lanka by and large remains a free and open plural
democracy.''

The State Department's seven-page advisory opinion asserts that Mr. Navaratnam
has not proved he has ''a well-founded fear of persecution'' in Sri Lanka. It
also says, however, that ''the largest number of persons killed or injured have
been Tamils'' and that attacks by terrorist elements of the Tamil minority, to
which Mr. Navaratnam belongs, have brought ''wholesale arrests of young Tamil
men for questioning and detention.'' But, at the same time, the document asserts
that, on the basis of ''U.S. Embassy sources,'' ''most'' assertions by Tamil
prisoners that they were ill treated, beaten and tortured ''are unfounded.''

A Moderate Tamil Activist

Mr. Navaratnam, a moderate Tamil activist, had cited in his asylum request fear
for his own life and for his family's safety in his homeland, formerly Ceylon.

Acknowledging that while there is a ''state of open hostilities'' with ''civil
strife and violence'' between separatist Tamils, who are Hindus, and the
majority Sinhalese, who are Buddhists and control the government, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service ruled that, for the Navaratnams, this
''does not constitute persecution.''

On Oct. 24 the agency denied the Navaratnams' application for asylum, revoked
their work permits and told them to leave the country by Nov. 23. On a United
States international exchange grant that began in 1980 and paid his tuition, Mr.
Navatratnam earned his master's degree and, last year, his doctorate in
agricultural education at Virginia Polytechnic Institute in Blacksburg, Va.

Because of his uncertain status, he said in an interview, he has been unable to
find a professional job and is working part-time as a technician and ''paper
changer'' in a computer laboratory. His wife has a job in a fast-food
restaurant. They have a 2-year-old son.

The asylum decision, signed by Robert B. Neptune, the agency's district director
here, held that Mr. Navaratnam had failed to prove he would be ''singled out for
persecution'' in Sri Lanka and added, ''The type of persecution upon which
asylum eligibility is predicated is not merely that which threatens life or
freedom generally.''

Escaped Out a Window

In pleadings to the immigration service, Mr. Navaratnam submitted sworn
statements that even before he left Sri Lanka his role in the Tamil United
Liberation Front had brought upon him an attack by Sinhalese students that, if
he had not escaped out a window, he believes would have cost him his life.

According to the U.S. Committee for Refugees, a private advocacy group, of the
109 reported applications for political asylum by Sri Lankans since 1984, were
all denied until this year when, according to Bill Frelick, a committee
spokesman, the first request was granted.

The group has said that United States policy of granting either asylum status to
some foreign nationals -Polish, Afghanistani and Ethiopian refugees, for example
- while denying it to Sri Lankans is, Mr. Frelick said in an interview, ''a
discrepancy by which standards are applied based on national biases and along
ideological lines.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              326 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 17, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

FAMILY BACK IN U.S. AFTER SOVIET TRIP

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 384 words


An immigrant family that returned to their Soviet homeland a week ago arrived
back in the United States last night, saying they was here to stay.

''We knew the very first day we arrived in Moscow we had made a serious
mistake,'' said Faina Gonta, who appeared tired but happy as she arrived last
night with her family of five at Kennedy International Airport aboard British
Airways Flight 179.

The family, Mrs. Gonta, her husband, David, their sons, Alexander 19 years old,
and Igor, 14, and Mrs. Gonta's mother, Liza Kilimnik, arrived in Moscow a week
ago today, after living in Brooklyn and Jersey City for 10 years.

When asked what made them change their minds, Mrs. Gonta said, ''Everything.''

'Never Going to Adjust'

''It was obvious from the start that the boys were never going to adjust,
especially to the schools,'' she said.

She said that she had hoped to see her girldhood friends again and her
relatives, but found that ''everything had changed.''

The Gontas were among a dozen Soviet emigres who appeared at a news conference
at the Soviet Embassy in Washington Nov. 5 to announce their decision to return
to the Soviet Union.

Mrs. Gonta said last night that she believed Soviet officials had used her for
propaganda.

Policy on Human Rights

''They wanted to show that their policy had changed on human rights,'' she said.

The Gontas came to the United States by way of Israel 10 years ago. For the last
eight years, they have lived in Jersey City.

Mr. Gonta thanked the United States Government and the State Department for
helping to arrange for his family to make a quick return.

The Gontas had retained their United States passports but required permission
from the Soviet Union to leave again.

Mr. Gonta said that once they had decided to return, Soviet officials ''did not
impede us in any way.''

''It has been an unusual experience,'' said Alexander. ''But we realize we would
miss our friends and a lot of things we take for granted in the United States.''

Igor said he did not see much of Russia, having spent the last several days in
Moscow. ''It was fascinating, but I would prefer to be in America,'' he said.
''It's what I know.''

''I understand my parents' feelings,'' he said. ''Russia is their homeland. But
to me, it is a foreign country.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              327 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             November 19, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

FOR THANKSGIVING, TWO FEASTS TWO TRADITIONS;
A Spicy Blend of Caribbean And Black-American Flavors

BYLINE: By DARYL ROYSTER ALEXANDER

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 1; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1633 words


AS an American holiday, Thanksgiving's universality must lie in its ability to
welcome succeeding generations of immigrants to these shores. Brooklyn's
parkways glide past long-established and overlapping enclaves of Haitians,
Barbadians, Jamaicans, Panamanians and Trinidadians among other immigrants from
the West Indies. Come Thanksgiving, many of them proudly round up family members
for sit-down dinners that are distinctive proof of their adaptability and
heritage.

Each year, Deedee Dailey, a second-generation American of West Indian
background, creates a Thanksgiving meal drawing on the culinary legacy of a
Barbadian grandmother and an African-Cuban great-grandmother. She merges those
cultures with mainstream black Americana. Yet, for Miss Dailey, they evolve from
the same African source.

''For me, Thanksgiving is the mixing of the black-American traditions with the
Caribbean,'' said Miss Dailey, the owner of DeeDee Dailey Fine Catering in the
Sheepshead Bay section of Brooklyn. ''Mashed turnips, bread dressing in turkey,
cranberry sauce, apple pie -that's American. Plantains and saltfish and red
snapper are Caribbean.''

Even to those accustomed to the sprawling Lucullan possibilities inherent in a
Thanksgiving dinner, Miss Dai-ley's menu plans approach those of a banquet:
saltfish cakes and yellow and green plantain appetizers; avocado salad with a
spicy sweet-and-sour dressing (''that was Nana's dressing,'' she said); cou cou
and red snapper in creole sauce; roast turkey with pigeon peas and rice; candied
sweet potatoes; a vegetable dish of turnips, brussels sprouts and baby carrots;
johnnycakes and coconut loaf; spice poundcake and pineapple and banana in lime
juice and honey, and rum punch and a sorrel beverage that uses rice for slight
fermentation.

Miss Dailey, a 1978 Hunter College graduate with a degree in African-American
Studies, trained at the New York Restaurant School. Many Caribbean and
black-American dishes, including johnnycakes, have a shared past, she said. One
of her teachers at the New York Restaurant School, a Ghanaian-born cook, drew
her attention to African crossover foods, including black-eyed peas, okra and
root vegetables such as sweet potatoes and cassava.

One dish on the Thanksgiving menu, cou cou (also known as okra fungi in other
Caribbean countries), has a ''Yoruba connection,'' Miss Dailey said, referring
to Nigeria's dominant ethnic group. She likens the consistency of cou cou - made
with yellow cornmeal, fresh okra and sweet butter - to that of polenta, Italian
cornmeal mush. In nearby Ghana, she said, the dish is called co co. Seasoning is
another feature of Caribbean cuisine. Islanders and Africans both use ''many
spicings,'' including onion, garlic, coconut, peanut and cayenne, she said.

In the past, the Dailey household would have as many as 30 guests at the
Thanksgiving dinner, according to Miss Dailey's mother, Margaret Lynch Dailey,
who assists her daughter in the catering business. ''Cousins would help,'' Miss
Dailey recalled. ''Uncle cooked a wicked roast pork.'' Today, 10 to 15 dinner
guests are the norm.

Miss Dailey began cooking when she was about 5 years old and at a height at
which she could reach the stove. ''At 5, I started scrambling my father's
eggs,'' she said. ''I learned the difference in scrambling Southern style: You
don't scramble the egg whites with the yellow.''

Miss Dailey credits her mother and grandmothers for her interest in cooking.
''My mother made heavenly apple pie and poundcake,'' she said.

''My grandmother did private chef work - then it was called being a cook in
someone's home. My great-grandmother was also a cook in a big house in
Barbados.''

Miss Dailey said she began ''playing around with recipes'' during her
high-school years. She started with a Caribbean-style coconut cake from a recipe
of a Jamaican friend. ''I don't like shortening - it's overly processed - so I
add vegetable oil in my coconut spice loaf,'' she said. ''At first, I was giving
them to friends. I saw cooking as something I could work into a business.''

Over the years, Miss Dailey's coconut loaf, flavored with vanilla, rose water
and almond extract, has become a signature. She includes it in her Thanksgiving
menu. ''You can toast it - that's the British influence,'' she said. ''It's a
Bajan tea loaf.

It's like a corn bread, too, for breakfast.''

Miss Dailey, who prefers using fresh foods in cooking, said: ''I am not a
health-food freak. I'm getting away from heavy fats and processed food. That's
why I put in sea salt instead of regular salt. It's light in taste, better for
you and you need less of it.''

Miss Dailey, who has begun a special order for 50 rum-soaked fruitcakes for the
holiday, buys her supplies on Livingston Street in downtown Brooklyn. However,
she said, the ingredients are usually plentiful wherever there are West Indian
and Hispanic neighborhoods. ''In the islands, there's a mix of cultures,'' she
said, ''a lot of interaction - but basically from the same people.'' %
Thanksgiving Menu
Appetizers
*Saltfish Cakes
Yellow and Green Plantains

Salad
Avocado and Salad Greens With Nana's Dressing

First Course
Cou Cou (Okra Fungi)
Red Snapper in Creole Sauce

Main Course
Roast Turkey With Bread Stuffing
*Pigeon Peas and Rice
Medley of White Turnips, Brussels Sprouts and Baby Carrots
Candied Sweet Potatoes

Breads
*Coconut Loaf
Johnnycakes

Dessert
Spice Poundcake
Pineapple and Banana Garni

Beverages
Mango Tea
*Sorrel Beverage
Rum Punch

* See recipes

Spicy Saltfish Cakes
1 pound salted cod, soaked for a half-hour in approximately 2 quarts of water
1 small onion, quartered
2 to 3 cloves garlic, whole
Juice of 1/2 lemon
 1/2 pound white potatoes, peeled, boiled and mashed
 1/2 medium onion, minced
1 small green, red or yellow pepper, minced
3 cloves garlic, minced
2 tablespoons curry powder
1 1/2 tablespoons hot sauce or to taste
 1/4 teaspoon dried oregano
 1/4 teaspoon dried thyme
1 teaspoon dried basil
2 teaspoons fresh parsley, minced
1 egg
 1/4 cup unbleached flour
Black pepper to taste
Approximately 1 cup unbleached white flour for dusting
Vegetable oil for frying.

1.Soak the codfish for a half-hour in water. Rinse and place in a saucepan. Add
the small onion, whole garlic and lemon juice. Cover with water and simmer for 1
1/2 hours. Add more water if necessary.

2.Remove the codfish to a large mixing bowl, or to the bowl of a food processor,
and flake with a fork. Add the potatoes, minced onion, pepper, minced garlic,
curry powder, hot sauce, oregano, thyme, basil, parsley, egg and 1/4 cup flour.
Mix together and season with black pepper.

3.Form the mixture into balls using 1 heaping tablespoon per ball. Dust with
flour.

4.Deep-fry the fish balls in oil until golden in color, 3 to 5 minutes. Drain on
an absorbent towel and serve hot.

Yield: 30 to 32 saltfish cakes.

Pigeon Peas and Rice
3 tablespoons olive oil
1 small onion, minced
3 cloves garlic, minced
2 tablespoons green pepper, minced
 1/2 teaspoon oregano
1 teaspoon basil
Pinch of cayenne
2 ounces salt pork cut into 1/4-inch strips (optional)
 1/2 pound dried pigeon peas (soaked overnight)
Salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste
1 large bay leaf
1 pound long-grain rice.

1.Place the olive oil in a deep saucepan and saute the onion, garlic, green
pepper, oregano, basil, cayenne and salt pork until the onion is translucent.

2.Drain the pigeon peas and add to the mixture. Stir to coat, approximately 1 to
2 minutes. Add the bay leaf and enough water to cover and simmer until the peas
are firm, about 1 hour. Adjust water and add salt and pepper to taste if
desired.

3.Add the rice and enough water to cover to a depth of 1 inch. Continue
simmering until the rice is done, about 20 minutes. Adjust the seasonings. Let
stand for 15 minutes. Stir before serving.

Yield: 8 servings.

Coconut Loaf
4 cups unbleached white flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
 1/4 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon cinnamon
Pinch of nutmeg
 1/2 cup sugar or Y cup honey
2 cups unsweetened fresh grated coconut
 3/4 cups raisins
 1/2 cup melted butter
1 egg, lightly beaten (optional)
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 teaspoon rose water
1 teaspoon almond extract.
 3/4 to 1 cup liquid (milk or unsweetened coconut milk)

1.Sift all the dry ingredients together in a mixing bowl. Add the butter, egg
and honey, if used, and mix thoroughly. Add vanilla extract, rose water and
almond extract then add 3/4 to 1 cup milk or unsweetened coconut milk (the
consistency should be like a biscuit dough, not wet). Knead for 10 minutes.

2.Divide the dough in half. Place in two greased loaf pans. Brush the tops of
the loaves with the remaining liquid and bake in a 350-degree oven for 40
minutes or until a cake tester comes out dry.

Yield: 2 loaves.

Sorrel Beverage
3 quarts boiling water
2 ounces dried Jamaican sorrel (see note)
Peel of 1 orange
Peel of 1 lime or lemon
1 stick cinnamon
12 cloves
1 ounce ginger, unpeeled and grated
15 grains of rice
Honey, sugar or turbinado sugar to taste (see note).

1. Pour boiling water into a large container to which has been added the sorrel,
citrus peels, cinnamon, cloves and ginger. Allow to steep for 24 hours. Strain.
Discard the solids. Sweeten to taste. Add the rice grains (for slight
fermentation). Let stand another 24 hours. Strain out the rice grains.
Refrigerate. Serve cold.

Yield: About 3/4 gallon.

NOTE: Dried sorrel and turbinado sugar, a partly refined brown sugar, are
available in many local markets specializing in Caribbean foods. The sugar may
be found in health-food stores as well.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Deedee Dailey with saltfish, coconut loaf, sorrel beverage,
pigeon peas and rice (NYT/Fred R. Conrad)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              328 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 23, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

LEARNING ENGLISH FROM A CO-WORKER

BYLINE: By CHARLOTTE LIBOV

SECTION: Section 11CN; Page 35, Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1050 words


WHEN Maria Poprawski first came to this country from Poland, the only words she
could say in English were ''Good morning'' and ''How are you?'' That was five
years ago. Today Mrs. Poprawski speaks nearly fluent English, with only the
barest of hesitation, and she is looking forward to earning her nursing license.

Part of Mrs. Poprawski's success can be credited to her natural ability in
languages. But she is also grateful to Juliana Mack, a retired assistant nursing
director at Hartford Hospital, who spends an hour with her each Friday,
reviewing vocabulary words, doing grammar drills and coaching her on some of the
mysteries of the English language, ''such as the silent letters,'' Mrs.
Poprawski said with a frown.

Since 1979, employees at Hartford Hospital have helped their fellow workers
learn English, obtain high-school equivalency degrees, earn promotions and even
enter college, said Nylsa T. Ubarri, the hospital's employee development
specialist.

Because the hospital has a large number of immigrants performing such jobs as
housekeeping and maintenance, the language program has been invaluable, she
said. Most of the immigrants working in the hospital are from Italy, she said,
but there are also Greeks, Indians, Russians, Poles and Colombians, said Ms.
Ubarri.

The inability to speak and understand English is the biggest stumbling block to
the foreign-born workers, she said - even asking for directions or performing
simple tasks can become a nightmare with such a handicap.

''When you don't know English, it's hard enough to find your way around,'' Ms.
Ubarri said. ''But it's very stressful when it's part of your job to get
somewhere, and you don't know how to find it, and you know you are going to be
evaluated.''

Seven years ago, hospital employees who wanted to learn English were matched
with volunteers from Literacy Volunteers of Connecticut Inc., a nonprofit
organization specializing in one-to-one tutoring. But the organization had more
would-be students than volunteers, so Ms. Ubarri decided that hospital employees
should become tutors themselves.

Through Literacy Volunteers, Ms. Ubarri was trained as an instructor. She then
placed a notice in the hospital's newsletter, seeking volunteers. The tutors
each spend two hours a week with their students.

Interest in the program varies from year to year, but Ms. Ubarri estimated that
over the years, 28 employees have tutored 41 students. This year, four employees
are working with six students, she said, and there is always a waiting list of
employees seeking tutors.

Valori Banfi, a clinical medical librarian, works with Clemente Gonzalez, a
29-year-old Hartford resident who works in the hospital mailroom. He also works
part time cleaning offices and is a junior student at Greater Hartford Community
College for non-English speaking students.

Miss Banfi has been tutoring Mr. Gonzalez for more than two years and is
impressed with his determination. ''Here he is with two part-time jobs and he's
going to school and he comes here to learn English,'' she said. ''That's what
keeps me going. I think that here is a person who wants to work and make
something of himself and he should be helped.''

''It is a very good program,'' Mr. Gonzalez said. ''It has helped me learn to
read, to write, to balance a checkbook, to use the telephone and to learn all
about American culture.''

Most lessons are conducted at the hospital, although sometimes the tutors and
their students get together elsewhere.

For example, Marcy La Chance, a secretary in the hospital's cytology lab, once
took her student, Angela Capone, to a restaurant to order a pizza. ''It was
easy, but she was afraid,'' Mrs. La Chance said. To Mrs. Capone, who came from
Italy 20 years ago, ordering the food was no easy task. Having lived in
Hartford's predominently Italian South End since coming to this country, she
found venturing out of the neighborhood intimidating. She worked nights for 11
years in a dress factory in the neighborhood, and it was only upon being hired
by the hospital as a housekeeper that she realized she needed to learn English,
she said. She began studying with Mrs. La Chance three years ago, and also
studies English at night school and plans to earn a high-school equivilancy
diploma.

''When I first started working here, my supervisor would hand me a slip of paper
with directions on it, like clean a room on the fifth floor, but I couldn't read
it,'' Mrs. Capone said. ''Or I would find the room, but I could not ask where
the cleaning things were. So I decided I needed someone to communicate with.''

Those days are now behind her, though. Recently Mrs. Capone was promoted to
assistant supervisor of housekeeping.

Tutoring Mrs. Carbone reminded Mrs. La Chance of her own problems trying to deal
with English when she was a child. Her parents are French, and she was born in a
predominently French-speaking section of Maine.

''I remember having to learn to speak English, so I could relate to Angela,''
she said. ''That's why I asked for a foreign student.''

At a table in the cafeteria, Miss Mack was working with Mrs. Poprawski and
Libereta Ricci of the hospital's housekeeping staff. Mrs. Ricci came from Italy
23 years ago, but kept to her family and friends in Hartford's South End. She
has worked at the hospital 16 years, but a few years ago decided she wanted to
improve her English.

''I like to learn and I'd like to get a better job if I can,'' Mrs. Ricci said.
''I want to try. Before, I didn't go to school, when my kids were small. I
worked nights. Now, my kids are grown. I want to learn. If you don't go to
school, you never learn.'' She also attends English classes at night at
Wethersfield High School.

In addition to her native Polish, Mrs. Poprawski can speak Russian and Ukrainian
and even knows a bit of Latin ''from my nursing studies,'' she said. For her,
learning English includes studying medical terminology. In this, she finds Miss
Mack's knowledge especially helpful. Right now, they are working on Miss
Poprawski's citizenship application. Eventually, she will begin preparing to
earn her nursing certification.

''Eventually, they'll outlearn me and they'll need a better teacher,'' said Miss
Mack, as her students laughed and shook their heads skeptically.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Juliana Mack tutoring Liberata Ricci and Maria Poprawski
(NYT/Steve Miller); photo of Nylsa T. Ubarri

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              329 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 25, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Ex-Leader of Commune Gets 2-Year Sentence

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 176 words

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., Nov. 24


The former Mayor of Rajneeshpuram, who provided investigators with vital
information about crimes committed at what was the commune of a religious sect,
was sentenced today to two years in prison.

The sentence was imposed on the former Mayor, David Berry Knapp, by Federal
District Judge Edward Leavy despite the strong recommendation of United States
Attorney Charles Turner that Mr. Knapp be placed on probation. Mr. Turner said
the information provided by Mr. Knapp had been essential.

Mr. Knapp, who went by the name Swami Krishna Deva when he was a disciple of the
Indian guru Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh, faced a possible sentence of five years in
prison and a $10,000 fine for conspiracy.

Mr. Knapp admitted that he filed a false petition with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and entered into a sham marriage. He said the acts were
part of a conspiracy to allow foreign Rajneeshees to remain in the United
States.

The commune disbanded after the guru pleaded guilty to two Federal immigration
charges and left the country Nov. 14, 1985.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              330 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 25, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

REFUGEES ARRIVE IN LOS ANGELES FROM VIETNAM

BYLINE: By JUDITH CUMMINGS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 905 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 24


There was no fierceness in their eyes today, no jaws set against adversity and
attack in jungle blinds. The group of Vietnamese montagnard villagers who
touched their first American soil at an airport here today looked more like
tourists than former allies of American troops in Vietnam.

''I have many friends and family killed by the Communists - many times I'm
almost killed myself,'' said Ksa Thaniel Ha-Doi, a leader of the group. ''Many
long years fighting, but nobody to know or supply us.''

The 209 montagnard refugees include 159 men, 17 women and 33 children,
originally from the mountain areas of Vietnam. They were to stay in Los Angeles
overnight on their way to resettlement in North Carolina around Raleigh,
Greenboro and Charlotte.

The montagnards will join more than 800,000 Indochinese refugees who have been
resettled in the United States since 1975. It is the first time so large a group
of montagnards has come to this country, according to the State Department.

The montagnards were known as staunch anti-Communists who fought alongside
United States forces in the Vietnam War. They have been brought to this country
by the State Department for immediate resettlement in North Carolina, where
their resettlement will be overseen by the local arm of the Lutheran Immigration
and Refugee Service, the Lutheran Family Service of North Carolina.

Most of the group's members have continued fighting the Communists in the
Cambodian resistance since the Communist takeover of South Vietnam in 1975, said
Sheppie Abramowitz, a project officer for the Bureau of Refugee Programs at the
State Department in Washington.

Difficult Journey to America

The course of their journey to this country has been a difficult one. Mr. Ksa,
notwithstanding his sport shirt and slacks amid his similarly dressed friends at
the Los Angeles airport, used to be a farmer in the village of Dam Pao in the
Central Highlands region of South Vietnam. When the Communists came into their
mountains, he and others became resistance fighters. After the Communist
victory, they fought their way to the border between Cambodia and Thailand,
where they continued what he called ''the struggle.''

For 10 years, he said, they fought with what weapons they still had from the
ousted South Vietnamese Government. Occasionally, they received a little food
and clothing from the Thai Government, but mainly they were on their own.

Finally, last year, he said, everyone in their group ''agreed to put down
weapons, go to Thailand, and go to the U.S. Government.''

''If we go back to Vietnam, maybe we die,'' Mr. Ksa said. ''If we stay in
Thailand, we are miserable. Every day we fight. Now'' - at his age, 42, which
was not untypical for the group - ''we have a new life.''

The request for so large a group to be resettled together was unusual, Mrs.
Abramovitz said. ''They've been together, they wanted to stay together, and we
decided to honor that,'' she said.

Drawn From 3 Tribes

The group's members are drawn from three tribes: the Rhade, the Bahar and the
Jarai. Ethnically, they are related to another Vietnam mountain people, the
Hmong, who have been resettled around the country over the past 10 years with
concentrations in such regions as the Sacramento area in northern California,
the Texas Gulf, and urban neighborhoods in Philadelphia.

For the Hmong, as an isolated mountain people, the resettlement experience has
sometimes been a struggle. There have been conflicts between Hmong fishermen and
American counterparts. Others have been the victims of urban crime in big-city
neighborhoods.

In an effort to avoid such problems, the State Department set up for the
montagnards a six-month program of study of American culture and the English
language in the Philippines, which they have just completed. ''I can't guarantee
it, but we believe some of those problems will not be taking place,'' Mrs.
Abramowitz said. Mrs. Abramowitz, who is the wife of Morton I. Abramowitz, the
American Ambassador to Thailand from 1978 to 1983, had worked in refugee
programs for the International Rescue Committee in Hong Kong in the 1960's.

In addition, the group was to be met at Los Angeles International Airport by
Touneh Han Tho, a montagnard leader from Sacramento who may be a prime example
of the future that the State Department hopes is awaiting the new refugees.
After working for a while as a refugee coordinator for the state of California,
he has gone on to own a chain of bakeries, Mrs. Abramowitz said.

Self-Sufficiency to be Encouraged

The Department regards the Lutheran host agencies in North Carolina as
particularly well suited to oversee the resettlement. In addition to the
participation of Lutheran congregations in the area, the organization has
enlisted the help of 34 other churches to help in the resettlement, said Terry
Rusch, a State Department officer in charge of the resettlement in North
Carolina.

The church organizations have located housing and jobs for the montagnards, and
they will be encouraged to become self-sufficient. ''We have jobs for
everbyody,'' said Raleigh Bailey, head of refugee programs for the Lutheran
Family Services. ''Mostly jobs Americans don't want, entry-level factory jobs.''

On Tuesday, there is to be an arrival ceremony planned with welcomes by state
and Federal officials in Greensboro. After that, they will begin to be dispersed
to their new homes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Montagnard refugees (AP)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              331 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 3, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

ISRAELI COURT UPHOLDS A CONVERT

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 313 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Dec. 2


The Israeli Supreme Court ruled today in favor of a new immigrant from the
United States who had challenged the Interior Ministry's labeling her a convert
to Judaism in her Israeli identity papers.

The case of the immigrant, Shoshana Miller, touched off a dispute last June
because the Interior Ministry's action appeared to cast doubt on the validity of
Reform conversions. The Reform movement is not authorized to conduct conversions
in Israel, but Ms. Miller was converted by a Reform rabbi in Colorado Springs
before she came to live in Israel.

''I'm ecstatic,'' Ms. Miller said today. ''It has been a tough year. Now I can
get on with my life.''

The three-judge panel ruled unanimously that while the Population Registry is
allowed to specify religion on identity cards, it is not authorized to include
any other details, such as how people achieved their status.

Justice Meir Shamgar of the Supreme Court said distinguishing between Ms. Miller
and other Jews would undermine the unity of the Jewish people. Judge Menachem
Elon, citing sources in the Halakha, or code of law, added in a separate opinion
that such differentiation runs contrary to the spirit of Judaism.

''I have been under tremendous pressure, not due to anyone not recognizing me as
Jewish, because that has not happened,'' Ms. Miller said. ''But the fact that
the state of Israel, as represented by the Interior Ministry, did not recognize
me as a Jew - that was a problem for me.''

There was no immediate response from Interior Minister Yitzhak Peretz to the
decision today. Religious Affairs Minister Zevulun Hammer said that although he
personally was against singling out converts, the ruling presented a quandary by
opening up the question, ''Who is a Jew?''

''Who determines who is a Jew?'' Mr. Hammer said on Israel radio today. ''Is
anyone who comes in and says 'I'm a Jew' a Jew?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              332 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 18, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Accused I.R.A. Bomber Seized By U.S. Immigration in Utah

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 97 words

DATELINE: MURRAY, Utah, Dec. 17


United States immigration agents arrested an accused Irish Republican Army
bomber, Peter Gabriel McMullen, Tuesday night in his apartment here. He is being
held without bail in the Salt Lake County jail.

Nine agents identified themselves so that Mr. McMullen, 39 years old, would not
mistake them for I.R.A. gunmen he believes are trying to assassinate him for
failing to carry out an assignment.

''He's wanted in Britain on charges of murder in connection with an explosion in
a British Army barracks that killed several people,'' Meryl Rogers, an
immigration agent, said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              333 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 21, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

POLICE SEEK IMMIGRANTS' CONFIDENCE

BYLINE: By CRYSTAL NIX

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 56, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 897 words


Back in their homelands, some of the children had seen the police beat neighbors
with billy clubs and guns. Others had heard of killings, payoffs and
disappearances.

''The police take people off buses to put them in jails and kill them,'' said
Carmen Valencia, 11 years old, who grew up in Colombia and moved two years ago
to the Flatbush section of Brooklyn. Her uncle, she said, was forced to pay
police officials to keep her father out of jail on what she said were trumped-up
charges.

''The police,'' she said, ''they are too mean.''

For Carmen and thousands of other who are refugees from repressive regimes, the
fighting, squalor and death tolls have been left behind. But the fear and
suspicion of the police remain.

Classroom Visits Planned

Now, the New York City Police Department has begun an effort to change these
perceptions and, at the same time, to make its officers more sensitive to these
immigrants' fears.

In an experimental program, officials said the department is sending officers
who are themselves children of immigrants into classrooms in Brooklyn to teach
children that the police in New York City are not their enemies.

The program, for about 400 students in five schools in District 22 in Flatbush,
is being run by the department's New Immigrant Unit. The unit was formed last
April to address the special needs of immigrants, who now make up one-quarter of
the city's population, according to the department's Deputy Commissioner for
Community Affairs, Wilhelmina E. Holliday.

''We have to give them some idea of what policing is about,'' Commissioner
Holliday said. ''Many of them, particularly young children, may have come from
countries where the police force was oppressive. We want to say that police
officers are friends.''

Insensitivity Acknowledged

Police officers acknowledged, however, that some officers may be insensitive to
Asian, Carribbean, African and European immigrants who do not speak English,
reinforcing negative perceptions of the police.

But they said that the department is trying to recruit more minority officers
and sensitize all officers through training programs in the Police Academy, as
well as in executive training sessions.

''I'm not saying individual officers may not have their own forms of racism and
prejudice,'' Ms. Holliday said. ''We will face that situation as it arises. But
that is not the policy of this department and that's what we are talking
about.''

Seven officers in the special unit will present a series of lectures to children
in grades 5 through 8 who collectively speak 61 languages as diverse as Creole,
Korean, Hindi, Pashto, Urdu and Khmer, and who are enrolled in a special program
within the schools.

The program, English to Speakers of Other Languages, is run in 22 schools in the
district and teaches children English in all their classes, then puts them into
classes with children who speak English as a first language, according to the
coordinator, Jane London. The program contrasts with many bilingual education
programs, in which children learn both their native language and English.

Hope Message Is Carried Home

Police and school officials said they hoped that the program would change
attitudes about the police among the children, and that they, in turn, would
educate their parents.

''It's easier to reach the children,'' said Officer Christine Leung, one of the
officers in the special unit and who grew up in Hong Kong. ''Parents might not
accept it as readily.''

Officer Leung said she understands the reservations of many Asian people, adding
that her own family found her decision to join the Police Department three years
ago unsettling.

''The police have a very military and dominant role in Asian lives - that's the
image,'' she said in an interview after a ceremony held at the Hudde Junior High
School in Flatbush. ''In my own family, becoming a police officer is not
something that is expected, particularly for a female. I'm trying to tell them
I'm not breaking with tradition, I'm being a bridge.''

Bilingual Receptionists

Since the special unit was formed, officers have met with more than 300
community groups, run public service anouncements in foreign-language newspapers
and visited community centers to inform immigrants about what the police do,
where to call for help and how to protect themselves from crime, officers said.

The department also has placed a Korean-speaking receptionist in the 109th
Precinct in Flushing, Queens, where many Koreans live, a Cambodian receptionist
in the 52d Precinct in the Norwood section of the Bronx, and two
Russian-speaking receptionists in the 60th Precinct in the Brighton Beach
section of Brooklyn.

Slowly, police officers said, they hope deeply-ingrained suspicions and
resentment of the police will change, particularly among children.

Zeeba Carvan, for instance, grew up in Afghanistan, where she said the police
were abusive. But after three years in New York City, she said, her perception
is changing.

''They used to hit people and fight and they tried to make my father be a police
officer,'' she said, referring to the practice of ordering civilians to
cooperate with the state. ''My grandmother started crying because she didn't
want him to do it.''

In New York City, she said, the police are different. ''They're nice,'' she said
simply. ''I like them.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              334 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             December 24, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

BOAT WITH 48 DOMINICANS SWAMPS OFF PUERTO RICO

BYLINE: By MANUEL SUAREZ, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 559 words

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, P.R., Dec. 23


At least eight people drowned when a 28-foot boat loaded with 48 people from the
Dominican Republic was swamped in turbulent waters within a few hundred feet of
shore, the authorities reported today. Officials said the people on the boat
were trying to sneak into the United States through Puerto Rico.

A huge wave swamped the vessel Monday night at a beach off the town of Rincon on
the westernmost tip of the island, an area famed among surfing enthusiasts as
''the Hawaii of the East.''

''There wereomomen and children as well as men in the water,'' said Antonio
Muniz Avilez, who helped rescue some of the people. ''They would start coming
out and they would be sucked back in by the surf. We pulled some out but some
were already dead.''

Most of the Dominicans who made it to shore immediately fled into the hills, the
police said. Sixteen of the Dominicans were taken into custody by the police and
turned over to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The boat made the perilous 90-mile crossing from Punta Juanillo on the east
coast of the Dominican Republic, survivors said.

Mr. Muniz Avilez, who operates a small cabana resort at Punta Higuera, Puerto
Rico's westernmost point, was joined by his son, Miguel Antonio, and by surfers
at his resort as they pulled people from the surf.

''We pulled one woman out who was pregnant and unconscious,'' Mr. Muniz Avilez
said. ''She had no clothes on and it looked like she was going to give birth
right there.'' He said she was taken to a hospital. It was not immediately known
what happened to her.

Six bodies were recovered this morning and two more were found late this
afternoon, the Rincon police said.

Lieut. Joseph Wiggins of the Coast Guard said, ''The reports that I have are
that the boat's captain saw a light he mistook for a Coast Guard boat, and he
made a sharp turn to the right in an effort to get away. The boat was broached
by a wave.'' The passengers tried to bail out but were unable to do so, he said.

Lieutenant Wiggins said the Coast Guard received a call at 8:30 P.M. Monday at
its base in Aguadilla, in northwestern Puerto Rico, indicating that a boat was
in trouble.

Rescue Helicopter Sent

He said a helicopter was sent to the scene, but by that time most of the boat's
passengers had either made it to the shore or drowned.

Lieutenant Wiggins said Coast Guard investigators reported that the boat had
made it safely across the Mona Passage to the small uninhabited island of
Desecheo, about two miles off Puerto Rico's northwest coast.

''The passengers got off in Desecheo and spent the day there before they
reboarded the boat for the remainder of the trip to Puerto Rico,'' he said.

For years, Puerto Rico has been a major stopping off place for Dominicans trying
to get into the United States. The Spanish-speaking Dominicans find it is not
difficult to pass themselves off as Puerto Ricans, to buy an airline ticket and
to fly to New York or Miami.

Dominicans had made the trip in open boats for years in small numbers, but about
three years ago the Dominican economy went into a tailspin after the Government
adopted austerity measures to meet its foreign debt.

The small number of Dominicans making the risky voyage across the Mona Passage
grew to hundreds, giving rise to a smuggling trade in alien, who are charged
$300 to $800 each.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map shows area where drownings occured (NYT)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              335 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 25, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

COMMERCIAL RENTS IN CHINATOWN SOAR AS HONG KONG EXODUS GROWS

BYLINE: By ALBERT SCARDINO

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1539 words


A flood of immigrants from Hong Kong has pushed commercial rents in New York's
Chinatown up to the levels of midtown, making the real estate in one untidy
corner of Manhattan among the most expensive in the United States.

The demand for space is so strong, local real estate brokers say, that the
operators of vegetable stalls near the bustling intersection of Catherine and
Division Streets pay more rent per square foot than the owners of Tiffany &
Company at Fifth Avenue and 57th Street. City officials describe the frenzy in
the Chinatown real estate market as ''hysteria.''

''Everytime you turn around the prices have shot up again,'' said Michael
Dirzulaitis, an assistant commissioner in the city's Division of Real Property,
which has been involved in several development projects in Chinatown this year.
''It's hard to believe that there is enough money around to keep it going, but
there is.''

The pressures on Chinatown have been building for some time. But they have been
given added urgency by the exodus of people and capital from Hong Kong in
advance of the 1997 deadline for Britain to turn the colony over to China.

New York's Chinatown is not big enough to absorb much of Hong Kong's wealth. The
largest real estate deal in the works in the neighborhood is about $18 million,
tiny by Manhattan standards and modest even by those of other cities.

The money coming in from Hong Kong, however, is not the big fortunes, counted in
millions of dollars, but nest eggs measured in the thousands - just enough money
to stake a newcomer in business. In Chinatown, where newcomers are isolated from
the outside world by language and culture and where severe zoning restrictions
prevent the addition of space to accommodate a larger population, these sums are
enough to run up the bids for every available nook.

Two decades ago, Chinatown was a neighborhood of 20,000 people, most of them men
and most of them of Cantonese extraction, squeezed into about 35 square blocks
at the foot of the Manhattan Bridge in the shadow of City Hall. The population
is estimated now at 100,000 or more and is growing geometrically. If Chinatown
were an independent municipality, it would rank as one of the fastest-growing
communities in the United States.

With new arrivals squeezing in at a rate at nearly 2,000 a month, the district
spread north through what was once a Jewish section on the Lower East Side and
west across Little Italy, turning Yiddish into Mandarin and fettucine into won
tons. The frontier of Chinatown has crossed into TriBeCa and SoHo, and new
Chinatowns have blossomed in Queens and Brooklyn, bringing the total Chinese
population in the city to about 300,000.

Hundreds of Entrepreneurs

Wherever they live, the immigrants are drawn back to downtown Chinatown to work
and shop, creating an atmosphere of an old city market, with hundreds of
entrepreneurs tending their own stalls or shops.

Bushels of live blue crabs, crates of bok choy and hordes of intense shoppers
crowd the sidewalks of Canal Street, the central business district of Chinatown.
Shopkeepers hawk wares from every available nook: batteries and audio tapes,
scarves, T-shirts, jewelry and food of every description, from lobsters to
doughnuts.

''We Chinese are very independent people,'' said Danny Li, owner of a chain of
bakery shops and an investor in real estate and restaurants. ''The first
ambition for a Chinese person is to have his own business. It gives jobs to
everyone in the family.''

On East Broadway, a new arrival sublets enough space under the awning of a fish
store for a dozen open crates of vegetables. ''He might pay the owner of the
fish market $1,500 a month for a place to stand in front of the store window,''
said Kwok Ming Chan, a restaurant owner and real estate investor. (He describes
the lease as if it were hypothetical. In the intimate, small-town atmosphere of
Chinatown, where neighbors and partners often know each other's business, no one
admits to knowing details.) Mr. Chan said that, to obtain the lease in the first
place, a lease that might run for as little as two years or as long as five, he
might pay $20,000 or more in ''key money,'' an illegal but universal - and
universally acknowledged - fee assessed everytime a tenant moves in or renews
his lease.

When the key money is amortized over the life of the lease, the operator of the
vegetable stand might pay the equivalent of $275 a square foot a year for the
privilege of selling his apples, snow peas and mushrooms. Some of the shops in
the atrium of Trump Tower on Fifth Avenue, among the most expensive retail space
in the city, pay little more than that.

Yet the competition is so fierce that retail prices at many of the stalls are
considerably lower than those uptown. Apples that sell for 89 cents a pound on
the upper West Side go for 33 cents on Henry Street. Snow peas cost a third of
what they bring at greengroceries in other parts of the city.

''They can make a living only by working 14 hours every day,'' Mr. Chan said.
''And everyone in the family must work, too.''

Despite the drab exterior of the neighborhood, Chinatown is not poor. ''People
have plenty of money,'' Mr. Li said. ''If they do not have enough to open their
own business, they work as waiters in the Chinese restaurants. You can put aside
a lot when you work as a waiter. You have no time off to spend what you earn.''

The drabness comes in part from the compulsion to do business. ''A few years
ago, a group of us convinced the city to commit several million dollars to
rebuilding the sidewalks and planting trees and shrubbery in the area,'' Tieh
Chi Ho, an architect and developer, said. ''But the merchants objected. They
said the construction would drive away customers.''

When the Golden Pacific National Bank, one of the many banks in Chinatown,
failed last year, Federal regulators who examined the books were surprised to
find so many waiters with savings accounts of $20,000 or more, Mr. Chan said. He
pointed to a vendor selling hot noodles from an aluminum pushcart on the corner
of East Broadway and Pike Street. ''He takes in $500 a day,'' Mr. Chan said.
''One day soon he will have enough to lease a stall.''

Those who lack the capital for a pushcart settle for a cardboard box on which
they spread a half-dozen mackerel or a dozen scarves.

Restaurants and Curio Shops

The customers who support this multitude of merchants come not only from
Chinatown but also from the Chinese communities in Queens, the non-Chinese
residents of the lower part of Manhattan and the tourists drawn to the hundreds
of inexepensive restaurants and curio shops.

''With so many people passing by, the owner of a small stall can sell a lot of
merchandise,'' Mr. Chan said. ''You can watch him in the morning unload a
truckload of goods to sell, maybe $2,000 worth, and by the end of the day it is
all gone.'' But the day does not end until late at night, he added.

Mr. Chan and nine other stockholders hope to take advantage of the demand for
space with a new shopping center they are building on East Broadway underneath
the Manhattan Bridge on land leased from the city. It is one of the few sites
available for new construction.

''Most of the real estate in Chinatown is owned by family associations with many
members,'' said Irwin Liu, an American-born lawyer who with several partners
founded a title insurance company on Pell Street in Chinatown. ''It is very hard
to get so many different people to agree on a plan for development.''

Density Limited by Zoning

When sites do become available, the new buildings that rise on them are limited
to some of the lowest density zoning in Manhattan, in most cases reaching no
more than six stories. One of the few projects planned to exceed that limit was
derailed last month when the state's highest court, the Court of Appeals, halted
a 21-story condominium project on Henry Street at Market Street. The court ruled
that the city had failed to conduct thorough environmental impact studies.

The caps on new development have helped make every inch of existing space more
valuable. The shopping center designed by Mr. Ho, to be known as East Broadway
Mall, would house 101 shops and restaurants. The center would be far larger than
any other shopping area in the neighborhood. ''We have about 33 tenants so
far,'' Mr. Ho said. ''The store owners will pay a fixture fee to cover the cost
of improvements in their space, and they will receive a lease of up to 25 years,
which is unheard of in Chinatown.''

Mr. Chan said he expected the mall to touch off other development along East
Broadway and nearby. ''You won't recognize this area in two years,'' he said.

MANHATTAN RENTS

Typical rents per square foot for the most expensive retail space in Manhattan's
most active markets.
Fifth Avenue                            $400
(Above 51st Street)
Chinatown*                               275
(Canal Street)
Madison Avenue                           255
Above 42nd Street)
Columbus Avenue                          175
(67th to 82d Street)
Lower Manhattan                          125
(Fulton, Nassau Streets)
*Note: Estimate for Chinatown rents includes illegal fees paid at beginning or
renewal of a lease to secure space. (Source: Real Estate Board of New York)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map shows site of new mall (NYT)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              336 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 26, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

ENGINEER CUTS RED TAPE TO SAVE HIS JOB IN U.S.

BYLINE: By DAVID BIRD

SECTION: Section B; Page 10, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 527 words


Noel Ignacio likes his job with the Federal Government - he is an engineer on a
small Coast Guard boat -and his superiors like the way he does his work.

But the 24-year-old native of the Philippines almost lost his job because of
another arm of the Federal Government: the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. Delays in processing Mr. Ignacio's citizenship application put him
perilously close to missing a deadline to re-enlist for his second term in the
Coast Guard.

The delays were ended last week. Mr. Ignacio became a citizen and his job was
saved.

''He was overjoyed,'' said his commanding officer, Lieut. Michael Selavka, who
heads the Coast Guard's small boat station on Governors Island. ''He's a good
and reliable and responsible worker. The Coast Guard has invested a lot of
effort in training him. Why throw that out the window?'' The problem centered on
a Coast Guard regulation that allows certain noncitizens to enlist for a
four-year term. Before re-enlisting, the person must become a United States
citizen.

A Runaround at Immigration

Mr. Ignacio, who came to this country in 1981, had started his naturalization
process in October 1985 when he was stationed in New York. Then early this year
he was transferred to Gloucester City, N.J., which is in the jurisdiction of the
Newark office of the immigration service.

Mr. Ignacio said that early this year he applied again in Newark. A few months
later he was transferred back to Governors Island.

In October he went to the immigration office at 26 Federal Plaza in New York
City to get his papers transferred.

''They sent me to the 7th floor, to the 5th floor, to the ground floor,'' Mr.
Ignacio said. ''They were pushing me around. Then they said I'd have to go to
Newark. In Newark they said I couldn't just take the papers to New York, that
I'd have to file an application in New York to get them transferred.''

Close to the Deadline

Mr. Ignacio said he was told in New York that it would take at least six months
to get the papers from Newark and that the naturalization process would take
months after that. But Mr. Ignacio's term of duty with the Coast Guard ends in
February, long before the papers would have arrived in New York City.

Then came the break. Responding to a reporter's telephone call, James Pomeroy,
director of the immigration service's office in Newark, reviewed Mr. Ignacio's
file and found that in January he had begun the process for obtaining
citizenship.

Mr. Pomeroy said there was usually a year wait before an applicant could be
interviewed to determine his or her qualification for citizenship. But, he said
that because Mr. Ignacio was a member of the Coast Guard, his application could
be processed more quickly under an exception in the law for military personnel.

On Monday, Dec. 15, Mr. Ignacio went to Mr. Pomeroy's office at 10 A.M. By 2
P.M. in United States District Court in Newark he had been sworn in as a
citizen.

Mr. Pomeroy said he had pushed Mr. Ignacio's case to the top of the list. ''It
was a situation of do it and get it over with,'' Mr. Pomeroy said last
Wednesday. ''Things can work out well once in a while.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Noel Ignacio (NYT/Fred R. Conrad)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              337 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 30, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

WASHINGTON TALK: BRIEFING;
A Polyglot Note

BYLINE: By Wayne King and Warren Weaver Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 164 words


Three violin-piano duos have been named winners in a United States Information
Agency competition to select musicians to appear as American ''ambassadors''
abroad, and two of the three had foreign-born citizens as principals.

The naturalized citizens among the winners were Ali Forough, a violinist from
Iran, and Violaine Melancon, a violinist from Canada. Their pianist partners,
Carolyn McCracken-Forough and Seth Knopp, respectively, are American-born, as
are both mem-bers of the other winning duo, Kathleen Winkler and Deborah Berman.
The winners will perform for six to eight weeks under the aegis of the United
States. Of the 24 finalists, seven were foreign born. Charles Z. Wick, director
of the agency, said it was appropriate that so many immigrant Americans
auditioned because ''all of the great landmarks of Washington are symbols of a
nation that has absorbed the broken hopes and dreams of countless immigrants
that have come to these shores seeking freedom.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              338 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 12, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

HOUSE VOTES TO SOFTEN CURB ON ALIEN HOUSING

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 25, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 661 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 11


The House of Representatives voted unanimously today to permit illegal alien
families to continue to live in public housing projects if at least one member
of the family was an American citizen or legal resident.

The vote came on the fourth day of House debate on a major housing bill. The
bipartisan amendment was aimed at blunting the impact of a new Reagan
Administration policy under which a family will be subject to eviction from
federally assisted public housing if any family member in residence is in the
country illegally.

The policy, which was announced April 1, is to take effect July 31.

There are 4.5 million families now living in federally assisted public housing.
The Department of Housing and Urban Development has no estimate of the number of
families that might face eviction under the Administration policy.
Representative Mario Biaggi, a Bronx Democrat, said on the House floor that 35
or 40 percent of the families in New York City public housing would be evicted.

Mr. Biaggi said the result would be ''chaos'' and ''agony'' because most of
these families would have nowhere to go except the streets, and he asked: ''How
would you like to see the sidewalks of the city of New York speckled with
families and their furniture, in the hot sun and the cold rain? Would you like
to be a party to that?''

In the debate today, the House initially considered an amendment offered by
Representative Edward R. Roybal, a California Democrat, to bar application of
the new policy to any family now living in public housing.

But this approach was too broad to be palatable to some Republicans, and no vote
was taken. Instead, Representative Bob Dornan of California, one of the most
conservative Republicans in the House, amended the Roybal proposal to protect
families with at least one legal resident.

The Dornan amendment would also protect any public housing resident over the age
of 61 from eviction if he or she claimed American citizenship or legal
residency. No documentary evidence would be required to support such a claim.

The Dornan amendment was then quickly approved by a voice vote. The Republican
support in the House makes it likely that the Senate will take a similar
approach when it considers a housing bill later this year.

The Senate is expected to pass a bill similar to the one before the House,
although President Reagan has threatened a veto. Both bills would renew dozens
of Federal housing programs at current expenditure levels. In contrast, the
Administration wants to eliminate many of the programs and sharply scale back
others.

The amendment on aliens would permit the Administration policy to take effect
for all future residents of public housing.

Brooklyn Project as Model

Although the Dornan amendment was worded in somewhat narrower terms than the
original proposal by Mr. Roybal, it is expected to protect many of the same
people. Many families in public housing have American-born children who are
citizens by birth.

Among a handful of new programs in both the House and the Senate bills is one
designed to encourage first-time home ownership by people with low and moderate
incomes.

This program, the Nehemiah Housing Opportunity Grant Program, provides $150
million in Federal funds to be used for second mortgage loans of no more than
$15,000. The loans would be available for one- to four-family houses built or
substantially rehabilitated by nonprofit community groups. Purchasers would have
to fall within certain income limits and make a down payment of 10 percent.

The program, sponsored by Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn
Democrat, is modeled after a successful program that has built more than 400 new
housing units in an East Brooklyn neighborhood. That project, sponsored by a
group of churches, is named after the biblical leader Nehemiah who rebuilt
Jerusalem.

An amendment to delete the program from the housing bill was defeated today by a
vote of 123 to 300.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              339 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 10, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Illegal Aliens' Health - and Ours

SECTION: Section 4; Page 24, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 419 words


Should undocumented aliens be eligible for Medicaid? Yes, says a Federal
district judge in Brooklyn. No, says a New Jersey Congressman worried about the
cost. The concern is understandable, but this social service expenditure is cost
effective as well as humane.

Across the country, the burden of providing health care to undocumented aliens
falls mostly on public hospitals. Many such patients are poor enough to qualify
for Medicaid, the health insurance for the indigent funded jointly by the
Federal and local governments. But a 1973 regulation bars Federal Medicaid help
for them.

A class-action challenge on behalf of illegal aliens in New York resulted in a
recent decision striking down the 1973 rule. Federal District Judge Charles
Sifton found it insupportable because, he said, the 1966 law authorizing
Medicaid contains ''no express restrictions on alien eligibility.''

Representative Matthew Rinaldo of New Jersey is therefore sponsoring an
amendment to the House budget reconciliation bill that would close the loophole.
He would expressly prohibit the Federal share of Medicaid coverage for
undocumented aliens, thereby throwing the full burden onto localities.

The approach is shortsighted. Reduced Medicaid help for the undocumented means
that they defer medical care for as long as possible, then show up for treatment
at already overburdened locally run public hospitals and clinics. New York City,
for example, now absorbs an estimated $25 million in unreimbursed Medicaid
payments for illegal aliens. Fully half of the patients are pregnant women who
do not seek help until just before delivery. Assuring them adequate prenatal
care would cost less than providing treatment for their babies, who, having been
born here, are citizens eligible for Medicaid.

Additional savings to the city might result from the immunization of young
children, proper treatment for the aged, blind and disabled and the shift of
patients from acute care to nursing homes or home care available under Medicaid.

Senator Moynihan argues that all undocumented aliens should be entitled to
Medicaid since illegal immigration reflects the Federal Government's failure to
control the borders. That may overstate the issue, but the practical case seems
irrefutable for helping all who are pregnant, young children, aged, blind or
otherwise disabled.

A Federal tax dollar spent to give them rational health care would automatically
save many more tax dollars eventually necessary to compensate for their neglect.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              340 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 13, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
2 More Counts Dropped In Alien-Harboring Trial

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 91 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., March 12


The judge in the trial of church members charged with harboring illegal aliens
dropped two more criminal counts today while the defense sought dismissal of the
remaining 36 charges against the 11 defendants.

Federal District Judge Earl Carroll has thrown out eight counts in the last two
days for lack of evidence. He dropped six other counts Tuesday.

The latest charges dropped involved Nena McDonald, 38 years old, of Lubbock,
Tex., and Philip Willis-Conger, 27, of Tucson, who are members the Ecumenical
Council's refugee study group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              341 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 1, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. HOUSING DEPT. ORDERS EVICTIONS OF ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1059 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 31


The Department of Housing and Urban Development today directed local housing
authorities to end all Federal housing assistance for illegal aliens and to
evict them if they cannot pay unsubsidized rents.

The department issued a final rule prohibiting the payment of such assistance to
people who are not United States citizens or legal aliens.

The purpose, it said, is ''to reserve scarce housing assistance resources for
persons with the most legitimate claim, namely, citizens and other persons
lawfully present in the United States.''

Similar restrictions, it said, are already in effect for recipients of certain
other types of assistance such as food stamps.

Verification Procedure

Under the new rule, all those who apply for or receive Federal housing subsidies
will be required to present documents such as birth certificates and alien
registration cards to demonstrate eligibility. If they cannot produce the
required evidence of eligibility, the Government will terminate their housing
subsidies, and the tenants will be subject to eviction, the department said.

The new rule, which takes effect July 30, says: ''Where termination of
assistance is required, the public housing authority must promptly initiate and
diligently pursue action to terminate the tenancy, and to evict the tenant by
judicial action pursuant to state and local law.''

No Estimate on Illegal Aliens

Steven L. Balis, a lawyer at the Department of Housing and Urban Development,
said the new rule applied to 4.2 million units of assisted housing with more
than 10 million tenants. He said he had no estimate of the number of illegal
aliens in such housing.

If a family can pay rent at the market rate and if the owner is willing to sign
a lease with no Federal subsidy, the family might remain in the unit, Mr. Balis
said. But if the tenant is in a public housing project exclusively for
low-income families, that tenant would have to leave or be evicted, he added.

Last October Mayor Koch instructed city agencies not to report illegal aliens
living in the city to Federal authorities except when the aliens appeared to be
''engaged in some kind of criminal behavior.''

Wade J. Henderson, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union, expressed
concern about the new rule. Illegal aliens are entitled to certain services such
as emergency medical care and schooling, he said, and ''there have been no
hearings to demonstrate that public housing is being overrun by undocumented
aliens.''

Val Coleman, a spokesman for the New York City Housing Authority, said there
were ''undoubtedly'' some illegal aliens in the city's public housing, but added
that he could not give an estimate of the number.

Mr. Coleman summarized the authority's current policy as follows: ''We do not
knowingly bring illegal aliens into public housing. However, we do not
aggressively seek to evict them. We do not perform the functions of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. We simply are not equipped to do so.''

Joseph Shuldiner, general manager of the New York City Housing Authority, said
the agency had 175,000 units of public housing with 500,000 legal occupants.
Another 100,000 people, mostly relatives of tenants, are living in the units
without permission from the housing authority, Mr. Coleman said.

Under the new rule, applicants for Federal housing assistance must present
evidence of their citizenship status when they initially apply to a local public
housing agency or to the owner of the property. Tenants must present similar
evidence once a year, when their eligibility is re-examined. Such
re-examinations have been conducted regularly to verify that tenants still met
Federal and local eligibility criteria based on financial need.

'No Alternative Housing'

Mr. Balis, the lawyer at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, was
asked where illegal aliens would go after they were evicted. ''There is no
alternative housing resource provided by the department,'' he said. Local
officials, he said, might provide such assistance with local funds if they
wanted to.

Asked whether some of the evicted aliens might join the nation's homeless
population, Mr. Balis said: ''That's a possibility, but it's speculation. I
don't know.''

Generally, he said, tenants who are evicted may take their furnishings with
them. However, he said, items that belong to the owner of the property must stay
in the housing unit.

The new rule says that citizens may ''support a claim of citizenship status'' by
submitting a United States passport, a birth certificate, a naturalization
certificate, a baptismal certificate showing place of birth or ''any other
document designated'' by the Federal Government. A voter registration card or a
military discharge form will not be accepted as evidence of citizenship, the
rule says.

Termination of Assistance

Local housing officials and owners of federally subsidized housing are ''not
required to determine the validity or authenticity of evidence submitted,'' the
rule says. But they must terminate assistance and evict the tenant if they later
learn that documents used as evidence of citizenship were ''fraudulently
obtained or submitted, or are otherwise not valid or authentic evidence.''

In addition, the rule says that the local property owner or housing authority
may share such documents with the Federal Department of Housing and Urban
Development, which may in turn share them with ''any Federal, state or local
government agency, including the Social Security Administration and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service,'' for certain specified purposes.

Those purposes include the verification of citizenship status and the
investigation of fraud.

Federal authorities say that thousands of illegal aliens have bought fraudulent
documents to show that they were lawful residents of the United States.

The question of whether aliens are entitled to benefits under various programs
is complicated, according to immigration lawyers. The Constitution guarantees
''due process of law'' and ''equal protection of the laws'' to any ''person,''
not just to citizens. But in the last decade, Congress and the courts have
limited benefits under most Federal assistance programs to citizens, permanent
resident aliens and aliens residing in the United States ''under color of law.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              342 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 9, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

CITY TO EVICT ILLEGAL ALIENS FROM PUBLIC HOUSING

BYLINE: By SUZANNE DALEY

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 524 words


New York City will seek out and evict illegal aliens from public housing in
compliance with new Federal rules, Mayor Koch said yesterday.

But the chairman of the city's Housing Authority, Emanuel P. Popolizio, called
the rules inhumane and said they would eventually increase the ranks of the
city's homeless and cost the public more money.

''I will carry out the law,'' Mr. Popolizio said. ''But more thought ought to go
into this. The ultimate result will be more people on the streets who will
probably fall into the homeless sector and have to be taken care of anyway.''

Mr. Popolizio also said the aliens would not be reported to the Government.

Koch Calls for Compassion

In a statement, Mayor Koch said he hoped that the Federal Government would be
''compassionate and not require that persons currently living in an authority
apartment who have done so for some reasonable period of time be evicted.''

Mr. Popolizio said that he would seek an amendment to the Federal regulations
that would exempt longtime residents, but that such a change would ''not be easy
to get.''

In the meantime, he said, he will enforce the rule when it goes into effect July
30. Because of various review and appeals processes, he said, the first
evictions will probably not occur until next spring.

If the city does not abide by the rule, it could lose up to $400 million in
Federal housing aid.

Yearly Meetings With Tenants

Under the regulations, the city, which has never sought to evict illegal aliens,
will start demanding proof of citizenship at yearly meetings with the occupants.
Currently those meetings are used to make sure a tenant still meets financial
eligibility rules.

A spokesman for the agency, Val Coleman, said the authority did not know how
many of its 600,000 tenants were illegal immigrants, but called the number
''substantial.''

''It's the nature of the city,'' Mr. Coleman said.

Since 1984, when Federal regulations demanded the change, the city has not
allowed illegal aliens to move into its 175,000 units of public housing. But
before that date, the city did not inquire about citizenship. Because of this,
Mr. Popolizio said, tenants who moved in before then should be exempted.

Citing 'Due Process'

''We allowed these people to go in and now almost by fiat we're stripping them
of even the minimum requirements of due process,'' he said.''

Last October, Mayor Koch assailed the Federal Government, saying it had allowed
illegal immigrants into the city and then refused to share the cost of providing
services for them. At the time, he instructed his agencies not to report illegal
aliens unless they were involved in a criminal act.

The Federal Government ordered the evictions last week, saying that scarce
housing assistance resources should be reserved for ''persons with the most
legitimate claim.''

Under the new Federal regulations, a tenant can ''support a claim'' of
citizenship by submitting a United States passport, a birth certificate, a
naturalization certificate, a baptismal certificate showing place of birth or
''any other document designated by the Federal Government.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Emanuel Popolizio (NYT)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              343 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 18, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

RURAL MEXICO SEES THE U.S. AS A MAGNET

BYLINE: By WILLIAM STOCKTON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 9, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 887 words

DATELINE: SANTIAGO COMALTEPEC, Mexico


At one point or another, it seems, virtually every able-bodied man and some of
the women in this small village deep in the mountains of southern Mexico has
journeyed north and slipped across the border to spend a season or longer as an
illegal worker in California.

Braving the border crossing to find work as a gardener, construction worker or
maid in Los Angeles or as a field hand in California's agricultural regions is a
way of life here, an essential economic principle of survival.

''Have you heard if there is any work there?'' Elias Hernandez, the storekeeper
here, asked an American visitor recently. ''I might go if there is work.''

He once spent two years in California, leaving his wife and children behind to
tend the small store, which sells the staples the people of Santiago Comaltepec
need to supplement what they produce on their land.

The money Mr. Hernandez sent back had a big effect on his family's economic
situation. The stereo in the store is a symbol of the family's wealth.

Savings Are Sent Home

At the moment, villagers report, 100 of Santiago Comaltepec's men and perhaps a
dozen women are at work in the United States, faithfully sending home all the
dollars they can save.

These temporary immigrants spend one year, sometimes two, in California. Then
they return, perhaps for good or for a year or two before leaving again for the
United States.

The flood of undocumented workers across the border is from thousands of
villages like this one or from poor neighborhoods in Mexico's cities where the
economic pressures are similar.

''They don't go there to live,'' said Faustino Luna Lopez, one of the village's
elected councilmen. ''They go there to work, to earn a lot of money. Then they
come back. Who would want to live there? This is their country.''

Sociologists and economists have long regarded illegal immigration from Mexico
to the United States as a social safety valve for Mexico. Even before the
current economic crisis, Mexico could not generate enough jobs for its people.
Meanwhile, its population has been growing rapidly.

One result was a large migration to the country's cities - Mexico City,
Monterrey and Guadalajara, for example. Many who are unsuccessful in
establishing a new life there head north. But many others leave for the United
States directly from their villages.

American immigration officials report that the number of illegal aliens from
Mexico who have been apprehended at the border in the last year has risen by 50
percent. No one knows how many have crossed undetected.

Economic Crisis Grips Nation

The increase is thought to reflect the economic crisis that has gripped Mexico
in the last three years, largely because of the decline in the price of crude
oil, the country's main source of foreign exchange.

But life in Santiago Comaltepec has always been hard, even when Mexico at large
was enjoying economic boom times.

The people work as subsistence farmers, plowing the steep hillsides with oxen.
By tradition, the men do the plowing and the women plant the corn, using a long
pole to poke a hole in the soil. The village also has farming rights on ancient
communal land about 20 miles to the east.

The houses are made of mud bricks and have dirt floors. The kitchen stoves
consist of open wood fires on small stone tables. Smoke rises through a hole in
the roof. Water comes from community faucets. There is electricity and most
houses have one or two light bulbs and an outlet or two to power a radio.

Occasional work as manual laborers brings in badly needed cash. One recent day,
for example, Adelina Lopez'a husband, Eusebio, was away for the day hauling
rocks for a man to build a house. The pay was 1,000 pesos a day, slightly more
than $2.

''When I was in Los Angeles, I was paid $5 an hour,'' said Artemio Perez Lopez,
who returned to Santiago Comaltepec last July when he was chosen for a two-year
term working for the village government as a combination policeman and handyman.
''When there was steady work, I was making $200 a week.''

Trip by Bus Takes a Week

Such salaries take the breath away here. Most men, such as Mr. Perez Lopez and
his friend Jaime Lopez Garcia, who also returned from California last July to
take a village job, said that they were able to send about one-third of their
earnings home.

A man who can send $2,000 a year back to his wife and children can be very rich,
they agreed.

The trek north, by bus, takes a week. When Mr. Lopez Garcia last made it, the
cost, including food, was about $50, a large here. Inflation has undoubtedly
made it more costly.

Crossing the border is dangerous and in the end there is no guarantee of work.
Nevertheless, the risk seems worth it.

''Do you think I could find a job if I went north again?'' Mr. Hernandez, the
storekeeper, asks his visitor. The money would be nice, he said. More
importantly, it would give him a chance to see his daughter.

In January his daughter Elisabet, 14 years old, headed north, crossing the
border near Tijuana in the company of a boy and three other girls.

The family was anxious about her fate, particularly the border dangers that
might face a young girl. But then they received word that she made it and is
living with cousins in Los Angeles. She has found a job as a maid, her father
said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              344 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 20, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

RANCHERS IN ARIZONA RESENT CITIZEN GROUP'S BORDER PATROL

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 19, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 660 words

DATELINE: PATAGONIA, Ariz.


For ranchers in this remote border region, the border crossings of the illegal
aliens known as mojados, Spanish for wets, are part of the fabric of everyday
social and economic life.

''It's gone on forever.'' said Florence Sharp of the San Raphael Ranch.
''Mexicans want work and Americans need them.''

''The majority just come up here, work, make a few bucks and go back,'' said
Dennis Jones, caretaker of the Santos Ninos Ranch, who is married to a former
mojado. ''They are just hungry, poor people looking for work.''

So the ranchers were dismayed at the news over the Fourth of July weekend that
16 illegal aliens had been detained by a patrol of 20 armed members of the
Civilian Materiel Assistance group.

''City folk should just keep out,'' said Mrs. Sharp, ''Things are complicated
enough here without them.'' She said she disliked equally the efforts of
Civilian Materiel Assistance and those of groups whose members drive El
Salvadoran and Guatemalan refugees across the border to sanctuaries in churches
throughout the United States.

Aliens Had No Drugs

Members of the Civilian Materiel Assistance patrol, who came from Arizona,
Kansas and California, have said they were looking for drug smugglers who they
say finance the efforts of Communists in Central America. The illegal aliens
they detained, none of whom were carrying drugs, were later returned to Mexico
by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The ranchers are not happy that J. R. Hagan, leader of the group's Tucson
chapter, has promised to continue the patrols through the summer, even though
the action earlier this month drew sharp criticism from Federal and local
law-enforcement officials, ''Where does the C.M.A. get the right to pick up a
wetback?'' asked Blain Lewis, the owner of the Lewis Ranch who is a former
deputy sheriff. ''They should leave that to the law.''

''People who live on the border their whole lives are not going to give wetbacks
a hard time unless they try to steal,'' said C. R. Barbier, manager of Lone
Mountain ranch. 'Neighbors' Critical of C.M.A.  Mr. Barbier criticized the
C.M.A. for not notifying the ranchers beforehand about its operation.

''If it is a neighborhood watch, why don't they tell the neighbors?'' asked Mr.
Barbier.

He also expressed concern that such patrols would have a damaging effect on
rangeland ecology.

''They were out here driving across the mesas like wild men,'' he said. ''They
don't know their tire marks become ruts in a few years - ruts big enough to
drive a car through.''

Although many ranchers acknowledge that they often hire illegal aliens on a
temporary basis, they also said they would like to see a stronger Border Patrol
presence in the area.

''It's been four months since I have seen a customs agent around here,'' said
Mr. Barbier.

Complaint About Border Patrol

The 241-mile Tuscon sector of the United States-Mexico border is covered by 161
agents of the Border Patrol, who use electronic sensors, highway patrols,
aircraft, informers and ranchers to combat illegal crossings and smuggling.

Benny Barron, assistant chief of the Tucson sector, said that in the fiscal year
1985 the Border Patrol arrested 55,269 illegal aliens and that so far in 1986 it
had seized 53,219 people. He said the Border Patrol estimated that it arrested
one out of every three illegal aliens who cross the border.

But these statistics do not satisfy ranchers concerned about potential violence
between drug smugglers and Civilian Materiel Assistance.

''If they were out here doing their job, none of this C.M.A. stuff would have
happened,'' said Mr. Jones, referring to the Border Patrol. ''Instead they sit
in Nogales where it is easy to rack up the numbers by arresting people coming
over to do their shopping.''

''They can do whatever they want to drug smugglers, but I wish they'd leave the
mojados alone,'' said Mr. Jones.''Unfortunately, it is always the smugglers that
get through.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              345 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 3, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

ON BORDER PATROL: ARRESTS AND FUTILITY

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1644 words

DATELINE: EL PASO


It is the dead zone between midnight and dawn, and John Tiltti smokes an
unfiltered cigarette as he cruises the moonlit levee of the Rio Grande. A United
States Border Patrol agent for 17 years, he shows neither sympathy nor interest
in the aliens whom he hunts and who are arrested by the hundreds here each day.

But when he describes his job, he picks what seems to be the oddest of
metaphors: the world of childhood.

''I try to look at it as a game, hide and seek, kick the can, something like
that,'' he said. ''If you catch him, fine. If you don't catch him, well, you
wait until tomorrow and then you catch him. The game is always going on.''
Maintaining a Presence If the words don't quite fit his taut demeanor, they are
still appropriate for a job where record arrests mean only futility and the goal
is not victory, or even containment, but simply maintaining a conspicuous
presence.

There are occasional moments of violence and danger. But after years of debate
about immigration policies, Border Patrol agents see their job as a mixture of
ritual and reality in which the rules are much clearer than the consequences for
aliens of breaking them.

The figures give a sense of how much the game has changed here. In 1960 there
were 3,638 illegal aliens apprehended by agents in the 341 miles of border
covered by the border sector that has its headquarters here. Now agents
apprehend that many every four days.

The apprehension figures jumped to 51,428 for 1970, 123,535 for 1980, and
256,523 for 1985. This year's rate is up 34 percent from 1985. The vast majority
are caught in the 20-mile strip of river and desert running through and just
outside El Paso. Estimates are that from two to five aliens make it through for
each one caught.

Little alters the routine flow, partly because most drug-running or large-scale
smuggling operations try to avoid the heavily staffed areas such as El Paso.
Because of recent rain and releases of water upriver, the Rio Grande here is as
high as it has been for 40 years. Instead of a trickle, easy to wade through, it
is now a dangerous torrent up to 10 feet deep. Similarly, the rains have flooded
the chili pepper fields of New Mexico, ruining the prime source of agricultural
work at this time of year.

But all this cuts into the alien traffic only slightly and temporarily, agents
say.

'Might as Well Do It Now'

''The commuter wets got to get to work, so they're going to come across,'' Mr.
Tiltti said, using the shortened term for ''wetbacks,'' a pejorative slang term
commonly used by patrol agents. ''The others, it's the same deal. The river's
not going to go down, so you might as well do it now rather than tomorrow.''

Life at the border follows a regular rhythm.

The midnight shift begins with lonely sweeps of the river levees, freightyards,
streets and bars of downtown El Paso, and the New Mexico sandhills to the west.

Mr. Tiltti, a night supervisor, begins by cruising the river near what agents
call the Ho Chi Minh Trail, a path that is a favorite for aliens headed toward
the freight yards or bus routes in El Paso.

Later he cruises downtown, where other agents have made several arrests in the
neon-lit bars and cafes on El Paso Street, just across the bridge from Juarez.

As the night unfolds there are sporadic arrests. Most are farm workers in
Chicago Cubs baseball caps or Dallas Cowboys T-shirts carrying small hand hoes.

Sleeping on the Floor

Mr. Tiltti picks up three aliens who had come over for farm work that will pay
them $25 a day, as much as they can make in a week in Mexico, and they grin
shyly as they are taken to the processing center at the Paso del Norte Bridge.

Technically, illegal entry is a misdemeanor punishable by a six-month prison
term, but there is neither the space nor the desire to jail the thousands who
enter the country daily.

As the night drags on, the holding cells fill up with men and women who go to
sleep on the concrete floor, waiting to be released. In a few hours they will
all be bused to a nearby bridge, where they will return to Mexico. Many, perhaps
most, will return later the same day.

There is random activity through the night, but with the first light of dawn
activity begins to pick up, and by daybreak the river comes to life. On the
Mexican side, two, three, then four men appear with brightly colored rubber
rafts, the river's makeshift ferry service. A wooden ladder is hoisted to
facilitate access to the Franklin headgates spanning the river.

Mexican citizens who regularly work in El Paso show up with the dutiful air of
commuters anywhere. When they see Mr. Tiltti arrive on the other side of the
river about 20 yards away, most activity stops as they wait patiently for him to
leave.

Agents Deny Discrimination

As the morning rush continues, other agents, such as Tom Crosby, fan out into
nearby neighborhoods looking for aliens who have already crossed over. The most
popular crossing time is at Border Patrol shift changes.

Local Hispanic residents have bitterly protested the street patrols, saying
Hispanic citizens are routinely stopped and forced to prove their citizenship.
Agents deny there is anything discriminatory or harassing about the operations.

''When I start seeing hordes of white boys crossing the river, I'll start asking
more white boys about their citizenship,'' Mr. Crosby said.

He cruises residential neighborhoods and commerial strips in a 1983 Dodge van,
stopping Hispanic people waiting at bus stops or walking the street whose dress
or manner makes him think they might be here illegally. That may mean muddy
shoes, uncreased pants or unstyled hair, or people who avoid his eyes when he
drives past, he said.

His standard greeting is, ''How's it going, guy?'' If the reply is in English,
he'll usually drive on. If it is in Spanish or seems confused, he will ask, ''De
donde eres?'' Spanish for ''Where are you from?'' - and ask to see proof of
citizenship.

'Like Fishing From a Bucket'

Usually, they will grin sheepishly, perhaps mutter ''mala suerte'' - ''bad
luck'' - and walk toward the van. In about 45 minutes he has picked up a dozen
men.

With the van almost full, he sights three men in baseball caps and dirty chinos
walking down the street.

''Here we go, bingo,'' he says, as he whips the van around. They dutifully line
up to climb in the van before he can say a word.

''Es como pescando de un bote lleno de pescados,'' says a voice from the back of
the van. ''It's like fishing from a bucket filled with fish.''

Once detained, the aliens are processed, held for a few hours and then let off
at nearby bridges to Mexico. Those with criminal records may be held for
prosecution. Those from nations other than Mexico, usually about 1 percent of
those caught, will be detained at an immigration compound and either held while
awaiting a hearing or released on their own recognizance if the center is full.

Agents view the routine in various ways.

Duty Versus Sympathy

''I've stopped listening to these people,'' he said. ''They're going to give you
a line and play on your sympathies. It may be true. It may be false. To me, it's
immaterial either way.''

Others find themselves torn between duty and sympathy.

''Most of the people we deal with day in and day out are basically good, decent,
honest people,'' said Aubrey Terrell, a former New Orleans policeman who is a
supervisor on the 4 P.M. to midnight shift. ''This may sound a little corny, but
looking at a country as a home, this is our home. Most people lock their doors
at night because they want to preserve that home.

''I realize Mexican people have some very serious problems, but I don't think
ultimately we are the answer to those problems, and in the long run I don't
think letting our borders lay wide open is going to help either of us.''

Later that evening, just around dusk, he calls out to a Mexican, clad only in
his underpants, who is standing on the concrete embankment on the American side
of the river after taking an early evening swim.

The man says that his name is Jaime Nunez and that he is 26 years old and comes
from the town of Cuauhtemoc in the province of Chihuahua. He says he has worked
for seven years as a cook in Fort Worth, where he can make $250 a week compared
with the $40 he could make for similar work at home. He goes home every summer,
and then comes back, he said.

Aliens Are Often Victims

The two chat for a while, until Mr. Nunez, who plans to cross back over later in
the evening, goes back to the river. ''Hasta la vista,'' Mr. Terrell says.
''Hasta la noche,'' comes the reply.

There are episodes of violence and death at the border. But the victims are
usually aliens, not Border Patrol agents. Since the river has gone up, there
have been numerous drowning victims found downstream. Border thieves and gangs
extort tolls from aliens trying to cross. The Juarez police this year arrested a
suspect in connection with the murder and rape of seven women in the river
flats. In addition, deaths or serious accidents are a regular occurrence in the
freightyards where aliens hop trains bound for Chicago or the West Coast.

James Bunner, who often works the freight yards, finds it hard not to admire the
spunk of the people he is trying to catch.

''The people you meet on the trains are usually serious working people that want
a job,'' he said. ''I think of them as the good old boys from down south. You
don't have any ill feelings toward them because you would probably do the same
thing if you were in the same situation.''

But good old boys or not, it is still only 9:30 at night, and there is plenty of
time left before Mr. Tiltti and the midnight shift return. He heads back toward
the van, where the aliens taken from the train are waiting to be taken for
processing, and then drives off toward the bridge.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Border Patrol agents with illegal alien in El Paso (NYT/Zigy
Kaluzny); Photos of John Tiltti, Border Patrol agent with relative of illegal
alien; Mexicans crossing the Rio Grande in rubber rafts; Mexican family being
processed by Border Patrol agent for illegal entry (NYT/Zigy Kaluzny) (Pg.22)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              346 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 19, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Freedom Day

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 519 words


They'll start lining up at dawn next July 1, outside a church basement here, a
courthouse there. Hundreds of thousands of illegal aliens, most of them
Hispanic, will wait patiently to accept America's offer of amnesty. That's the
reform part.

At about the same hour, Border Patrol teams will roll up to factories and farms
where other illegals are thought to work. They won't stop with apprehending the
workers. For the first time, they'll have hard words for the boss - hard words
that will, after a warning period, be followed by stiff penalties. That's the
control part.

Reform and control: they are the core of the immigration law Congress has
finally passed. It's worth welcoming just for the blow it deals to 35 years of
hypocrisy. It's worth embracing for the control, and fairness, it brings to law.

Almost 35 years ago, Texas legislators muscled something called the ''Texas
proviso'' into law: Illegal aliens were forbidden to work but employers were not
forbidden to hire them. To employers this has meant, Forget the law. You'll
still get your cheap labor. To Mexicans who earn $5 a week, jobs at $5 an hour
have constituted a money magnet. The illegal tide keeps rising.

Over four years, the reform measure faced a hundred hurdles. The bill spelled
Big Brother, critics once said. How were alien workers to identify themselves?
Americans would all need, horrors, an identification number! In time, it dawned
on Congress that all Americans already have one, and gladly provide it - to
insure that their Social Security accounts are properly credited.

Hispanics feared discrimination because employers would reject anyone who even
looked Hispanic. In time, the illogic of that sank in. If an employer had to ask
for identification, that was a protection against discrimination.

Growers presented the biggest obstacle. While some exploit alien workers, all
have valid reason for worry. When the peaches are ripe, a grower needs pickers
right now. Representative Charles Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, shrewdly
recognized the need to address their concerns directly. With painful, patient
effort, he sewed together special provisions for farm labor. When others were
quick to pronounce the bill dead, his energy kept the bill breathing.

The new law won't work miracles but it will induce most employers to pay
attention, to turn off the magnets, to slow the tide. That's why the measure won
such wide support, from Democrats like Mr. Schumer and Representative Romano
Mazzoli and Republicans like former Attorney General William French Smith and
Representatives Hamilton Fish and Dan Lungren. Above all stands Senator Alan
Simpson of Wyoming. Ten and 20 years from now, when the children of Freedom Day
hear his name, they'll think grateful, noble thoughts.

To undo the Texas proviso is to do justice. To legalize aliens already here is
to undo hypocrisy. To close the back door against the illegal tide that so tries
public patience is to offer fairness to millions waiting around the world for
legal entry. Doing all this, the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 does
honor to America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: editorial

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              347 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 20, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

RISING RIO GRANDE STEMS ALIEN TIDE

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 860 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, Dec. 17


An amazing thing has happened to the muddy trickle of a river that separates the
United States from Mexico here.

For a change, the Rio Grande is living up to its name. Instead of the usual
sorry stream along the border with Mexico, it has become a Big River, and in the
process it seems to be succeeding in slowing illegal immigration where
generations of law enforcers have failed.

It has also created a treacherous situation that has led to the drownings of
dozens of aliens unprepared for the river's new potency and has led to fears of
flooding on the Mexican side of the river.

The cause of the change is several years of above-average precipitation in the
mountains of New Mexico and Colorado that feed the river. The runoff from the
rain and melting snow have brought the 1,400-mile Rio Grande to its highest
level in more than 40 years.

The Elephant Butte Reservoir north of here, which helps control the flow of the
river, overflowed in November for the first time since 1942. Now water is
coursing through the river below there at a rate of more than 2,000 cubic feet a
second.

Stream Becomes Flood

The river has been well above normal levels for months. But the present levels,
which range from five to seven feet deep in many places, are the highest to
date, and they have turned a stream that is usually almost dry this time of year
to a deceptively dangerous flood.

The shift has had some sad results. Newspapers and television reports here
routinely carry notices of aliens who have drowned in the rushing waters. A
typical one in The El Paso Times today said firefighters in Juarez on the
Mexican side of the river found one unidentified body floating in the river and
were still searching for a second that had been sighted but had not yet washed
ashore.

''Most of them were people going to work,'' said El Paso Police Detective R.
Gonzalez. ''They just don't realize how strong the water is now. It's got a real
undertow, and once it knocks you down, it's very hard to get back up. It just
keeps rolling them on the dirt. There's just sand underneath, so there's nothing
you can grab to once you go under.''

Because of different jurisdictions involved and the fact that half the victims
probably turn up on the Mexican side, it is hard to tell how many drownings have
occurred. But the United States Bureau of Reclamation's Rio Grande Project,
which monitors the river, says it has accounted for 23 drownings thus far this
year, as against 9 in all of 1985 and 5 in 1984.

Impact on Illegal Immigrants

The rise in the river has also played a major role in at least temporarily
stemming the flow of illegal immigration to the United States, officials have
said. They point out that other factors, most notably the new immigration law,
have contributed to the decreased number of apprehensions along the border.
Illegal immigration last month also declined in border areas in other parts of
the country not separated by the river.

But officials here say the high waters are the major factor cutting down on the
flow of aliens crossing the river in the El Paso border sector.

''I drove the river recently, and I didn't see any place where the river could
be waded,'' said Joe Aubin, an intelligence agent with the United States Border
Patrol here. ''To get across you have to come across in a boat, which you see
operating on the river, or you have to take your clothes off and swim. How many
people want to do that?'' Since the river began to rise, apprehensions along the
river have taken the steepest drop in memory. Border Patrol agents apprehended
15,553 illegal aliens in November, a 50 percent decline from the 30,786 recorded
in October and a 22 percent reduction from the 19,808 last November.
Apprehensions for most of the year have been running well above last year's
pace.

Apprehensions Are Off

Illegal crossings always slow this time of year, but the current rate is well
below last year. Apprehensions this month have averaged about 360 a day. Last
year at this time they were 454 a day.

Apprehensions peaked in February when they reached a level of as many as 1,600 a
day, and they averaged 857 a day for the 1986 fiscal year, running from Oct. 1,
1985, to last Sept. 30.

So far the river has not posed a major threat to property on the American side
of the river. There has been some increased flooding after heavy rains, because
runoff of storm water was not able to drain as quickly into the swollen river.
And the river has flooded out a stretch of farmland near a natural bottleneck,
Little Box Canyon, about 100 miles below El Paso.

There has been more concern on the Mexican side where there has been widespread
building of homes in the flood plain. Some homes were temporarily evacuated in
November but thus far there have been no major problems.

Officials with the United States Bureau of Reclamation said that unless there
was heavy rainfall the release of water upstream could slow somewhat in January.
But the river will remain at high levels at least until March, according to
David Overvold, chief of the land and water section of the reclamation bureau's
Rio Grande Project.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Rio Grande at El Paso (NYT/Bruce Berman); map showing course
of Rio Grande and location of Elephant Butte Reservoir (NYT)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              348 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 22, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

ALIENS AND POVERTY LAY A HEAVY BURDEN ON HOSPITAL IN EL PASO

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 911 words

DATELINE: EL PASO


Like many public hospitals, the R. E. Thomason General Hospital here is trying
to provide health care to a population increasingly unable to pay for it, but
the difficulties it faces are more complicated than those of most public
hospitals.

Thomason's problems come in three layers. El Paso's population is one of the
poorest in the United States. Like other American cities on the Mexican border,
El Paso also has a large number of poor illegal aliens. But, unlike other border
cities, it is neighbor to a Mexican metropolis, Juarez, which has a million
residents, and Thomason officials say some people from Juarez go to Thomason
Hospital pretending to be El Paso residents when they need medical care.

Officials at Thomason, the only public hospital in El Paso, say the cost of
treating illegal aliens is threatening to overwhelm their ability to provide
medical care. ''We're being absolutely bombarded with factors beyond our
control,'' said Phyllis Armijo, the assistant hospital administrator.

Thomason's situation has been highlighted by two actions in the past year.

Hospital Sued, U.S. Billed

The first came last March when the hospital was sued by the El Paso Legal
Assistance Society on behalf of nine low-income Hispanic residents of El Paso
who said they had been refused service at the hospital. The suit, filed on
behalf of all low-income Hispanics in El Paso, accused the hospital of refusing
service to low-income residents who were unable to establish that they were
United States citizens.

The suit asserts that Federal and state laws require the hospital to provide
care for all indigent residents of the county regardless of citizenship. The
hospital has since stopped asking patients about their citizenship.

Then, in January, El Paso County sent President Reagan a bill for $7.5 million
in hospital costs for the care of undocumented aliens, for which the hospital
had not been reimbursed.

Judge Pat O'Rourke, chief executive of El Paso County, said that since the
Federal Government was supposed to regulate immigration, it should bear the cost
of illegal immigration. The State Department, to which the White House referred
El Paso's bill, has said it cannot pay. #16,009 Patients in '85 In El Paso's
population of 480,000, about 112,000 have income below the poverty level.
According to 1980 census figures, El Paso was the 17th-poorest city among the
170 American cities with populations of 100,000 or more people.

Thomason, a 288-bed hospital established in 1959, is the primary health care
facility for low-income El Paso residents. Last year it admitted 16,009
patients, up from 11,687 in 1981. Its patients last year paid about 30 cents on
every dollar they were billed, and the hospital wrote off $32 million for
charity cases and bad debts.

The increased patient load has strained the hospital's facilities and its $27.5
million budget. About 30 percent of Thomason's patients are maternity patients,
and at one particularly busy time last August women were giving birth in the
halls.

The county's share of the hospital's budget rose to $13.7 million last year,
from $7.9 million in 1981, and the county tax for the hospital has been
increased by 10 percent, 6 percent and 22 percent in the past three years.

How much of Thomason's service is provided to Mexican nationals is not clear.
County officials estimate that 20 percent of the hospital's patients are
undocumented aliens who either live in El Paso or come over from Juarez.

Like El Paso, Juarez has one public hospital. There are also nine private
hospitals in El Paso.

Two Were Turned Away

The cost squeeze and the increasing patient load have led to some wrenching
decisions on patient care. Georgina Moreno, a plaintiff in the lawsuit, says she
was denied prenatal care and was then turned away from the hospital's emergency
room when she went into labor.

Maria Ruiz, another plaintiff, says she was turned away from the emergency room
after being told she needed surgery for an inflamed pancreas.

Legal Aid officials say they are representing only El Paso residents, whether
American citizens or not, because their residence gives them a valid claim to
health care.

''We're not representing Juarez residents,'' said Cathy Barnes, the agency's
executive director. ''We're representing people who've established legal
residence here. I sympathize with the hospital's concerns, but it's no excuse
not to treat people as people.''

Conference for Border Cities

But county and hospital officials say the open nature of the border makes it
easy for Juarez residents to submit a plausible claim of residence in El Paso.
Officials say they cannot provide health care to indigents from both sides of
the border.

''I can't take care of patients without the financial resources to do it,'' said
Thomason's administrator, Bill Kennedy. ''All I'm looking for is the financial
resources to do the job I'm asked to do.''

Judge O'Rourke in December organized a conference of officials of border
communities and has been in contact with other cities nationwide to try to build
political support.

Los Angeles County recently asked the Federal Government for $100 million in
unreimbursed costs of medical care for undocumented aliens and for $272 million
for other services provided undocumented aliens.

''We can't set foreign policy, so we shouldn't have to pay for it,'' said Mr.
O'Rourke. ''We just can't afford it. It will snap our back.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of Judge Pat O'Rourke, Cathy Barnes, Bill Kennedy; photo of the
R.E. Thomason General Hospital in El Paso (NYT/Bruce Berman)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              349 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 6, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION;
U.S. Restricts Aid For Alien Housing

BYLINE: By Michael Wright and Caroline Rand Herron

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 230 words


Saying that it was responding to complaints that bona fide Americans are being
crowded out of subsidized housing, the Government ordered last week that local
authorities end all Federal housing assistance for illegal aliens.

The directive, issued by the Department of Housing and Urban Development,
applies to the more than 10 million people living in 4.2 million units of
assisted housing. Under the rule, which takes effect July 30, local
administrators are to evict the illegal aliens among them who cannot pay
unsubsidized rents. In the future, applicants for Federal housing subsidies will
be required to present documents such as birth certificates or alien
registration cards to demonstrate eligibility.

The department, which noted that similar restrictions are in effect for
recipients of other types of Federal assistance, including food stamps, said the
rule is intended ''to reserve scarce housing assistance resources for persons
with the most legitimate claim, namely citizens and other persons lawfully
present in the United States.''

Officials said they had no estimate of the number of illegal aliens who received
Federal housing aid. Wade J. Henderson, a lawyer with the American Civil
Liberties Union, questioned the need for the rule, charging, ''there have been
no hearings to demonstrate that public housing is being overrun by undocumented
aliens.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              350 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 13, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Assault on Families

SECTION: Section 4; Page 24, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 159 words


To the Editor:

The Department of Housing and Urban Development has directed local housing
authorities to evict illegal aliens from housing receiving Federal assistance
(front page, April 1).

Study after study of undocumented aliens living in our midst - those outside
detention centers - demonstrates that their family structure is similar to that
of other Americans. A family made up of a husband, wife and children may have
one or more illegal aliens as part of it, but almost always has one or more
legal residents or citizens as well. A study I co-directed in 1984 brought this
out clearly for Texas.

Will H.U.D. insist that local authorities evict the father or mother from a
family otherwise composed of persons legally in the United States? This is
hardly pro-family, which I take it is the position of this Administration.SIDNEY
WEINTRAUB Austin, Tex., April 1, 1986 The writer is Dean Rusk Professor of
Public Affairs, University of Texas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              351 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 20, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CANADIAN BORDER FACES ALIEN PROBLEM OF ITS OWN

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 46, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 755 words

DATELINE: SWANTON, Vt.


Blaine G. Davis stepped from his dusty, green patrol car, pushed back his hat
and let his eyes wander up the desolate dirt road stretching toward the northern
horizon.

He pointed out the nearby fields, covered with melting snow, that aliens
frequently cross on foot as they enter the United States illegally from Canada.
''As you can see, it's pretty easy to walk through,'' said Mr. Davis, an agent
of the United States Border Patrol.

An increasing number of illegal aliens are making the trip across the lightly
patrolled northern border, often with the help of smugglers. Although the
problem is dwarfed by the flood of illegal entrants crossing from Mexico,
arrests of aliens along the entire northern border are rising sharply,
particularly in New York, Vermont and New Hampshire, the Border Patrol says.

In the last year, 1,183,455 people were arrested for trying to enter the United
States illegally along the southern border, as against 14,443 aliens who were
arrested on the northern border, said Thomas C. Leupp, deputy assistant
commissioner for the Border Patrol.

Most Are Canadians

In Vermont, New Hampshire, New York and Maine, the Border Patrol arrested 4,694
illegal aliens in 1985, an increase of more than 25 percent from the previous
year. The vast majority of the arrests were made in the Swanton border patrol
sector, which covers about 200 miles stretching from the Thousand Islands above
New York State to the beginning of the New Hampshire-Maine border.

Two-thirds of the aliens were Canadian with the rest being Portuguese, Iranians,
Indians, Pakistanis, Chinese, Dominicans and Poles.

Unlike aliens who repeatedly cross the Mexican border in search of seasonal
work, most entrants from the north are believed to cross the border only once.

The aliens often enter Canada by claiming refugee status, saying they will be
persecuted in their own countries. ''We have a very generous policy toward
refugees,'' said Inspector Pierre Schryer, a Canadian law-enforcement official,
explaining that they are allowed to remain in Canada until a thorough
investigation of their case has been made. This, he said, sometimes takes two to
three years. In that time, he said, the refugees often try to enter the United
States.

In addition, the people who illegally cross the border into the United States
are often aided by skilled smuggling rings based in Montreal or Toronto.

''We're now catching more of the people who are smuggling the aliens in,'' said
Wayne L. Preston, chief border patrol agent for the Swanton sector. #280 U.S.
Agents Along Border Mr. Davis is one of about 280 Immigration and Naturalization
Service agents who patrol the northern border. They are aided by advanced
sensors and cameras, but Border Patrol officials estimate they are stopping only
around 60 percent of those who are crossing the border illegally.

Officials said most aliens from the north are driven by smugglers to the border,
which they cross on foot in remote fields as the smugglers cross through the
ports of entry by car. The smugglers then pick up the aliens on the United
States side.

''A lot of times the aliens will just hide in some abandoned barn, and wait
until the smugglers come back and flash their lights for them,'' said Mark R.
Henry, a patrol agent who works in the Rouse's Point sector in New York,
adjacent to the Swanton sector.

Smuggling operations often begin long before a crossing takes place.

High-Priced Operation

''Our typical alien begins his smuggling contact in his home country,'' said
Benedict J. Ferro, director of the Buffalo district for immigration and
naturalization. ''The smugglers may well provide fake documents for the alien.
If you want airline tickets and safe houses once you're in, and maybe even a
prearranged job, it's all part of the smuggling scheme. And it costs a lot of
money.''

Illegal aliens from Canada may spend as much as $2,500 to $5,000 each,
immigration officials said.

Illegal entrants from Canada are often more affluent than illegal entrants from
the south, according to immigration officials.

''These aliens are more professional, better educated and are looking for better
jobs than working in a restaurant or in the fields,'' Mr. Preston said.

Mr. Preston said the remote nature of the northern border helped attract illegal
entrants.

''There's no barbed wire up here, just open land,'' he said. ''It's part of the
hands-across-the-border policy we have with Canada. What's to stop the alien
from coming across? Nothing.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of section of the border with Vermont (Scott Bronstein)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              352 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 2, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

6 CONVICTED, 5 CLEARED OF PLOT TO SMUGGLE IN ALIENS FOR SANCTUARY

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1199 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., May 1


A Federal jury today convicted six activists of conspiring to smuggle
Salvadorans and Guatemalans into the United States.

Five defendants were cleared of that charge, the most serious against the 11
church workers who were tried. Three of those five were found not guilty on all
counts and two were found guilty of lesser charges.

After the verdict, the prosecutor said the Justice Department would continue to
prosecute such alien-smuggling cases, and defendants, who had stressed their
religious convictions through the long trial, said they would continue their
help to Central Americans.

A Leader Is Convicted

Among those convicted of conspiracy was the Rev. John M. Fife 3d, 46 years old,
a Presbyterian minister who helped found the broad-based movement to give church
sanctuary to illegal aliens from violence-torn Central American countries.

The others convicted on that charge were Margaret J. Hutchison, 30, a lay
worker; the Rev. Ramon Dagoberto Quinones, 50, of Nogales, Mexico, a Roman
Catholic priest; Darlene Nicgorksi, 41, of Phoenix, a Catholic nun; Maria del
Socorro Pardo de Aguilar, 60, of Nogales, Mexico, a lay worker, and Philip
Willis-Conger, 27, of Tucson, a lay worker.

Convicted on lesser charges such as concealing, harboring or transporting an
illegal alien were the Rev. Anthony Clark, 37, of Nogales, Ariz., a Catholic
priest, and Wendy LeWin, 26, of Phoenix, a lay worker.

The three found not guilty on all counts were James A. Corbett, 52, another
founder of the sanctuary movement; Mary K. Doan Espinoza, 30, of Nogales, Ariz.,
and Nena MacDonald, 38, of Lubbock, Tex.

All were released on their own recognizance.

Sentencing for those convicted is set for July 1 in Federal District Court here.
The maximum sentence on the conspiracy charge is five years and a $10,000 fine;
the maximum sentence on each of the other charges is five years and $2,000.

As the verdict was read most defendants sat in expressionless silence; a few
appeared angry. A few minutes later the defendants, family members and attorneys
walked out of the courthouse singing ''We Shall Overcome.'' More than 150
spectators and reporters awaiting them outside spilled onto a downtown street,
stopping traffic.

After answering questions, the defendants went to the Tucson Community Center
for a prayer service.

Mr. Fife was also convicted of two misdemeanor counts of aiding and abetting,
and a felony charge of transporting an alien. He was acquitted of a misdemeanor
count of aiding and abetting illegal entry of an alien.

Both Sides Vow to Go On

At a news conference after the verdict, United States Attorney Donald M. Reno
Jr., the prosecutor, said, ''What the American people got was a verdict that was
based upon the law and that was based upon the facts.''

He termed news accounts of the six-month trial ''colored'' and ''biased,''
saying, ''You failed to do your job.'' He added that ''the Government was
certainly the recipient of a great amount of criticism,'' and said the verdict
''vindicates the position the U.S. Government took on this case.''

''I think this jury verdict is going to have a significant impact on those
persons who were well-intended but misguided'' about the law, Mr. Reno said.

The defendants said this had been ''a sad day for American justice.''

''I plan for as long as possible to be the pastor of a congregation that has
committed itself to providing sanctuary,'' Mr. Fife said at a news conference.

Mr. Corbett said, ''We will continue to provide sanctuary services openly and go
to trial as often as is necessary to establish the legality, or more directly,
to actualize the Nuremburg mandates that the protection of human rights is never
illegal.''

It Began in Tucson

The trial took almost half a year to reach the jury.

Mr. Fife and Mr. Corbett, a Quaker who is a retired rancher, started the
sanctuary movement in 1982 in Tucson. It has been endorsed by about 300
churches, approximately 20 United States cities and the State of New Mexico.

The prosecution based its case on what it said was a conspiracy that began near
the end of 1981 and continued until January 1985. All 11 defendants were charged
with conspiring to violate United States immigration laws.

The defendants were also tried on charges of 23 other felonies and 6
misdemeanors involving smuggling of aliens. They were charged with encouraging
aliens to come here illegally, helping them to do so, and then concealing,
harboring and shielding the aliens once they arrived.

Prosecution Witnesses

Most of the evidence in the case came from 17 witnesses called by the
Government: 15 Central Americans, a Government informant and an undercover
agent. Defense attorneys, in a surprise move, called no witnesses. They said the
Government had failed to prove its case.

The prosecution contended from the start that the case involved smuggling,
nothing more. Mr. Reno stressed to the jurors that the moral and religious
issues raised by the defendants had no bearing on the case.

In his instructions to the jury, Judge Earl H. Carroll said, ''Good motive is
not a defense to intentional acts of crime.'' He said the contention that an
alien was a ''refugee'' and thus entitled to enter the country without being
processed by immigration officials was ''a mistake of law.''

Defense attorneys said the moral and religious issues raised by the defendants
had to be considered and that United States immigration law provided safe haven
to those with a ''well-founded fear of persecution.''

Limits Set by Judge

Judge Carroll, holding that such arguments were immaterial, generally prohibited
testimony on the defendants' religious views or on conditions in Central
America.

That set off numerous angry clashes between the defense attorneys and the judge.
In one, a defense attorney, William Walker, expressed shock at ''the perversion
of justice that has occurred in this courtroom when your honor sits there like a
stump and does absolutely nothing about it.''

At least four times defense attorneys asked the judge to disqualify himself.

In closing arguments, several attorneys depicted their clients as dedicated
religious people acting in keeping with the dictates of the church. But the
arguments presented by each side largely depended on narrow issues of
immigration and conspiracy law.

Smuggling and Conspiracy

The prosecution, relying on accounts from its paid informants and from Central
Americans, said there was clear evidence of an overall conspiracy and the
specific acts alleged. Mr. Reno presented testimony and tape recordings, most of
them from Tucson or Nogales, Mexico, about the alleged smuggling operations and
conspiracy.

Much of the defense's case was based on attacking the credibility of the key
Government informant, Jesus Cruz, who infiltrated churches and Bible study
meetings.

Defense attorneys said Mr. Cruz was the instigator of many of the alleged crimes
and had contradicted himself so many times that he was no longer credible.

For his part, Mr. Reno contended that Mr. Cruz's behavior was legal and
appropriate, calling Mr. Cruz a ''reliable, responsible, honest and impeccable
employee.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Rev. John Fife 3d and his wife (NYT/Sara Krulwich)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              353 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 11, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
26 Aliens Found Locked In Railroad Car in Texas

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 136 words

DATELINE: LAREDO, Tex., July 10


Officials unlocked the door of a boxcar Wednesday afternoon and found 26 illegal
aliens locked inside by smugglers, with one man dead, another dying and a
16-year-old girl suffering from shock and dehydration.

The aliens had been put in the metal car here for the trip from the border to
San Antonio, agents of the United States Border Patrol said.

The agents broke into the locked boxcar at Cotulla, about 67 miles north of
Laredo, Wednesday night and rescued the survivors, William Schellenger,
assistant chief patrol agent, said the temperature was 103 degrees Fahrenheit in
Laredo Wednesday.

He said an agent at a border checkpoint on Interstate 35 heard banging from
inside the freight car as the Missouri Pacific train passed and notified agents
in Cotulla, who stopped the train and opened the car.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              354 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 15, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

JUDGE GRANTS MEDICAID TO STATE'S ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By LEONARD BUDER

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 653 words


A Federal judge ruled yesterday that illegal aliens living in New York State
cannot be denied Medicaid assistance.

Observers said the ruling, if it stood, would have a major impact in the state
and could lead to lawsuits in other states challenging Federal restrictions on
Medicaid, which assists those who are ill and financially needy.

Federal and state officials had no immediate comment on the decision.

The 60-page ruling was handed down by Judge Charles P. Sifton in District Court
in Brooklyn. He wrote that the 1966 statute authorizing Medicaid contained ''no
express restrictions on alien eligibility,'' and that Federal authorities had
acted improperly in 1973 when they forbade Medicaid for illegal aliens.

His decision came in a seven-year-old class-action suit originally brought
against the city and state and the Federal Department of Health and Human
Services, which until 1980 was part of the Department of Health, Education and
Welfare. The suit was brought by nine ''nonlegal permanent resident aliens.''

The plaintiffs were represented by Washington Square Legal Services, Main Street
Legal Services, the Legal Aid Society, Legal Services for the Elderly and Bronx
Legal Services. Janet M. Calvo was the chief attorney.  In Washington, a
spokesman for the Department of Health and Human Services, Chuck Kline, said
when questioned about the decision that it was the first he had heard of it. He
said the department would have no comment until it had a chance to study the
decision.

A spokesman for the State Attorney General's office, David Fishlow, said state
officials wanted to see the decision before commenting.

In his decision, Judge Sifton said that those ''who are colloquially referred to
as 'illegal aliens' '' were, more accurately, people who had established
permanent residence in this country but had not been granted legal permanent
resident status.

Decision Pleases City Officials

Every state has a Medicaid program or its equivalent, with the Federal
Government nationally paying about 55 percent of the cost and the states and
localities paying the rest. In New York City, 50 percent of the cost is paid by
the Federal Government, and the city and the state each pay 25 percent.

City officials welcomed the decision and urged the Federal Government not to
appeal.

Since the city does not turn away illegal aliens at municipal hospitals, the
ruling could mean an additional $25 million in Federal Medicaid funds for the
city.

At a City Hall news conference attended by many supporters of the ruling,
Frederick A. O. Schwarz Jr., the city's Corporation Counsel, said that although
the city was an original defendant in the suit, it switched in 1982 and joined
the side of the plaintiffs.

He said the city had acted both from a ''moral point of view'' and because it
found the plaintiffs' position ''fiscally desirable.''

Most of the 234,000 illegal aliens in the state lived in New York City, the
judge observed, and, according to the 1980 Census, 77 percent had been in this
country for more than five years, and 44 percent for more than 10.

Seven percent of New York State residents were eligible for Medicaid at the time
of the 1980 Census. If a similar percentage of illegal aliens were eligible for
Medicaid, the ruling noted, they would total 16,380.

Judge Sifton said that in 1965 Congress ''considered and imposed restrictions on
alien eligiblity for Medicare'' - a separate Government program that provides
medical assistance to the aged and disabled without regard to financial status.
But, he added, it placed no such restriction on Medicaid.

''Where Congress has demonstrated on several occasions that it knows how to
include an alienage requirement when it intends to,'' Judge Sifton said, ''and
it has omitted the requirement in one program while simultaneously incorporating
it into another, such omissions should be viewed as intentional.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              355 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 20, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE REGION;
Illegal Aliens Are Eligible For Medicaid

BYLINE: By Mary Connelly and Carlyle C. Douglas

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 225 words


In a seven-year-old case challenging Federal restrictions on Medicaid
assistance, a Federal judge in Brooklyn ruled last week that illegal aliens have
the law on their side.

Judge Charles P. Sifton said that the 1966 statute authorizing Medicaid
contained ''no express restrictions on alien eligiblity'' and that Federal
authorities acted improperly in 1973 when they prohibited Medicaid assistance
for illegal aliens. The ruling, which came in a suit filed on behalf of illegal
aliens in New York State, could lead to similar actions elsewhere if it is
allowed to stand.

In New York, the chief beneficiary of the ruling would be New York City, where
most of the state's estimated 234,000 illegal aliens reside. Those without
insurance or other assistance have been treated at city expense in municipal
hospitals. With the Federal Government paying half that cost, as it does for
other Medicaid patients, the city would receive an additional $25 million a year
in Federal funds.

That was among the reasons the city, originally a defendant in the suit,
switched sides to become a plaintiff four years ago, said Frederick A. O.
Schwarz, its Corporation Counsel. The city also acted ''from a moral point of
view'' in joining the defendants, he said.

Spokesmen for the Federal and state agencies involved had no immediate comment
on the decision.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              356 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 9, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE WORLD;
Israel Starts Deporting Black Hebrew Members

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 118 words

DATELINE: TEL AVIV, Aug. 8


Israel has started deporting members of the United States-based Black Hebrew
sect, a police spokesman said today.

The authorities refused to provide any details regarding the deportations,
including the date or how many people were involved.

The Supreme Court ruled last week that 46 members had been living in the country
illegally and upheld an earlier decision to deport them.

An Interior Ministry spokesman, Yitzhak Agassi, said that many more Black Hebrew
members were living in the country illegally and that their deportations could
also be ordered.

Israel has deported 30 to 40 members of the sect since 1984 for living here
illegally and has denied entry to other groups of Black Hebrews.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              357 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 2, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Border Vigilante Group Ousts Arizona Leader

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 158 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., Sept. 1


The Arizona leader of a paramilitary group that detained 15 illegal aliens near
the Mexican border in July has been ousted because he planned more border
patrols, a spokesman said today.

Jim Turney, a spokesman for the organization, Civilian Materiel Assistance, said
the Alabama-based group had dismissed J. R. Hagan for continuing to plan patrols
after the membership had voted to abolish them.

Mr. Turney, the group's executive vice president, said in a press release that
Mr. Hagan, of Tucson, had also been removed as the group's Arizona director.

In the July 5 border incident, several members of a 20-man patrol detained the
aliens in the Lochiel Valley for about two hours until United States Border
Patrol officials could be summoned to the scene.

That incident prompted criticism from several Hispanic activists and Government
officials.

Mr. Hagan has vowed to continue his activities and has set up his own group,
Border Watch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              358 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 27, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Don't Punish Aliens With Death by Illness

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 183 words


To the Editor:

It's ironic to debate Medicaid coverage for illegal aliens while silence
blankets the fate of Medicaid coverage for pregnant teen-agers in New York
State. The efforts of the Commissioner of Social Services to revise New York's
Medicaid policy to bar some 4,000 pregnant teen-agers from getting prenatal care
- or, in a handful of cases, abortions - have commanded little media attention
and no editorial comment from you.

In New York State this year 59,000 teens will get pregnant. Of those, 26,000
will have children; 33,000 will have abortions. Many will manage without help,
and others are already members of families receiving Medicaid. But several
thousand pregnant teen-agers who cannot turn to their families and have no
resources are about to be abandoned by the state when they urgently need
essential medical services.

While I concur with the court's decision to make illegal aliens eligible for
Medicaid, I have to say - first things first.

ALFRED F. MORAN
  Executive Director, Planned
  Parenthood of New York City
  New York, Sept. 18, 1986

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              359 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 20, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

2,800 Illegal Aliens Arrested In a Weeklong Border Sweep

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 104 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Oct. 19


More than 2,800 undocumented aliens were arrested by Border Patrol agents last
week in a five-day roundup of people who had crossed the border illegally.

The operation, which concluded Friday with the arrest of more than 600 people,
concentrated on known gathering spots for aliens who head for the northern part
of San Diego County for employment as field hands.

Most of those arrested were deported to Mexico.

''This accomplished a lot more than I thought it would,'' said Gene Smithburg,
assistant chief patrol agent for the San Diego region. ''There is some work
involved in having an operation of this size.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              360 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 2, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

PARIS TRIES CONCILIATION AND EXPULSION

BYLINE: By FRANK J. PRIAL

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 808 words

DATELINE: PARIS


TEN days ago, the French Government disclosed that since the passage of an
emergency anti-terrorist law in September it had clandestinely deported some
1,700 illegal aliens.

The law, prompted by a succession of terrorist bombings in Paris, authorized the
police to bypass traditional judicial restraints in expelling undesirables.
Civil rights groups, suspicious of the new Interior Minister, Charles Pasqua, a
strong law-and-order advocate, interpreted the law as a convenient way to rid
the country of undesirable immigrants regardless of their possible connection to
terrorism. The expulsions were widely criticized in the press but defended by
the Government as an important part of its anti-terrorist campaign.

In fact, as it turned out last week, the Government, despite official claims to
the contrary, appears to have been moving toward conciliatory deals with Syria,
which is widely believed to instigate or support terrorism. Mr. Pasqua,
describing the relationship between the French and Syrian secret services as one
of ''real cooperation,'' disclosed that the police in the two countries had been
working together for almost a month to head off further bombings here.

France joined 10 other European Community nations Monday in refusing to approve
a British-sponsored ''European initiative'' against Syria. Britain broke off
diplomatic relations with Damascus after a British jury convicted a Jordanian,
said to have been assisted by Syrian agents, of attempting to place a bomb
aboard an Israeli airliner in London. The United States and Canada have recalled
their ambassadors to Damascus, and West Germany said it would delay sending a
new envoy there. Mr. Pasqua ignored Britain's assertion that it had ''conclusive
evidence'' that Syria directed terrorism, except to describe Syria as ''hurt and
shocked'' by the allegations.

According to a report in Le Monde, the Paris newspaper, Syria has ordered the
terrorists responsible for the Paris attacks, who are based in Lebanon, to end
the bombing until February. At that time, Georges Ibrahim Abdallah, a terrorist
leader whose release the bombers have demanded, comes to trial here.

The Government scoffed at the Le Monde report in public, but several officials
said confidentially that it probably was true. Le Monde said the French agreed,
in exchange for a hiatus in the bombing campaign here, to supply Damascus with
much-needed economic aid and, perhaps, arms. The possibility of a
multimillion-dollar arms deal with Syria, first discussed by the previous
Socialist Government, highlighted once again the feud between President Francois
Mitterrand, a Socialist, and Prime Minister Jacques Chirac, whose conservatives
took control of the Government last March.

Mr. Mitterrand and Mr. Chirac are potential rivals in the 1988 presidential
election. Mr. Mitterrand said in Germany Monday that there ''should be no
compromise with terrorism'' and that there was ''no question'' of arms sales to
Syria.

There are those who believe that Mr. Mitterrand may have scored heavily in the
turbulence over terrorism. Mr. Chirac is seen by political analysts as gambling
on getting two concesssions from the Syrians: help in freeing the 10 French
hostages still held in Syrian-controlled areas of Lebanon and an end to the
bombings in Paris.

If Chirac Fails

If he is successful at either or both, he can expect to be forgiven for dealing
with the terrorists and their alleged Syrian bosses, the anlaysts say. If, as
some analysts believe, he fails at either or both, his chances of becoming
President two years from now, like President Jimmy Carter's in 1980, will have
all but disappeared.

Le Monde also reported that Algeria had relayed a French message to the
terrorists saying that Mr. Abdallah probably would be released after his
February trial. The reported role of Algeria helps to explain the arrests in
France last week of some 20 dissident Algerians who oppose the Government in
their homeland.

Under the Sept. 9 law, 101 Malians, most of them accused as drug traffickers,
were taken aboard a plane in chains at Orly Airport and flown to Bamako, the
capital of Mali, where they were turned over to authorities. Yesterday, two bomb
explosions caused serious damage at the Government immigration office and the
air charter company that had flown the Malians home. A letter received by Agence
France-Presse said the French leftist terrorist group, Direct Action, was
responsible, protesting the ouster of the Malians and detention of the
Algerians.

Mr. Pandraud said the number of illegal residents who had decided to go home on
their own had jumped sharply, but he offered no figures. He said the expulsions
would continue ''because in the arrests made so far, we have discovered a number
of foreigners who were far more dangerous than we had ever imagined.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of demonstrators in Paris protesting the deportation of 101
Mailans from France (Special Features/Sipa Press/Pascal Le Segretain)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              361 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 5, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

MINORITIES IN WESTERN EUROPE: HEARING 'NOT WELCOME' IN SEVERAL LANGUAGES

BYLINE: By JAMES M. MARKHAM, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2430 words

DATELINE: AMSTERDAM


Eric Sinester, a former policeman from the South American nation of Suriname who
is now an adviser to the Amsterdam police, told a story the other day. It seems
that one of the first blacks on the Amsterdam force had arrested a white robber
- and was himself arrested when white officers arrived to find a black man
holding a gun.

''It is a racist society,'' Mr. Sinester said of the Netherlands. ''As long as
white society reacts against the blacks, the blacks are going to put themselves
back in the ghetto, like Bijlmermeer.''

Amsterdam's high-rise district of Bijlmermeer is one of many virtual ghettos in
Western Europe that lodge a polyglot, postcolonial underclass existing at the
margins of white tolerance. If Bijlmermeer's 35,000 Surinamese residents went
back to Suriname, which attained independence from the Netherlands in 1975, they
would make up that nation's second-largest city.

They and several million other third-world workers, originally enlisted to do
jobs that Europeans did not want, now find themselves and their children caught
between two worlds.

Many of these people came to Western Europe in the 1950's and 60's, as a result
of decolonization and the recruitment of laborers from North Africa and Turkey.
The Lingering Myth Of 'Guest Workers'

A lingering myth in Western Europe is that these ''guest workers'' will
eventually realize that they have overstayed their welcome and go home -or,
failing that, will be fully integrated into European societies.

Yet the overwhelming evidence is that these immigrants are remaining and, in
signficant instances, resisting assimilation as shrinking economic opportunity,
staggering levels of unemployment and white racism block their movement into the
mainstream.

''You can't use the model of Europeans gaining acceptance in America - three
generations and then assimilation - as applicable to these people,'' said John
Rex of the University of Warwick in England, an authority on the new immigrants.
''There is a much stronger sense of racism here than in America.''

A decade after Western European governments proclaimed a halt to the third-world
influx, the flight of whites from inner-city immigrant neighborhoods has
sharpened segregation in schools and housing. Half of the schoolchildren in
Amsterdam, for example, are non-Dutch. A fifth of the city's population is
black; by 1995, projections show, 37 percent will be.

Amsterdam's high-rise district of Bijlmermeer is one of many virtual ghettos in
Western Europe that lodge a polyglot, postcolonial underclass existing at the
margins of white tolerance. If Bijlmermeer's 35,000 Surinamese residents went
back to Suriname, which attained independence from the Netherlands in 1975, they
would make up the South American nation's second largest city.

Some 56 percent of Bijlmermeer's adults are unemployed, although a booming
high-technology park nearby is recruiting skilled labor from as far away as
Britain. Drug addiction is so rampant that until recently addicts and dealers
operated from the roof of the local police station.

''There is a problem to say which problem is the biggest,'' said Harald Zebeda,
a 37-year-old Suriname-born community worker. ''But going home is easier said
than done.''

''I think the older generation is becoming more Surinamese,'' he added. ''But
the generation born here has a problem. They can't be Surinamese and they can't
be Dutch.'' Across the Continent, Some Success Stories The patterns of
immigration and assimilation vary considerably across Western Europe. There are
individual and national success stories.

After the decolonization of Angola and Mozambique a decade ago, Portugal managed
without major upheaval to integrate 700,000 immigrants, or almost 10 percent of
its population, and it has become Western Europe's most authentically
multiracial society.

''I never felt any difficulty in adapting,'' said Joana Gomes, a 29-year-old
Angolan who came to Lisbon in 1976. ''At the beginning, when there was an awful
lot of us, there was a certain amount of tension, but it didn't last. I very
quickly made a number of Portuguese friends.''

Sweden, which explicitly accepts immigrants as future citizens, and Switzerland,
which has a rigorous quota system but guarantees long-term residence, are
generally acclaimed for having smoothly absorbed outsiders. The Netherlands this
spring joined Scandinavian countries, Belgium and some Swiss cantons in granting
immigrants the right to vote in municipal elections.

But in Britain, France and West Germany, immigrants from the third world are a
focus of tension and frequently targets of abuse and violence. The prevailing
fears of white society are, perhaps, best caught by Prime Minister Margaret
Thatcher's remark that Britain is being ''swamped'' by outsiders, and by
Chancellor Helmut Kohl's insistence that West Germany is ''not a country of
immigration.'' A Split Image Emerges in France While major political parties
have generally sought to defuse and muffle the immigrant issue, in France the
9.7 percent of the vote scored in March by Jean-Marie Le Pen's far-right
National Front shoved the question to the top of the nation's agenda.

In an interview at his mansion at St.-Cloud overlooking Paris, Mr. Le Pen framed
the issue in apocalyptic terms: ''The problem for Europe is a question of
survival as a civilization. If we do not reverse the current of immigration, we
will be swept away. Tensions are going to explode.''

Mr. Le Pen maintained that France ''still has the choice to ask the foreigners
to go home.''

Even before the election, which brought a conservative Government to power,
mounting hostility toward the presence of about four million foreigners, half of
them from North Africa, obliged President Francois Mitterrand's Socialists to
retreat from a pledge to let immigrants vote in municipal elections.

Prime Minister Jacques Chirac, leader of the conservative coalition, has
promised steps to ''preserve the identity of our national community,'' including
tightened visa requirements, measures making it easier to expel immigrants and
tougher standards for acquiring French citizenship.

Anxiety about the future is palpable in Les Mureaux, a bleak town 22 miles west
of Paris, where Moroccans and Algerians make up the majority of the 9,000
foreigners in a total population of 31,000. Half of the schoolchildren in Les
Mureaux are from immigrant families.

''There is a feeling of withdrawal,'' said Aziz Siddiq, an Algerian community
worker, speaking of the young French-born North Africans who have turned
militantly to their familial language, religion and music. ''But the kids say
they never came to France, so there is no question of departure.''

Catherine de Wenden, an academic authority on French immigrants, predicted that
the country would live for some time with a split image of itself. ''France is
in fact multiracial, but the legitimacy of this multiracial character is very
challenged,'' she said. ''Immigration is not part of the French national myth.''
Immigrants in Britain: For Some, a Fast Track In Britain, most of the 2.2
million blacks and Asians are crowded into densely settled urban ghettos; one
survey found that 10 percent of census districts contain 70 percent of Britain's
black population. Yet concentration is a source of incipient political clout,
because immigrants from Commonwealth countries have full voting rights.

In Bradford, a rundown Midlands textile city of 470,000, an ambitious Pakistani
named Mohammed Ajeeb started his political career by campaigning against moves
to disperse the 65,000-member Asian population and later to bus its children to
schools in white districts.

''Integration doesn't take place between two unequals,'' said the tall,
48-year-old Mr. Ajeeb, chatting in a modest living room filled with memorabilia
including a photograph showing him with Prince Charles.

A year ago Mr. Ajeeb, a Labor Party member of the City Council, became one of
the most prominent nonwhites in Britain - perhaps in Western Europe - when he
was chosen Lord Mayor, the ''first citizen'' of Bradford. He was also embroiled
in a confrontation with Ray Honeyford, the white headmaster of the Drummond
Middle School.

In several articles, Mr. Honeyford sprang to the defense of the 5 percent of his
students who were white, portraying them as an underprivileged minority in
Bradford. Denounced by Asians as a racist, the headmaster was embraced as a
national hero by the Conservative Party and even received by Mrs. Thatcher at 10
Downing Street.

After Mr. Honeyford was forced out of his job, a backlash developed against
prominent Asians. The windows of the Lord Mayor's home were smashed; a
neighbor's house was set on fire.

''I got hundreds of letters saying who the hell was I to tell a white man what
to do, and 'we don't want to listen to a wog,' '' Mr. Ajeeb said with a grin.

The violence was a conspicuous escalation in the abuse and assaults endured by
Pakistanis in Bradford and by many minorities elsewhere in England. ''Every day
of the week someone's getting graffiti on their garden gate or something thrown
at them,'' said Tim Whitfield of the local Community Relations Council. ''It's
just the backdrop of life for Asians living here.''

Yet Mr. Ajeeb, who has just relinquished the Lord Mayor's post and has his eye
on a seat in the House of Commons, regards the Honeyford controversy as another
political battle won. ''If you don't have political power,'' he said, ''you will
obviously remain the dregs in this society.''

The major parties are cultivating the black and Asian vote, which traditionally
tilts heavily to Labor. In the next general election, four or five nonwhites are
expected to make it into the Commons from safe Labor constituencies.

As on the Continent, in Britain some minority groups are making it faster than
others, with entrepreneurs from the Indian subcontinent moving ahead and
alienated blacks from the Caribbean locked in rundown, riot-prone inner-city
neighborhoods like Brixton in London. Assimilation is very slow.

''There is increasingly more intermarriage,'' said Dev Sharma, a senior official
at the Community Relations Council in London. ''But in 20 or 40 years I suspect
that Britain will still have a distinctive Indian community, a distinctive
Pakistani community and a distinctive West Indian community.''

The inhabitants of Britain's ghettos find solace and strength in numbers. At the
dilapidated Council for Mosques in Bradford, Sheik Mohammed Azhar said the
''biggest problem'' facing Bradford's Moslem community, where unemployment is 35
percent, was the absence of separate schools for girls. Some fathers, he said,
prefer to send their daughters back to Pakistan rather than expose them to
coeducation, which devout Moslems consider immoral.

More secular-minded Pakistanis see a retreat into traditional values as a
problem, not a solution. Over curry in an abandoned Anglican church converted
into a Pakistani restaurant, Abdul Rauf Hameed, a 55-year-old city councilor,
said, ''When we are keeping our religious values up, it will be very difficult
to have social integration on the other side.'' In West Germany, Insecure
'Guests'

In West Germany, one of the best clues to the ambivalent attitude toward the 4.3
million resident foreigners -and particularly the 1.4 million of them who are
Turks - is the evolution of official terminology. Gradually, the term ''guest
worker'' is being abandoned, and that status is being called ''temporary
integration'' or ''immigrant employment.''

The halting of foreign labor recruitment after the 1973 oil crisis led to a
spurt in Turkish immigration as single working men, realizing that the doors
were closing, brought their wives and children to West Germany. A three-year-old
program to encourage Turks and other foreigners to go home has had little
effect, and the unspoken official assumption is that most will remain
indefinitely.

Even so, episodic expulsions keep many Turks living in insecurity. ''Although I
have been here for 15 years, it is possible that I could be asked to leave
tomorrow,'' said Mumin Ozdemir, a member of a newly created immigrant advisory
body in the Ruhr city of Duisburg, where 43,000 Turks live.

Mr. Ozdemir has a law degree from Cologne University but cannot practice in West
Germany. He cast a ballot for the first time in his life last year when he voted
for himself as a member of Duisburg's immigrant council, which advises city
officials on matters such as schools and confrontations with the police.

He predicted that it would be second- and third-generation Turks who would
firmly establish themselves in West Germany. ''They will go to Turkey on
visits,'' he said, ''but they will remain in Germany as Turks. As in America,
where you have Chinatowns, they will not consider themselves Germans; it will
not be like the Poles who came here and became Germans.''

In Munich, Osman Ercen, who immigrated in 1976 and is married to a German,
offered a different view as he sat on a pile of Oriental carpets at the back of
his bustling food store. ''The younger generation can speak German, they dress
like Germans, they eat like Germans, they have German friends,'' he said. ''A
lot of them were born here, and they feel like tourists when they go to
Turkey.''

''The children today are a bridge to German society for their parents,'' said
Mr. Ercen, who came to Frankfurt as a keyboard player for a Turkish band. ''I've
seen it a hundred times: The father gets some official letter and the son
translates it for him. The children play along with the Turkish customs at home
only out of respect for their parents.''

The slow pace of assimilation, though, is underscored by the fact that only
5,456 Turks have become West German citizens since 1973. And sporadic acts of
racist violence - such as the recent beating death of a 26-year-old Turk by
youths in Hamburg - remind Turks that they are not always welcome. Looking
Ahead: 'It's Like a Bomb'

Winston Kout, who runs an employment agency for his fellow Surinamese in
Amsterdam, presumed for a moment to speak for 200,000 of his countrymen, or the
one-third of the South American nation that has emigrated to the Netherlands.

''I think Holland don't have a choice - Europe don't have a choice,'' he said.
''If you want to hold onto your economy, you have to educate these people and
set them up. It's something like a bomb, and in Europe they are a little smart
on the top'' - he pointed to his forehead - ''and there are some things you
can't ignore.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Mohammed Ajeeb and his wife Arshad (The Bradford Telegraph &
Argus); photo of Turkish women and children in West Beirut (Paul Glaser)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              362 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 14, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

FOREIGNERS CAUTIONED ABOUT STAYING IN LIBYA

BYLINE: By EDWARD SCHUMACHER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1182 words

DATELINE: TRIPOLI, Libya, April 13


As tensions continued to rise here tonight over possible United States military
action against Libyan targets, a number of embassies issued advisories to their
nationals to reconsider their positions in the country. None of the embassies
recommended evacuation, however.

British citizens who called their consul today were given the following message:
''It follows that in a period of rising tension, the British Government would
expect British citizens to review very carefully the advisability of their
remaining in Libya.''

Evacuation Procedures Organized

The Japanese, Spanish and other embassies have been organizing emergency
evacuation procedures should they be needed. Some embassies have made tentative
plans with their national airlines and their national-flag cargo ships and
tankers coming into Libyan ports, according to diplomats.

Almost all of the embassies are said to have worked out procedures on how to
spread the word of evacuation quickly through the communities of their
nationals. There has been no exodus at the airport here, however.

The Libyan leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, announced early today that a number
of military bases had been evacuated and that foreign companies were being
ordered to house their workers there. Western diplomats here interpreted the
order as making foreign workers into virtual hostages.

The executives of two West European corporations said here tonight that a Libyan
revolutionary committee had told them to begin moving their workers onto
military bases immediately.

A number of European embassies reached here tonight declined to comment on the
excutives' assertions, but diplomats from a number of nations were at their
offices trying to investigate the situation.

No coercion to move Westerners to the bases has been reported, but by tonight it
was still unclear to what extent the order was being carried out.

Meanwhile, it was disclosed today that the Roman Catholic Bishop of Libya,
Giovanni Martinelli, and three foreign priests and a nun have been detained
since Thursday in Benghazi, Libya's second largest city. The Italian Government
lodged a strong protest today, but Italian officials said tonight that the
Libyan Government had not replied or said why the church people were being held.


Fear of Attack Cited

Some of today's developments appeared to be related to fears held by Colonel
Qaddafi, that the United States Sixth Fleet will attack Libya Monday, according
to informed Western and Eastern bloc diplomats.

Western diplomats estimated today that the number of Americans in Libya was
between 800 and 1,300. Most are here in defiance of an order in January by the
Reagan Administration that they leave the country. The United States does not
have diplomatic relations with Libya, and American interests here are
represented by the tiny Belgian Embassy, which has three diplomats.

''Yes, of course I'm nervous about it,'' said a 22-year-old American woman from
Portland, Ore., who is married to a Libyan and is working at the Oil Company
School. ''I want to go home, kind of.''

The two West Europeans said they were summoned late this afternoon by a
revolutionary committee. They said executives of five West European
multinational companies were present and that each was told to begin the moves
immediately.

The two executives, who declined to name their companies, were visibly shaken as
they said they had just come from the meeting.

''We don't know what we're going to do, but we're stalling for time now,'' said
one of the two, a Swede. The other left before his nationality could be
ascertained.

Colonel Qaddafi has set up revolutionary committees in almost every sector of
the economy and in neighborhoods as a sort of parallel government that he has
said will give power to the people. Because the committees compete with regular
Government bureaucracies, it is often difficult to tell where real authority
lies.

Thus it was unclear what authority was held by the committee the businessmen
faced. Colonel Qaddafi's order was not issued through normal channels but was
given directly by him to an American news agency reporter here. Most foreign
diplomats and business executives were not aware of the order until this
afternoon.

The two European businessmen said they took the specific orders given them as
serious.

Bishop Martinelli, an Italian, and the other members of the clergy were taken
away Thursday night from the Franciscan residence in Benghazi by a group of
revolutionary committeemen, Italian diplomats here said. The other three priests
were a Pole, a Maltese, and a Filipino, and the nun was Italian, the embassy
said. News of the detentions did not become public until today.

Western diplomats said the Vatican had been telephoning Libyan authorities
throughout the day. The Italian Ambassador, Giorgio Raetano, carried a protest
note that diplomats said was strongly worded to the People's Liaison Bureau,
Libya's equivalent of a Foreign Ministry.

Reason for Detention Unclear

Government officials here declined to respond to reporters' inquiries about the
case. But Italian diplomats said it was unclear why the members of the clergy
had been detained or where they were being held.

The diplomats pointed out that the three had not been officially arrested, since
revolutionary committees are not the police. Last month, however, the Justice
Ministry was abolished in what Colonel Qaddafi said was an attempt to further
decentralize judicial power down to the revolutionary committee level. Until
now, most of the committees had ruled only on administrative matters such as
property ownership.

The emphasis among foreign diplomats and workers has been to be calm. Many
foreign workers, most of them here on temporary contracts, said nonetheless that
they were getting their exit visas in order.

One Soviet-bloc source here said the Libyan strategy is not to be provoked into
striking at the Sixth Fleet. He said Colonel Qaddafi had ordered that the
Americans must fire first. In the clashes in the Gulf of Sidra three weeks ago,
the Libyans shot missiles at American planes before the Americans
counterattacked, sinking several Libyan boats and damaging an antiaircraft
missile radar site.

The battle order is apparently designed to assure that Libya appears to the
world as an aggrieved nation, the diplomat said. Another possibility is that the
Americans might not fire if the Libyans do not fire first, said the source, who
has close contacts with the Libyan military.

He said that if fighting breaks out, the Libyan strategy will then be to send
out the Libyan Air Force, in suicide missions if necessary, to hit an American
aircraft carrier. The Libyans do not expect to win any such fighting but want to
draw enough blood to declare victory as a smaller country taking on one of the
world's most powerful, he said.

There has been no general mobilization, however. There have been no callups of
reserves, no roadblocks, no mass movements of troops through the downtown area
of this capital, and life here continues with a normal air.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              363 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 30, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

55 CUBANS RIOT IN BUS TRAVELING TO ATLANTA PRISON

BYLINE: By GEORGE VOLSKY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 597 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 29


Fifty-five Cubans accused of starting a melee at the Krome Avenue detention
center here rioted today aboard a special security bus while being transferred
to the Federal penitentiary in Atlanta, the authorities said.

The Cubans, shouting anti-American slogans, tried to rock the caged bus, the
police said. About 40 state and local police officers subdued the Cubans after
the bus pulled over to the side of Interstate 75, near Lake City in northern
Florida.

The Cubans were then transported to a jail, where they were ''searched and
re-handcuffed'' before resuming the trip to Atlanta, Lieut. Tommy Richardson of
the Columbia County sheriff's office said.

The bus arrived in Atlanta this afternoon without further incident, an official
at the penitentiary said.

Damage Put at $100,000

The Cubans' transfer to Atlanta followed a serious disturbance Wednesday at
Krome, where 125 detainees burned mattresses, threw stones and attacked guards
before they were dispersed. One guard was cut by a stone, the official said, but
no other injuries were reported. Damage was estimated at $100,000.

Perry A. Rivkind, district director of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said today that the remaining 106 Cubans being held at Krome because of
their felony records would be relocated. He also said 226 non-Cuban illegal
immigrants being held at Krome would be sent to a detention center in Oakdale,
La.

The Cubans detained at Krome, a former missile site 20 miles west of downtown
Miami, came to the United States from the Cuban port of Mariel as part of the
1980 boatlift that brought 125,000 Cubans to the United States. Some had
criminal records in Cuba and others committed criminal offenses after their
arrival here.

Having completed their prison sentences in state and Federal prisons, they
ordinarily would have been released into the community. But, because they are
illegal immigrants, they remain in Federal custody pending deportation to Cuba.

In December 1984 Cuba agreed to take back 2,700 Mariel felons detained by the
Federal authorities. But Fidel Castro, the Cuban leader, suspended the agreement
on May 20, 1985, when the United States-sponsored Radio Marti began broadcasting
to Cuba.

Conditions at the Krome detention center are considered idyllic compared to
those at the Atlanta penitentiary, where some 1,900 Mariel felons are being
held, eight to a cell, for 23 hours a day behind bars. They are allowed only one
hour a day for a bath and exercise.

Conditions in the prison, which was built in 1902 and designed for four inmates
per cell, are among the worst in the Federal penitentiary system, according to a
Congressional report released in April.

''Cubans as Krome and at Atlanta have no human rights whatsoever,'' said Msgr.
Bryan O. Walsh, head of Catholic Services of the Archdiocese of Miami and an
expert on immigration. ----Complaint Filed in U.N.  UNITED NATIONS, N.Y., May 29
-A coalition of human rights and religious groups filed a complaint with the
United Nations against the United States today, charging that the detainment of
1,900 Cubans at the Federal prison in Atlanta violated international laws on
human rights.

The 15-page complaint charges that the detention violates human rights codes
because it is arbitrary and because of the conditions in the prison.

The groups filing the complaint include the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights,
the National Council of Churches and the American Civil Liberties Union.

The United Nations Human Rights Commission will consider the complaint when it
meets next January.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of inmates at Miami detention center (UPI)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              364 of 364 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 27, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

VIETNAMESE IN HONG KONG: THE BITTER LAST STOP

BYLINE: By MALCOLM W. BROWNE, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1095 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG


One of the inmates of Hong Kong's refugee detention camps hanged himself this
month. After trying vainly for eight years to escape the camp by winning
permanent sanctuary in some country other than Vietnam, he had finally given up.

Eleven years after the end of the Vietnam War, thousands of escapees from
Vietnam continue to languish in Hong Kong detention camps with little prospect
of ever resuming normal lives.

Of some 33,000 Vietnamese refugees living in detention camps in eight Asian
countries, the largest contingent - about 8,500 - are held in Hong Kong's five
camps. A few hundred of them gain freedom each month by obtaining permits to
settle in the United States or one of a handful of other countries that accept
refugees. But others continue to arrive from Vietnam aboard junks, sampans and
rescue ships, and the 4.2-percent birth rate in the camps themselves swells the
population of detainees still more.

''In terms of resettlement, we seem to have just about reached the end of the
line,'' said Glenn F. Schwerdt, Hong Kong director of the International Rescue
Committee, one of the main relief agencies working with the refugees. ''The
great majority of refugees remaining in Hong Kong's camps have been refused
permission to settle in any of the countries to which they applied. Many have
lost hope of ever becoming free men and women.

'Starting to Get Suicides'

''After all,'' Mr. Schwerdt said, ''more than 900 of them have been seeking
resettlement for more than seven years. We're starting to get suicides now, and
in the two open camps, where refugees are allowed to come and go during the day,
drugs are becoming a major problem. Many of these people have come to believe
that the world has forgotten them, and they may be right.''

Relief workers agree that Hong Kong treats Vietnamese refugees more humanely
than do the other nations and territories providing the refugees with temporary
sanctuary. The British crown colony has never turned Vietnamese ''boat people''
away, and this fact has contributed to a continuing influx of refugees; during
the first 10 months of this year, nearly 2,000 Vietnamese refugees have arrived
in Hong Kong. The great majority are from southern Vietnam.

But Hong Kong is one of the most densely crowded urban territories on earth, and
refugees have packed it to the bursting point. Hong Kong's population of 5.4
million includes 630,000 legal and illegal immigrants who have have entered the
colony from China in the last 10 years alone. Since the fall of Saigon in 1975,
Hong Kong has also accepted 14,500 Vietnamese refugees as permanent immigrants.

The Vietnamese not accepted for permanent settlement in Hong Kong were initially
quartered in two ''open'' transit camps, whose residents are free to come and
go, and even to hold temporary jobs in the city. Since July 2, 1982, however,
all Vietnamese arrivals have been assigned to three high-security camps
administered as part of Hong Kong's penal system. There is no reprieve from
these camps, except by resettlement abroad or death.

The Sound of Singing

The most desirable of the three closed camps, to which inmates of the other
closed camps may ''graduate'' after proving themselves cooperative, is the
Bowring camp in Hong Kong's New Territories. (The two other closed camps, where
general malaise sometimes leads to violence, are on islands relatively remote
from urban Hong Kong.) Bowring consists of a cluster of barracks huts ringed by
double aprons of chain-link fencing topped with barbed wire. Prison guards from
the colony's Division of Correctional Services carefully screen visitors.
Incongruously, however, the sound of singing issues from crowded schoolrooms
inside the compound, and women hoe and weed patches of flowers and herbs
interspersed between the barracks.

Refugees working in Bowring's blue-jeans factory, machine shop and other cottage
industries can earn up to $17 a month and deposit their income in personal
savings accounts or spend it in the camp's modest commissary.

''But we can't pretend that the morale of these detainees is good,'' said the
camp warden, Francis Wang. ''Very few of them are being resettled anymore. Most
have been turned down by the United States and Australia, and their best chances
may be in Canada or Western Europe. Even those countries are accepting very few
refugees these days. When Hong Kong is taken over by China 11 years from now,
the Vietnamese refugee camps may still be full. Who knows what will happen then?
Personally, I don't intend to be around to find out.''

''Some relief workers believe that teaching English to the children in the
closed camps may be a cruel deception,'' Mr. Schwerdt said, ''It creates
unwarranted expectations that they will be resettled in the United States,
Canada or Britain. The trouble is, most of the refugees refuse to learn
Cantonese, the language that will be most useful if Hong Kong turns out to be
the end of the road for them. Those whose hopes for the future have not been
extinguished by long years in the camps still insist upon studying English.''
Little Chance to Reach U.S. American criteria for accepting Vietnamese refugees
exclude most of the applicants still awaiting resettlement. Unless a would-be
immigrant has parents, children or a spouse living in the United States, or can
prove that his or her life would be endangered on political grounds by remaining
in Vietnam, chances of admission to the United States are remote.

Even when American immigration criteria are seemingly met, unexpected obstacles
often intervene, as one of the residents of Jubilee Refugee Transit Center, an
open camp, discovered. The refugee, Phan Sau, was able to prove that he had been
a helicopter mechanic in South Vietnam's Army and therefore qualified as an
authentic political refugee.

But in the mistaken belief that his wife had died, he remarried after arriving
at the Jubilee camp more than six years ago. He later discovered that his first
wife was still alive and that in the eyes of American law he was therefore a
bigamist, a criminal and automatically barred from entering the United States.
Mr. Sau subsequently signed an affidavit renouncing one of his marriages, but
agents of the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service have declined
to reopen his case.

''Mr. Sau's expert assistance in running the Jubilee camp has been valuable to
us and we'd really hate to lose him,'' Mr. Schwerdt said, ''but it is terribly
unfair that he is forced to remain here because of a cruel accident of fate.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of detention center for Vietnamese refugees (Le Lieu Browne)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company
