
                               1 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 5, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Court Bars Identity-Theft Law As Tool in Immigration Cases

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK and JULIA PRESTON; Adam Liptak reported from Washington,
and Julia Preston from New York. David Stout contributed reporting from
Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 905 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Supreme Court on Monday rejected a favorite tool of prosecutors in
immigration cases, ruling unanimously that a federal identity-theft law may not
be used against many illegal workers who used false Social Security numbers to
get jobs.

The question in the case was whether workers who use fake identification numbers
to commit some other crimes must know they belong to a real person to be subject
to a two-year sentence extension for ''aggravated identity theft.''

The answer, the Supreme Court said, is yes.

Prosecutors had used the threat of that punishment to persuade illegal workers
to plead guilty to lesser charges of document fraud.

''The court's ruling preserves basic ideals of fairness for some of our
society's most vulnerable workers,'' said Chuck Roth, litigation director at the
National Immigrant Justice Center in Chicago. ''An immigrant who uses a false
Social Security number to get a job doesn't intend to harm anyone, and it makes
no sense to spend our tax dollars to imprison them for two years.''

Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. said in a concurring opinion that a central flaw in
the interpretation of the law urged by the government was that it made criminal
liability turn on chance. Consider, Justice Alito said, a defendant who chooses
a Social Security number at random.

''If it turns out that the number belongs to a real person,'' Justice Alito
wrote, ''two years will be added to the defendant's sentence, but if the
defendant is lucky and the number does not belong to another person, the statute
is not violated.''

The most sweeping use of the statute was in Iowa, after an immigration raid in
May 2008 at a meatpacking plant in Postville. Nearly 300 unauthorized immigrant
workers from the plant, most of them from Guatemala, pleaded guilty to
document-fraud charges rather than risk being convicted at trial of the
identity-theft charge. In most of those cases, the prosecutors demonstrated only
that the Social Security numbers and immigration documents the workers had
presented were false.

Many of the immigrants served five-month prison sentences and then faced summary
deportation. The Postville cases raised an outcry among immigrant advocates,
because they transformed into federal felonies a common practice by illegal
immigrants of presenting fake Social Security numbers and other  documents to
employers.

The court's ruling is unlikely to aid the immigrants in the Postville cases.
Most of them have long since been deported.

Justice Stephen G. Breyer, in his opinion for the court, said the case should be
decided by applying ''ordinary English grammar'' to the text of the law, which
applies when an offender ''knowingly transfers, possesses or uses, without
lawful authority, a means of identification of another person.''

The government had argued that the ''knowingly'' requirement applied only to the
verbs in question. Justice Breyer rejected that interpretation, saying that ''it
seems natural to read the statute's word 'knowingly' as applying to all the
subsequently listed elements of the crime.''

He gave examples from everyday life to support this view. ''If we say that
someone knowingly ate a sandwich with cheese,'' Justice Breyer wrote, ''we
normally assume that the person knew both that he was eating a sandwich and that
it contained cheese.''

Five justices joined all of Justice Breyer's opinion, and three others --
Justices Alito, Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas -- concurred in the result
and in some of the reasoning.

The defendant in the case, Flores-Figueroa v. United States, No. 08-108, was
Ignacio Flores-Figueroa, a Mexican citizen who had worked illegally for a steel
plant in Illinois. At first, Mr. Flores-Figueroa used a false name and fake
Social Security number, one that did not happen to match that of a real person.
Six years later, he told his employer that he wanted to be known by his real
name, and he presented forged Social Security and alien registration cards that
bore numbers assigned to real people.

Mr. Flores-Figueroa eventually pleaded guilty to several immigration offenses,
resulting in a 51-month sentence, but he went to trial to contest charges under
the identity-theft law. He was convicted and sentenced to the additional two
years mandated by the law. Monday's decision reversed that two-year extension.

Kevin K. Russell, a lawyer for Mr. Flores-Figueroa, said his client is in
federal prison in Georgia. After Mr. Flores-Figueroa has served his time, Mr.
Russell said, ''I assume the government will try to deport him.''

Nearly 8 million illegal immigrants are working in the United States, the Pew
Hispanic Center in Washington estimates.

Stephen H. Legomsky, a professor of immigration law at Washington University
School of Law in St. Louis, said Monday's decision would have a major impact on
the strategy of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, making it more difficult
for the agency to press criminal charges against immigrants with no other
offenses but working illegally.

''In the ordinary immigration case, this will no longer be a weapon,'' Professor
Legomsky said.

The Obama administration has said that it will shift the focus of immigration
enforcement to employers who intentionally hire unauthorized immigrants in order
to pay lower wages or otherwise lower costs. But  last week the administration
said agents would continue to detain illegal immigrants found in  raids.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 6, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dismissal of Guilty Pleas Is Sought for Immigrants

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 731 words


The immigration lawyers' national bar association called on the Justice
Department on Tuesday to consider dismissing the guilty pleas of nearly 300
illegal immigrant workers arrested in a meatpacking plant raid in Iowa last
year, one day after the Supreme Court rejected a statute that prosecutors used
to pressure them.

In its decision Monday, the court ruled that to win convictions for identity
theft, prosecutors had to show that illegal immigrants knew that false
identification documents they presented to employers actually belonged to
another real person.

A Federal District Court in Iowa saw immediate fallout on Tuesday from the
Supreme Court's decision, as prosecutors dropped one charge against a human
resources manager from the meatpacking plant, Agriprocessors Inc. in Postville,
Iowa.

Earlier, a federal district judge had ruled that the manager, Laura Althouse,
could withdraw a guilty plea she entered last year in the case. Ms. Althouse had
pleaded guilty to aggravated identity theft, after prosecutors accused her of
helping illegal immigrants to hire on at the plant using documents that she knew
were false.

In legal papers, Ms. Althouse's lawyers argued that she had not been aware that
the documents some of the immigrants presented belonged to other people and were
not wholly fabricated fakes. She is still facing sentencing next week on a
separate charge in the case.

But the prosecutors' swift action to dismiss the charge against Ms. Althouse
raised new concerns about the convictions of hundreds of illegal immigrants from
Postville. In a statement, the American Immigration Lawyers Association praised
the Supreme Court decision and called on Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. to
order a case-by-case investigation of the prosecutions.

''The federal prosecutors used the law as a hammer to coerce the workers,'' said
David Leopold, a vice president of the association. He said Mr. Holder should
dismiss the charges in cases where the threat of prosecution under the statute
''was a miscarriage of justice.''

The aggravated identity theft statute carries a mandatory added sentence of two
years in prison, above any other sentence imposed. Fearing that they would be
convicted in a trial, most of the immigrants pleaded guilty to lesser charges of
document fraud and also agreed to summary deportation. They served five months
in prison, and most have been deported.

The Postville cases were the toughest application to date of criminal charges
against illegal immigrants whose main offense was that they were working without
authorization.

Representative Zoe Lofgren, Democrat of California and chairwoman of the House
immigration subcommittee, went further than the immigration lawyers. The Justice
Department should ''start from scratch and pretend these cases never happened,''
she said. ''They did not comport with the requirement of the law.''

Bob Teig, a spokesman for the United States attorney in Cedar Rapids, declined
to comment on the Postville cases because some are still making their way
through the court. The Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, covering Iowa,
had upheld the interpretation of the identity theft law that prosecutors applied
to the immigrant workers from Postville.

The immigration lawyers group also raised new questions on Tuesday about the
recommendation for the post of United States attorney of Stephanie Rose, an
assistant United States attorney in the Northern District office who was a
leading prosecutor in the Postville cases. Ms. Rose has been recommended for the
position by Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, although she has not yet been
nominated by the White House.

Some Iowa defense lawyers have said that Ms. Rose was the main prosecutor in
charge of securing guilty pleas from hundreds of Postville immigrants.

In a statement Tuesday, Senator Harkin said Ms. Rose ''had no role in deciding
what charges to bring or what plea agreements to offer.'' He said Ms. Rose, who
has been an assistant United States attorney in Iowa for 12 years, ''has
demonstrated great intellect and judgment, outstanding leadership and strength
of character.''

Eleven criminal defense lawyers who represented immigrant workers from Postville
wrote in an open letter that Ms. Rose ''worked incredibly long hours and
exhibited a level of competence and ability that would be hard to overstate.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 15, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Helping Workers in Hard Times

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 634 words


Immigration hard-liners have wasted no time harnessing their dreams of mass
expulsion to the recession. The avalanche of lost jobs and grim national mood
cry out for the laying of blame, and restrictionist groups are angrily pointing
the finger at illegal immigrants. Workers without papers have already been
accused of causing leprosy, crime waves, environmental ruin, global warming and
the decline of Western civilization, so tying them to a bad economy seems only
natural.

But maybe we should think this through.

Undocumented immigrants make up only about one-twentieth of the work force but
are overwhelmingly represented in the most dangerous, dirty and low-paying jobs.
Driving out every undocumented worker, a temptation in hard times, clears the
way for laid-off Americans to pick lettuce, wash dishes and cars, and wait all
morning outside Home Depot for a contractor to drive up.

That doesn't sound terribly smart. Nor were the efforts by tough-talkers in
Congress to slip into the stimulus package a ban on any illegal worker receiving
a penny of recovery money. They wanted to require every business receiving that
money to use an error-plagued employment-verification system, E-Verify.

That idea crashes on the rocks of common sense. It is impossible to know how
many undocumented workers might get hired through the stimulus, but the
Congressional Budget Office has already quantified the cost -- in thousands of
lost jobs and billions in lost tax revenue -- of the mandatory mass expansion of
E-Verify. That is from all the workers who would be fired because of database
errors or simply moved off the books.

There is a better strategy that hews to core American values and common sense.
It is to support workers -- documented or not. It is to fight back against
abuses that make wages and job conditions worse for everyone. It is to throw
light on off-the-books labor, and on the tax-cheating businesses that have
exploited it for too long.

American union members understand this. The Laborers' International Union of
North America, which represents the hard hats who build condos, shopping malls
and bridges, is working to organize immigrant workers in the Sun Belt who built
homes during the boom. Exploited then and jobless now, they need help. ''It
isn't workers that are trying to drive down wages in the residential
construction industry,'' said Terrence O'Sullivan, the union president. ''It's
unscrupulous employers who try to use workers' illegal status to do so.''

In Los Angeles, the United Steelworkers are supporting the Clean Carwash
Campaign, a drive to improve a notoriously dirty industry. Carwash workers,
mostly Latino and European immigrants, work long hours for low pay. They say
they are routinely cheated of wages, denied breaks and exposed to chemicals that
burn their skin and eyes. Last week the city attorney in Los Angeles filed
charges against the owners of six local carwashes, accusing them of wage theft
and other abuses in a business that bordered on ''indentured servitude.''

And in New York, the state labor commissioner, M. Patricia Smith, has begun a
program to enlist immigrant workers in places like nail salons and restaurants
as the agency's eyes and ears for wage and hour violations.

Putting government on the side of workers? Sounds crazy, but it works better
than the alternative. Raul Hinojosa-Ojeda, a professor of urban planning at the
University of California, Los Angeles, argues that current law creates ''an
artificially low wage floor'' that actually increases demand for undocumented
workers.

The idea that immigrant workers deserve protection simply as a matter of human
decency can be hard to sell in hard times. It is just as valid to make the
pragmatic case. After the bottom drops out of the economy, raise the floor.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 14, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Labor Groups Reach an Accord on Immigration

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON and STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1144 words


The nation's two major labor federations have agreed for the first time to join
forces to support an overhaul of the immigration system, leaders of both
organizations said on Monday. The accord could give President Obama significant
support among unions as he revisits the stormy issue in the midst of the
recession.

John Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., and Joe T. Hansen, a leader of the
rival Change to Win federation, will present the outlines of their new position
on Tuesday in Washington. In 2007, when Congress last considered comprehensive
immigration legislation, the two groups could not agree on a common approach.
That legislation failed.

The accord endorses legalizing the status of illegal immigrants already in the
United States and opposes any large new program for employers to bring in
temporary immigrant workers, officials of both federations said.

''The labor movement will work together to make sure that the White House as
well as Congress understand that we speak about immigration reform with one
voice,'' Mr. Sweeney said in a statement to The New York Times.

But while the compromise repaired one fissure in the coalition that has favored
broad immigration legislation, it appeared to open another. An official from the
United States Chamber of Commerce said Monday that the business community
remained committed to a significant guest-worker program.

''If the unions think they're going to push a bill through without the support
of the business community, they're crazy,'' said Randel Johnson, the chamber's
vice president of labor, immigration and employee benefits. ''There's only going
to be one shot at immigration reform. As part of the trade-off for legalization,
we need to expand the temporary worker program.''

The common labor position is also unlikely to convince many opponents that an
immigration overhaul would not harm American workers. When Obama administration
officials said last week that the president intended to push Congress this year
to take up an immigration bill that would include a path to legal status for the
country's estimated 12 million illegal immigrants, critics criticized the
approach as amnesty for lawbreakers.

''In our current economic crisis, Americans cannot afford to lose more jobs to
illegal workers,'' said Representative Steve King, an Iowa Republican who sits
on the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration. ''American workers are
depending on President Obama to protect their jobs from those in America
illegally.''

The two labor federations have agreed in the past to proposals that would give
legal status to illegal immigrants. But in 2007 the A.F.L.-C.I.O. parted ways
with the service employees and several other unions when it did not support
legislation put forth by the Bush administration because it contained provisions
for an expanded guest-worker program.

In the new accord, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and Change to Win have called for managing
future immigration of workers through a national commission. The commission
would determine how many permanent and temporary foreign workers should be
admitted each year based on demand in American labor markets. Union officials
are confident that the result would reduce worker immigration during times of
high unemployment like the present.

Mr. Hansen, who is president of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union,
said in an interview that the joint proposal was a ''building block to go
forward to get immigration reform up on the agenda in Congress'' sometime this
year.

Thousands of immigrant farm workers and other low-wage laborers come to the
United States through seasonal guest-worker programs that are subject to
numerical visa limits and have been criticized by employers as rigid and
inefficient. Many unions oppose the programs because the immigrants are tied to
one employer and cannot change jobs no matter how abusive the conditions, so
union officials say they undercut conditions for American workers. Highly
skilled foreign technology engineers and medical specialists also come on
temporary visas.

Advocates for immigrants said a unified labor movement could substantially
bolster their position as they push for legislation to restructure the ailing
immigration system.

''It shows how important the issue is to the representatives of American
workers,'' said Frank Sharry, executive director of America's Voice, an advocate
group.

A.F.L.-C.I.O. officials said they agreed with Change to Win leaders that, with
more than seven million unauthorized immigrants already working across the
nation, legalizing their status would be the most effective way to protect labor
standards for all workers.

''We have developed a joint strategy with the approach framed around workers'
rights,'' said Ana Avendano, associate general counsel of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.

Labor leaders said that they would talk with other groups in coming weeks to
nail down details of a common position, and that they would then would work in
Congress and with the Obama administration to try to ensure that their proposal
was part of any bill offered for debate.

Also supporting the compromise is Eliseo Medina, an executive vice president of
the Service Employees International Union, a member of Change to Win with
hundreds of thousands of members who are immigrants. The Change to Win
federation was formed in 2005 with seven unions that broke away from the
A.F.L.-C.I.O.

The plan for a labor commission to monitor and control levels of worker
immigration was developed with help from Ray Marshall, a labor secretary under
President Jimmy Carter. Over the past year, Mr. Marshall, at the request of the
A.F.L.-C.I.O., has been consulting between the two federations and with a
variety of Hispanic organizations and advocate groups for immigrants.

''All these groups understand that one of the main reasons they lost before was
that they were not together,'' Mr. Marshall said.

According to a list of principles the labor leaders will present on Tuesday,
they are proposing a ''depoliticized,'' independent commission that ''can assess
labor market needs on an ongoing basis and -- based on a methodology to be
approved by Congress -- determine the number of foreign workers to be admitted
for employment purposes.''

Mr. Johnson, the Chamber of Commerce official, said, ''A commission doesn't get
us there.''

Tamar Jacoby, president of ImmigrationWorks USA, a group that organizes
businesses to support comprehensive immigration legislation, agreed that
employers would have many questions about the approach.

''The question is, Will the commission work?'' Ms. Jacoby said. ''Will it be
adequately attuned to and triggered by the labor market? A system that may -- or
may not -- supply the workers that business will need in the future after the
recession will be a cause of great concern to employers.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., left, and Joe T.
Hansen, leader of Change to Win, have agreed to join forces in the debate over
overhauling immigration policies. When the issue last came up, the groups were
divided, and legislation failed.(PHOTOGRAPHS, LEFT TO RIGHT, BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY
IMAGES
 CHRIS OCKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 21, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration and the Unions

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 671 words


The very idea that unions would endorse legalizing illegal immigrants, as the
country's two big labor federations did this month, strikes some as absurd.
Americans have a hard enough time competing with cheap foreign labor. Why
undercut them within our own borders? Especially with millions of citizens
losing their jobs?

These questions deserve an answer since the bad economy will only strengthen the
stiff winds of opposition that President Obama will have to fight if he is going
to win the sweeping immigration overhaul he has promised. Legalization was
already politically treacherous thanks to the tireless work of restrictionists
who have spent years denouncing illegal immigrants as harmful to the country's
health. They have long compared the undocumented to invaders and parasites; it's
a very short distance from there to scabs.

To understand why that view is misguided, it helps to remember that the country
has largely bought that argument and spent decades and billions to seal the
border as tightly as possible.

It stages raids to pull people off assembly lines and out of their beds and
cars. It has added hundreds of thousands of prison beds to hold illegal
immigrants and enlisted local police officers to enforce federal laws. It has
done everything it can to make illegal immigrants miserable in the hope that
they will abandon their jobs, houses and citizen-children and tell everyone back
home to forget about America. And how has that worked? It hasn't.

The agricultural work force is still overwhelmingly undocumented, as are the
workers doing other dirty or dangerous jobs in places like hotels, carwashes and
restaurants. Soaring unemployment has hit both skilled and unskilled workers
hard. But laid-off construction workers have not been lining up to plant onions
or pick tomatoes, and a hidden population of 12 million undocumented immigrants
has not begun a mass exodus anywhere.

Nor have the forces of global economic migration magically adjusted to fit the
American mood. Thousands of workers still cross the border, although the numbers
are down --  a sign of the downturn, particularly in home building. When the
economy recovers, the flow will revive. (Economic forces are dynamic, even if
our immigration policies are not.)

The unions, at least, understand that there is a better way. They see
immigration reform as an issue of worker empowerment. If undocumented immigrants
undercut wages and job conditions for Americans -- and many do, by tolerating
low pay and abuse and bolstering an off-the-books system that robs law-abiding
employers and taxpayers -- it is because they cannot stand up for their rights.

''Workers don't depress wages. Unscrupulous employers do,'' said Terence
O'Sullivan, president of the Laborers' International Union of North America.
Unemployment in his industry is above 21 percent. Nearly two million
construction workers are out of work. So what does Mr. O'Sullivan want? Reform
that allows immigrants to legalize. ''If we can free them so they can come out
of the shadows, we can not only improve their lives, but all workers' lives,''
he said.

Eliseo Medina, the international executive vice president of the Service
Employees International Union, agreed. ''First and foremost, this is an economic
argument,'' he said.

Making the pro-union case for reform is not necessarily going to be easy. Even
as immigration has changed the face of many American unions, hostility to
foreigners remains a problem among some of the rank and file. Mr. Medina said
union leaders were going to have to work hard to make members understand that
false populism was not on their side.

''You may not want to do this because you like Jose Rodriguez,'' Mr. Medina
said, ''but this affects you. Your standard of living is not going to improve,
and you're not going to be in a stronger position to solve your problems as long
as you have all of these people out there without any rights  --  without any
ability to contribute. Things will only get worse, not better.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 30, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Agents to Turn Their Focus to Employers

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 996 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In an effort to crack down on illegal labor, the Department of Homeland Security
intends to step up enforcement efforts against employers who knowingly hire such
workers.

Under guidelines to be issued Thursday to Immigration and Customs Enforcement
field offices, agents will be instructed to take aim at employers and
supervisors for prosecution ''through the use of carefully planned criminal
investigations.''

Senior officials of the Homeland Security Department said Wednesday that illegal
workers would continue to be detained in raids on workplaces. But the officials
said they hoped to mark an abrupt departure from past practices by making those
arrests   as part of an effort to build criminal and civil cases against
employers.

Under the Bush administration, the officials said, most raids were conducted
largely on the basis of tips that an employer was hiring illegal workers, rather
than on information gleaned from audits of employer records or undercover
investigations. As a result, agents rounded up thousands of illegal immigrants
but rarely developed the evidence necessary to show whether businesses were
knowingly using illegal labor.

Last year, for example, nearly 6,000 people were arrested in workplace
immigration raids across the country, but only 135 were employers or managers.
The new guidelines, meant to provide a road map to agents who have been
operating with little guidance and oversight from Washington, instruct them to
pursue evidence against the employer before going after the workers.

''Enforcement efforts focused on employers better target the root causes of
illegal immigration,'' say the guidelines, a copy of which was obtained by The
New York Times. ''ICE must prioritize the criminal prosecution of actual
employers who knowingly hire illegal workers because such employers are not
sufficiently punished or deterred by the arrest of their illegal work force.''

The rules could draw a storm of complaints from employers, who argue that they
are easily duped by workers with bogus documents and that the government has not
established a reliable system for verifying immigration status.

The rules are likely to win praise, though, from advocates who have long
considered raids at work sites to be symbols of a crackdown that, they say,
violates workers' rights and divides immigrant families while ignoring employer
abuses. Raising the bar on what is required to undertake such raids could result
in fewer of them.

The guidelines are a significant step toward President Obama's pledge to
overhaul the nation's immigration system. The president's aides said recently
that he would ask Congress this year to consider changes that among other things
would give legal status to the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants now in
the country.

But a worsening economy could weaken political support for such changes. In the
meantime, the administration has begun a review of steps it can take without
Congressional approval.

In his news conference Wednesday night, Mr. Obama restated his commitment to an
immigration overhaul, saying the United States could not  continue with a
''broken'' system. With regard specifically to workplace enforcement, he said he
was looking for ''a more thoughtful approach than just raids of a handful of
workers, as opposed to, for example, taking seriously the violation of companies
that sometimes are actively recruiting these workers to come in.''

''That's something we can start doing administratively,'' he added.

Among Janet Napolitano's first acts as secretary of homeland security was to
order reviews of many parts of the nation's immigration system. Ms. Napolitano
promised to stem the rising tide of illegal immigration by strengthening border
enforcement and cracking down on employers who hire illegal immigrants.

Work on the guidelines that are to be issued Thursday began after a February
raid against a mechanic shop in Bellingham, Wash., where 28 illegal workers were
seized. Ms. Napolitano, angry in part that her office had not been notified
about the raid, ordered a review, and a couple of weeks later ICE officials took
possession of the employer's files, released the immigrants from detention and
gave them permission to work while they cooperated with an investigation of the
company, Yamato Engine Specialists. That inquiry continues.

One senior official said ICE agents worked from a field manual offering a menu
of strategies that can be used in pursuit of workplace enforcement. But the
manual does not lay out the order in which the strategies should be employed, or
explain the agency's objectives. As a result, enforcement actions have been
undertaken at the discretion of each field manager rather than Washington's
direction.

''That's how you ended up with investigations that focused on low-hanging
fruit,'' the official said, ''rather than on both the employers and the illegal
workers that they intentionally hired.''

Among the most significant of the new guidelines is one in which agents are
instructed to ''obtain indictments, criminal arrest or search warrants, or a
commitment from a U.S. attorney's office to prosecute the targeted employer,
before arresting employees for civil immigration violations at a work site.''

The guidelines call on agents to seek civil penalties, including fines and
disbarment from federal contracts, in cases where they do not have enough
evidence to press criminal charges. And they require that at least 14 days
before conducting a raid, the relevant field office notify ICE headquarters with
information including a proposed strategy for prosecuting the employer.

They also require that rules involving humanitarian considerations be taken into
account in raids on work sites that have at least 25 employees. Those rules,
which previously applied to raids involving at least 150 workers,  generally
allow the authorities to release detainees who are sick or who are sole
caregivers for small children.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Among Janet Napolitano's first acts as homeland security
secretary was to order reviews of the nation's immigration system. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY MATTHEW CAVANAUGH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 9, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Applications for Foreign Worker Visas Are Down

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 299 words


Federal immigration authorities said Wednesday that they were still accepting
petitions by employers for temporary visas for foreign scientists and technology
engineers for the next fiscal year, reflecting a sharp drop in applications over
last year.

The announcement came as a surprise to some employers, researchers and
immigration advocates, who had predicted that in spite of the recession and
other factors, the quotas for petitions for the so-called H-1B visa would most
likely be reached within the initial five-day period, which began on April 1.

The State Department issues up to 85,000 H-1B visas, including 65,000 for
applicants with a bachelor's degree or similar training and 20,000 for those
with a master's degree or higher from an American university.

Some analysts have attributed the decline to the economic downturn and to new
restrictions on financial companies that received emergency federal aid.

But Chris Rhatigan, a spokeswoman for the United States Citizenship and
Immigration Services, which handles the petitions, said that in 2006, the agency
did not reach the regular H-1B cap for at least a month and did not reach the
master's  cap until July.

In 2007, the regular cap was met in the first five-day filing period and the
master's degree cap was met within a month. Last year, the agency received about
163,000 petitions within the first five-day petition period, more than meeting
the quotas.

''The last two years were anomalies,'' Ms. Rhatigan said. ''This is going back
to normal.''

As part of the economic stimulus legislation, Congress added conditions for H-1B
visas requiring banks that received bailout money to show that a newly hired
immigrant is not displacing an American from a job for three months before and
after the immigrant is hired.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 2, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

INSIDE THE TIMES: November 2, 2008

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1452 words


INTERNATIONAL

ENCLAVE OF BRAZILIANS

Tests Insular Japan

With an aging population and a shrinking work force, Japan, notoriously
unwelcoming to immigrants, will have to undergo a difficult cultural
transformation to attract the immigrant workers it needs. A test case for such a
change is posed by a pocket of Japanese-Brazilians, the children and
grandchildren of Japanese emigrants to Brazil. PAGE 8

PLACID, BUT NO PEACE

A vendor sells sunglasses, shampoo and cigarettes. A man with a Polaroid camera
sells souvenir photos. But the Preah Vihear temple, on the Thailand-Cambodia
border, is still closed to tourists. Less than three weeks ago, the temple was
the scene of an hourlong firefight between Thai and Cambodian troops in a
dispute over sovereignty, the most volatile international confrontation in
Indochina in 20 years. PAGE 13

AID FOR CONGO READY

The European Union, set to send humanitarian aid to civilians fleeing conflict
in eastern Congo, is also considering sending European troops to the area,
France's foreign minister, Bernard Kouchner, said. France had at one point
suggested that the union send troops to support hard-pressed United Nations
peacekeepers in the region. PAGE 14

NATIONAL

ON DIFFERENT NETWORKS,

Disparate Election Tales

The viewers of the Fox News Channel and watchers of MSNBC (is there anyone
tuning in to both?) are seeing two 2008 elections that are poles apart. On one
channel, Senator John McCain seems to have a much better chance of winning than
he does on the other. PAGE 28

KILLER SMOG REMEMBERED

For decades, residents of Donora, Pa., kept mostly silent about the day killer
smog rolled into town in October 1948, eventually killing 20 people. But over
the last two weeks, they marked the day's 60th anniversary with memorials for
those who died, discussions with experts about the lessons learned, and the
opening of the Donora Smog Museum, with the slogan ''Clean Air Started Here.''
PAGE 22

MILLION-DOLLAR POSTAGE

A pink 3-cent stamp issued in 1868 depicting George Washington has been bought
by an anonymous bidder for $1,035,000, including commission. What made it so
costly is a distinct, waffle-like grill pressed into the back of the stamp as
part of a short-lived government experiment to prevent fraudulent re-use. PAGE
24

OBITUARIES

C. W. SPANGENBERGER, 102

He was the last president of the Cornell Steamboat Company which, with its more
than 60 vessels, was for many years the largest tugboat company in the United
States, and maybe the biggest in the world. PAGE 34

SPORTS

UNUSUAL TEST TRIPS

North Texas Players

After Coach Todd Dodge of the University of North Texas chose to have his entire
active roster tested for recreational -- not performance-enhancing -- drugs, 15
of 88 players failed. Such testing is not required. But the coach and university
did the right thing, William C. Rhoden writes in Sports of The Times. PAGE 7

WRONG CALL ON CALLS

A few prominent goofs by officials have raised the chorus about an increase in
bad calls in the N.F.L. But the statistics show that officiating is no worse:
Officials are averaging about four mistakes a game, about the same as in 2007.
PAGE 3

GETTING OLDER AND BETTER

The average age of the 41 elite women in the New York City Marathon is about 33,
making it one of the oldest groups of elite women, if not the oldest, in the
history of the race. There are various reasons these runners keep racing into
their 30s. A big one is financial. PAGE 1

NEW YORK

BLUEST OF AMERICA LONGS

For a President 'Like Us'

There's no mystery surrounding the outcome of voting in New York, New Jersey and
Connecticut on Tuesday, Peter Applebome writes in Our Towns. Instead, the heart
of Blue America evinces an almost palpable yearning. PAGE 37

MAGAZINE

THE SAFETY GAP IN THE MEDICINE CABINET

China is becoming the biggest producer of pharmaceutical ingredients in the
world -- but the Food and Drug Administration inspects just a tiny fraction of
China's drug plants. PAGE 44

Questions for: James K. Galbraith 13

The Ethicist: Ill-Gotten Gains 15

SUNDAY BUSINESS

LAWSUIT CHALLENGES SAFETY

Of Flares for Military

An employee's lawsuit contends that his employer, ATK Thiokol, an aerospace and
military contracting giant, cheated taxpayers by selling the military fragile
flares, a and, by doing so, knowingly put soldiers at risk. The case may revive
questions about the reliability of military contractors and the safety of their
products. PAGE 1

THE SOCIOLOGY OF SUCCESS

A book on why the best hockey players in Canada are disproportionately born in
January, February and March; why American children born in the latter part of
the year are underrepresented in college; why Asian children's high scores at
math are related to work in rice paddies. Must mean Malcolm Gladwell has a new
book out. PAGE 6

EDUCATION LIFE

OLD ENOUGH FOR COLLEGE,

Old Enough to Drink?

The presidents of some universities have suggested the legal drinking age should
be lowered to 18 to reduce the number of students who binge-drink. Looking to
see if that change would work at America's No. 1 party school, the University of
Florida. PAGE 20

ONWARD, FIGHTING OKRA!

Sure, the Buckeyes, Trojans and Nittany Lions are easy. But can you match the
right college team with the Banana Slug, above? The Anteaters? Okra? PAGE 35

BOOK REVIEW

THEY'VE GOT

Your Number

In ''The Numerati,'' Stephen Baker looks at the people -- ''crack
mathematicians, computer scientists and engineers'' -- who use the data we
supply (right down to the font choices for our blogs) to categorize us for the
consumer product companies and politicians who hire them. (You knew this kind of
thing was going on, right?) PAGE 6

ARTS & LEISURE

RE-EXAMINING THE LEGACY

Of Hank Williams

More than five decades after his death, two projects -- an exhibition in
Nashville and a new CD box-set -- have recast Hank Williams in a revealing new
light, without whitewashing intemperance and scandal. The exhibition and box-set
give the impression of a devout man who, despite debilitating health and
personal problems, loved his family (and a good prank). PAGE 9

PLAY

STRETCHING: THE TRUTH

(It's Not What You Think)

To warm up before an athletic endeavor: touch toes while standing, do ten
jumping jacks, touch toes while sitting and so on. Most people learned this
routine in grade school, and their parents probably learned the same routine
when they were in grade school. Well, bad news: science has moved on. PAGE 20

AUTOMOBILES

NEW PRESIDENT MAY GET

A New Set of Wheels

The Secret Service and General Motors are both mum, not surprisingly. But an
analysis of images by a photographer who hunts future automobile models that
haven't been publicly revealed suggests that the new president may be in for a
new ride come January. A model being tested looks to be a truck-based Cadillac.
SPORTS, PAGE 11

STYLES

MAKING PARTY PLANS,

Whichever Party Wins

Not everyone can be at the Wasilla Multi-Use Sports Complex in Alaska for
election night, dancing to a new local rock band, Sarah and the Pit Bulls. But
everyone has to be somewhere. PAGE 1

HOLIDAY MOVIES

REVISITING JAMES BOND

And a Space Alien

Daniel Craig is back as James Bond, contending with the emotional repercussions
of losing the treacherous love of his life in the previous 007 movie; and 20th
Century Fox is banking on Keanu Reeves to carry an updated ''Day the Earth Stood
Still.'' (Yes, ''Klaatu barada nikto'' will be spoken.)

TRAVEL

A REASON FOR BEER LOVERS

To Explore Northern Italy

Wine undoubtedly would still be the first choice in a beverage-association game
involving Italy. But a craft beer scene has begun to emerge there, bringing
well-made brews into the kitchens and dining rooms of some of Northern Italy's
best restaurants. PAGE 1

A FOREST OF HISTORY

The Compiegne area is there for the day-tripping, just an hour north of Paris,
to the particular delight of history buffs: the Germans surrendered there in
1918, the French surrendered there 22 years later, and Joan of Arc found a place
to hide there before her capture in 1430. PAGE 11

36 Hours: Burlington, Vt. 10

WEEK IN REVIEW

WHAT MOTHER WOULD LET

Her Child Take This Job?

Even in the best of times the job is no day at the beach, and these are
certainly not the best of times. So what is it that drives people to run for
president? One former presidential counselor said that ''you have to almost be a
fanatic.'' As a scholar put it: ''It's not a job for ordinary mortals.'' PAGE 3

IS IT ONLY ABOUT SEX?

A certain four-letter word -- perhaps the king of them all -- is central to a
case that comes before the Supreme Court for argument on Tuesday. A central
question is whether every permutation of the word evokes sex and thus runs afoul
of indecency regulations for broadcasting. The Federal Communications Commission
says yes. PAGE 4

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A2
 A3)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 15, 2008 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Cheap Shot at Workers

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 454 words


The Bush administration is doing a last-minute overhaul of the visa program for
temporary farmworkers to make it easier to hire foreigners over Americans, to
lower workers' wages and to erode their rights. You would think that after
failing for eight years to fix immigration, the administration would pack it in
rather than make one last listless stab at a solution. But this plan isn't even
that -- it's just midnight meanness, right in time for the holidays.

The Labor Department's proposed changes to the H-2A visa program, which would
take effect in January, are supposed to help both growers and workers by making
hiring cheaper and speedier. The program is notoriously unwieldy and underused,
approving only about 75,000 jobs for foreign workers a year, in a labor force of
about 2.5 million seasonal and migrant farmworkers, well over half of them
undocumented.

To spur use of H-2A visas, the government wants to let employers cut numerous
corners. It would adjust the salary formula to push wages down. It would also
ease the burden employers face to prove they tried to recruit Americans first,
and limit how much employers have to reimburse foreign workers for the cost of
going home.

No one expects that the H-2A overhaul will be enough to get most growers to stop
hiring illegal immigrants, who work desperately hard for rock-bottom wages. The
shortage of farm labor is too great. But by weakening protections for legal
workers, the changes would  invite abuse and make a flawed program worse.

This new plan harks back to the shameful days of the bracero program of the
1940's to the 60's, when Mexicans were recruited into brutal serfdom in the
United States. Abuses within today's H-2A program are rampant; advocacy groups
like Farmworker Justice routinely document examples of workers who, chained to
their employers and unprotected by the government, submit to abusive conditions,
wage theft and other exploitation.

There is a better long-term solution. It's AgJobs, a federal bill that died with
previous efforts at comprehensive immigration reform. It would give undocumented
farmworkers a chance to legalize and the right to change jobs, a crucial means
of discouraging abuse by employers. Its goal is to bolster workers' rights and
build a more productive, stable work force. AgJobs isn't perfect, but it was
born from long negotiations among growers and workers' advocates -- a compromise
that the Bush administration's plans could blow apart.

Congress and the new administration will have to undo this mischief. Anyone who
buys the argument that reducing wages and government oversight of a farmworker
program will somehow help workers -- foreign or American -- hasn't been paying
attention.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 9, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Foreign Workers Heading Home

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 338 words


The hiring of immigrant high-tech workers was a heated issue well before the
economy went into a tailspin. So it's no real surprise that the bank bailout
legislation includes language to discourage banks from recruiting skilled
foreigners on work visas.

It seems to be a political gesture, understandable and probably empty.
''Citibank and the others aren't hiring, they're firing,'' Vivek Wadhwa, a
former technology entrepreneur who is an adjunct professor at Duke University,
said in an interview. ''It has no practical effect, other than to make a couple
of senators feel good. But it's a stupid message to send.''

The real worry should not be smart foreigners coming to take jobs in America,
Mr. Wadhwa said, but all the bright, ambitious immigrants who are leaving the
United States and returning home, especially to India and China.

In the last two decades, Mr. Wadhwa estimates, 50,000 immigrants left the United
States and returned to India and China. In the next five years, he projects that
100,000 more will make the return trip. ''A trickle is turning into a flood,''
he said.

Instead of permitting skilled immigrants to enter the United States, Mr. Wadhwa
insisted, the country has to start wooing them by creating ''fast-track''
immigration policies and incentives to stay, as nations like Singapore and
Australia have done.

The United States, said Mr. Wadhwa, who is also a researcher at the Harvard Law
School, has too often taken the immigrant high-tech dividend for granted.
Previous research by Mr. Wadhwa and his associates found that immigrants were
the chief executives or chief technologists at one of every four technology and
engineering companies started in America from 1995 to 2005. These
immigrant-founded companies employed 450,000 workers in 2006. STEVE LOHR COMMENT
These immigrants are not going to disappear if we replace them with Americans.
They will work in other countries. The American companies will run after them
and set up shop wherever they can be most competitive. -- Rohan Mathur, March 2

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 21, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Report Faults Treatment of Women Held at Immigration Centers

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 845 words


Some 300 women held at immigration detention centers in Arizona face dangerous
delays in health care and widespread mistreatment, according to a new study by
the University of Arizona, the latest report to criticize conditions at such
centers throughout the United States.

The study, which federal immigration officials criticized as narrow and
unsubstantiated, was conducted from August 2007 to August 2008 by the Southwest
Institute of Research on Women and the James E. Rogers College of Law, both at
the University of Arizona. It was released Jan. 13.

Researchers examined the conditions facing women in the process of deportation
proceedings at three federal immigration centers in Arizona. An estimated 3,000
women are being held  nationwide.

The study concluded that immigration authorities were too aggressive in
detaining the women, who rarely posed a flight risk, and that as a result, they
experienced severe hardships, including a lack of prenatal care, treatment for
cancer, ovarian cysts and other serious medical conditions, and, in some cases,
being mixed in with federal prisoners.

Katrina S. Kane, who directs Arizona detention and removal operations for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, dismissed the study as unsubstantiated
accounts from a limited number of detainees and their advocates.

''Reports such as this, while alleging to be unbiased, do great harm to the
public's understanding of the complex issues involved in immigration law
enforcement,'' Ms. Kane  said.

The director of border research for the institute on women, Nina Rabin, an
immigration lawyer who led the study, countered that interviews with detainees,
former detainees and their lawyers corroborated a pattern of endemic
mistreatment.

And Ms. Rabin said she had spoken with immigrant advocacy groups around the
United States, many of whom stated that mistreatment of women at the centers was
not unusual.

''We were pretty shocked to learn about all the ways in which life is made
endlessly difficult for these women,'' Ms. Rabin said, especially those who were
pregnant or had recently given birth.

The immigration department has been under increasing pressure to improve
conditions at its detention centers. The federal Government Accountability
Office and the inspector general's office at the Department of Homeland Security
have each released reports in the last three years criticizing standards at such
centers, many of which are operated by private contractors.

Last September, the immigration department announced plans to improve conditions
at its detention centers, but the new rules will not fully take effect until
2010. Meanwhile, Congress has been weighing whether to impose its own
requirements on the department after  a New York Times article on immigrants who
died in federal custody.

The three centers that the study focused on are not run by the immigration
department but by the Pinal County Sheriff's Department  and the Corrections
Corporation of America.

''We strictly enforce all national ICE standards,'' Ms. Kane said, ''and if we
find those standards are not being met and we feel the deficiencies are not
being corrected, we locate our detainees to other facilities.''

In one of several cases documented in the study, a woman being held at the
Central Arizona Detention Center in Florence who experienced excruciating
abdominal pain for months after she had been forced to undergo female genital
mutilation in West Africa was told by the center's staff to ''exercise and watch
her diet,'' her lawyer at the time, Raha Jorjani, said. After nearly six months,
the woman, who had been convicted of a nonviolent crime, was taken to a
hospital where an ultrasound revealed a cyst the size of a five-month-old fetus,
Ms. Jorjani said.

Immigration officials then suddenly released the woman with no money or health
insurance to treat the cyst, Ms. Jorjani said.

''That she had to remain in detention at all during this period is egregious,''
Ms. Jorjani said. ''She shouldn't have had to get that sick for immigration to
consider her request for release.''

Ms. Kane, the department spokeswoman, said that this was the first the agency
had heard of the case and that it took accusations of mistreatment seriously.

In one case the study described, an illegal immigrant identified as Ana, who had
come to the United States from Mexico as a baby and served a brief stint in jail
for using a fake credit card, was being held at the Central Arizona Detention
Center.

Although Ana was six months pregnant and had an ovarian cyst, she was ordered to
use a top bunk and denied a sonogram and prenatal vitamins during the five weeks
she was held, the study said.

Three women also told a local immigrant rights group that they had suffered
miscarriages while in detention in the last three years, according to the study.

Ms. Kane said that while her department could not corroborate any of the
report's accusations, it had found that a detainee's contention that she had not
received treatment for cervical cancer had proved false.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 12, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Report Faults Homeland Security's Efforts on Immigration

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 554 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


An immigration policy group said Wednesday that the Department of Homeland
Security's immigration mission has been undermined by wasteful spending along
the southern border, law enforcement efforts that focused on snaring illegal
workers rather than high-risk criminals, and an often hostile bureaucracy that
discourages people eligible for legal entry from playing by the rules.

A new report, largely a portrait of dysfunction, comes when President Obama
faces increasing pressure from Hispanic groups, who played a critical role in
his election, to break with the aggressive immigration enforcement strategies of
the Bush administration. Those groups have called on the president to push for
comprehensive legislation that balances law enforcement with the opening of new
legal pathways to citizenship.

In its report, the nonpartisan Migration Policy Institute cautioned that such
legislative action remained ''politically complex and sensitive,'' an assessment
that came after discussions with high-level immigration officials who served
under either President Bill Clinton or President George W. Bush or are now
working in Mr. Obama's administration. The report reflects the views of its
authors.

The report's authors offered 36 recommendations that they said would allow the
new administration to deliver on its promise to make change without being forced
into a politically costly fight in Congress.

For example, the report calls on the Department of Homeland Security to suspend
the construction of a security fence along the Mexican border, which the
Government Accountability Office found has cost nearly $4 million per mile,
until a review can be made of its effectiveness in preventing illegal crossings,
as well as its impact on the environment, commerce and relations among border
communities.

The report also recommends that the Homeland Security Department rely less on
workplace raids and favors expanding employment verification systems.

''Not only are we not talking about comprehensive immigration reform, we are not
talking about anything that requires further restructuring,'' said Doris
Meissner, an author of the report and former commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

During his campaign, Mr. Obama promised Hispanic groups that he would push for
comprehensive changes in immigration policy, and he named a team to work on the
topic during the transition. Two weeks ago, the homeland security secretary,
Janet Napolitano, issued a directive calling for a broad review of immigration
policies that touched on many of the concerns raised by the report released
Wednesday.

A Hispanic leader close to the transition immigration team said that its
discussions had been ''vigorous,'' with several aides warning the president that
the recession had made immigration an even thornier issue, and others arguing
that no plan for economic recovery would work in the long term if it did not
include laws to regulate the status of some 12 million illegal workers.

''The conventional wisdom is that the economy makes this a difficult issue,''
said Janet Murguia, president of the National Council of La Raza. ''I think
there's also some countervailing wisdom that says how can you have a debate on
jobs without talking about the 12 million people who are here without
documents?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Iowa: Sentence In Immigration Case

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING MIDWEST; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 96 words


A supervisor at an Iowa slaughterhouse raided by immigration agents last year
has been sentenced to three years in federal prison for his part in hiring
illegal immigrants. The man, Juan Carlos Guerrero-Espinoza, 36, was sentenced in
Cedar Rapids federal court. He agreed to plead guilty in August to one count of
conspiracy to hire illegal immigrants and one count of aiding and abetting the
hiring of illegal immigrants. Mr. Guerrero-Espinoza, a former supervisor at the
Agriprocessors Inc. plant in Postville, was arrested after a May raid during
which 389 people were seized.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 9, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama To Push Immigration Bill As One Priority

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1227 words


While acknowledging that the recession makes the political battle more
difficult, President Obama plans to begin addressing the country's immigration
system this year, including looking for a path for illegal immigrants to become
legal, a senior administration official said on Wednesday.

Mr. Obama will frame the new effort -- likely to rouse passions on all sides of
the highly divisive issue -- as ''policy reform that controls immigration and
makes it an orderly system,'' said the official, Cecilia Munoz, deputy assistant
to the president and director of intergovernmental affairs in the White House.

Mr. Obama plans to speak publicly about the issue in May, administration
officials said, and over the summer he will convene working groups, including
lawmakers from both parties and a range of immigration groups, to begin
discussing possible legislation for as early as this fall.

Some White House officials said that immigration would not take precedence over
the health care and energy proposals that Mr. Obama has identified as
priorities. But the timetable is consistent with pledges Mr. Obama made to
Hispanic groups in last year's campaign.

He said then that comprehensive immigration legislation, including a plan to
make legal status possible for an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants, would
be a priority in his first year in office. Latino voters turned out strongly for
Mr. Obama in the election.

''He intends to start the debate this year,'' Ms. Munoz said.

But with the economy seriously ailing, advocates on different sides of the
debate said that immigration could become a polarizing issue for Mr. Obama in a
year when he has many other major battles to fight.

Opponents, mainly Republicans, say they will seek to mobilize popular outrage
against any effort to legalize unauthorized immigrant workers while so many
Americans are out of jobs.

Democratic legislative aides said that opening a full-fledged debate this year
on immigration, particularly with health care as a looming priority, could weigh
down the president's domestic agenda.

Debate is still under way among administration officials about the precise
timing and strategy. For example, it is unclear who will take up the Obama
initiative in Congress.

No serious legislative talks on the issue are expected until after some of Mr.
Obama's other priorities have been debated, Congressional aides said.

Just last month, Mr. Obama openly recognized that immigration is a potential
minefield.

''I know this is an emotional issue; I know it's a controversial issue,'' he
told an audience at a town meeting on March 18 in Costa Mesa, Calif. ''I know
that the people get real riled up politically about this.''

But, he said, immigrants who are long-time residents but lack legal status
''have to have some mechanism over time to get out of the shadows.''

The White House is calculating that public support for fixing the immigration
system, which is widely acknowledged to be broken, will outweigh opposition from
voters who argue that immigrants take jobs from Americans. A groundswell  among
voters opposed to legal status for illegal immigrants led to the defeat in 2007
of a bipartisan immigration bill that was strongly supported by President George
W. Bush.

Administration officials said that Mr. Obama's plan would not add new workers to
the American work force, but that it would recognize millions of illegal
immigrants who have already been working here. Despite the deep recession, there
is no evidence of any wholesale exodus of illegal immigrant workers, independent
studies of census data show.

Opponents of legalization legislation were incredulous at the idea that Mr.
Obama would take on immigration when economic pain for Americans is so
widespread.

''It just doesn't seem rational that any political leader would say, let's give
millions of foreign workers permanent access to U.S. jobs when we have millions
of Americans looking for jobs,'' said Roy Beck, executive director of
NumbersUSA, a group that favors reduced immigration. Mr. Beck predicted that Mr.
Obama would face ''an explosion'' if he proceeded this year.

''It's going to be, 'You're letting them keep that job, when I could have that
job,' '' he said.

In broad outlines, officials said, the Obama administration favors legislation
that would bring illegal immigrants into the legal system by recognizing that
they violated the law, and imposing fines and other penalties to fit the
offense. The legislation would seek to prevent future illegal immigration by
strengthening border enforcement and cracking down on employers who hire illegal
immigrants, while creating a national system for verifying the legal immigration
status of new workers.

But administration officials emphasized that many details remained to be
debated.

Opponents of a legalization effort said that if the Obama administration
maintained the enforcement pressure initiated by Mr. Bush, the recession would
force many illegal immigrants to return home. Dan Stein, the president of the
Federation for American Immigration Reform, said it would be ''politically
disastrous'' for Mr. Obama to begin an immigration initiative at this time.

Anticipating opposition, Mr. Obama has sought to shift some of the political
burden to advocates for immigrants, by encouraging them to build support among
voters for  when his proposal goes to Congress.

That is why Representative Luis V. Gutierrez, a Democrat from Mr. Obama's
hometown, Chicago, has been on the road most weekends since last December,
traveling far outside his district to meetings in Hispanic churches, hoping to
generate something like a civil rights movement in favor of broad immigration
legislation.

Mr. Gutierrez was in Philadelphia on Saturday at the Iglesia Internacional, a
big Hispanic evangelical church in a former warehouse, the 17th meeting in a
tour that has included cities as far flung as Providence, R.I.; Atlanta; Miami;
and San Francisco. Greeted with cheers and amens by a full house of about 350
people, Mr. Gutierrez, shifting fluidly between Spanish and English, called for
immigration policies to preserve family unity, the strategic theme of his
campaign.

At each  meeting, speakers from the community, mainly  citizens, tell stories of
loved ones who were deported or of delays and setbacks in the immigration
system. Illegal immigrants have not been invited to speak.

Mr. Gutierrez's meetings have all been held in churches, both evangelical and
Roman Catholic, with clergy members from various denominations, including in
several places Muslim imams. At one meeting in Chicago, Cardinal Francis George,
president of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, officiated.

One speaker on Saturday, Jill Flores, said that her husband, Felix, an immigrant
from Mexico who crossed the border illegally, had applied for legal status five
years ago but had not been able to gain it even though she is an American
citizen, as are their two children. Now, Ms. Flores said, she fears that her
husband will have to leave for Mexico and will not be permitted to return for
many years.

In an interview, Mr. Gutierrez rejected the idea that the timing is bad for an
immigration debate. ''There is never a wrong time for us,'' he said. ''Families
are being divided and destroyed, and they need help now.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Luis V. Gutierrez, center, has been visiting
churches to build support for a bill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 15, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Study Sees More Young Citizens With Parents in the U.S. Illegally

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 570 words


The number of American citizen children who have at least one parent who is an
illegal immigrant has increased rapidly since 2003, according to a report
published on Tuesday by the Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research group in
Washington.

About four million American children have at least one parent who lacks legal
immigration status, the group found. And 73 percent of all children of illegal
immigrants are American citizens. In 2003, 2.7 million American children had
parents without legal status. The increase stems from the relatively young age
of the immigrants, who have children soon after they settle in the United
States, the report said.

Children of illegal immigrants are more than twice as likely to live with two
parents than children of United States citizens, according to the report. In
all, about 8.8 million people in the United States are in families that include
parents who are illegal immigrants and children who are American citizens.

About three-quarters of the nation's illegal immigrants are Hispanic.

The findings are likely to be another point of contention between advocates for
immigrants and groups that favor more aggressive immigration enforcement.

In the last two years of the Bush administration, immigration authorities
stepped up raids in factories and immigrant communities, and a record 349,000
immigrants were deported in 2008.

Civil rights and advocacy groups protested that the raids were dividing families
and leading to de facto deportations of children with American citizenship who
went to live in their parents' home countries. Groups that advocate stricter
enforcement say that illegal immigrants who have been deported have the choice
of taking their American children with them or leaving them in the United
States.

In the first months of the Obama administration, the raids have slowed to a near
halt. After an operation by immigration agents in February at an engine plant in
Bellingham, Wash., Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano ordered a review
to produce a new enforcement strategy, which she said would focus primarily on
abusive employers instead of immigrant workers.

The Pew report, by Jeffrey S. Passel and D'Vera Cohn, analyzed census data from
March 2008. It is the first time in five years that Pew has closely examined
family situations of illegal immigrants. It used a method for estimating the
number of illegal immigrants that is widely accepted, including by government
researchers and groups favoring reduced immigration.

In all, 5.5 million children living in the United States have parents who are
illegal immigrants, an increase of 1.2 million children since 2003, the report
found. Nearly 7 percent of students in public elementary and secondary schools
are children of illegal immigrants, the report said.

About one-third of children of illegal immigrants live in poverty, nearly double
the 18 percent poverty rate for children of United States citizens, the report
found. In 2007, the median household income for illegal immigrants was $36,000,
substantially below the $50,000 median for citizens.

The report found signs that the rapid upward mobility long associated with new
immigrants had stalled for the current generation of illegal immigrants.

''In contrast to other immigrants,'' the report said, ''undocumented immigrants
do not attain markedly higher incomes the longer they live in the United
States.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 19, 2009 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Immigration Reform

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; LETTERS; Pg.

LENGTH: 349 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Obama to Push Immigration Bill as One Priority'' (front page, April 9):

President Obama, like his predecessor, President George W. Bush, pushes for
amnesty for 12 million illegal immigrants.

Forget the fact that we are in a deep recession and that Americans need all the
jobs they can get. This amnesty is plain and simple wrong. It undermines the
rule of law that is critical for this nation to stand as a republic.

America should remain a safe haven for its own citizens, and for millions more
who seek entrance to this country through legal channels. These illegal
immigrants have no business being here in their present status. This nation has
no business offering these lawbreakers a pass to citizenship.

Regardless of the hardships that may result to these lawbreaking individuals,
they must be held accountable for their own actions. This nation must not place
itself in the role of enabler to those who decided to cross a vulnerable border
to invade the society of a foreign nation, and then feed on the fruits of that
nation's good will with impunity. This is wrong.

One can only hope that Americans in great numbers, and at all levels, will stand
up and oppose amnesty for these illegal immigrants.

Bob Jack North Las Vegas, April 9, 2009

To the Editor:

Immigration reform must value the families of United States citizens and legal
permanent residents. Currently, even United States citizens face separation from
their spouses for up to 10 years because of draconian penalties imposed for
irregular status. Citizen children have no means to legal status for the parents
who support and raise them. Backlogs for family-based visas separate even
nuclear family members for years.

Changes removing these impediments should be made immediately and not be
sidelined by debate about economic impact. Citizens and residents who petition
for family members must already sign affidavits of financial support for their
noncitizen relatives.

Janet Calvo Flushing, Queens, April 9, 2009

The writer is a professor of law at City University of New York School of Law.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 21, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Governor Of Arizona Is in Line For Cabinet

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD; Eric Lipton contributed reporting from
Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1138 words


All along, while casting a skeptical eye on the border fence going up, calling
for the National Guard to patrol the border, advocating for a guest worker
program to reduce illegal immigration, promising more local law enforcement
cooperation with Mexico, Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona has repeated something
like a mantra: Security and immigration are the federal government's
responsibility.

Now, it could be hers.

President-elect Barack Obama, transition officials said, is planning to choose
Ms. Napolitano, a border-state governor who lives and breathes the often-heated
immigration debate, to head the Homeland Security Department.

Ms. Napolitano, 51, a former state and federal prosecutor who was re-elected to
a second term as governor in 2006, has pleased and peeved both the left and
right in her nearly six years as a Democratic governor in a Republican-leaning
state whose border with Mexico is the country's busiest crossing point for
illegal immigrants.

''She has been in the eye of the storm on this issue and its intersection with
border security,'' said Angela Kelley, director of the Immigration Policy Center
at the American Immigration Law Foundation, a group that advocates for
immigrants.

In private, Ms. Napolitano has been cordial with the man she would succeed,
Michael Chertoff, but she has often been publicly critical of the Bush
administration's policies on border enforcement and illegal immigration.

While Mr. Chertoff has pushed hard to comply with a Congressional mandate to
build nearly 700 miles of new fencing along the United States-Mexico border by
the end of the year -- even waiving some environmental laws to get it done --
Ms. Napolitano has shown little enthusiasm for the project.

If you build a 50-foot-high wall, somebody will find a 51-foot ladder, she has
often said in speeches and news conferences, while criticizing the Department of
Homeland Security for persistent delays in deploying a ''virtual fence'' of
cameras, sensors and other technology.

Last year, Ms. Napolitano reached a deal with Mr. Chertoff to make driver's
licenses more secure under a federal program known as REAL ID, but in June she
signed a bill refusing to put the standards in place, calling the program an
unfinanced federal mandate.

She was a vocal critic when Congress failed to pass legislation last year
revamping immigration law and has also backed proposals favored by some
immigrant advocacy groups, including a temporary worker program and ''a strict
and stringent pathway to citizenship'' for illegal immigrants already here that
would include learning English and paying fines.

But last year she also signed into law sanctions against employers who knowingly
hire illegal workers and later complained when the Bush administration withdrew
the bulk of the National Guard from the Mexican border earlier this year, as it
had planned.

Also at home in Arizona, she has called raids by the sheriff in Maricopa County,
the state's most populous, that have resulted in the deportation of scores of
illegal immigrants ''troublesome'' and, much to the sheriff's ire, withdrew
state money that had financed some of his operations.

Doris Meissner, an immigration commissioner in the Clinton administration who is
now a fellow at the Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research
organization in Washington, said: ''I think it signals that under the new
administration that immigration is an important part of the homeland security
portfolio. I think she brings a balanced view that is going to be very
constructive.''

But some who take a hard-line approach to stopping illegal immigration called
the selection of Ms. Napolitano a travesty, saying she is not deeply committed
to enforcement and underplays the importance of physical fences.

''I am trying to find a 51-foot ladder for her,'' said J. D. Hayworth, a former
Republican congressman from Arizona who now hosts a radio talk show. ''I don't
think very many illegal aliens would be running around with 51-foot ladders. She
has been playing both sides and does not bring a seriousness of purpose to the
issue.''

Other advocates of stricter immigration laws gave her qualified support.

''My first thought is that Obama could do a lot worse,'' said Roy Beck,
president of Numbers USA, a policy group in the Washington area, who went on to
praise Ms. Napolitano's law enforcement background while denouncing her support
for a guest worker program as ''amnesty.''

A Senate aide whose boss would be central in the confirmation process predicted
that Ms. Napolitano's confirmation would go smoothly and quickly, assuming no
obstacles emerged from a background investigation.

''You can always raise, 'What is her homeland security experience?' '' said the
aide, who spoke anonymously because his boss had not yet publicly addressed the
potential nomination. ''But you could raise that with anybody, including Michael
Chertoff, before he took the post. And what the department really needs is a
strong manager, a steady hand at the helm. Her record as attorney general and
governor indicate she would be a strong leader for the department and a good
manager.''

Homeland security, the third-largest cabinet department, is of course much more
than border security. Among its units are the Secret Service, the Coast Guard,
the Transportation Security Administration and Federal Emergency Management
Agency.

As governor, Ms. Napolitano has not been tested by major natural disasters. But
the few significant crises on her watch, mainly large forest fires and a prison
hostage siege, she seemed to handle without much criticism.

Ms. Napolitano was serving as the state attorney general when the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks occurred, and she swiftly called for background checks on
students in flight schools and denounced the shooting death of a Sikh man near
Phoenix a few days after the attacks in what prosecutors called a hate crime.

But most of her record relevant to domestic security has come as governor.

She has been an active participant in meetings of governors from both sides of
the Mexican border and at the most recent one, in Los Angeles last summer, she
announced more cross-border cooperation in tracking guns used in drug violence
in Mexico.

Ms. Napolitano has not cut a high national profile, and her precise, wonkish
manner of speech does not always lend itself to sound bites. But she reached one
sort of milestone last week when she was parodied on ''Saturday Night Live.''

The actor Paul Rudd, assuring that the Obama administration would allow for
plenty of impersonations, asked the Napolitano knock-off what she would do about
''border security legislation.''

''Let's revamp it!'' Kristen Wiig, a cast member impersonating Ms. Napolitano,
cried out, saying nothing else and leaving the stage to laughter.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush toured the United States-Mexico border in May
2006 with Gov. Janet Napolitano and David V. Aguilar, chief of the United States
Border Patrol. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL J. RICHARDS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY
IMAGES)(A18)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 6, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Official Accused of Hiring Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 450 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


A federal official who oversees immigration enforcement in three New England
states was charged Friday with hiring three illegal immigrants to clean her
Salem, Mass., home.

The authorities said the official, Lorraine Henderson, the Boston area port
director for the Department of Homeland Security, counseled her housekeeper on
how to evade deportation. The housekeeper was cooperating with federal officials
and wearing a recording device.

''You have to be careful 'cause they will deport you,'' Ms. Henderson told the
woman, who is from Brazil, after she asked about filing immigration papers for
her new baby, the federal complaint says.

Ms. Henderson is in charge of all international points of entry, including
airports and shipping terminals, in Connecticut, Massachusetts and Rhode Island,
and she supervises more than 200 Customs and Border Protection agency employees.
She was also responsible for preventing illegal immigrants from entering the
country and processing all foreign citizens at ports. She was appointed to the
post in 2003.

According to a biography from the Northeast Supply Chain Conference and
Exhibition, where Ms. Henderson lectured on cargo security, she has worked in
customs since 1975.

Ms. Henderson surrendered her badge on Friday morning, and was arraigned in the
afternoon in federal court and released on $25,000 bond. If convicted, she faces
up to 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine.

The authorities said Ms. Henderson continued to employ the housekeeper despite
knowing she was in the country illegally.

They contend that Ms. Henderson recommended the housekeeper to another customs
agent in 2004. In November 2005, prompted by a directive not to hire illegal
immigrants, the agent asked the housekeeper about her immigration status. The
housekeeper admitted she was in the country illegally, and the agent fired her.
She also told the housekeeper she could no longer work for Ms. Henderson.

The authorities said that in 2006 Ms. Henderson told the agent, whom she
occasionally drove home, that she continued to employ the housekeeper. The agent
reminded Ms. Henderson of the housekeeper's immigration status. The agent
reported Ms. Henderson to her supervisor.

This year Ms. Henderson mentioned to the agent that the housekeeper still
cleaned her home, prompting the agent to report Ms. Henderson again. The
housekeeper began cooperating with authorities in May but did not record any
conversations until the fall, as Ms. Henderson was on assignment in Los Angeles.

Ms. Henderson is also accused of hiring two of the housekeeper's friends, also
illegal immigrants from Brazil, to clean her home while the woman took time off
to have her child.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 6, 2009 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

The Failures of Our Immigration Detention System

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 234 words


To the Editor:

''Another Jail Death, and Mounting Questions'' (news article, Jan. 28) reports
yet another detainee death in a facility that contracts with the federal
government to hold immigrants facing deportation.

On Jan. 16, you reported that Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials had
ordered an end to their contract with a Rhode Island detention facility where
Hiu Lui Ng, a computer engineer from China, died last year.

The circumstances of these deaths reflect a pervasive problem within the
American immigration detention system. A federal investigation into Mr. Ng's
death uncovered a system in which lack of oversight, combined with negligence
and hostility toward noncitizens, led to deadly consequences.

This investigation echoes the stories of the more than 80 other immigrants whose
deaths have been documented in the last year. Immigrant advocates have long
recognized that the system is dysfunctional and dangerous. The National
Immigrant Justice Center routinely responds to detainee complaints of lack of
access to health care.

It is clear that the failures of the current immigration detention system are
widespread and not merely isolated incidents. Congress and the Obama
administration must make reform of this broken detention system a priority.

Mary Meg McCarthy   Executive Director  Heartland Alliance's National Immigrant
Justice Center  Chicago, Jan. 28, 2009

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 10, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rhode Island: Suit Over Detainee Death

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING NEW ENGLAND; Pg.
13

LENGTH: 102 words


The widow and children of a Chinese man who died of cancer in immigration
custody last summer filed suit in federal court in Providence, charging that
detention center guards broke his spine days before his death, then taunted him
as he screamed in agony. The civil suit, brought by the family of Hiu Lui Ng
with the help of the American Civil Liberties Union, names numerous defendants,
including Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Central Falls Detention
Facility Corporation, owner of the jail where Mr. Ng spent his last month, and
where federal investigators found he was denied adequate medical care.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 6, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Detention Center Facing Inquiry Will Get No More Immigrant Detainees

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 765 words


Federal immigration officials said on Friday that they would place no more
immigration detainees at a detention center in Rhode Island that is under
investigation for its treatment of a Chinese computer engineer from New York who
died in custody last summer, his body riddled with cancer and his spine broken.

The engineer, Hiu Lui Ng, 34, who had overstayed a visa years ago, died Aug. 6
after a year in immigration custody, the last month spent in the Donald W. Wyatt
Detention Facility in Central Falls, R.I. A federal investigation was undertaken
that month, soon after The New York Times reported that despite Mr. Ng's
repeated pleas for help, his extensive cancer and fractured spine were not
diagnosed until shortly before his death.

Lawyers and relatives said that when Mr. Ng was racked with pain and too weak to
walk, detention officials refused him a wheelchair, failed to take him to
scheduled appointments for an M.R.I. exam or a CT scan, and instead took him in
shackles to Hartford, where he was pressured to withdraw his legal appeals and
accept deportation.

Richard Rocha, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which is
conducting the investigation of Mr. Ng's treatment, said Friday that the agency
would send Wyatt no new detainees. He said the immigration agency had also sent
experts in detention management ''to directly monitor conditions at Wyatt'' and
''is taking all reasonable steps to ensure the safety and well-being of the 153
remaining detainees.''

Until recently, Wyatt housed more than 200 immigration detainees under contract
to the federal agency, many of them from Connecticut. Several immigration
lawyers who regularly represent such detainees in immigration court in Hartford
said they had been told by local immigration authorities that the agency was
rapidly moving detainees out of Wyatt, sending some to jails in Massachusetts
and others as far away as Texas and Louisiana.

Mr. Rocha would not confirm or deny that information. ''For safety and security
reasons, we do not comment on possible future agency action regarding the
transfer of detainees,'' he said.

He added in an e-mail message: ''ICE continues to evaluate the overall detention
situation at the Wyatt facility based upon a number of factors, including
overall availability and location of detention space, potential disruption to
immigration court proceedings, and most importantly, the continued safety and
security of the detainee population.''

Anthony Ventetuolo, the chief executive of Wyatt, which recently expanded to 722
beds from 300 to accommodate immigration detainees, did not return calls seeking
comment for this article.

Mr. Ng, who was known as Jason, was 17 when he came to New York from Hong Kong
in 1992 with his parents and younger sister. He lived in Queens with his wife,
Michelle, and two young sons, all United States citizens, until the summer of
2007, when he was arrested at immigration headquarters in Manhattan as he went
for his final interview for a green card.

Shuttled through jails and detention centers in three New England states, Mr. Ng
began complaining of excruciating back pain in April. By mid-July, when he was
in Wyatt, he could no longer walk or stand.

In response to a relative of Mr. Ng's who had begged that he be checked for a
spinal injury or fractures, Wyatt's director of nursing, Ben Candelaria, wrote
in a July 16 e-mail message that Mr. Ng was receiving appropriate care for
''chronic back pain.'' He added, ''We treat each and every detainee in our
custody with the same high level of quality, professional care possible.''

Lawyers for the American Civil Liberties Union, which is representing Mr. Ng's
widow and children in a planned civil lawsuit, welcomed the government's action.
''It lends credence to the concerns that we have had since Jason's death that
there are very serious problems at the facility in terms of providing adequate
medical care,'' said Steven Brown, executive director of the Rhode Island
A.C.L.U. ''It's unfortunate that a tragedy like this had to occur in order for
this type of action to take place.''

Anthony Collins, a lawyer with several clients in Wyatt, said  the  decision by
the immigration agency in Washington  to stop using Wyatt was made so abruptly
that there was no plan in place for where immigrants from Connecticut would be
held instead. Like several other lawyers, he argued that Connecticut had a
responsibility to ''step up to the plate'' to provide detention space lost at
Wyatt.

''There is just a tremendous amount of confusion right now,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 16, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Report On the Death Of a Detainee Is Scathing

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 793 words


Federal immigration officials investigating the death of a New York computer
engineer from China who died in their custody last summer said Thursday that
supervisors at a Rhode Island detention center had denied the ailing man
appropriate medical treatment on multiple occasions and that employees had
dragged him from his cell to a van as he screamed in pain.

As they disclosed their findings, Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials
ordered an end to their contract with the center, the Donald W. Wyatt Detention
Facility in Central Falls, R.I., a locally owned jail where the engineer, Hiu
Lui Ng, spent his final month after a year in immigration detention. They said
they had asked that the United States attorney in Boston review the case for
possible criminal prosecution.

The federal investigation began last summer, soon after The New York Times
reported on the death of Mr. Ng, 34. His extensive cancer and fractured spine
had gone undiagnosed, despite his pleas for help, until shortly before he died
in custody on Aug. 6.

Kelly Nantel, a spokeswoman for the federal agency, said the investigation
showed that supervisors at the Wyatt detention center had in effect prevented
Mr. Ng from meeting with his lawyer by refusing him the use of a wheelchair when
he was too ill and in too much pain to walk.

The 33-page investigation report also found that the guards and medical staff,
acting on orders of the warden, violated the jail's policy on the use of force
when Mr. Ng was dragged to a van for a trip to Hartford, where his lawyers say
he was pressured to withdraw all his appeals and accept deportation.

The jail's overhead surveillance video cameras captured everything. But another,
hand-held camcorder turned on and off 13 times at a signal from the captain in
charge, according to the report, created another version of the episode,
apparently in an effort to document that Mr. Ng was faking his illness and
refusing to go to the hospital for a CT scan.

Investigators interviewed 158 people in the course of their inquiry, but the
surveillance videotapes clearly told them most of what they needed to know. At
one point, they wrote, the captain cursed Mr. Ng, calling him an idiot, and
ordered him to ''stop whining.''

Mr. Ng kept saying that he could not walk, begged for a wheelchair, and
''continued to scream,'' the report said, as he was pulled under his armpits
from his bed, and to another part of the jail to be shackled.

John J. McConnell Jr., the lawyer representing Mr. Ng's family in a planned
lawsuit against the jail and the federal immigration agency, called the report
''damning'' but added that the investigating agency shared the blame because Mr.
Ng ''should not have been detained in the first place.''

''The people involved in that torturous treatment,'' he said, ''should be
ashamed of themselves.''

Dante Bellini, a spokesman for Wyatt, called the results of the investigation
''disappointing.'' Last month, citing its investigation, the immigration agency
removed all of its detainees from Wyatt.

''We will continue to look at ways to reverse this,'' Mr. Bellini said. ''We
will continue to look at all our options and filling our beds. But we will
steadfastly maintain that we had nothing to do with the detainee's death.''

Last week, Wyatt announced that it was punishing seven employees in connection
with the case, with penalties ranging from termination to reprimand. ''We took
stern and appropriate action,'' Mr. Bellini said.

Mr. Ng, who had no criminal record, overstayed a visa years ago and had been
applying for a green card through his wife, a United States citizen, when he was
taken into detention in July 2007 and shuttled through jails and detention
centers in three New England states.

One of the most harrowing parts of the federal report is its detailed
description of the videos made as Mr. Ng was forcibly taken from his cell to a
van.

The tape from the hand-held camcorder begins with the captain's instructing Mr.
Ng that ''he needed to move on his own,'' telling him he would not be given a
wheelchair and repeatedly ordering him to stand up.

''Mr. Ng was visibly crying and appeared to have difficulty standing,'' the
report said, adding that the captain then appeared to signal the officer holding
the camcorder to stop recording.

''Mr. Ng asked captain to believe him that he could not move his legs,'' the
report went on. As he struggled to put on his shoes, apparently in pain, the
captain urged him to hurry up. When Mr. Ng told a nurse that he wanted to go to
the hospital to take the medical test to determine the cause of his pain and
disability, but needed a wheelchair, she was dismissive: ''She stated that he
could go; he was just refusing to go.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Donald W. Wyatt Detention Facility in Central Falls, R.I., a
locally owned jail where Hiu Lui Ng spent his final month.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD
PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Losing a Partner, and a Foothold

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 996 words


After her husband of eight months died in the Staten Island ferry crash of Oct.
15, 2003, Osserritta Robinson, a Jamaican immigrant, decided to stay in the
United States and proceed with her application for permanent residency.

But at Ms. Robinson's interview for residency in 2005, the immigration official
had some more bad news: Mr. Robinson's death had disqualified her application.

While a foreign spouse of an American citizen is eligible for residency -- and
Ms. Robinson's husband, Louis Robinson, was American -- the law also requires
that a couple be married at least two years for the foreign spouse to be
considered for residency, in part as a safeguard against fraudulent marriages.

Moreover, the government has also argued that if the American spouse dies before
the two-year mark, the foreign spouse becomes a widow -- or widower --
effectively annulling the marriage and the right of the foreigner to be
considered for residency.

''It was a shock,'' Ms. Robinson, who lives in Mahwah, N.J., said last week.
''The interviewer was very sympathetic that I had lost my husband, but then
there comes this law.''

Ms. Robinson sued the Department of Homeland Security and, in May 2007, a
federal district court judge in New Jersey ruled that the federal government had
wrongfully determined that she was no longer the spouse of her late husband. The
judge ordered immigration officials to reconsider Ms. Robinson's residency
application.

The government appealed the case to the United States Court of Appeals for the
Third Circuit, where a ruling is pending.

Ms. Robinson is one of at least 170 immigrants caught in this bind, according to
Surviving Spouses Against Deportation, a nonprofit group. They entered the
country legally, followed the rules and are now subject to deportation because
their spouses died before they had been married for two years.

Opponents of the government's rule have called it ''the widow penalty.''

This population of aggrieved immigrant spouses include Diana Engstrom, a Kosovo
native living in Indiana, whose husband was killed in an insurgent ambush while
working as a military contractor in Iraq in 2004; Ana Maria Moncayo-Gigax, from
Ecuador, whose husband, a Border Patrol agent, was killed on duty in 1999 in a
car accident in Washington, D.C.; and Nelly Lockhart, who is from the
Philippines and lives in Ohio and whose husband died of a heart attack in 2005.

Ms. Robinson, 31, said she felt as if she were being punished for her husband's
untimely death. The government's position, she said, ''makes me sound as if I
killed him.''

''It's not pretty burying a husband at 25,'' she said. ''We were each other's
best friend.''

Her work authorization has not been renewed since it expired in 2005, so she is
not able to work. She has also been unable to renew her driver's license,
forcing her to rely on friends and public transportation to get around. She is
living on her husband's life insurance policy and the $1.3 million settlement
she won in a wrongful-death lawsuit against New York City.

''I'm just glad I haven't received a deportation order,'' said Ms. Robinson, who
lives with her 3-year-old son from another relationship.

Brent Renison, a lawyer in Portland, Ore., and the pro bono counsel for
Surviving Spouses Against Deportation, said that even though the government
needed to protect against fraudulent marriages, there should be some allowance
in the interpretation of law to consider cases like Ms. Robinson's.

''There have to be case-by-case adjudications as to whether a marriage is
fraudulent or not,'' he said. ''What I mind is that they deny it outright
without allowing us to show the good faith.''

Chris Rhatigan, a spokeswoman for the United States Citizenship and Immigration
Services, said that she could not comment on specific cases but that the
government's lawyers were simply following the letter of the law approved by
Congress.

''We know there are some hardships out there, and obviously Congress knows there
are some hardships out there,'' Ms. Rhatigan said, adding that the Department of
Homeland Security was working with Congress on legislation that would ease the
two-year marriage requirement.

Bills were submitted in Congress in the last session that would have amended
immigration law to provide such relief to surviving spouses. The bills received
bipartisan support, but Congress failed to act on them before the end of the
session. The bills are expected to be reintroduced in the current session.

In a wide-ranging directive issued on Friday, Janet Napolitano, secretary of the
Department of Homeland Security, asked her staff to review the immigration laws
that affect surviving noncitizen spouses.

''What are the regulatory, legislative and litigation options that could be
considered to immediately address the situation of these widows and widowers?''
she wrote.

Meanwhile, the current federal interpretation of existing law is being litigated
in about a dozen court cases around the country.

In addition to Ms. Robinson's case, two other district courts have ruled in
recent years that an immigrant spouse does not cease being a spouse when the
American partner dies during the processing of a residency application. The
federal government has appealed those cases, as well. In 2006, the United States
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled in favor of one of Mr. Renison's
plaintiffs, though the plaintiff's application for residency was denied.

Two district courts have upheld the federal government's interpretation.

Ms. Robinson said that if the government's appeal in her case failed, and
immigration authorities approved her application, she would continue to live in
the United States and would apply to medical school with the goal of becoming an
anesthesiologist.

But first, she said, she would travel to Jamaica. ''I'd go home and visit
everybody and take a long vacation, a very long vacation,'' she said. ''It's
overdue.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Osserritta Robinson, a Jamaican immigrant, in 2003. Her request
for permanent residency in the United States was denied after her American-born
husband died. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NANCY SIESEL/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Osserritta and Louis Robinson, who died in 2003.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 3, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Widow of S.I. Ferry Victim Is Not Eligible for Residency, Court Rules

BYLINE: By JOHN ELIGON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 510 words


A federal appeals court ruled on Monday that immigration officials properly
terminated a Jamaican woman's application for permanent residency after her
husband died in the Staten Island ferry crash in 2003.

The court ruled that because the woman, Osserritta Robinson, was married to her
husband for less than two years before his death, her pending residency
application could be terminated. The ruling came in a 2-1 decision by the United
States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. It overturned a May 2007 ruling
by a federal district court judge in New Jersey that the federal government had
wrongfully determined that Ms. Robinson, 31, was no longer the spouse of her
late husband. The Robinsons were married for eight months.

Citing federal law while writing for the majority on Monday, Judge Dolores K.
Sloviter said, ''We conclude that a spouse ceases to be an immediate relative
when the citizen spouse dies unless the couple had been married at least two
years at the time of death.''

''The standard legal effect of death on marriage is that it terminates the legal
union,'' she added.

Judge Julio M. Fuentes joined the majority, while Judge Richard L. Nygaard
dissented.

Jeffrey A. Feinbloom, a lawyer for Ms. Robinson, called the decision
''frustrating and depressing.''

The judges misinterpreted the two-year rule in the law, he said. The rule is
meant to say that immigrants whose spouses have passed away can file their own
petitions for permanent residency only if they were married for at least two
years, he said. In Ms. Robinson's case, her husband, Louis Robinson, an
American, had filed the petition for her and the two-year rule is not meant to
terminate pending petitions, Mr. Feinbloom said.

''The point is there's no question that she qualified at the time the petition
was filed,'' he said. ''There's no language that says she no longer qualified.''

Mr. Feinbloom said he planned to file a motion for Ms. Robinson's case to be
reheard before all 21 judges in the Third Circuit. If that motion is denied, he
said, he would try to get the United States Supreme Court to hear the case.

Mr. Feinbloom said he believed it was unlikely that immigration officials would
try to have Ms. Robinson, who lives in Mahwah, N.J., deported before the case
was resolved in court.

In a wide-ranging directive issued on Friday, Janet Napolitano, secretary of the
Department of Homeland Security, asked her staff to review the immigration laws
that affect surviving noncitizen spouses.

In his dissenting opinion, Judge Nygaard blamed the government for its slow
response to Ms. Robinson's petition for permanent residency.

''This same department whose delay or inaction forecloses Osserritta Robinson's
chance of becoming an American, now so diligently pursues the avenues of her
expulsion,'' he wrote. ''My view, wholly in the margin, is that it is untoward
of this nation of immigrants, we who have passed through the portals of
citizenship, to coldly and impassively slam the door behind us on innocent
aspirants who dream to follow.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 4, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Despite Vow, Target of Immigrant Raids Shifted

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1347 words


The raids on homes around the country were billed as carefully planned hunts for
dangerous immigrant fugitives, and given catchy names like Operation Return to
Sender.

And they garnered bigger increases in money and staff from Congress than any
other program run by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, even as complaints
grew that teams of armed agents were entering homes indiscriminately.

But in fact, beginning in 2006, the program was no longer what was being
advertised. Federal immigration officials had repeatedly told Congress that
among more than half a million immigrants with outstanding deportation orders,
they would concentrate on rounding up the most threatening -- criminals and
terrorism suspects.

Instead, newly available documents show, the agency changed the rules, and the
program increasingly went after easier targets. A vast majority of those
arrested had no criminal record, and many had no deportation orders against
them, either.

Internal directives by immigration officials in 2006 raised arrest quotas for
each team in the National Fugitive Operations Program, eliminated a requirement
that 75 percent of those arrested be criminals, and then allowed the teams to
include nonfugitives in their count.

In the next year, fugitives with criminal records dropped to 9 percent of those
arrested, and nonfugitives picked up by chance -- without a deportation order --
rose to 40 percent. Many were sent to detention centers far from their homes,
and deported.

The impact of the internal directives, obtained by a professor and students at
Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law through a Freedom of Information lawsuit and
shared with The New York Times, shows the power of administrative memos to
significantly alter immigration enforcement policy without any legislative
change.

The memos also help explain the pattern of arrests documented in a report,
criticizing the fugitive operations program, to be released on Wednesday by the
Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research organization in Washington.

Analyzing more than five years of arrest data supplied to the institute last
year by Julie Myers, who was then chief of Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
the report found that over all, as the program spent a total of $625 million,
nearly three-quarters of the 96,000 people it apprehended had no criminal
convictions.

Without consulting Congress, the  report concluded, the program shifted to
picking up ''the easiest targets, not the most dangerous fugitives.''

It noted, however, that the most recent figures available indicate an increase
in arrests of those with a criminal background last year, though it was unclear
whether that resulted from a policy change.

The increased public attention comes as the new secretary of Homeland Security,
Janet Napolitano, has ordered a review of the fugitive teams operation, which
was set up in 2002 to find and deport noncitizens with outstanding orders of
deportation, then rapidly expanded after 2003 with the mission of focusing on
the most dangerous criminals.

Peter L. Markowitz, who teaches immigration law at Cardozo and directs its
immigration legal clinic, said the memos obtained in its lawsuit reflected the
Bush administration's effort to appear tough on immigration enforcement during
the unsuccessful push to pass comprehensive immigration legislation in 2006, and
amid rising anger over illegal immigration.

''It looks like what happened here is that the law enforcement strategy was
hijacked by the political agenda of the administration,'' he said.

Kelly A. Nantel, a spokeswoman for the immigration agency, defended the program.
''For the first time in history, we continue to reduce the number of immigration
fugitive cases,'' she said, noting that the number of noncitizens at large with
outstanding deportation orders, which peaked at 634,000 in the 2007 fiscal year,
is now down to about 554,000. ''These results speak for themselves and they are
consistent with Congress's mandate: locate and remove immigration absconders.''

Ms. Nantel said the number of fugitives with criminal backgrounds arrested in
the 2008 fiscal year rose to 5,652, or 16 percent of 34,000 arrests, and
nonfugitives fell to 8,062, or 23 percent.

Many Americans have welcomed roundups of what the agency calls ''ordinary status
violators'' -- noncitizens who have no outstanding order of deportation, but are
suspected of being in the country unlawfully, either because they overstayed a
visa or entered without one.

But Michael Wishnie, one of the authors of the report, who teaches law at Yale,
said that random arrests of low-level violators in residential raids not only
raised a new set of legal and humanitarian issues, including allegations of
entering private homes without warrants or consent and separating children from
their caretakers, but was ''dramatically different from how ICE has sold this
program to Congress.''

''If we just want to arrest undocumented people,'' he said, ''we can do it much
more cheaply.''

Congressional financing for the fugitive operations program rose to $218 million
in the 2008 fiscal year, from $9 million in 2003, as the number of seven-member
teams multiplied to 104 from 8.

In Congressional briefings and public statements since 2003, agency officials
have repeatedly said that given the vast number of immigrants with outstanding
deportation orders, the program will focus its resources on the roughly 20
percent with a criminal background.

An Immigration and Customs Enforcement memo dated Jan. 22, 2004, underscored
that commitment: ''Effective immediately, no less than 75 percent of all
fugitive operations targets will be those classified as criminal aliens'' --
noncitizens with a criminal record as well as an order of deportation. It added
that ''collateral apprehensions'' -- immigration violators encountered by chance
during an operation -- would not be counted in that percentage.

But on Jan. 31, 2006, a new memo changed the rules. The directive, from John P.
Torres, acting director of the agency, raised each team's ''target goal'' to
1,000 a year, from 125.

And it removed the requirement that at least 75 percent of those sought out for
arrest be criminals. Instead, it told the teams to prioritize cases according to
the threat posed by the fugitive, with noncriminals in the lowest of five
categories. And it repeated that ''collateral apprehensions will not count''
toward the 1,000 arrest quota.

But that standard, too, was dropped nine months later. A new memo from Mr.
Torres said ''nonfugitive arrests may now be included'' to reach the required
1,000 arrests. On average, however, it said at least half of those arrested by
each team should be fugitives. It also promised to ''ensure the maximum
availability of detention space for fugitive arrest operations.''

One result was an increase in noncriminals held in immigration detention.
Another, the Migration Policy Institute report concluded, was that the
percentage of criminal fugitives arrested plummeted, to 9 percent in the year
that ended Sept. 30, 2007, from 39 percent in the 2004 fiscal year.

That same year, 15,646, or 51 percent of those arrested, had an outstanding
deportation order, but no criminal record, and 12,084, or 40 percent, were
termed ''ordinary status violators'' who did not fit any of the program's
priority categories.

The report said the program relied on a database riddled with errors, and that
many deportation orders were issued without the subject in court, sometimes
because of faulty addresses.

The looser rules were reflected in sweeps like one conducted in New Haven in
June 2007. During the raid, lawyers at Yale's immigration law center said,
agents who found no one home at an address specified in a deportation order
simply knocked on other doors until one opened, pushed their way in, and
arrested residents who acknowledged that they lacked legal status.

Of the 32 arrested and scattered to jails around New England, only 5 had
outstanding deportation orders, and only 1 or 2 had criminal records.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: FUGITIVE TEAMS: Congress has appropriated increasing sums to
finance more ''fugitive operations teams'' immigration agents who were supposed
to specialize in finding noncitizens with criminal records and outstanding
deportation orders. But the teams, whose arrest quotas were raised eightfold in
2006, have mainly arrested people without criminal records. (ources: Migration
Policy Institute
 Immigration and Customs Enforcement) (pg.A20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 6, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arpaio's America

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 390 words


It has come to this: In Phoenix on Wednesday, more than 200 men in shackles and
prison stripes were marched under armed guard past a gantlet of TV cameras to a
tent prison encircled by an electric fence. They were inmates being sent to
await deportation in a new immigrant detention camp minutes from the center of
America's fifth-largest city.

The judge, jury and exhibitioner of this degrading spectacle was the Maricopa
County sheriff, Joe Arpaio, the publicity-obsessed star of a Fox reality show
and the self-appointed scourge of illegal immigrants. Though he frequently and
proudly insists that he answers to no one, except at election time, the sheriff
is not an isolated rogue. As a participant in the federal policing program
called 287(g), he is an official partner of the United States government in its
warped crackdown on illegal immigration.

The immigration enforcement regime left by the Bush Administration is out of
control. It is up to President Obama and the new secretary of homeland security,
Janet Napolitano, to rein it in and clean it up. This applies not just to
off-the-rails deputies like Sheriff Arpaio, but to the federal enforcement
agencies themselves.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Border Patrol have been shown in
recent news accounts to be botching their jobs. Border Patrol agents in
California have accused supervisors of setting arrest quotas for undocumented
immigrants, and a recent Migration Policy Institute study showed that a
much-touted campaign of raids against criminal fugitives was a failure. It
netted mostly the maids and laborers who are no reasonable person's idea of a
national threat.

The burden of action is particularly high on Ms. Napolitano, who as Arizona's
governor handled Sheriff Arpaio with a gingerly caution that looked to some of
his critics and victims as calculated and timid.

Ms. Napolitano, who is known as a serious and moderate voice on immigration,
recently directed her agency to review its enforcement efforts, including
looking at ways to expand the 287(g) program. Sheriff Arpaio is a powerful
argument for doing just the opposite.

Now that she has left Arizona politics behind, Ms. Napolitano is free to prove
this is not Arpaio's America, where the mob rules and immigrants are subject to
ritual humiliation. The country should expect no less.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS GARCIA)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 7, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Professor Is Accused Of Genocide in Rwanda

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 559 words

DATELINE: TOWSON, Md.


A professor at a Maryland college  has been accused of genocide in his home
country, Rwanda, and faces deportation, federal immigration officials said
Friday.

The professor, Leopold Munyakazi, 59, taught French at Goucher College in this
city north of Baltimore until he was suspended with pay in December after the
college learned that he had been indicted on murder and several genocide-related
charges in Rwanda, according to court papers.

Dr. Munyakazi has denied the accusations, which stem from 1994, when more than
500,000 Tutsi and moderate Hutu were killed in Rwanda after the plane of the
president, a Hutu, was shot down as he returned from negotiating with Tutsi
rebels. Dr. Munyakazi is Hutu.

''There are many details and nuances surrounding this case,'' Sanford J. Ungar,
the president of Goucher, said Friday. ''And at this time, there is no evidence
that would either convict or exonerate Dr. Munyakazi, or, if there is, I have
not seen it.

''However, considering the seriousness of the allegations, I felt it to be in
the best interests of the college community to remove Dr. Munyakazi from his
teaching duties until we could investigate further.''

Dr. Munyakazi was arrested Tuesday at his home in Towson for overstaying his
visa, said Brandon A. Montgomery, an Immigration and Customs Enforcement
spokesman. Mr. Montgomery said that Dr. Munyakazi was released from custody on
the condition that he wear a monitoring device and that he faced a deportation
hearing in April.

Dr. Munyakazi did not respond on Friday to requests for comment. He has
vehemently denied any involvement in  genocide and has provided university
officials with what he says is evidence that he helped many Tutsi flee Hutu
killers.

Mr. Ungar said the indictment, which claims that Dr. Munyakazi was directly
involved in genocide, was apparently prepared in 2006.

University officials also pointed out that the indictment was prepared a month
after Dr. Munyakazi gave a controversial talk in Delaware while he was a
professor at Montclair State University in New Jersey. In that speech, Dr.
Munyakazi questioned the Rwandan government's official account of events during
the genocide.

''I refer to it as civil war, not genocide; it was about political power,'' Dr.
Munyakazi said in that speech, according to a University of Delaware news
release from October 2006. ''Ethnicity is not really understood about Rwanda. In
Rwanda there are no tribes. There are social groups. They are one single
people.''

A Goucher spokeswoman, Kristen Keener, said Mr. Ungar consulted with an expert
on genocide, Alison Des Forges, who is a senior adviser to the Africa program at
Human Rights Watch, before deciding to suspend Dr. Munyakazi.

According to college officials, Ms. Des Forges said she did not find the
indictment convincing and especially doubted its claim that Dr. Munyakazi
organized a militia associated with a party opposed to the party with which he
was affiliated.

But Ms. Keener said the charges were too severe not to suspend Dr. Munyakazi.

Max Temkin, 22, a senior philosophy major at Goucher, said the matter was
''coming up in classes and in the cafeteria, but mostly students are keeping a
wait-and-see attitude.''

''Most agree he should have been suspended,'' Mr. Temkin continued, ''but they
aren't passing judgment beyond that.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In December, Leopold Munyakazi was suspended with pay from his
teaching job at Goucher College in Towson, Md.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB CARR/ASSOCIATED
PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 19, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hispanics Are Largest Ethnic Group in Federal Prisons, Study Shows

BYLINE: By SOLOMON MOORE; Rebecca Cathcart contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 744 words


Latino convicts now represent the largest ethnic population in the federal
prison system, accounting for 40 percent of  those convicted of federal crimes,
according to a study released Wednesday by the Pew Research Center, a
nonpartisan research organization.

Latinos made up only 13 percent of the United States adult population in 2007,
but they accounted for one third of federal prison inmates that year, a result
the study attributed to the sharp rise in illegal immigration and tougher
enforcement of immigration laws.

Nearly half of Latino offenders, or about 48 percent, were convicted of
immigration crimes, while drug offenses were the second-most-prevalent charge,
according to the report.

As the annual number of federal offenders more than doubled from 1991 to 2007,
the number of Latino offenders sentenced in a given year nearly quadrupled, to
29,281 from 7,924.

Of Latino federal offenders, 72 percent are not United States citizens and most
were sentenced in courts from one of the four states that border Mexico. Federal
prisoners who are illegal immigrants are usually deported to their home
countries after serving their sentences.

''The immigration system has essentially become criminalized at a huge cost to
the criminal justice system, to courts, to judges, to prisons and prosecutors,''
said Lucas Guttentag, a lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union. ''And the
government has diverted the resources of the criminal justice system from
violent crimes, financial skullduggery and other areas that have been the
traditional area of the Justice Department.''

Last month, The New York Times reported that federal immigration prosecutions
had increased over the last five years, doubling in the last fiscal year to more
than 70,000 cases. Meanwhile, other categories of federal prosecutions,
including gun trafficking, public corruption, organized crime and white-collar
crime, declined over the same period.

The federal justice system accounts for 200,000, or 8.6 percent, of the 2.3
million inmates in federal and state prisons and city and county jails. Nineteen
percent of state prisoners and 16 percent of jail inmates were Latinos, the Pew
study found. African-Americans, who make up about 12 percent of the national
population, make up 39 percent of state prisoners and jail inmates.

Deborah Williams, an assistant federal defender in Phoenix, said that the large
number of Latinos in the federal system, particularly those who are not citizens
and have limited English proficiency, had sharply  changed federal prison
culture.

''I have Anglo and Native American clients who tell me about being the only
non-Spanish speaker in their pod,'' Ms. Williams said. ''Ten years ago, it just
wasn't that way. Everything is changing in there, including the language, the
television shows they watch, and a lot of times the guards don't speak the
language. How do you safely guard people who may not understand your orders?''

A spokeswoman for the federal Bureau of Prisons, Tracy Billingsley, declined
immediate comment on the Pew report.

Mark Hugo Lopez, a co-author of the study, which relied on United States
Sentencing Commission statistics, said, ''It's hard to understand whether we're
seeing a policy change or just a growth in the total number of immigrants coming
to this country.''

The number of illegal  immigrants in the country increased to 11.9 million last
year, from 3.9 million in 1992.

Under federal programs like Operation Gatekeeper, which hired thousands of
immigration enforcement officials along the Mexican  border, and Operation
Streamline, which instituted a ''zero tolerance policy'' for illegal border
crossings in the same region, immigration crimes have skyrocketed.

The large number of immigration crimes and low-level drug offenses account for
the relatively light sentences that Latinos typically receive -- about 46
months, compared with 62 months for white inmates and 91 months for
African-American prisoners, according to the study.

The hearing for Jose Sanchez on Wednesday in Los Angeles was typical. Having
been convicted of illegal re-entry, Mr. Sanchez, 37, who has prior convictions
for assault and drug possession, pleaded guilty in exchange for a sentence of 46
months.

The hearing took less than 10 minutes. Mr. Sanchez, who has a wife and three
children in the area, asked to be assigned to a prison nearby.  He is likely to
be deported to Mexico after serving his sentence.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: A Sharp Increase in Latino Inmates: Increased enforcement of
immigration laws, which fall under federal jurisdiction, has led to more
Hispanics being sentenced, usually for shorter periods.(Source: Pew Hispanic
Center) Chart details bubble chart for inmate percentages.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 25, 2009 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

An Immigration Attorney Is Accused of Being a Fraud, and His Clients Scramble
for Help

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 921 words


More than 100 former clients of a man accused of falsely posing as an
immigration lawyer thronged the 19th-century marble lobby of the New York City
Bar Association on Monday night, drawn by an offer of free advice from real
lawyers.

Filing upstairs, the clients waited under chandeliers and portraits of legal
giants, then jammed conference rooms where 54 volunteer lawyers, working in
pairs, tried to untangle the messes left in their immigration cases by the
accused man, Victor M. Espinal.

Mr. Espinal, 59, was charged last month with pretending to be an immigration
lawyer since at least April 1992 and defrauding three clients, all of them
Latino immigrants. He pleaded not guilty and has been released on $50,000 bail.

''He was doing a thriving business,'' marveled one of the volunteer lawyers,
looking over the packed room in the bar association's West 44th Street offices.

In one corner, Harold Hunt, a pipe fitter for Amtrak who said he paid Mr.
Espinal nearly $2,300 to secure a green card for his wife, had just learned that
nothing had been filed and that all the application fees would have to be paid
over again.

Mr. Hunt, a United States citizen from Panama, looked glum. The news that Mr.
Espinal was under indictment had left him worried for weeks that his wife could
be deported.

''He's an animal,'' he said. ''I couldn't sleep.''

Anastasia Torello, the volunteer lawyer advising him, focused on the positive.
''They're very lucky,'' she said. If Mr. Hunt's wife had followed Mr. Espinal's
advice -- to go back to Panama to collect a green card -- she would have been
barred from returning to the United States for 10 years.

Across the room, another lawyer, Alfredo Murga, was comforting a Dominican woman
who had traveled to the session from Connecticut, straight from work in a
laundry, fearful of deportation. After paying Mr. Espinal $2,500 and waiting
five years for the green card he had promised, she now has nothing, she said.

''I felt despair for many months because I didn't know where my case was,'' she
explained in Spanish, as Mr. Murga translated. ''I spent a lot of money and
suffered a lot.''

When she learned about Mr. Espinal's arrest on television, she said, ''All my
hope just fell to the floor.''

The saving grace, Mr. Murga said, is that she is eligible for a green card
through a family member -- at a cost of $1,365 in immigration petition fees.
''We're going to file right away, he added. ''But had she waited, she would have
been deported.''

David Sperling, another volunteer, recalled his bittersweet news for one of Mr.
Espinal's clients, a legal permanent resident who had been mistakenly warned by
Mr. Espinal not to travel back to her native Colombia until her application for
citizenship was approved.

''She had not seen her family for 10 years because of the advice by this
so-called lawyer,'' Mr. Sperling said. ''She started crying, saying, 'If only
someone had told me this before -- I waited so many years!' ''

The Colombian woman, reached by phone on Tuesday morning, confirmed his account,
but had nothing bad to say about Mr. Espinal, who had advised her since 2000,
she said, and helped her get her green card. ''Everything turned out O.K.,'' she
said in Spanish. ''May God bless him.''

Her reaction underscored the complications of judging the performance of Mr.
Espinal, who studied law in the Dominican Republic but was not admitted to the
bar in the United States. With no right to a court-appointed lawyer, low-income
immigrants facing detention and deportation often end up with cut-rate lawyers
whose genuine law licenses do not mean competence.

Indeed, some of those who flocked to the legal clinic were not Espinal clients
at all, just part of pent-up demand for affordable help in navigating the
increasingly dangerous alleys of immigration law. One was a man from Sudan who
had lived in New York for nearly a decade, and had a letter granting him asylum.
He had begun to doubt that the letter was genuine.

He needed to try to get the underlying records in his case -- but very
carefully, warned Natalie Sullivan, the volunteer lawyer counseling him.

''You do not want Federal Plaza to take action on your case,'' she said,
referring to immigration headquarters in Manhattan, the federal office tower
that looms large in the nightmares of many foreigners. ''If there's no asylum,
they're going to move on your case and try to deport you.''

Elizabeth Reichard, a lawyer at the City Bar Justice Center, the bar
association's charitable arm, who organized the legal clinic, said many of the
volunteer lawyers had agreed to give Espinal victims a special rate for
continuing help -- if not pro bono, what she called ''low-bono'' -- perhaps a 40
or 50 percent discount on their usual rate.

The Espinal case presents special problems, she noted, since his office is
considered a crime scene and his files were seized by the Manhattan district
attorney.

''The D.A. has been great,'' Ms. Reichard added, noting that prosecutors
encouraged victims to attend the clinic. But those who already have been ordered
deported may be out of luck, she said.

Until recently, incompetence of legal advice was grounds to reopen a deportation
case, and the Obama administration is widely expected to reinstate that
possibility. But that policy won't help Mr. Espinal's clientele, because it does
not cover bad advice from fake lawyers, she said.

''You can't make ineffective assistance of counsel argument,'' she said,
''because there is no counsel.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 28, 2009



CORRECTION: An article in some editions on Wednesday about a free legal session
organized by the New York City Bar Justice Center for clients of Victor M.
Espinal, who was charged last month with fraud and accused of pretending to be
an immigration lawyer, misstated the surname of one of the volunteer lawyers at
the session. She is Anastasia Tonello, not Torello.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jorge Garcia was among the former clients of Victor M. Espinal
seeking advice at the New York City Bar Association on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
PATRICK ANDRADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 25, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

And Unequal Justice for Some

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 422 words


The Supreme Court hears arguments Wednesday in the case of an illegal immigrant
who provided an employer with phony identification numbers. The court must
decide whether he can be convicted of the crime of aggravated identity theft --
which carries a heavy mandatory prison sentence -- even though he did not know
the numbers belonged to specific people.

This is a case about the misapplication of federal law. It also is a case about
unequal justice. The government is misusing the identity theft law to pressure
illegal immigrants to agree to quick deportation.

Ignacio Carlos Flores-Figueroa, an undocumented Mexican immigrant, purchased a
forged Social Security card and a permanent resident card bearing his name and
false identification numbers in Chicago. When he submitted those documents at
his job in East Moline, Ill., his employer reported him to the Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, which determined that the numbers belonged to other people.
There is no evidence those people were harmed.

Mr. Flores-Figueroa pleaded guilty to misuse of immigration documents and
illegal entry into the United States. He pleaded not guilty to aggravated
identity theft, saying that he didn't know that the ID numbers belonged to
anyone. He was convicted and sentenced to 51 months of imprisonment for the
crimes for which he pleaded guilty, and an additional mandatory two-year
sentence for aggravated identity theft. Mr. Flores-Figueroa is asking the
Supreme Court to reverse his identity-theft conviction, arguing that the law
does not apply to his actions.

The federal aggravated identity theft statute is aimed at the most serious forms
of identity theft -- and it says the theft must be done knowingly. Congress
wanted to punish those who take the identities of other people to do them harm,
typically by trying to drain their bank accounts. Mr. Figueroa did not have the
intent necessary to violate this law. He was guilty of identity fraud --  a
separate, and lesser, crime.

One of the criminal law's most important tasks is sorting out degrees of
culpability. People like Mr. Flores-Figueroa enter the country illegally to work
at jobs that pay little and are often dangerous. Their actions are illegal, but
they fall far short of stealing a specific person's identity to rob someone's
life savings.

The Supreme Court should reverse Mr. Flores-Figueroa's conviction to stop overly
aggressive prosecutors from going beyond what the law allows -- and to ensure
that in identity theft cases, the punishment fits the crime.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 26, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Secretary Seeks Review of Immigration Raid

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 207 words


WASHINGTON -- Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano on Wednesday ordered
a review of a raid at an engine   plant in Washington State that resulted in the
arrests of 28 people suspected of being  illegal immigrants.

A high-level official in the Department of Homeland Security  said that Ms.
Napolitano had not been informed about the raid on Tuesday before it happened,
and that she was seeking details about its planning and scope.

''She was not happy about it because it's inconsistent with her position, and
the president's position on these matters,'' said the official, who agreed to
discuss the matter on condition of anonymity because the secretary had not
authorized the conversation.

President Obama has promised immigration enforcement that would focus less on
illegal workers and more on the employers who rely on them.

At a hearing of  the House Homeland Security Committee on Wednesday, legislators
questioned Ms. Napolitano about the raid, at Yamato Engine Specialists, which
rebuilds faulty car engines. It was the first work-site action since Ms.
Napolitano took charge of the department

Advocates for the immigrants said most were awaiting deportation hearings at a
Tacoma detention center. Three were  freed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 26, 2009 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Supreme Court Hears Challenge to Identity-Theft Law in Immigration Cases

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK and JULIA PRESTON; Adam Liptak reported from Washington,
and Julia Preston from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 921 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A federal identity-theft law that has become a favorite tool of the government
in immigration prosecutions appeared imperiled on Wednesday after the Supreme
Court heard arguments about it.

Prosecutors have relied on the law to seek or threaten two-year sentence
extensions in immigration cases against people who used fake Social Security
numbers that turned out to belong to real people.

''There's a basic problem here,'' said Justice John Paul Stevens. ''You get an
extra two years if it just so happens that the number you picked out of the air
belonged to somebody else.''

Other justices also expressed skepticism about the government's interpretation
of the law.

The argument on Wednesday mostly concerned the meaning of the law, which applies
to anyone who, in connection to other crimes, ''knowingly transfers, possesses,
or uses, without lawful authority, a means of identification of another
person.''

The question in the case, one the advocates and justices examined from many
angles, was how far down that sentence the ''knowingly'' requirement travels.
The government took the position that it stopped somewhere short of the crucial
final three words -- ''of another person.''

Kevin K. Russell, a lawyer for the defendant, said that ordinary usage requires
the government to prove that people accused of identity theft under the law knew
the numbers they used belonged to someone else.

''If I say that John knowingly used a pair of scissors of his mother,'' Mr.
Russell said by way of example, ''I am saying not simply that John knew he was
using something that turned out to be his mother's scissors or even that John
knew he was using scissors which turned out to be his mother's. I am saying that
John knew that the scissors he was using belonged to his mother.''

Mr. Russell's client, Ignacio Flores-Figueroa, was a Mexican citizen working
illegally for a steel plant in Illinois. At first, Mr. Flores-Figueroa used a
false name and fake Social Security number, one that did not happen to match
that of a real person. Six years later, he told his employer that he wanted to
be known by his real name, and he presented forged Social Security and alien
registration cards that bore numbers assigned to real people.

When all of this was discovered, Mr. Flores-Figueroa pleaded guilty to several
immigration offenses, resulting in a 51-month sentence, but he went to trial to
contest charges under the identity-theft law. Although the government presented
no evidence that Mr. Flores-Figueroa knew he was using numbers assigned to other
people, he was convicted and sentenced to the additional two years mandated by
the law.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, in St. Louis,
affirmed Mr. Flores-Figueroa's conviction, saying that the government needed to
prove only a knowing use of false information, and not that the defendant knew
the fake number belonged to a real person.

Mr. Russell said that interpretation of the law can give rise to perverse
results, including the possibilities of ''two people with identical culpability
ending up with substantially different punishments, or people with substantially
different culpability ending up with identical punishments.''

Toby J. Heytens, representing the government in the case, Flores-Figueroa v.
United States, No. 08-108, said the court should focus on the victims of
identity fraud rather than on its perpetrators. The law often makes
distinctions, Mr. Heytens said, between equally culpable conduct based on the
harm it causes.

The identity-theft law was used last summer by prosecutors in Iowa to bring one
of the toughest cases against illegal immigrants in a two-year nationwide
crackdown.

After nearly 400 illegal immigrants were arrested in May in a raid at a
meatpacking plant in Postville, Iowa, prosecutors brought identity-theft charges
against about 270 of them who were found to have used identity information, like
Social Security numbers, that corresponded to other real people and were not
simply fabrications.

The Iowa criminal prosecutions were an abrupt departure from past immigration
enforcement practice, in which illegal work cases had generally been handled
under civil law.

Prosecutors used the charges to pressure the immigrants both to plead guilty to
lesser charges of document fraud  and to agree to summary deportation, waiving
their immigration rights. Almost all the immigrants did, and they have served
their sentences and been deported.

But a court interpreter who worked in the hearings, Prof. Erik Camayd-Freixas of
Florida International University, later broke his professional silence. He
testified before Congress that most of the immigrants for whom he translated,
many from Guatemala, did not know what a Social Security card was or whether the
numbers they used at the Postville plant belonged to other people.

Several justices appeared persuaded on Wednesday that the identity-theft law was
at least ambiguous enough that the ''rule of lenity'' ought to apply. That rule,
as Justice Antonin Scalia summarized it from the bench, is that ''the tie goes
to the defendant.''

Mr. Heytens, representing the government, said  the Supreme Court had said as
recently as Tuesday, in Hayes v. United States, that ''a certain amount of
ambiguity doesn't automatically trigger the rule of lenity.''

Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., who was in dissent in the Hayes decision on
Tuesday, asked a question. ''Is it time,'' he said dryly, ''to revisit the
court's decision in Hayes?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 27, 2009



CORRECTION: An article on Thursday about a Supreme Court argument in an
identity-theft case misattributed a comment from one of the justices, repeating
an error in the court transcript. It was Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. --
not Justice John Paul Stevens -- who said: ''There's a basic problem here. You
get an extra two years if it just so happens that the number you picked out of
the air belonged to someone else.''

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 28, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Haitians Look for Shift In Immigration Policy

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1040 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Vialine Jean Paul has noticed a change when she drops her 7-year-old daughter
off at school each morning in recent weeks. Her daughter, Angela, is not sure
that her mother will be back to pick her up.

''She tells me, 'Mommy, good luck,' '' Mrs. Jean Paul said, choking back tears.
''She asks me, 'Mommy, if you go to Haiti, what will happen to me?' ''

Though Angela does not know it, the hopes of tens of thousands of Haitian
immigrants and their relatives have become fixed on her mother's fate. Mrs. Jean
Paul is one of more than 30,000 Haitian citizens who have been ordered deported
from the United States. Her case could be an early test of whether the Obama
administration will break with the strict immigration enforcement policies of
the Bush administration.

After an estimated 1,000 people were killed in mudslides in Haiti last year, the
government asked the United States to grant temporary protected status to
Haitian immigrants -- relief that was extended when Honduras and El Salvador
were hit by similar disasters. The designation is intended for countries in such
dire trouble that receiving deportees would undermine their stability.

Deportations of Haitians were temporarily suspended last September, while the
Bush administration considered the request. In December, the request was denied
and the deportations resumed.

Lawyers say hundreds of people were detained, pushing detention centers across
Florida beyond capacity. Hundreds of other immigrants were forced to wear
electronic monitoring devices.

Advocates for immigrants said the arrests and deportations have taken a toll on
Haitian communities, tearing immigrants -- whose only crime was entering the
United States illegally -- from their American spouses and children and
condemning them to lives of poverty and violence in a country devastated by
political instability and natural disaster.

''They told us they were going after criminal aliens,'' said her lawyer, Cheryl
Little, referring to the immigration policies of the Bush administration.
''Would we be any safer if Vialine were deported? I think not. We are devoting a
lot of resources going after the wrong people.''

Mrs. Jean Paul, 35, had not set foot in Haiti since she fled 17 years ago, in
the turmoil after a military coup. During her time in this country, she had
married an American citizen and devoted herself to taking care of Angela, who
suffers from an undiagnosed illness that causes severe headaches and vomiting.

On Feb. 10, the date she was ordered to report for deportation after exhausting
efforts to remain in the United States, she was on her way to an immigration
office to turn herself in. Then her cellphone rang, and an immigration officer
told her that her deportation had been delayed.

Aides to Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said she was reviewing the
matter of Haitian deportations.

Meanwhile, the Haitian government has refused to issue travel documents to
deportees, and the United States authorities said they were worried that
confusion in Haiti over American policy was causing a surge in the numbers of
Haitians trying to flee their country.

The Coast Guard intercepted  624 Haitians at sea in January, compared with none
in November. Another 214 were intercepted on an overloaded freighter last
weekend.

A decision on Ms. Jean Paul's case is expected March 9.

Saintenese Mentor said her husband, Brice, might not have that long. A former
aide at an adult education center and the father of two children born in the
United States, he was detained six months ago, Mrs. Mentor said.

Mr. Mentor's lawyers said the authorities had told them his deportation was
imminent.

Mrs. Mentor said her 2-year-old son wakes up crying for his father every night,
while her 3-year-old daughter has refused to learn to count or tie her shoes
until he comes home.

In the meantime, she said, without her husband's income, her family is close to
losing everything. Their home is in foreclosure, she said, and their bills are
months overdue.

''I'm waiting to see what God is going to do,'' she said. ''I'm only human. I
can't do anymore.''

A State Department official, who asked not to be named because temporary
protected status is a Homeland Security matter, said the United States was aware
of the hardship caused in Haiti by last year's storms. He noted that the United
States responded with humanitarian assistance, including medical services
provided aboard the amphibious assault ship Kearsarge.

But, he said, the United States determined that a strong international presence
in Haiti, led by some 10,000 United Nationspeacekeepers, gave that country
sufficient support to accommodate deportees.

''This is a controversial position,'' the official said, acknowledging a flood
of letters from Haitian advocates and members of Congress, along with newspaper
editorials calling on President Obama to stop the deportations. ''But we
believed Haiti had the structures on the ground that it needed to solve its
problems.''

Haiti's ambassador to the United States, Ray Joseph, disagreed with that
assessment. Haiti's existence has largely been defined by chaos. But the storms,
he said, deepened the crisis, fueling runaway inflation and food shortages. He
said tens of thousands of storm victims have been left without proper shelter,
and the country is plagued by violent crime.

''Haiti had a very, very bad year in 2008,'' Mr. Joseph said. ''Why send these
people back, when we have no place to put them?''

Louiness Petit-Frere exists on the charity of friends, according to his wife and
relatives. He was detained six months ago when he and his wife, an American
citizen went to request legal status for him. He was deported in January.

''He has no family there,'' said his wife, Sherly Desir Petit-Frere, who
recently returned from visiting him. ''He has no water, no electricity, no work.
It's hell for him.''

Mr. Petit-Frere's brother, Sgt. Nikenson Pierre Louis, just returned from two
combat tours in Iraq.

''All the hard work and fighting I did to defend this country, I feel like none
of that mattered,'' Sergeant Pierre Louis. ''My brother was no criminal. He
never got into trouble. And still they threw him back into a shark pool.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vialine Jean Paul, whose deportation case may be an early test
for thousands of Haitians, with her 7-year-old daughter, Angela.(PHOTOGRAPH BY
OSCAR HIDALGO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Iowa: Sentence In Meatpacking Raid Case

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING MIDWEST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 125 words


A supervisor arrested after a large immigration raid at an eastern Iowa
meatpacking plant has been sentenced to nearly two years in federal prison for
harboring illegal immigrants. The man, Martin De La Rosa-Loera, 43, of
Postville, pleaded guilty last summer under an agreement with prosecutors to
aiding and abetting the harboring of illegal immigrants. Mr. De La Rosa-Loera
was sentenced Tuesday in Federal District Court in Cedar Rapids to 23 months in
prison followed by two years' supervised release. He was arrested in July after
a raid at the Agriprocessors Inc. plant in Postville. During the raid in May,
agents arrested 389 people, most of them Mexicans and Guatemalans. Other top
managers of the company are also  facing federal charges.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 10, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Workers Without Borders

BYLINE: By JENNIFER GORDON.

Jennifer Gordon is a professor of labor and immigration law at Fordham Law
School.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 829 words


AMERICANS are hardly in the mood to welcome new immigrants. The last thing we
need, the reasoning goes, is more competition for increasingly scarce jobs. But
the need for immigration reform is more urgent than ever. The current system
hurts wages and working conditions -- for everyone.

Today, millions of undocumented immigrants accept whatever wage is offered. They
don't protest out of fear of being fired or deported. A few hundred thousand
guest workers, brought in for seasonal and agricultural jobs, know that
asserting their rights could result in a swift flight home. This system traps
migrants in bad jobs and ends up lowering wages all around.

The solution lies in greater mobility for migrants and a new emphasis on
workers' rights. If migrants could move between jobs, they would be free to
expose abusive employers. They would flow to regions with a shortage of workers,
and would also be able to return to their home countries when the outlook there
brightened, or if jobs dried up here.

Imagine if the United States began admitting migrants on the condition that they
join a network of workers' organizations here and in their home countries -- a
sort of transnational union. Migrants could work here legally. They could take
jobs anywhere in the country and stay as long as they liked. But they would have
to promise to report employers that violated labor laws. They could lose their
visas by breaking that promise.

This plan, which I call Transnational Labor Citizenship, would give employers
access to many more workers on fair terms. It would give people from countries
like Mexico greater opportunities to earn the remittances upon which their
families and economies rely. It would address the inconsistency and inhumanity
of policies that support free trade in goods and jobs but bar the free movement
of people.

How could we make this happen? Congress could certainly mandate the change. If
that seems unlikely, we could start with a bilateral labor migration agreement
with a country like Mexico, making membership in a transnational workers'
organization and a commitment to uphold workplace laws a requirement for
Mexicans to obtain work here.

We might try a smaller pilot project involving a single union in an industry
like residential construction or agriculture. One model would be the Farm Labor
Organizing Committee's guest worker union, which protects migrant agricultural
workers on some North Carolina farms. The union provides representation and
benefits wherever the workers are. It has organizers near North Carolina's
tobacco and cucumber fields, and an office in Mexico, where the laborers return
home for the winter.

Migrant mobility has been tried with success in the European Union. When the
Union expanded in 2004 to include eight Eastern European countries, workers in
Western Europe feared a flood of job seekers who would drive down wages. In
Britain, for example, the volume of newcomers from countries like Poland was
staggering. Instead of the prediction of roughly 50,000 migrants in four years,
more than a million arrived.

Yet, as far as economists can tell, the influx did not take a serious toll on
native workers' wages or employment. (Of course, what happens in the global
downturn remains to be seen.) Migrants who were not trapped in exploitative jobs
flocked to areas that needed workers and shunned the intense competition of big
cities. And when job opportunities grew in Poland or shrank in Britain, fully
half went home again.

To be sure, Europe's approach has its problems. Some migrants were cheated on
their wages and worked in unsafe conditions. This illustrates that mobility
alone is not enough. We also need good workplace protections, and effective
support to realize them.

Unions could play a key role in rights enforcement if they embraced migrants as
potential members, becoming for the first time truly transnational institutions.
And government could partner with workers' organizations. Recently, the New York
Department of Labor announced that it had begun to work with immigrant centers
and unions to catch violators. This is a promising example of a new alliance to
protect the rights of both immigrants and native-born workers.

Like it or not, until we address the vast inequalities across the globe, those
who want to migrate will find a way. Despite stepped-up enforcement at the
borders, hundreds of thousands of immigrants still come illegally to the United
States every year. Raids terrorize immigrants but do not make them go home.
Instead, rigid quotas, harsh immigration laws and heavy-handed enforcement lock
people in. As the recession deepens, undocumented immigrants will hunker down
more. They may work less, for worse pay, but they will be terrified to go home
out of fear they can never return.

The United States needs an open and fair system, not a holding pen. The best way
forward is to create an immigration system with protection for all workers at
its core.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 15, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

At the Border Between Politics And Thrills

BYLINE: By DENNIS LIM

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1273 words


THE current crop of American films dealing with immigration is as varied as the
immigrant experience itself: an ensemble melodrama about illegal aliens in Los
Angeles (the recent ''Crossing Over''), a quiet story of a Dominican baseball
player in the minor leagues in Iowa (next month's ''Sugar''). But there are a
pair that could be considered movies  without borders. Both are Spanish-language
features shot in Mexico by first-time American  directors, and both are
ambitious hybrids: socially  conscious films in the form of brash genre
entertainments.

Cary Fukunaga's ''Sin Nombre,'' which had its premiere at the Sundance Film
Festival in January and opens on Friday, combines elements of a chase movie, a
gangster flick and a tragic western with the specific plight of Central American
immigrants making their way across the Mexican countryside toward the United
States border. Alex Rivera's ''Sleep Dealer'' (April 17), which was shown at
Sundance last year, is a science fiction parable set in a near-future Mexico,
where concepts of migration and labor mobility are reinvented by cutting-edge
technology.

Mr. Fukunaga's film was indirectly inspired by the nation's deadliest human
trafficking case, which left 19 immigrants dead after they were abandoned in a
sealed trailer in South Texas in 2003. He was a graduate film student at New
York University at the time. Driven to visualize the horror of the incident --
to ''imagine what it was like in that trailer,'' he said -- he made a 13-minute
film, ''Victoria Para Chino,'' which won a prize at Sundance and a Student
Academy Award.

In researching his short Mr. Fukunaga, a California native of Japanese and
Swedish descent,  acquired a more expansive picture of migrant flows to the
United States. ''The way I'd viewed immigration was strictly from the
U.S.-Mexican border, and I'd never considered what it could be like from farther
away,'' he said. He learned of Central Americans who made the perilous trip
north across multiple borders, riding freight trains through Mexico, and
realized that this arduous journey could be a compelling  backbone for a feature
film.

He traveled repeatedly to Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras. His first
trip was to Chiapas, the southernmost state in Mexico, which shares a border
with Guatemala. With the help of a friend's father, a journalist in Mexico, he
contacted border police officers and social workers, who in turn put him in
touch with gang members, both in prison and on the streets, who had a hand in
immigrant smuggling. He visited the train yards where immigrants would gather,
waiting to hop the freights at night, and the shelters that housed those who
were injured on the journey.

And from almost everyone he talked to, he said, he heard ''horrific stories'' of
exploitation, corruption and brutality. ''There's a lot of violence without
consequence,'' he said. ''People can just do things, and no one will ever hear
about it.''

Not content with his interviews Mr. Fukunaga decided to ride the trains himself,
partly to help allay his queasiness about potential exploitation. ''I was making
a film about people's misery,'' he said. ''I didn't want to talk about things I
didn't know firsthand.''

Disregarding the warnings of the friends who had accompanied him, he boarded a
northbound train packed with immigrants in the Mexican town of Tapachula. A few
hours into the journey gunshots rang out in the next car, along with shouts of
''bandilla'' (bandit). The next morning he discovered that a young Guatemalan
had been shot for refusing to turn over his money.

He rode all the way to the Oaxacan border, and on return visits to Mexico made
two more trips, each time picking up where he had left off. When he told his
traveling companions he was preparing to make a movie, he said,  ''they thought
I was crazy.'' But a camaraderie would develop nonetheless: ''There was a real
sense of protecting each other.''

Mr. Fukunaga takes pride that ''Sin Nombre,'' which won the directing and
cinematography prizes at Sundance, is rooted in thoroughly researched
particulars, many of which will be evident only to Spanish-speaking viewers. He
was careful to get regional accents right and to use the specific argot of the
gang members, whom he grilled about their familial dynamics, a line of
questioning that he said annoyed some of them: ''The guys were like, 'Enough of
this ''Who buys the toilet paper?'' I want to tell you how we chop up bodies.'
''

To the extent that ''Sin Nombre'' has a message, Mr. Fukunaga said, he hopes it
is an ''anti-isolationist'' one. ''Americans think we're so far away from the
world,'' he said. ''But this is a North American story. It's not so exotic. And
it obviously has an impact here every day. Look right there'' -- he pointed to
the open kitchen of the Manhattan restaurant where the interview was being
conducted, staffed mainly by Latino workers -- ''that's where it's happening.''

With ''Sleep Dealer'' Mr. Rivera also wanted to reflect the daily realities of a
shrinking world, but he chose to do so by way of what he called ''third world
cyberpunk.'' While he has long been a sci-fi fan, he saw what he called ''a
black hole, a vacuum'' in the genre's typical locations and perspectives.

''Science fiction in the past has always looked at Los Angeles, New York,
London, Tokyo,'' he said in a recent telephone interview. ''We've never seen Sao
Paulo, or Jakarta, or Mexico City. We've never seen the future of the rest of
the world, which happens to be where the majority of humanity lives.''

''Sleep Dealer,'' which won the screenwriting award at Sundance last year (the
script is by Mr. Rivera and David Riker) as well as the festival's Alfred P.
Sloan Prize for the best film dealing with science or technology, envisions a
future in which would-be immigrants remain south of the border and use
network-connected robots to beam in their services.

''Their labor comes without their body,'' Mr. Rivera said. ''The idea struck me
as a reflection on outsourcing, a reflection on the position that immigrants
have in this country today, where they're made invisible from the political
system.''

Mr. Rivera, who studied political theory at Hampshire College, has been active
in immigrant rights groups over the years. His father came to the United States
from Peru, and many members of his extended family are immigrants.

''Sleep Dealer'' is his first feature, but he has been making experimental
shorts and documentaries since the 1990s. His previous film, a 2003 documentary
for PBS called ''The Sixth Section,'' was about a community of migrants in
upstate New York rebuilding their village in Puebla, Mexico, from afar -- a
real-life microcosm of the world of ''Sleep Dealer,'' in which people are, as
Mr. Rivera put it, ''connected by technology but divided by borders.''

''Sleep Dealer'' taps into the cultural and economic fears that have come with a
globalized planet. ''If you look at 'Blade Runner' or 'I, Robot,' the drama
comes from the idea that the robots will wake up and want to kill the people,''
Mr. Rivera said. ''In my film people use machines to exploit each other. The
robot doesn't want to kill you. The robot wants to take your job.''

Like Mr. Fukunaga, Mr. Rivera was looking less to advance a political message
than to foster a general open-mindedness. For all its newfangled trappings
''Sleep Dealer'' reasserts a narrative as old as this country.

''I believe the American story is that this is a nation of immigrants,'' Mr.
Rivera said. ''That's more powerful than the story that people who come here are
threats.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Paulina Gaitan in ''Sin Nombre,'' directed by Cary
Fukunaga. Above, Leonar Varela in Alex Rivera's ''Sleep Dealer.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS
BY, TOP, ENIAC MARTINEZ/FOCUS FEATURES
 ABOVE, LUIS AGUILAR)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 19, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Notes From the Immigration Battlefield

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 635 words


Here's a thought. What if illegal immigrants really aren't America's worst
nightmare? A lot of energy has been spent insisting that they are, but are they
really as dangerous as, say,  zombie banks? Or as evil as retention bonuses?

In truth, our biggest domestic menace never was waiting outside Home Depot,
hoping to clean your basement. Unauthorized immigrants are not about to destroy
anything, not even when they get angry and loud and march in large groups. On
the contrary, they are inspiring. Their ethic of self-reliance and hard work is
one that Americans should recognize and celebrate.

Exhibit A: Riverside, Calif., where I went recently to watch immigrant advocates
march against the Border Patrol.

Riverside is 100 miles from Mexico, but the Border Patrol has an office there.
Its agents have accused supervisors of imposing arrest quotas -- 150 illegals a
month -- that forced them to swoop into day-labor corners and bus stops to keep
their numbers up.

The marchers wanted to make the point that arresting people in bulk because they
look Hispanic is grossly unconstitutional. They wanted to denounce the raids as
a cruel misuse of crime-fighting resources -- fishing for minnows instead of
sharky predators.

The day of the march dawned wet, cold and calm. The crowd at City Hall grew to
about 300, then set off for the Border Patrol office, three miles away. They
looked like any Americans, though maybe more cheerful. They chanted and sang and
got soaked. The ink on their signs bled. They looked like poor people marching
for a better life, the kind we root for in movies like ''The Grapes of Wrath.''

Drivers gave friendly honks, but not everyone was nice. A guy on a townhouse
balcony silently held up a Confederate flag as the Latinos marched by. When he
saw my camera, he became a frightened little man. He whipped the flag behind his
back, as if it were a dirty magazine.

At the march's end, a band of Minutemen with American flags and bullhorns was
waiting across the road. ''We support the Border Patrol!'' they yelled over four
lanes of blacktop. ''Viva la Migra!''

I had thought these outnumbered soldiers might be tense. But I saw no fear, only
loathing. It was a party! I met a smiling man named Jim. ''What's your
heritage?'' he asked. As immigrant sons, we talked about what a great country it
was.

I asked him why we couldn't all just get along. He said because these aliens
were not the good Ellis Island kind. They were soaking California for billions
in social-service tax dollars while hatching evil schemes. ''Reconquistas,'' he
called them, citing a Mexican plot to seize the U.S.A. through mass migration.
It's fictional, but Jim believed it.

He gave me his card.

Jim Gilchrist!

Mr. Gilchrist founded the Minutemen. I asked for a picture. He pointed to a tree
and suggested posing there.

''With a noose hanging from it?'' he said.

''Pardon me?''

''With a noose hanging from it?''

I asked him to repeat it again. He said he was joking. I tried to make the words
fit together as humor, but couldn't.

I went to the Latino side, where the singing was better. The speeches were
interrupted when shoving broke out on the Minuteman side. Uh-oh.

I ran over and got Mr. Gilchrist out of a huddle. He told me one of his troops
had been spit on by a reconquista. He was keeping everybody calm while the
victim, a frail-looking woman, got ready to press charges.

A police officer was taking statements. A lawyer for the marchers, a skinny
white guy, put a gentle hand on her shoulder. ''Did he really spit on you?'' he
asked.

''No,'' she said, ''but he could have.''

It was a Perry Mason moment. But it was more. It was the Minuteman worldview
wrapped up in one sad little psychodrama: The alien threat, so scary, yet so
imaginary. The officer took note.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 29, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

First, Protect Our Rights

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 140 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Obama Flinches on Immigration'' (editorial, March 24):

Once again you focus on the ''rights'' of illegal immigrants to the detriment of
the right of American citizens to know that their borders are protected from
illegal entry, that their jobs are protected from illegal workers and that their
taxes are being used for the needs of legal residents.

This is not to say that illegal immigrants do not have human rights. They just
don't have the ''right'' to live in the United States unless they have applied
to enter, have been accepted and have followed the rules.

President Obama is the president of the United States. It is his job to protect
the rights of American citizens and to ensure that anyone who enters the United
States does so legally and with permission.

Sheila Davis  Toms River, N.J., March 24, 2009

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 4, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Virginia: Reprieve In Deportation

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 116 words


John Demjanjuk, who is accused of having been a guard at a Nazi death camp in
occupied Poland, won a reprieve of his ordered deportation to Germany to face
possible trial. An immigration judge in Arlington issued the stay of a
deportation that had been expected during the weekend, said Mr. Demjanjuk's son,
John Jr. The judge, Wayne Iskra, ordered that the deportation be delayed until
the Immigration Court could rule on Mr. Demjanjuk's request to reopen the
American case that ordered his removal. Mr. Demjanjuk, 89, lives in the
Cleveland suburb of Seven Hills; he has argued that his deportation would amount
to torture, given his frail health. His American citizenship was revoked in
2002.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 7, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Florida: After Acquittal, An Arrest

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 147 words


A young Egyptian  acquitted of federal explosives charges was unexpectedly
arrested by immigration officials in Tampa. The man, Youssef Samir Megahed, 23,
who was born in Egypt, was taken into custody by Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agents as he left a Wal-Mart store with his father, according to his
lawyer, Adam Allen. He is being held on a warrant signed by an immigration
judge. Mr. Allen said the government was trying to deport Mr. Megahed even
though federal prosecutors failed to secure a conviction at trial. In a
statement, an immigration department spokesman said Mr. Megahed had ''been
placed into removal proceedings'' and would be held until a judge heard his
case. He declined to comment further. Mr. Megahed, a former student at the
University of South Florida, is a legal permanent resident who has lived with
his family in the United States since he was 11.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 8, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Florida: Streaking for a Cause

BYLINE: By ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 127 words


The authorities say a man claiming to be an illegal immigrant ran naked down a
Port St. Lucie street so he would be sent back to Mexico. The police responded
to a home Saturday night where they say Roberto Carlos, 28, was arguing with his
boyfriend. Officers told Mr. Carlos, who appeared to be intoxicated, that he
should go home for the evening, but Mr. Carlos told them he wanted to go to jail
because he was an illegal immigrant and wanted to go back to Mexico. He then
said he planned to punch an officer to get arrested but decided not to after the
police told him it would not be in his best interest to do so. That was when he
took off his clothes and ran down the street. He was charged with indecent
exposure and was being held for immigration officials.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 14, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Reform and Hard Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 527 words


The Obama administration said last week that it would begin a major push for
immigration reform this year. The country's two big labor federations just
announced that they are joining forces to support that effort, which includes a
path to citizenship for undocumented workers. That's double good news.

The administration is saying that it will keep its promise to fix the broken
system, even if it means pushing the hottest of hot buttons: legalization, the
dreaded ''amnesty'' that sets the Republican right wing ablaze and makes many
Democrats quiver.

We are also heartened that American labor is speaking with a united voice in
hard times, rejecting the false claim that fixing the immigration system will
somehow hurt American workers. Even in a bad economy -- especially in a bad
economy -- getting undocumented immigrants on the right side of the law only
makes sense.

Administration officials said President Obama planned to speak publicly about
the issue next month and would convene working groups this summer, a la health
care, to begin discussing future legislation. Immigrant advocates were ecstatic,
though it is important to note that this was not a promise to move a bill, only
to start the debate. Even that is not going to be easy. Reform was thwarted in
the last two Congresses by obstructionist Republicans committed to the delusion
that expelling 12 million people amounts to a realistic policy.

The country has suffered mightily in the meantime. American workers and
businesses continue to be undercut by the underground economy. The economic
potential of some of the country's most industrious workers is thwarted. Working
off the books -- and living in constant fear of apprehension -- they earn less,
spend less, pay less in taxes and have little ability to report abuses or to
improve their skills or job prospects.

The ingredients of reform are clear: legalization for the 12 million, to yield
bumper crops of new citizens, to make it easier to weed out criminals and to end
the fear and hopelessness of life in the shadows; sensible enforcement at the
border that focuses resources on fighting crime, drugs and violence; a
strengthened employment system that punishes businesses that exploit illegal
labor; and a future flow of workers that is attuned to the economy's needs and
fully protects workers' rights.

The last point has been a sticky one with some unions. The agreement between the
A.F.L.-C.I.O. and Change to Win --  a rival federation that includes service
employees, the Teamsters and carpenters --  will center on a new approach to
future immigration, a compromise in which an independent national commission
calibrates the size of temporary-worker programs each year, based on conditions
in labor markets. It may not be a perfect plan, but after years of vitriol, it's
encouraging to hear calmer voices outlining smart reform.

We expect to hear more from Mr. Obama soon. It will take courage to defend the
wisdom and necessity of fixing the immigration system. It will take even more
courage to engage in the serious fight to do so. It is what the country needs
and what American voters elected Mr. Obama to do.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 15, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Study Says Police Misuse Immigration-Inquiry Rule

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 963 words


Many police officers in New Jersey are misusing a 2007 directive by the state's
attorney general by questioning the immigration status of Latino drivers,
passengers, pedestrians and even crime victims, reporting them to federal
immigration authorities and jailing some for days without criminal charges,
according to a Seton Hall Law School study.

''The data suggests a disturbing trend towards racial profiling by the New
Jersey police,'' said Bassina Farbenblum, a lawyer with the law school's Center
for Social Justice, which gathered details of 68 cases over the past nine months
in which people were questioned about their immigration status for no apparent
reason, or after minor infractions, like rolling through a stop sign. None
involved drunken driving or the use of false documents.

David Wald, a spokesman for the attorney general, Anne Milgram, said on Tuesday
that she would look into the cases cited, after asking the center -- which did
not provide names in its report -- to identify the individuals involved. ''We
welcome the center's input, but we question their conclusions,'' Mr. Wald said.
''We don't believe that New Jersey police are arresting individuals just to
enforce federal immigration laws.''

As the Obama administration pushes for a legislative path to legal status for
millions now vulnerable to deportation, the report underscores a disconnect
between the changed tone on immigration in Washington and what is happening on
the ground.

In one case it cited, police officers questioned a man at the Camden train
station after asking to see his ticket. Unable to show one, he was arrested and
held for seven days before being turned over to Immigration and Customs
Enforcement. (The Camden police did not return calls for comment.)

Elsewhere, another man was transferred to immigration agents after being held
for four months, cited only for driving without a license. And a woman who
showed her Argentine license at a ''car checkpoint'' was detained, then turned
over to federal immigration agents even though a judge told her there were no
charges against her.

The New Jersey directive ordered the police to inquire about immigration status
when arresting someone for an indictable crime or for driving while intoxicated.
The directive is silent on lesser offenses, but forbids the authorities from
questioning the victims or witnesses of crime about their immigration status.

Issued in the aftermath of the murders of three young people in a Newark
schoolyard in August 2007, it was spurred by TV and radio talk-show outrage that
one of the suspects was an illegal immigrant who had been released on bail for
an earlier offense. Critics, including some police chiefs and many immigrant
advocates, called the directive a recipe for racial profiling -- a public issue
with an ugly history in the state, and one state law enforcers had worked for
years to overcome with the help of a federal monitor.

Last year, as complaints accumulated about immigrants unfairly detained,
advocates called for modification of the order. But the attorney general, saying
that the directive helps keep dangerous criminals in custody, dismissed the
criticism as speculation based on anecdote. She called for the advocates of
modification to supply ''real evidence that the directive is being abused.''

The Seton Hall report was an effort to answer that challenge, Ms. Farbenblum
said. Of the 68 cases, collected from immigration lawyers across the state, 65
involved Latinos; the others were from Spain, Haiti and Kazakhstan, according to
the report.

It also listed seven incidents in which Latinos who sought police help were
questioned about their  immigration status, in direct violation of the
directive.

One woman told the center that she had called the police to her Plainfield home
to protect her from  domestic violence, but that they threatened to call the
federal enforcement agency.

A man told of going to the Mount Holly police station to report that his
passport had been lost, only to be detained for 16 days after police found some
unpaid parking tickets, and turned over to immigration agents. The police in
Mount Holly did not respond to questions about cases involving the directive.

Ms. Farbenblum said the cases in the report are ''the tip of the iceberg,''
since many noncitizens are reluctant to come forward or never see a lawyer, and
the police are not required to report their questioning of immigrants in such
cases. Police resources are being diverted from serious crime prevention,
breaking down the trust necessary for effective policing in a state with the
nation's third highest immigrant population, the report contends.

In the first six months after the directive was issued, the police referred
10,000 people to Immigration and Customs Enforcement, but only 1,417 of them
were charged with immigration violations, government data shows. Many others
were legal residents or United States citizens.

A current case identified by Maria Juega, a board member of the Latin American
Legal Defense and Education Fund, is the April 2 arrest of Eber Gonzalez
Mazariegos, who made a U-turn in Mount Holly.  Stopped by the police, he showed
his Guatemalan license.

Though he has neither a deportation order nor any criminal record, and though
his family paid a $300 fine, Ms. Juega said, Mr. Gonzalez was held over the
weekend, then transferred to immigration custody in the Middlesex County Jail.
He is still waiting to see an immigration judge.

A spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Harold A. Ort, said the
agency had not yet seen the report. He noted that the agency prohibited racial
profiling, and that Secretary Janet Napolitano had ordered a review of all
recent immigration enforcement initiatives.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 16, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Florida: Jurors Denounce Arrest

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 144 words


Four jurors who acquitted an Egyptian college student of federal explosives
charges criticized immigration authorities for trying to deport him, saying it
was a ''blatant disregard'' of their verdict. The jurors were among 12 who found
the student, Youssef Samir Megahed, 23, not guilty on April 3. Three days after
Mr. Megahed walked free, Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents arrested
him. A document ordering Mr. Megahed to appear in immigration court said he was
being deported based on the circumstances that resulted in the federal charges,
said his lawyer, Adam Allen. ''This sure looks and feels like some sort of
'double jeopardy' even if it doesn't precisely fit the legal definition of that
prohibited practice,'' the jurors said in a statement. Mr. Megahed is a legal
permanent resident who moved to the United States with his family when he was
11.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 20, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

In New Jersey, Uncertainty for Measures Offering In-State Tuition to Illegal
Residents

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 921 words


Champions of a proposal to allow illegal immigrants in New Jersey to pay
in-state college tuition could be forgiven for believing, after years of
frustration and defeat, that their cause may finally have momentum.

A blue-ribbon panel convened by Gov. Jon S. Corzine to study immigration matters
unanimously supported the proposal in a report issued last month, and the
governor has also endorsed the idea. Meanwhile, a new, more liberal wind blows
in Washington.

But even the most hopeful immigrant advocates in New Jersey concede that these
developments may not be enough to push the proposal, which is outlined in
several bills, through the State Legislature, particularly during a recession
and in a year in which the governor and the entire Assembly faces re-election.

Choosing his words carefully, Shai Goldstein, executive director of the New
Jersey Immigration Policy Network, said, ''We're cautiously optimistic.'' He
paused, then added: ''There's been pushback on this.''

The bills, versions of which have languished for years in the Legislature, would
allow an illegal immigrant who had attended a New Jersey high school for at
least three years and graduated to be eligible for in-state tuition at a
publicly supported college or university. (College tuitions and fees paid by
out-of-state students are on average more than 90 percent higher than those for
New Jersey residents, the panel said.)

Illegal immigrants, advocates argue, should not be penalized for their parents'
actions. Also, they say, allowing students access higher education will
encourage more immigrants to excel in high school, multiplying the state's
intellectual capital and empowering its work force.

''Maintaining a well-educated work force is integral to New Jersey's economic
vitality as demand for high-skilled labor begins to outpace supply,'' the
immigration panel's report said.

Ten other states, including New York, have granted in-state tuition to illegal
immigrants. Of the six states with the largest foreign-born populations, only
New Jersey and Florida have not passed legislation providing the benefit.
Similar measures were defeated in recent weeks in Colorado and Arkansas.

By some estimates, according to the immigration panel's report, there are about
28,000 illegal immigrants enrolled in New Jersey's high schools. Ronald K. Chen,
New Jersey's public advocate and the panel's chairman, said it was hard to
calculate how many students each year might take advantage of the in-state
tuition, but he said they might number in ''the very low four figures.''

Marisol Conde-Hernandez, 22, is the kind of New Jersey resident the legislation
is designed to help. She was born in Puebla, Mexico, and was brought to the
United States by her mother when she was 18 months old.

Ms. Conde-Hernandez excelled in school, graduating from South Brunswick High
School with a 3.5 grade-point average and a resume filled with extracurricular
activities, even while she was working full time to help support her family. She
enrolled at Middlesex County College and then at Rutgers University, where she
is a junior majoring in sociology.

Since she is not a legal resident, she pays full tuition and fees at Rutgers,
and works full time as a waitress to cover what she expects will total more than
$20,000 for two years' worth of credits.

She has become politically active, joining the lobby for immigration reform and
pushing for the passage of the in-state tuition bills. She decided to speak
publicly, in spite of her family's illegal status, in order to help future
students and ensure ''that their dreams don't get completely crushed,'' she
said.

Immigrant advocates say Ms. Conde-Hernandez is a rare exception. When faced with
few prospects for affordable higher education, they say, most illegal immigrants
underperform in high school or drop out.

Opponents say that the measures could result in illegal immigrants taking
college slots from legal residents and would cost the state money that could
otherwise be used to benefit citizens.

Christopher J. Christie, the leading Republican challenger to Governor Corzine
in this year's election, called the governor's support of the measures
''astonishing.''

''We need to focus our efforts on providing tax relief for middle-class New
Jerseyans,'' he said in a statement.

The bills' supporters acknowledge that this may not be the most opportune
political climate in which to push for passage. Anti-immigrant sentiment is
high, they say, particularly during a recession that has made many Americans
even less tolerant about providing jobs and public education for illegal
immigrants.

Moreover, Governor Corzine faces a tough re-election battle, and few think he
will expend much political capital on the proposal. Democratic assemblymen may
also shy away from the issue to help shore up support among more conservative
voters.

Indeed, some legislative offices have been swamped by e-mail messages and phone
calls railing against the proposal.

''It's dead; it's going nowhere,'' declared William Gheen, president of
Americans for Legal Immigration, a North Carolina-based organization that
opposes benefits for illegal immigrants and has been lobbying against in-state
tuition measures around the country.

But immigrant advocates in New Jersey say they are going to press hard for
passage of the bills. ''People demagogue this for ideological reasons,'' said
Mr. Goldstein of the New Jersey Immigration Policy Network. ''We're talking
about simple fairness.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marisol Conde-Hernandez pays out-of-state tuition at Rutgers
University. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUAN ARREDONDO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 23, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

After Losing Freedom, Some Immigrants Face Loss of Custody of Their Children

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1210 words

DATELINE: CARTHAGE, Mo.


When immigration agents raided a poultry processing plant near here two years
ago, they had no idea a little American boy named Carlos would be swept up in
the operation.

One of the 136 illegal immigrants detained in the raid was Carlos's mother,
Encarnacion Bail Romero, a Guatemalan. A year and a half after she went to jail,
a county court terminated Ms. Bail's rights to her child on grounds of
abandonment. Carlos, now 2, was adopted by a local couple.

In his decree, Judge David C. Dally of Circuit Court in Jasper County said the
couple made a comfortable living, had rearranged their lives and work schedules
to provide Carlos a stable home, and had support from their extended family. By
contrast, Judge Dally said, Ms. Bail had little to offer.

''The only certainties in the biological mother's future,'' he wrote, ''is  that
she will remain incarcerated until next year, and that she will be deported
thereafter.''

It is unclear how many children share Carlos's predicament. But lawyers and
advocates for immigrants say that cases like his are popping up across the
country as crackdowns against illegal immigrants thrust local courts into
transnational custody battles and leave thousands of children in limbo.

''The struggle in these cases is there's no winner,'' said Christopher Huck, an
immigration lawyer in Washington State.

He said that in many cases, what state courts want to do ''conflicts with what
federal immigration agencies are supposed to do.''

''Then things spiral out of control,'' Mr. Huck added, ''and it ends up in these
real unfortunate situations.''

Next month, the Nebraska Supreme Court is scheduled to hear an appeal by Maria
Luis, a Guatemalan whose rights to her American-born son and daughter were
terminated after she was detained in April 2005 on charges of falsely
identifying herself to a police officer. She was later deported.

And in South Carolina, a Circuit Court judge has been working with officials in
Guatemala to find a way to send the baby girl of a Guatemalan couple, Martin de
Leon Perez and his wife, Lucia, detained on charges of drinking in public, to
relatives in their country so the couple does not lose custody before their
expected deportation.

Patricia Ravenhorst, a South Carolina lawyer who handles immigration cases, said
she had tried ''to get our judges not to be intimidated by the notion of
crossing an international border.''

''I've asked them, 'What would we do if the child had relatives in New Jersey?'
'' Ms. Ravenhorst said. ''We'd coordinate with the State of New Jersey. So why
can't we do the same for a child with relatives in the highlands of Guatemala?''

Dora Schriro, an adviser to Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, said
the agency was looking for ways to deal with family separations as it prepared
new immigration enforcement guidelines. In visits to detention centers across
the country, Ms. Schriro said, she had heard accounts of parents losing contact
or custody of their children.

Child welfare laws differ from state to state. In the Missouri case, Carlos's
adoptive parents were awarded custody last year by Judge Dally after they
privately petitioned the court and he terminated Ms. Bail's rights to Carlos.

In February, immigration authorities suspended Ms. Bail's deportation order so
she could file suit to recover custody. Ms. Bail's lawyer, John de Leon, of
Miami, said his client had not been informed about the adoption proceedings in
her native Spanish, and had no real legal representation until it was too late.

The lawyer for Carlos's adoptive parents, Joseph L. Hensley, said his clients
had waited more than a year for Ms. Bail to demonstrate her commitment to
Carlos, but the judge found that she had made no attempt to contact the baby or
send financial support for him while she was incarcerated. The couple asked not
to be named to protect Carlos's privacy.

Ms. Bail came to the United States in 2005, and Carlos was born a year later. In
May 2007, she was detained in a raid on George's Processing plant in
Butterfield, near Carthage in southwestern Missouri.

Immigration authorities quickly released several workers who had small children.
But authorities said Ms. Bail was ineligible to be freed because she was charged
with using false identification. Such charges were part of a crackdown by the
Bush administration, which punished illegal immigrants by forcing them to serve
out sentences before being deported.

When Ms. Bail went to jail, Carlos, then 6 months old, was sent to stay with two
aunts who remembered him as having a voracious appetite and crying constantly.
But they also said he had a severe rash and had not received all of his
vaccinations.

The women -- each with three children of their own, no legal status, tiny
apartments and little money -- said the baby was too much to handle. So when a
local teachers' aide offered to find someone to take care of Carlos, the women
agreed.

Then in September 2007, Ms. Bail said, the aide visited her in jail to say that
an American couple was interested in adopting her son. The couple had land and a
beautiful house, Ms. Bail recalled being told, and had become very fond of
Carlos.

''My parents were poor, and they never gave me to anyone,'' Ms. Bail recalled.
''I was not going to give my son to anyone either.''

An adoption petition arrived at the jail a few weeks later. Ms. Bail, who cannot
read Spanish, much less English, said she had a cellmate from Mexico translate.
With the help of a guard and an English-speaking Guatemalan visitor, Ms. Bail
wrote a response to the court.

''I do not want my son to be adopted by anyone,'' she scrawled on a sheet of
notebook paper on Oct. 28, 2007. ''I would prefer that he be placed in foster
care until I am not in jail any longer. I would like to have visitation with my
son.''

For the next 10 months, she said, she had no communication with the court.
During that time, Judge Dally appointed a lawyer for Ms. Bail, but later removed
him from the case after he pleaded guilty to charges of domestic violence.

Mr. Hensley, the lawyer for Carlos's adoptive parents,said he had sent a letter
to Ms. Bail to tell her that his clients were caring for her son, as did the
court, but both letters were returned unopened. ''We afforded her more due
process than most people get who speak English,'' Mr. Hensley said.

Ms. Bail said she had asked the public defender who was representing her in the
identity theft case to help her determine Carlos's whereabouts, but the lawyer
told her she handled only criminal matters. ''I went to court six times, and six
times I asked for help to find my son,'' she said. ''But no one helped me.''

Ms. Bail got a Spanish-speaking lawyer, Aldo Dominguez, to represent her in the
custody case only last June. By the time he reached her two months later -- she
had been transferred to a prison in West Virginia -- it was too late to make her
case to Judge Dally, Mr. Dominguez said.

''Her lifestyle, that of smuggling herself into the country illegally and
committing crimes in this country, is not a lifestyle that can provide stability
for a child,'' the judge wrote in his decision. ''A child cannot be educated in
this way, always in hiding or on the run.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Encarnacion Bail Romero, right, at an Easter service in
Carthage, Mo. A Guatemalan, Ms. Bail is battling to regain custody of her son,
Carlos, 2.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK SCHIEFELBEIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Maria Luis, who was deported to Guatemala, with photographs of two of her
children who remain in the United States. Martin de Leon Perez and his wife,
Lucia, who have been in a South Carolina jail for eight months, in their monthly
visit with their daughter, Marisela Diana.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL
HERNANDEZ-SALAZAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 2, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Reopening Of Green-Card Cases

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING IMMIGRATION; Pg.
13

LENGTH: 121 words


A federal judge in Los Angeles has ordered the government to reopen the
immigration cases of dozens of foreign widows whose American-citizen spouses
died before the women could get their green cards. The judge, Christina A.
Snyder, ruled that the Department of Homeland Security could not deny the
widows' applications to remain in the United States legally because the agency
did not process the paperwork before their spouses died. The ruling paves the
way for the widows in Western states to have their applications for green cards
reopened. The Citizenship and Immigration Service has argued that the law
requires that residency applications be rejected for immigrants whose American
spouses die within two years of marriage.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 3, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Shift on Immigration

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 583 words


Last week, immigration enforcement policy shifted a little. The administration
issued guidelines for Immigration and Customs Enforcement that place a new
emphasis on prosecuting employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants.

That is a good idea, and a break from the Bush administration method -- mass
raids to net immigrant workers while leaving their bosses alone. The raids were
tuned to the theatrics of the poisoned immigration debate, using heavy weapons,
dogs and helicopters to spread the illusion that something was getting fixed.

But as policy, they were worse than useless. They netted about 6,000
undocumented immigrants, out of 12 million, and 135 employers or supervisors.
They destroyed families, tearing parents and grandparents from children, many of
them citizens. The fear they caused went viral in immigrant communities, driving
workers further into the arms of abusive employers while bringing us no closer
to a working immigration system.

So the new guidelines are smarter than cruel idiocy, but raids are still not a
solution. They keep the country trying to arrest, prosecute and deport its way
toward a working immigration system. Enforcement alone will never get us there.
Workplace raids, no matter how sensibly or tactfully redesigned, will never fix
immigration by themselves. Indeed, they make things worse.

Raids do not uphold or reinforce workers' rights, a non sequitur in the world of
off-the-books labor, where employers erode conditions for Americans by hiring
workers at deplorable conditions and pay. They do not fix long backlogs in legal
immigration, lines that extend years or decades, forcing people who want to
follow the rules to make an agonizing choice between intolerable separations
from their families or lawbreaking.

They do not protect illegal immigrants from the arbitrary cruelties of the
detention and deportation system, in which due process is limited and detainees
face unacceptable risk of sickness, injury and death in prison.

And the new enforcement regime, like the old, might lead employers to purge
their payrolls of people they merely suspect are here illegally, to avoid the
hassle and expense of a raid. When raids are coupled with electronic
hiring-verification schemes like E-Verify, which the government has been inching
toward, the likelihood of mass firings becomes greater. Without a path to earned
legalization, undocumented workers who lose their jobs will have nowhere to go
-- except to endure ever-lower wages and worse abuse from bottom-feeding
employers. The cycle of illegality will not have been broken.

The administration has promised to tackle comprehensive immigration reform this
year. President Obama has consistently said the right things, defending a path
to assimilation and citizenship for illegal immigrants rather than the futility
of mass expulsion.

The decision to adjust the policy on raids seems sensibly motivated. But we
agree with immigration and labor experts like Professor Jennifer Gordon of
Fordham Law School, who sees the new guidelines as a smarter version of a bad
idea. Far better, she says, for the government to redouble enforcement of laws
like the minimum wage, the right to organize, and health and safety protections.
This would reduce the incentive to hire the undocumented, and raise standards
for all workers. It would not end up devastating immigrant families, as raids
do. In times like these, that would be a step toward immigration reform that all
workers could support.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 4, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mentally Ill and in Immigration Limbo

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1667 words


Twice the immigration judge asked the woman's name. Twice she gave it: Xiu Ping
Jiang. But he chided her, a Chinese New Yorker, for answering his question
before the court interpreter had translated it into Mandarin.

''Ma'am, we're going to do this one more time, and then I'm going to treat you
as though you were not here,'' the immigration judge, Rex J. Ford, warned the
woman last year at her first hearing in Pompano Beach, Fla. He threatened to
issue an order of deportation that would say she had failed to show up.

She was a waitress with no criminal record, no lawyer and a history of attempted
suicide. Her reply to the judge's threat, captured by the court transcript, was
in imperfect English. ''Sir, I not -- cannot go home,'' she said, referring to
China, which her family says she fled in 1995 after being forcibly sterilized at
20. ''If I die, I die America.''

The judge moved on. ''The respondent, after proper notice, has failed to
appear,'' he said for the record. And as she declared, ''I'm going to die now,''
he entered an order deporting her to China, and sent her back to the Glades
County immigration jail.

That exchange, and her bleak experience in the immigration enforcement system,
have come to light only through a fluke. Ms. Jiang happens to bear the same name
as the ex-wife of Jiverly Wong, the United States citizen from Vietnam who
fatally shot 13 people in April at an immigration services center in Binghamton,
N.Y. As reporters tried to find the ex-wife, a database search for her name
turned up court records about Ms. Jiang, the waitress.

Now 35, she has spent more than a year in jail, often in solitary confinement,
sinking deeper into the mental illness that makes it impossible for her either
to fight deportation or to obtain the travel documents needed to make it happen,
according to a pending habeas corpus petition that seeks her release. It
contends that she is suicidal, emaciated and deprived of proper medical
treatment.

Had she been the Xiu Ping Jiang linked to a mass killer, her story would have
made instant news around the world. Instead, she is a kind of Internet-era
doppelganger, lost in one of the dark places of immigration law, where the only
life at stake may be her own.

''I'm afraid my sister will commit suicide in the detention,'' said her older
sister, Yun, 37, who found Ms. Jiang too ill to recognize her when she visited
the jail in February.

Ms. Jiang's journey -- from a village in China to restaurants in Brooklyn to a
bare jail cell in South Florida in the custody of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement -- illustrates the vulnerability of the mentally ill in the
immigration system, advocates say.

''It's a really stark, really dire issue, and it's a growing problem,'' said
Sunita Patel, a lawyer at the Center for Constitutional Rights in New York who
is part of an international working group of legal advocates and mental health
providers seeking more protective rules. No one keeps count of such cases, but
she added that ''with all these enforcement measures being put into place by
ICE, more and more people with mental illness are being put into the detention
system. And sometimes these people disappear.''

Federal immigration officials said they could not comment on an individual case.
But Elaine Komis, a spokeswoman for the Executive Office of Immigration Review,
which oversees the nation's immigration courts, said there were no rules for
determining competency in deportation proceedings, and no way to ensure
representation for a mentally ill person facing deportation.

''There is no right to government-paid representation in immigration court,''
Ms. Komis said in a statement, ''so no attorney is appointed when a respondent
is believed to be incompetent.''

The nation's immigration detention practices are under a comprehensive review
ordered by Janet Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security, said a
spokesman for the agency, Richard Rocha, adding, ''ICE recognizes the need to
address mental health issues among its detainees.''

The exact nature of Ms. Jiang's illness is unknown, and immigration authorities
would not release her medical records, even to her lawyers, saying she had
refused to sign a privacy release. Her two sisters, who live in New York,
describe her as a sweet, quiet woman whose mind broke under the strain of life
as an illegal immigrant seeking asylum.

She was traveling to Florida to start a job at a Chinese restaurant in December
2007 when immigration agents arrested her at a Greyhound bus station in West
Palm Beach on suspicion that she was in the country without a visa.

She was luckier than many mentally ill detainees. After Judge Ford issued an
order of deportation in January 2008, Ms. Jiang's older sister, now a United
States citizen, hired a lawyer who managed to have it overturned by the Board of
Immigration Appeals last May. But Ms. Jiang had to face the same judge in July,
and by then, after half a year in jail, her symptoms of mental illness had
become so severe that she was unable or unwilling to communicate with the
lawyer. He withdrew from the case.

She was on her own at a November hearing before a second immigration judge,
Scott G. Alexander, who again ordered her deported and again returned her to
jail, after noting that a government psychiatrist had deemed her competent to
participate in the hearing. The record shows that she sat through the hearing in
silence, her arms folded, her eyes downcast.

In February, Ms. Jiang's sisters -- one a waitress, one a cashier -- found
Theodore Cox, a New York immigration lawyer, who took the case without fee. So
far, he and his associate, Andrew Wong, have not had much success with their
emergency habeas petition, filed in March in federal court in Fort Myers, Fla.

In the last dozen years, immigration laws have sharply narrowed the grounds for
federal court review of such cases, and a federal magistrate judge directed Ms.
Jiang's lawyers to remove all allegations concerning her arrest, medical care,
conditions of confinement and the denial of opportunity to apply for asylum
protection at her hearing. Their motion urging reconsideration has not been
answered.

The one issue the court seems prepared to review is whether Ms. Jiang is being
unconstitutionally subjected to indefinite detention, defined under a 2001
Supreme Court decision as more than six months. But the six-month clock begins
to run only after the final order of removal, which was in November 2008 in Ms.
Jiang's case. And a deportation officer stopped the clock in January, the
lawyers said, because Ms. Jiang would not speak with immigration agents seeking
a travel document for her.

Ms. Jiang goes without eating for days, or vomits after meals for fear of
poison; she mumbles to herself and tears up letters from her family, the
petition says. While her risk of dying in detention seems to grow each day, her
sisters say, they also fear that she will die if she were deported to China,
since nobody there is able to take care of her.

''To save her, I would change places with my sister,'' her sister Yun proposed
in an interview at Mr. Cox's law office, speaking through a translator. ''Take
me to detention.''

In their home village in Fujian Province, in southeastern China, the sisters
said, Ms. Jiang was married under age. She hid in their mother's house when she
was pregnant with her second son, they said, because under China's one-child
policy, the village government would have forced her to have an abortion.

''She did not deliver in a hospital, and she almost died,'' said the younger
sister, Yu, 33, the first to emigrate. A few days after the birth, she added,
officials found Ms. Jiang, sterilized her and imposed a heavy fine. Later,
divorced and desperate, Ms. Jiang borrowed the equivalent of $35,000 to be
smuggled by boat to the United States, hoping to find political asylum and bring
over the young sons she left with their grandmother.

But grueling months at sea left her emotionally fragile, and in the summer of
1997, about a year after her arrival, she became so despondent about her
separation from her children, and the burden of her debts, that she tried to
kill herself by drinking bleach, her sisters said. The police took her to
Bellevue Hospital Center.

''She was afraid of being arrested, so the next day she ran away,'' Yu recalled.

At times over the next decade Ms. Jiang seemed better, as she moved from work in
Manhattan garment factories to waitress jobs in Chinese restaurants across the
country. But an effort to bring her younger son into the United States through
Canada when he was 8 or 9 backfired: he was caught by Canadian officials and
placed in foster care.

''He intended to join up with her,'' the younger sister said of the boy, now 16.
''Now it's impossible, because he's being adopted.''

By the winter of 2007, Ms. Jiang's mental illness had cost her many jobs, the
sisters said, but as a favor, some of their former employers would still hire
her. She had lost a job in Alabama and was on her way to another in Florida when
immigration agents stopped her.

One of the mysteries of Ms. Jiang's life remains a brief marriage in Des Moines
to a Vietnamese man. Her sisters said the family had never even learned his name
because she was ashamed to talk about the episode. When they learned from a
reporter in April that a woman named Xiu Ping Jiang had been married to the
Binghamton gunman, they were seized by doubt: Could this have been their
sister's Vietnamese husband?

They made a flurry of phone calls, then raced through Chinatown streets in the
rain to show a photo of the killer to Ms. Jiang's former boss from Des Moines,
who was visiting New York. But he took one look and said with finality, ''That's
not him.''

By then, the sisters seemed to have been hoping for a different verdict, for a
link that could suddenly turn the world's gaze to their Xiu Ping Jiang -- long
enough, at least, to save her from the dark.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Xiu Ping Jiang, in an undated photo, has spent more than a year
in jail and faces deportation. Her illness has complicated the process.
Ms. Jiang's sisters, Yun, left, and Yu, who both live in New York, have been
fighting to have her freed and have watched her condition deteriorate in jail.
''I'm afraid my sister will commit suicide in the detention,'' said Yun, who
said Ms. Jiang was too ill to recognize her when she visited in February.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PATRICK ANDRADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A17)
 Yun Jiang, holding a picture of Jiverly Wong, and Yu Jiang with their lawyer,
Theodore Cox. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK ANDRADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A21)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                    (Green)

                            November 3, 2008 Monday

Green Jobs and Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: KATE GALBRAITH

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 312 words



HIGHLIGHT: Just as the &#8220;green jobs&#8221; machine starts revving up,
another hot political issue is arriving at its doorstep: illegal immigration.


An in-depth look at the arrival of green jobs in the Rust Belt in The New York
Times on Sunday noted that in some towns, workers laid off by Maytag and other
manufacturers are finding new opportunities building wind turbines.

But just as the "green jobs" machine starts revving up, another hot political
issue is arriving at its doorstep: illegal immigration.

Last week news reports said that 23 workers suspected of being illegal
immigrants had been arrested while constructing an ethanol plant in North
Dakota.

From The Associated Press:

The men were helping to build a Casselton ethanol plant and were taken into
custody without incident Tuesday morning while attending a meeting, U.S.
Attorney Drew Wrigley said at a press conference.

Mr. Wrigley said they will be formally charged Friday with possessing
counterfeit documents.

The leader of a Louisiana workers' group who had heard about the arrests told
The Associated Press that the men came to the United States from India to help
rebuild after Hurricane Katrina and were victims of a human trafficking scheme.

"They paid $20,000 apiece to recruiters and were promised green cards and
permanent residency," said Saket Sony, director of the New Orleans Workers'
Center for Racial Justice. He didn't know how they wound up in North Dakota.

It's not the first time that illegal immigrants have found jobs created by the
green boom. July 2007, the Huron Daily Tribune in Michigan reported that the
police arrested two people who they said were illegal immigrants - and who were
found to work for a subcontractor at a wind farm. (They had been stopped for
speeding.)

Predictably enough, the developments stirred local controversy.

So far, reports of undocumented workers within the clean energy industries
remain rare. But these incidents do seem to suggest that "green jobs" are not
immune to the issues facing American labor.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 2, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Was Unaware of Aunt's Status, Aides Say

BYLINE: By GARDINER HARRIS and ABBY GOODNOUGH; Gardiner Harris reported from
Washington, and Abby Goodnough from Boston. Reporting was contributed by Eric
Lipton from Washington; Michael Luo from New York; Julia Preston from Tennessee;
Jeff Zeleny from Henderson, Nev.; and Katie Zezima from Boston.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 719 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Responding to a report that a Kenyan relative of Senator Barack Obama was living
in the United States illegally, his campaign said Saturday that he had no
knowledge of her immigration status and that ''any and all appropriate laws''
should be followed.

The woman, Zeituni Onyango, referred to as Auntie Zeituni in a passage in Mr.
Obama's memoir, applied for political asylum in the United States in 2004, but a
federal immigration judge rejected her request and instructed her to leave the
country, said a government official with knowledge of the case who asked not to
be identified because of its delicate nature. Ms. Onyango's legal status was
first reported by The Associated Press on Friday.

The disclosure came as the presidential campaign hurtled toward Election Day,
and it left Mr. Obama, the Democratic nominee for president, answering questions
about what he knew of Ms. Onyango's situation.

Some Democrats suggested that the timing of the disclosure could have been
politically motivated, and some immigration lawyers said that for government
officials to disclose information about an asylum applicant was unethical or
perhaps illegal.

''People are suspicious about stories that surface in the last 72 hours of a
national campaign, and I think they're going to put it in that context,'' Mr.
Obama's chief strategist, David Axelrod, told reporters on Saturday.

Senator John McCain's campaign declined to comment, and neither Mr. McCain, the
Republican nominee, nor his running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin, raised the issue on
the campaign trail.

An Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokeswoman, Kelly A. Nantel, said the
agency's inspector general and office of professional responsibility were
looking into whether there was a violation of confidentiality policy.

Ms. Onyango, 56, is the half-sister of Mr. Obama's father and is part of an
extensive network of paternal relatives with whom Mr. Obama has had limited
contact, his aides said. Mr. Obama, who was largely raised by his maternal
grandparents in Honolulu, first met Ms. Onyango when he traveled to Africa as an
adult.

Mr. Axelrod said that Mr. Obama and Ms. Onyango did not have ''a real close
relationship.''

Ms. Onyango attended the ceremony in January 2005 when Mr. Obama was sworn in as
a senator from Illinois, but campaign officials said he had provided no
assistance in getting her a tourist visa and did not know the details of her
stay. At the time of the ceremony, Ms. Onyango and another relative said in
interviews that they had flown to the United States from Kenya to witness the
event.

Mr. Obama last heard from Ms. Onyango about two years ago when she called to say
she was in Boston, but he did not see her there, the campaign said.

Federal Election Commission records list a Zeituni Onyango in South Boston as
making a series of contributions, totaling $265, to the Obama campaign, with the
most recent contribution, $5, made on Sept. 19.

Mr. Obama's campaign said the money was being refunded. It is illegal for
foreign citizens and immigrants without green cards to make political donations.
Aides said that the donations came through the normal channels and that no one
at the campaign knew of Ms. Onyango's immigration status or that she was related
to Mr. Obama.

The Times of London reported on Thursday that Ms. Onyango lived in public
housing in Boston. On Friday, The A.P. reported that she was in the country
illegally and that her case had led to an unusual nationwide directive from
Immigration and Customs Enforcement requiring that any deportations before the
election on Tuesday be approved at least at the level of regional directors.

Ms. Nantel, the agency spokeswoman, said she could not comment on the matter. A
White House spokesman, Scott Stanzel, said the White House had no involvement in
the matter.

Ms. Onyango lives in an apartment that is handicapped accessible and volunteered
as a resident health advocate for the Boston Housing Authority before stopping
recently because of back surgery that required physical therapy, said William
McGonagle, the authority's deputy director.

On Saturday, a police officer was stationed outside the low, brick public
housing complex where Ms. Onyango lives. The officer said she was not at home
and told reporters not to enter the building.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 4, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Massachusetts: Plea Deal in Raid Case

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING NEW ENGLAND; Pg.
16

LENGTH: 145 words


The owner of a New Bedford leather-goods factory that was raided last year by
immigration agents has pleaded guilty to harboring and concealing illegal
immigrants. The owner of Michael Bianco Inc., Francesco Insolia, was charged
with conspiring to induce illegal immigrants to live in the United States and
conspiring to hire illegal immigrants. As part of a deal with prosecutors, Mr.
Insolia agreed to plead guilty to a single charge of harboring and concealing
immigrants. The company also pleaded guilty to 18 counts of knowingly hiring
illegal immigrants from early 2004 to late 2006. It has agreed to pay a fine of
about $1.5 million and pay about $460,000 in restitution for overtime owed to
employees. Mr. Insolia faces 12 to 18 months in prison and has agreed to pay a
fine of $30,000. In March 2007, the federal authorities arrested 361 workers at
the company.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 6, 2008 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Large Iowa Meatpacker in Illegal Immigrant Raid Files for Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 903 words


The kosher meatpacking company in Iowa that has been struggling with criminal
charges and huge fines for labor violations, a dwindling work force and
declining demand among Jewish consumers since an immigration raid at its main
plant, has filed for bankruptcy.

The filing late Tuesday by Agriprocessors Inc. signaled the demise of a company
that has been operated by a single family: the owner, Aaron Rubashkin, and his
son Sholom, who built the company into the country's dominant supplier of kosher
meat.

The company began to founder after 389 illegal immigrants, about half its work
force, were arrested on May 12 in a raid at its plant in Postville, Iowa. The
immigrants reported under-age employees and what they said were abusive work
conditions to the authorities.

Although demand for Agriprocessors' products declined after the raid,
supermarkets and butcher shops nationwide supplying Jews who observe strict
dietary laws reported shortages of kosher meat this week, after the  plant
stopped slaughtering cattle a week ago. Agriprocessors sells meat under the
Rubashkin's, Aaron's Best and Shor Harbor labels, among others.

''It's chaos out there; the shortage is all over the country,'' said Menachem
Lubinsky, the editor of koshertoday.com, which monitors kosher food markets.
''Everybody has begun to scramble.''

In documents filed in bankruptcy court in the Eastern District of New York,
Agriprocessors, whose headquarters is in Brooklyn, reported annual earnings of
$300 million before the raid, the first revenue figures made public for the
privately owned company. It reported debt of $50 million to $100 million.

Blaming ''difficult circumstances involving a raid'' for its financial woes,
Agriprocessors, which filed under Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code, said it was
seeking new financing to restructure its business. It opted to declare
bankruptcy after its major creditor, First Bank Business Capital of Missouri,
foreclosed last week on a $35 million loan. The foreclosure is suspended while
the bankruptcy proceeds.

''We are filing this to reinvigorate the company,'' said Agriprocessors's lawyer
in the bankruptcy, Kevin J. Nash.

In Postville, a town of 2,200 in northeastern Iowa, residents said there was an
unfamiliar calm  on Wednesday as activity at the big plant at the edge of town
fell to a low. Long before the raid, the Rubashkins had clashed with residents
in Postville, where low pay, unpaid overtime and safety violations at the plant
were a frequent subject of local gossip. But residents were deeply worried at
the prospect that their largest employer by far would close.

''I think that people would prefer a different owner,'' said the Rev. Paul
Ouderkirk, the priest at St. Bridget's Catholic Church in Postville, which has
been supporting the families of dozens of immigrants arrested in the raid. ''But
it would be very, very tragic if the plant shut down.''

While Agriprocessors blamed the raid for its bankruptcy filing, Iowa labor
experts said the company created many of its own troubles by hiring large
numbers of illegal immigrants and paying them wages far below the industry
standard, and by maintaining contentious relations with state labor authorities
and fiercely resisting unions.

''They left themselves exposed by their utter refusal to play by the rules,''
said Mark Grey, a sociology professor at the University of Northern Iowa who
studies recent immigration to Iowa.

Union officials said the Postville plant stood out from other Iowa packinghouses
for the frequency of its labor violations.

''If there was a hall of shame for employers in this industry, Agriprocessors
would have its own wing,'' said Mark Lauritsen, international vice president of
the United Food and Commercial Workers, a union that has long tried to gain a
foothold at the plant.

Demand for Agriprocessors's brands began to decline after the company's labor
practices were criticized by a movement of Conservative and Reform Jews, who are
seeking to add a new seal, known as Hekhsher Tzedek, to kosher-certified food.
It would signify it was produced according to Jewish ethics.

Religious authorities at the Orthodox Union, the country's major certifier of
kosher food, said they were working with the top manager at Agriprocessors,
Bernard S. Feldman, to find new owners or managers for the company. Mr. Feldman
took charge of the company in late September.

If the Postville plant closes, it would leave ''a significant void in the market
that cannot easily be reproduced,'' said Rabbi Menachem Genack, the chief
executive of the kosher-certifying arm of the Orthodox Union.

Sholom Rubashkin, the former chief executive of Agriprocessors, was arrested
last week by federal authorities on charges of conspiracy to harbor illegal
immigrants. Sholom and Aaron Rubashkin were also facing state criminal charges
in Iowa for employing more than 30 under-age workers at the plant, and Iowa
labor authorities have levied $10 million in fines for wage violations.

In Postville, residents were dismayed by a report posted on a Jewish Web site,
FailedMessiah.com, saying that Sholom Rubashkin held a celebration in Postville
last week after he was released from detention on $1 million bail.

About 300 illegal immigrant workers, most of them from Guatemala, were convicted
on federal charges after the raid. Most served five months in prison and were
deported.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 17, 2008



CORRECTION: An article on Nov. 6 about the bankruptcy filing by Agri- processors
Inc., a kosher meatpacking company with a plant in Postville, Iowa, where an
immigration raid took place in May, misstated the name of one of the company's
meat brands. The error also appeared on Aug. 23 in an article about the
immigration raid. The meat brand is Shor Habor, not Shor Harbor.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Agriprocessors, a large meatpacker in Iowa, filed for bankruptcy
six months after 389 immigrant workers were arrested. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIZ
MARTIN/CEDAR RAPIDS GAZETTE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 19, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Massachusetts: Fines After Factory Raid

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING NEW ENGLAND; Pg.
23

LENGTH: 136 words


The former owners of a New Bedford leather goods factory raided last year by
immigration agents will pay $850,000 to workers, including illegal immigrants,
to settle a lawsuit claiming the company violated wage laws, lawyers said. The
company, Michael Bianco Inc., will pay more than $600,000 to 764 former
employees for unpaid wages and overtime to settle the lawsuit filed in May 2007.
The remaining money will go for legal fees and contributions to community groups
that work with immigrants. The company, which handled millions of dollars' worth
of federal contracts before the raid, admitted no wrongdoing. This month, its
former president, Francesco Insolia, above, pleaded guilty to harboring and
concealing illegal immigrants. Michael Bianco was sold to Eagle Industries of
Fenton, Mo., more than a year ago.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 1, 2008 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Cool Head on Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 506 words


The word is that Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona is President-elect Barack
Obama's choice for homeland security secretary, which would make her the
country's top official handling immigration enforcement and border control.

Lucky country. Poor Arizona.

It would be a relief to see the job go to someone with a solid understanding of
immigration and all its complexities and political traps. As governor of a
border state, Ms. Napolitano knows the landscape intimately. She has a cool head
and a proven willingness to pursue policies that conform to reality, rather than
the other way around. For years, the country has stumbled in a state of
immigration panic, using harsh tactics to create the illusion of control while
rejecting comprehensive strategies that would attack the problem at its roots.

Getting comprehensive reform passed may be a difficult slog for the new
administration. But it can move quickly to repair what has gone awry with the
enforcement-only regime, starting with reining in state and local crackdowns.
Ms. Napolitano would do the country a huge favor by taking a withering look at a
fellow Arizonan, Sheriff Joe Arpaio, who has used the federal 287(g) program,
which delegates immigration enforcement to the local police, to terrorize
immigrants in Phoenix.

Ms. Napolitano is famously skeptical of the border fence, the Bush
administration's 700-mile, multibillion-dollar desert speed bump. The fence was
never going to be the zip-lock seal its defenders clamored for, and is hardly
worth the expense or environmental damage it has caused. Ms. Napolitano is well
aware that the way to get tough at the border is to bring the visa supply in
line with reality and give the Border Patrol the resources to catch drug
smugglers and other bad people.

The federal crackdown on illegal hiring is a similar mishmash of hastily erected
rules, including much-criticized systems of checking workers' names against
error-plagued databases. Ms. Napolitano would do well to ensure a slow,
judicious rollout of electronic workplace enforcement, to avoid mistakes that
could ruin the lives and livelihoods of thousands of legitimate employees.

The immigration detention system, which has been scarred by horrifying accounts
of neglect and mistreatment, is in dire need of reform to ensure humane
standards of medical care. And perhaps most important, the new administration
should abolish the disastrous campaign of raids that have sundered families and
spread terror through immigrant communities while making no meaningful
difference in the undocumented population.

Ms. Napolitano's departure would leave a void in Arizona, a caldron of
resentments and fear and thick-headed immigration politics -- a topic on which
she has long been one of the cooler voices in the state. She says she likes to
begin speeches before tough audiences with a rhetorical question: ''Who here
favors illegal immigration? Nobody? O.K., we've got a consensus on an issue that
nobody is supposed to agree on. Let's go from here.''

Yes, let's.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 3, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

British Judges Order Radical Islamic Cleric Back to Prison

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 468 words


LONDON -- A panel of immigration judges ordered the immediate return to prison
on Tuesday of a radical Islamic preacher known as Abu Qatada, dubbed by
Britain's tabloid newspapers as ''Osama bin Laden's right-hand man in Europe.''

The judges accepted warnings from the Home Office, Britain's interior ministry,
that the cleric, a 47-year-old Jordanian of Palestinian origin, might try to
flee if he were allowed to remain free on the bail granted to him five months
ago.

The ruling by the Special Immigration Appeals Commission was the latest
development in a legal battle that goes back to 1993, when the preacher, whose
real name is Omar Mahmoud Mohammed Othman, arrived in Britain on a forged United
Arab Emirates passport. He won asylum for himself and his family nine months
later, but attracted the attention of the counterterrorism police about seven
months before the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks by Al Qaeda.

In February 2001, Mr. Othman was questioned by the police on suspicion of links
to radical Islamist cells in Germany.

The courts have been told that tapes of his sermons in British mosques were
found in a Hamburg apartment used by some of the Sept. 11 hijackers. The courts
were also told that officers found the equivalent of about $300,000, with about
$1,500 of it in an envelope labeled ''for the mujahedeen in Chechnya.'' He was
not arrested, but became one of Britain's most wanted men when he went on the
run after Sept. 11, seeking to evade arrest under new antiterrorism laws.

British intelligence officials have said that he offered religious guidance at
London's Brixton mosque to two men serving life sentences for terrorism in the
United States -- Richard Reid, the so-called shoe bomber, seized by fellow
passengers aboard a trans-Atlantic airliner and convicted in a Boston court in
December 2001, and Zacarias Moussaoui, arrested before the Sept. 11 attacks but
found guilty by a court in Minneapolis in 2006 of conspiracy to kill American
citizens in those attacks.

In October 2002, Mr. Othman was tracked to a house in south London, setting off
a renewed battle to avoid deportation. With British courts reluctant to order
deportations to countries that practice torture, the government reached an
agreement with Jordan that included a commitment not to mistreat Mr. Othman. But
appeal courts ruled that the commitment was not a sufficient guarantee of Mr.
Othman's rights, and ordered him freed on bail pending further court hearings in
June.

The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, issued a statement afterward welcoming his
return to prison. ''I'm pleased the court has agreed that Qatada should have his
bail revoked,'' she said. ''He poses a significant threat to our national
security and I am pleased that he will be detained pending his deportation,
which I'm working hard to secure.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Abu Qatada's legal battle began in 1993 with a forged
passport.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS, 2001)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 3, 2008 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Britain Orders Radical Islamic Cleric Back to Jail

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 393 words

DATELINE: LONDON


A panel of immigration judges ordered the immediate return to prison on Tuesday
of a radical Islamic preacher known as Abu Qatada,  dubbed by Britain's tabloid
newspapers as ''Osama bin Laden's right-hand man in Europe.''

The judges accepted warnings from the Home Office, Britain's interior ministry,
that the cleric, a 47-year-old Jordanian of Palestinian origin, might attempt to
flee  if he were allowed to remain on the bail granted to him five months ago.

The ruling by the Special Immigration Appeals Commission was the latest
development in a legal battle that goes back to 1993, when the preacher, whose
real name is Omar Mahmoud Mohammed Othman, arrived in Britain on a forged United
Arab Emirates passport. He won asylum for himself and his family nine months
later, but attracted the attention of the counterterrorism police about seven
months before the Sept. 11, 2001,  attacks by Al Qaeda in New York and
Washington.

Courts have been told that tapes of his sermons in British mosques were found in
a Hamburg flat used by some of the Sept. 11 hijackers. In February 2001, Mr.
Othman was questioned by police on suspicion of links to radical Islamist cells
in Germany. The courts have been told that officers found 170,000 pounds in
cash, the equivalent then of about $300,000, with about $1,500 of it in an
envelope labeled ''for the mujahideen in Chechnya.'' He was not arrested, but
became on Britain's most-wanted men when he went on the run after Sept. 11,
seeking to evade arrest under new antiterror laws.

In October 2002, he was tracked down to a house in south London, setting off his
battle to avoid deportation. With British courts reluctant to order
deportations to countries that practice  torture, the government reached an
agreement with Jordan that included a commitment not to mistreat Mr. Othman. But
the courts ruled that the commitment was not a sufficient guarantee of Mr.
Othman's rights, and ordered him freed on bail pending further court hearings in
June.

The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, issued a statement after Tuesday's court
ruling welcoming his return to jail. ''I'm pleased the court has agreed that
Qatada should have his bail revoked,'' she said. ''He poses a significant threat
to our national security and I am pleased that he will be detained pending his
deportation, which I'm working hard to secure.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 12, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona: Case Dropped In Death

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 107 words


Prosecutors said they would not seek a third trial for a Border Patrol agent
charged in the shooting death of an illegal immigrant. Two juries this year were
unable to reach a verdict in the case against the agent, Nicholas Corbett. The
Cochise County prosecutor, Doyle Johnstun, said his office would move to dismiss
charges but could refile them if more evidence emerged. Mr. Corbett was tried on
second-degree murder, manslaughter and negligent homicide charges in the January
2007 death of Francisco Javier Dominguez Rivera, an immigrant from Puebla,
Mexico. Mr. Dominguez's family has filed a wrongful death lawsuit against Mr.
Corbett.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 15, 2008 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona and Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 182 words


To the Editor:

Re ''State of Fear'' (editorial, Dec. 8):

Arizonans are not living in a ''state of fear'' as a result of Gov. Janet
Napolitano's expected confirmation as secretary of homeland security. In fact,
there is greater fear that we will have more than our average days of rain this
winter and temperatures below our norm than a concern over whether the State
Legislature and the next governor will pass punitive immigration legislation.

Let's not forget that Governor Napolitano signed the country's toughest employer
sanctions law in July 2007. At that time, there was a true state of fear among
some of Arizona's citizens and businesses.

To its credit, the Legislature revised the law in 2008 with the governor's
approval to shave off the rough edges of the original legislation.

I do agree it is positive that Governor Napolitano will be in a position to
shape national immigration reform. She will help the federal government properly
reassert control over this issue.

Glenn Hamer  President and Chief Executive Arizona Chamber of Commerce  and
Industry Phoenix, Dec. 10, 2008

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 19, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Headed Out of Town,' Bush Turns Reflective

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 772 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bush shared some bittersweet reflections on Thursday as he looked back
fondly on his White House days but regretted his inability to win passage of
immigration legislation and to change the tone of debate in the capital.

''Reflections by a guy who's headed out of town,'' Mr. Bush called his musings
in a question-and-answer session at the American Enterprise Institute. ''An old
sage at 62 ... headed to retirement.''

The president, who has described himself as uncomfortable with introspection,
loosened up considerably before a friendly audience of conservatives. Better to
have tried and failed than never to have tried at all was a theme he embraced
several times.

''One such problem was immigration reform,'' the president said. ''And in this
case, I chose to put the spotlight directly on the issue by giving an Oval
Office address. Obviously, we weren't successful about getting comprehensive
immigration reform. Nevertheless, I feel good about having tried.''

And while he will miss many things about Washington, he won't miss ''the petty
name-calling,'' Mr. Bush said.

''I came with the idea of changing the tone in Washington, and frankly didn't do
a very good job of it,'' he said. ''You know, war brings out a lot of heated
rhetoric and a lot of emotion. I fully understand that.''

The president reiterated his faith in freedom and in free markets, the current
financial crisis notwithstanding. And while he voiced his continued optimism
about the American people, he said  one of his ''great fears'' was that troubles
overseas might tempt the country to revert to isolationism.

''The world needs America's involvement,'' he said. ''We're a compassionate,
decent, strong nation.''

The president spoke about big issues (Iraq and tax policy, for instance) and not
so big ones, like his relationship with the White House press corps. ''I don't
like some of the things they say,'' Mr. Bush said. ''Of course, they don't like
some of the things I say. But we've had a good relationship.''

A lot of spirited intramural debate preceded the 2007 increase of American
troops in Iraq, Mr. Bush said in observing that ''creating tension is good for
decision-making, so long as it doesn't become destructive.''

When asked about President-elect Barack Obama's assertions that ''Bush
deregulation'' had led to a culture of recklessness and greed on Wall Street,
Mr. Bush said he was looking forward ''to the true history of this financial
crisis being written.''

''Just some thoughts on this,'' he said. ''The markets sometimes create
excesses. We're living through the consequences of the excess. I quipped in
Texas that Wall Street got drunk, and we got a hangover.''

But this, too, shall pass, he said of the current storm. And when it does, he
said, elected officials should remember that ''markets and free enterprise is
what made the country great,'' and that government's proper role is promoting
entrepreneurship and prosperity, not getting deeply involved in the mortgage
business or managing car companies. And, yes, he retains his faith in low taxes
as the best economic stimulus of all.

The president said the country ''needs to overcome its fear about nuclear
power'' if Americans want to have all the electricity they will need and still
protect the environment.

''In terms of safety, the engineering has changed dramatically from the past,''
he said. (Coincidentally, Mr. Bush spoke 51 years to the day after the
Shippingport Atomic Power Station, near Pittsburgh, became the first civilian
nuclear plant to generate electricity in the United States.)

Mr. Bush implied that the harsh words of the presidential campaign were all but
forgotten when he and Mr. Obama met in the Oval Office recently. The retiring
president refused to say what advice he had given his successor but said they
had chatted about something in common: ''He's a dad who will have two daughters
in the White House.''

Mr. Bush, one of the least popular presidents in recent history, if public
opinion polls are accurate, said the individual in the Oval Office is not that
important: ''Presidents will come and go with their strengths and weaknesses,
but the ship of state sails on because of the institution being greater than the
person.''

And political conservatives who fear that the November elections banished them
to the wilderness should take heart, Mr. Bush said. Remember the Democratic
landslide led by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964, he said, and recall that
just two years later Republican conservatives triumphed across the country.

''My point is that things go in cycles in politics,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush said Thursday at the American Enterprise
Institute that he regretted his failure to pass immigration
legislation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM YOUNG/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 28, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Call Off the Immigrant Hunt

BYLINE: By JORGE G. CASTANEDA.

Jorge G. Castaneda, a professor of politics and Latin American and Caribbean
studies at New York University and the author of ''Ex Mex: From Migrants to
Immigrants,'' was Mexico's foreign minister from 2000 to 2003.

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS TRANSITIONS;
Pg. 9

LENGTH: 729 words


THERE are myriad claims to Barack Obama's attention, and the list will only grow
before Jan. 20. But immigration reform and, more immediately, putting an end to
the outgoing administration's unfortunate and inhuman immigration enforcement
policy should be high on the president-elect's list.

Mr. Obama can learn from his predecessor. President Bush wanted comprehensive
immigration reform in 2001, but 9/11 got in the way. He started over in 2004,
but did little given the imperatives of re-election. He pushed it gently in 2006
and failed, and then went all out in 2007 but failed again.

Immigration reform is the sort of complex and costly project that, as a rule,
presidents accomplish only at the peak of their power -- when their term begins.
If Mr. Obama decides to postpone immigration reform until later, he runs the
risk of no longer possessing the leverage to convince his party's legislators to
brave the furies of the extreme right wing.

But even without comprehensive reform, Mr. Obama can make a huge difference in
the lives of millions of undocumented migrants in the United States today. Since
late 2006, the Bush administration has been carrying out the ''tough love'' side
of immigration reform without the generous and open-arms side, which would mean
legalization for those in the United States today, and a migrant worker program
for those it will need tomorrow.

It has pursued a humiliating and hostile policy of persecution and harassment of
illegal Mexicans, Guatemalans, Salvadorans, Hondurans and many others. It
changed the rules of the game without any warning or empathy, nor with the
traditional understanding the United States has shown, more often than not over
the past century, in regard to those who cross its borders without papers.

The Social Security Administration has sent ''no match'' letters to employers to
detect unauthorized workers, while federal agents have conducted innumerable
raids on immigrants' homes and day-labor hiring sites, and even outside schools
where migrants' children are enrolled. The raids are followed by immediate
deportation, or, in one case at an Iowa meatpacking plant, by a shameful
plea-bargaining agreement. Drawn up by the courts, federal prosecutors and the
Department of Homeland Security, the plea agreement forced hundreds of
Guatemalans, including 16-year-olds, into a deal they could not understand, with
six-month jail sentences.

Mothers and fathers are being forcibly separated from their children -- husbands
from wives, brothers from sisters, all in the name of a crackdown whose only
futile purpose is to terrorize immigrants into leaving, and to deter more from
arriving.

Money has been appropriated for the construction of a border wall that has
become a symbol throughout Latin America of this hateful stance. Environmental
and local objections have been shunted aside, even though everyone knows the
wall is not really being built, would not be effective if it were, and
contradicts everything the United States stands for.

After his inauguration, Mr. Obama could put an end to all of this by suspending
the raids, detentions and deportations. He should return to the approach
followed by all of his predecessors until 2006: stop illegal entrants at the
border when possible, but refrain from hunting them down once they cross the
border.

Mr. Obama should halt construction of the wall until its effectiveness can be
determined, and until the United States resolves how many gates it wishes to
place in that wall -- and how wide they will be.

He cannot, obviously, erase aggressive local ordinances in states like Arizona
and Oklahoma. But he can initiate or hasten the federal government's challenge
to their constitutionality.

By taking these actions, Mr. Obama would send three powerful messages. First, he
would signal his gratitude to the nearly 70 percent of the Latino electorate who
voted for him. Second, he would indicate his desire for improved relations with
the nations of Latin America, who joyfully welcomed his election and for whom
the Bush administration has made the United States more unpopular than at any
time in recent memory.

And he would say to the rest of the world that, on his watch, the United States
will not build fences, deport mothers without their children, nor persecute
foreigners. He can do all this with just a stroke of his pen.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEXANDRA FALAGARA)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 1, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ways to Discourage Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 610 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Call Off the Immigrant Hunt,'' by Jorge G. Castaneda (Op-Ed, Dec. 28):

Without disagreeing with Professor Castaneda's plea for more humane treatment of
illegal immigrants, I would like to ask what he did while he was a member of the
Mexican cabinet to improve the economic lot of his people and so stem the tide
of illegal immigration into the United States. Human rights organizations
rightly monitor and condemn abuses like censorship and persecution of political
opponents. Isn't a government's failure to provide its citizens with sanitation,
basic education and the means of feeding their families also an abuse of human
rights?

The United States is good at putting pressure on Iran, India, Pakistan and Korea
on various issues, and at calling to account nations where coca and opium
poppies are grown. Why does the United States not engage countries that compel
their citizens to leave or die?

It seems to me that illegal immigration is not principally an enforcement
failure. It is a foreign policy failure.

Alma Suzin Flesch

New York, Dec. 28, 2008

To the Editor:

We must support our government's efforts to finally enforce our immigration
laws. At a time of rising unemployment and financial uncertainty, we must
protect United States workers from the wage competition brought on by mass
immigration.

With state and local budgets stretched beyond repair, we cannot continue to
provide benefits for anyone who wants to sneak into the country. If we want to
create a sustainable society, we must recognize that there are limits to the
number of people we can employ, house, feed and provide health care for.

Current legal immigration levels are far higher than our historical average  and
are causing dramatic long-term problems for our basic infrastructure, resources
and environment. Think of the impact if we add an unlimited number of illegal
immigrants.

As a nation we must get serious about enforcing our immigration laws and
returning to historical immigration rates. Christopher Brigham

Somerville, Mass., Dec. 28, 2008

To the Editor:

Jorge G. Castaneda, the former foreign minister of Mexico, should worry more
about the mess in his own country than about United States policy toward illegal
immigrants.

Mexico is actually relatively wealthy by world standards and used to have a
substantial middle class, but corruption has changed that. In fact, our
crackdown on illegal immigrants, which Mr. Castaneda opposes, might help Mexico
deal with these problems.

Why? Because those who are willing to risk so much to sneak across the border
are the same people who would be most likely to push for change in their own
country should we continue to eliminate the incentives for them to come here.

By functioning as a safety valve, we are enabling our southern neighbor's bad
policies. David C. Holzman

Lexington, Mass., Dec. 29, 2008

To the Editor:

Your editorial ''Getting Immigration Right'' (Dec. 26) states that the Bush
administration ''mocked the American tradition of welcoming and assimilating
immigrant workers.''

President Bush ran on a platform of immigration reform. He, along with Labor
Secretary Elaine Chao, herself an immigrant, actively campaigned for the
Senate's Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2007, which would have given
legal status to undocumented immigrants without criminal records and allowed
them to work while waiting to become citizens.

Immigration reform failed because of Congressional opposition, not because of
the Bush administration.

Diana Furchtgott-Roth

Washington, Dec. 26, 2008

The writer is a senior fellow at the Hudson Institute, a research organization.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 9, 2009 Friday
                                National Edition

Ruling Says Deportation Cases May Not Be Appealed Over Lawyer Errors

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 812 words


The Bush administration has issued a ruling that illegal immigrants do not have
a constitutional right to effective legal representation in deportation
hearings, closing off one of the most common avenues for appealing deportation
decisions.

The ruling, by Attorney General Michael B. Mukasey, concerns three appeals by
people ordered to be deported who said their cases had been hurt by mistakes by
their lawyers. Mr. Mukasey wrote in an opinion released late Wednesday that
''neither the Constitution nor any statutory or regulatory provision entitles an
alien to a do-over if his initial removal proceeding is prejudiced by the
mistakes of a privately retained lawyer.''

Immigration courts operate within the Justice Department and are not part of the
judicial branch, so Mr. Mukasey's ruling has the effect of the highest
immigration authority. Any challenge would have to take place in the federal
appeals courts. Immigrant advocates said Thursday that they expected the ruling
to be appealed.

A long line of decisions in the federal courts and the Board of Immigration
Appeals, a unit of the executive branch that reviews the rulings of immigration
courts, had found that immigrants whose lawyers had failed them could ask that
their cases be reopened on constitutional grounds, including in a case, In re
Assaad, decided by the Board of Immigration Appeals five years ago.

The Bush administration, however, has argued successfully in several more-recent
cases in federal appeals courts that there is no constitutional right to have a
deportation case reopened because of ineffective legal representation.

''The law was settled until the Bush administration came in,'' said Lucas
Guttentag, the director of the Immigrants' Rights Project for the American Civil
Liberties Union, one of several groups that had urged Mr. Mukasey to take more
time to decide the matter.

Angelo A. Paparelli, an immigration lawyer who practices in New York and
California, said it was ''shocking and outrageous that the attorney general, in
the twilight of his holding that position, reaches out and usurps from the Obama
administration an opportunity to render a judgment to affirm that aliens in
removal proceedings have truly robust constitutional protections.''

The Obama administration could overturn the Mukasey decision, but Mr. Paparelli
suggested that ''thousands of people may be ordered removed'' before Mr.
Mukasey's successor might address the matter. Nick Shapiro, a spokesman for the
Obama transition team, said, ''President-elect Obama will review all 11th-hour
regulations once he is president.''

Kris W. Kobach, a law professor at the University of Missouri, Kansas City, who
was a counsel on immigration law to John Ashcroft when he was attorney general,
called the ruling ''a balanced opinion'' based firmly in the law and in the
powers of the attorney general.

''This opinion is not a dramatic or radical reshaping of the rules governing
immigration appeals,'' Mr. Kobach said. ''This represents a tinkering with the
requirement to reopen, in order to reduce frivolous motions.''

Accusations of ineffective counsel, he said, are often used as a delaying
tactic. ''The ways in which this opinion ratchets up the threshold are eminently
reasonable,'' he said.

More often, immigration experts say, poor work by lawyers is a sad fact of life.
The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit said in an opinion last
year that all too often ''vulnerable immigrants are preyed upon by unlicensed
notarios and unscrupulous appearance attorneys who extract heavy fees in
exchange for false promises and shoddy, ineffective representation.''

In explaining his ruling, Mr. Mukasey said that the Sixth Amendment right to a
lawyer applied only in criminal cases and that deportation was a civil action.
He wrote that the due process clause, part of the 5th and 14th Amendments,
applied in criminal and civil proceedings but that the guarantee of due process
applied only to actions of government and not to actions by private individuals
like an immigrant's lawyer.

''There is no constitutional right to counsel, and thus no constitutional right
to effective assistance of counsel, in civil cases,'' he wrote.

Mr. Mukasey did leave open one avenue of appeal for illegal immigrants who have
been wronged by their lawyers. He said the immigration courts could allow an
immigrant to reopen a case ''as a matter of administrative grace'' in cases of
extreme lawyerly error that probably changed the outcome of the initial removal
proceeding. The 33-page opinion included detailed rules for reopening a removal
order.

Mr. Guttentag of the A.C.L.U. said the discretion given to the immigration
courts could make review by the federal courts more difficult because in such
cases the immigration agency argues that its discretionary acts are not
reviewable.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael B. Mukasey (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE
-- GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 12, 2009 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Focus on Immigration Crimes Is Said to Shortchange Other Cases

BYLINE: By SOLOMON MOORE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1604 words

DATELINE: LAREDO, Tex.


Inside a courthouse just north of the Rio Grande, federal judges mete out prison
sentences to throngs of 40 to 60 illegal immigrants at a time. The accused,
mostly from Central America, Brazil and Mexico, wear rough travel clothes that
speak of arduous journeys: flannel shirts, sweat suits, jeans and running shoes
or work boots.

The prosecutors make quick work of the immigrants. Under  a Justice Department
program that relies on plea deals, most are charged with misdemeanors like
improper entry.

Federal prosecutions of immigration crimes nearly doubled in the last fiscal
year, reaching more than 70,000 immigration cases in the 2008 fiscal year,
according to federal data compiled by a Syracuse University research group. The
emphasis, many federal judges and prosecutors say, has siphoned resources from
other crimes, eroded morale among federal lawyers and overloaded the federal
court system. Many of those other crimes, including gun trafficking, organized
crime and the increasingly violent drug trade, are now routinely referred to
state and county officials, who say they often lack the finances or authority to
prosecute them effectively.

Bush administration officials say the government's focus on immigration crimes
is an outgrowth of its counterterrorism strategy and vigorous pursuit of
immigrants with criminal records.

Immigration prosecutions have steeply risen over the last five years, while
white-collar prosecutions have fallen by 18 percent, weapons prosecutions have
dropped by 19 percent, organized crime prosecutions are down by 20 percent and
public corruption prosecutions have dropped by 14 percent, according to the
Syracuse group's statistics. Drug prosecutions -- the enforcement priority of
the Reagan, first Bush and Clinton administrations -- have declined by 20
percent since 2003.

''I have seen a national abdication by the Justice Department,'' said Attorney
General Terry Goddard of Arizona.

United States attorneys on the Southwest border, who handle the bulk of
immigration prosecutions, usually decline to prosecute drug suspects with 500
pounds of marijuana or less -- about $500,000 to $800,000 worth. As a result of
Washington's decision to forgo many of those cases, Mr. Goddard said, local
agencies are handling many of them and becoming overwhelmed.

Peter Carr, a spokesman for the Justice Department, said that felony
prosecutions of immigration crimes had increased 40 percent from 2000 through
2007 but that most other prosecutions had remained steady. But Justice
Department statistics Mr. Carr provided to The New York Times did not include
tens of thousands of misdemeanor charges and prosecutions conducted before
magistrate judges. Data from the Syracuse group, known as the Transactional
Records Access Clearinghouse, or TRAC, included those cases, which are driving
the sharp growth in immigration cases.

Prosecutorial priorities are expected to change after President-elect Barack
Obama takes office, said Mark Agrast, a senior fellow at the Center for American
Progress, a liberal research and policy institute that is closely associated
with the transition team.  ''There will be a reassessment of whether aggressive
targeting of criminal aliens through the use of federal criminal statues is an
effective use of scarce law enforcement resources,'' Mr. Agrast said.

The Bush administration bolstered its enforcement of immigration crimes by
increasing the number of Border Patrol agents from 9,500 in 2004 to 15,000 in
2008 and adding several hundred federal prosecutors assigned to immigration
crimes.

On heavy days, single courtrooms along the border process illegal immigrants on
an industrial scale, sometimes more than 200 in a day. Misdemeanors usually
carry a sentence of a few weeks to six months.

At the federal courthouse in Laredo,  George P. Kazen, the senior judge,
estimated that under Operation Streamline, the Justice Department program
relying on plea deals for efficiency, he had sentenced more people to prison
than any other active federal judge. But Judge Kazen said he was concerned about
recent reports of the smuggling of firearms from Texas into Mexico by violent
drug cartels.

''The U.S. attorney isn't bringing me those cases,'' he said. ''They're just
catching foot soldiers coming across the border. They bust some stooge truck
driver carrying a load of drugs, and you know there's more behind it. But they
will tell you that they don't have the resources to drive it and develop a
conspiracy case.''

''Every time the government puts a lot of resources on one thing, they're going
to take away from another,'' he added.

Mr. Carr of the Justice Department disagreed, saying that other prosecutions had
remained steady, and he defended the emphasis on immigration. ''The Department
has answered the call of Congress and the states along the Southwest border to
pursue immigration enforcement aggressively.''

The debate over Justice Department priorities is loudest in this region, as
local authorities facing dwindling resources are picking up cases federal
prosecutors decline, especially the marijuana cases.

''We do reach a saturation point, so we set thresholds as to what type of cases
we will work,'' said Tim  Johnson, acting United States attorney for the
Southern District of Texas. ''To the extent that we don't have resources, we
will refer them to local agencies.''

Drug traffickers now routinely break up their loads into smaller quantities to
avoid stiffer federal penalties, law enforcement authorities say.

Thomas O'Sullivan, the chief criminal deputy county attorney in Santa Cruz
County, Ariz., said that county prosecutors had begun to decline federal agents'
case referrals out of necessity.

In neighboring Pima County, which includes Tucson, Barbara LaWall, the county
attorney, said she continued to take on federal cases but did know how much
longer she would be able to do so.

''We're prosecuting Border Patrol cases, national park cases, customs cases,
D.E.A. cases -- any cases in which they have 499 pounds of marijuana or less,
because I don't want the drug dealers to have no consequences whatsoever,'' Ms.
LaWall said. ''But the rock and the hard place is that my jurisdiction, as most
others are, is experiencing some real financial downturns.''

Representative Zoe Lofgren, a California Democrat who is a frequent critic of
Justice Department priorities, said that federal agents also complained often to
her about delays in wiretap requests, a hallmark of the kind of complex
investigations that used to be a mainstay of federal cases.

''They've pulled so many U.S. attorneys off drug crimes and organized crime
caseloads that federal agents are trying to get help from local district
attorneys because they can't wait six weeks for a wiretap order,'' Ms. Lofgren
said. ''By then it's too late to catch the bad guys.''

Federal agents requested 457 wiretaps in 2007, a 14-year low. Meanwhile, state
and local prosecutors requested 1,751 wiretaps, more than triple the number in
1993.

Some local prosecutors say they are glad to take on the kinds of challenging
cases that federal prosecutors used to handle. Ms. LaWall boasted about a
racketeering conspiracy she recently prosecuted involving millions of dollars in
illegal methamphetamine sales in Arizona. But Damon Mosler, the San Diego
district attorney's narcotic division chief, said financial constraints often
limited his office's ability to do things, like assisting federal agents
monitoring drug trafficking organizations.

''That sometimes means I can't keep supporting those other jurisdictions,'' Mr.
Mosler said.

Mr. Goddard, the Arizona attorney general, said the impact of the Justice
Department's focus on immigration crime extended beyond the drug war.

''Where they used to be big players in environmental law, antitrust law, and
consumer fraud -- now the states are the ones taking on these kinds of cases,''
Mr. Goddard said. ''These used to be uniquely federal in nature because they are
going after multistate institutions conducting cross-border schemes.''

Carol C. Lam, a former United States attorney for the Southern California
District and now a deputy general counsel for Qualcomm, was ousted in 2007 after
Justice Department officials said she did not prosecute enough illegal
immigrants. Ms. Lam, who was involved in the corruption case of Randy
Cunningham, a former California Republican congressman now serving federal
prison time, said her philosophy led her to choose high-impact cases instead of
cases that simply ''drove the statistics.''

''If two-thirds of a U.S. attorney's office is handling low-level narcotics and
immigration crimes,'' she said, ''young prosecutors may not have the opportunity
to learn how to do a wiretap case, or learn how to deal with the grand jury, or
how to use money laundering statutes or flip witnesses or deal with informants
and undercover investigations.''

''That's not good law enforcement,'' she said.

A senior federal prosecutor who has worked on a wide variety of cases along the
border said that the focus on relatively simple immigration prosecutions was
eroding morale at United States attorney offices.

''A lot of the guys I work with did nothing but the most complex cases -- taking
down multigenerational crime families, international crime, drug trafficking
syndicates -- you know, big fish,'' said the prosecutor, who did not want to be
identified as criticizing the department he works for. ''Now these folks are
dealing with these improper entry and illegal reentry cases.'' He added, ''It's
demoralizing for them, and us.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 13, 2009



CORRECTION: Because of an editing error, an article and an accompanying picture
caption on Monday about concern that an emphasis on prosecuting immigration
crimes has siphoned resources from dealing with other crimes referred
incorrectly to a comment by Barbara LaWall, a county prosecutor in Arizona,
about the effect on federal cases in the future. She said she did not know how
much longer she could take on such cases, not that she ''did know.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Immigrants facing border violations being transported to the
federal courthouse in Laredo, Tex.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIN TRIEB FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)(A1)
 Barbara LaWall, a county prosecutor in Arizona, said she did know how much
longer she would be able to take on federal cases.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES GREGG FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A15) CHART: Immigrant Focus: Under President Bush, federal
prosecutions of immigration crimes soared while prosecutions of other crimes
generally leveled off or declined.(Source: Transactional Records Access
Clearinghouse, Syracuse University)(A15)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 13, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Congress Set To Renew Health Care For Children

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 628 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Congress is poised to give President-elect Barack Obama a quick victory by
passing a bill to provide health insurance to millions of low-income children.

The House Democratic leader, Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, said the
bill, scheduled for a vote in the House this week, was ''very much like''
legislation twice vetoed by President Bush in 2007. Legal authority for the
program expires on March 31.

Congressional Democrats said they had decided to add a major provision allowing
states to restore health insurance benefits to legal immigrants under 21, a goal
of Hispanic groups since those benefits were terminated in 1996.

This part of the bill deals only with legal immigrants. But it could revive the
emotional debate over immigration, as many Republicans want to establish
stricter verification procedures to prevent illegal immigrants from getting
health benefits.

Under current law, legal immigrants are generally barred from Medicaid and the
State Children's Health Insurance Program for five years after they enter the
United States. The Democrats' proposal would give states the option of covering
children and pregnant women, with the federal government subsidizing the costs
as usual under both programs.

Supporters of the bill said it would cover 10 million children, providing
benefits for nearly 4 million who are uninsured, while continuing coverage for
6.6 million youngsters already enrolled. The federal government now spends more
than $5 billion a year on the program, and while precise figures are not yet
available, the expansion would more than double that cost.

Experts estimate that 400,000 to 600,000 immigrant children affected by the
restrictions could get insurance under the bill.

''Children should not be forced to wait five years for health care,'' said
Jennifer M. Ng'andu, a health policy specialist at the National Council of La
Raza, a Hispanic rights group. ''Five years is a lifetime to a child.''

Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the Republican whip, said Republicans
had concerns about expanding the program, to immigrants or any other group,
before the original purpose of the program was achieved.

''The program has not fulfilled its initial mission, to serve children of the
working poor,'' Mr. Cantor said in an interview.

Among children, legal immigrants are less likely than citizens to receive
immunizations and routine dental care. Likewise, among women, legal immigrants
are less likely to receive prenatal care.

Leighton C. Ku, a professor of health policy at George Washington University,
said the five-year wait had harmed children who would become citizens. ''About
half of all low-income immigrant children are now uninsured,'' Mr. Ku said.
''Most immigrant children become U.S. citizens. When they grow up, they make
contributions to the economy, pay taxes and serve in the military.''

Aides to Speaker Nancy Pelosi briefed advocacy groups on their plans on Friday.

''There were cheers in the room,'' Ms. Ng'andu said. ''It was a joyous moment
when we learned that legal immigrant children would be covered.''

House Democrats are taking their bill directly to the floor, but in the Senate,
Democratic leaders plan to work through the Finance Committee, led by Senator
Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana. Mr. Baucus has drafted a bill similar to the
House measure. As of late Monday, his proposal did not include benefits for
immigrants.

But other Democratic senators, like Jeff Bingaman of New Mexico and John D.
Rockefeller IV of West Virginia, have said that they, like Mr. Obama, want to
allow states to cover children who are legal immigrants.

The new bills, like those vetoed, would be financed by tobacco taxes, including
a 61-cent cigarette tax increase, to $1 a pack.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 15, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

No Evidence of Return Migration Is Found

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 624 words


Despite the worst United States economy in decades and a slowdown in the growth
of the nation's foreign-born population, there is no hard evidence of a return
migration tied to the recession, researchers at the Migration Policy Institute
said in a report released Wednesday.

Anecdotal evidence suggests that in the last two years more immigrants than
usual,  legal and illegal,  have left the United States for their countries of
origin,  the report said. But  no data exists to verify such a trend, according
to the institute, a nonpartisan research organization.

''Substantial return migration of unauthorized immigrants is unlikely unless
there's a protracted and severe worsening of the U.S. economy,'' said Demetrios
G. Papademetriou, president of the institute and a co-author of the report,
which  draws on historical patterns, demographic studies and ''educated
speculation.''

Instead of leaving the country, unauthorized immigrants seem to be more likely
than natives or legal immigrants to move from state to state in search of work,
Mr. Papademetriou said. He said, for example, that complaints about a shortage
of agricultural hands had died down, in part because some immigrants previously
absorbed by the construction boom had headed back to farm work.

Numbers on annual emigration are skimpy at best; the government abandoned the
effort to track departing immigrants in 1957. But even for unauthorized
immigrants, whose flows to the United States are far more responsive to the
economy than those of legal immigrants or asylum-seekers, the report said, a
decision to return home is likely to be a last resort.

The downturn in the United States is also hurting the economies of home
countries, and recent currency fluctuations have made remittances in dollars
more valuable, especially in Mexico and Central America. And unlike Eastern
European workers in Britain and Ireland, who have been returning home in the
knowledge that they can easily go back if things change, Latin American
immigrants in the United States face growing barriers to re-entry.

Some effects of the economic crisis can be hard to disentangle from those of
stricter enforcement, the researchers added, citing stepped up raids and record
levels of deportation,   about 361,000 in the year ending last Sept. 30, roughly
double the number from 2005.

But though anecdotal evidence suggests that some noncitizens are leaving states
that have enacted particularly tough laws intended to curb illegal immigration,
the report said, initially, at least, their destinations are probably within the
United States.

Still, Mr. Papademetriou added in an interview: ''Everything hinges on how deep
and how long the recession will be. People can try to adjust their expectations,
take a job for less pay. But there comes a decision point where you say, If this
is going to be as nasty as it appears to be, can I survive? Or can I survive
better back home?''

The report cited a growing body of evidence that the historic growth of the
foreign-born in the United States had slowed, largely because there has been no
growth in the unauthorized immigrant population since 2006 -- as was reported
last fall by Jeffrey S. Passel, a demographer with the Pew Hispanic Center.

In an interview, Mr. Passel agreed that though departures were probably up
somewhat, ''the cessation of growth in the unauthorized population is due to the
decline in arrivals.''

Over time, 20 percent to 40 percent of immigrants to the United States have
eventually returned to their country of origin, he said. But even in the Great
Depression, he added, when more people left than arrived, that historic shift
was driven by the steep drop in immigration, not by any increase in departures.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 22, 2009 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Choosing to Flout the Law

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 161 words


To the Editor:

Re ''A Sense of Who We Are'' (editorial, Jan. 13):

Illegal status is not a circumstance that just materialized for illegal
immigrants; they made conscious decisions to come here illegally or to violate
their visa terms.

Our nation has generous legal immigration policies. Those who find themselves on
the wrong side of the law have chosen to disregard it and enter our country the
wrong way.

The editorial does not mention that families do not need to be separated by
deportation; deportees can take their children with them when they depart. And
because deportation proceedings are not criminal in nature, aliens do not have
the fundamental right to a lawyer as criminal defendants do.

The Times, in its many criticisms of the Bush administration, purports to care
about lawful conduct. When it comes to illegal immigrants, apparently the law
goes out the window.

Ted Poe Washington, Jan. 15, 2009

The writer is a Republican congressman from Texas.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 28, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Drawing Fire on Immigration, Gillibrand Reaches Out

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE; Michael Powell contributed reporting from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1058 words


During her one term in the House of Representatives, from a largely rural,
traditionally Republican district, Kirsten E. Gillibrand was on safe political
ground adopting a tough stance against illegal immigration.

Ms. Gillibrand, a Democrat, opposed any sort of amnesty for illegal immigrants,
supported deputizing local law enforcement officers to enforce federal
immigration laws, spoke out against Gov. Eliot Spitzer's proposal to allow
illegal immigrants to have driver's licenses and sought to make English the
official language of the United States.

But since her appointment by Gov. David A. Paterson last week to fill the Senate
seat vacated by Hillary Rodham Clinton, Ms. Gillibrand has found herself
besieged by immigrant advocates and Democratic colleagues who have cast her as
out of step with a majority of the state, with its big cities and sprawling
immigrant enclaves.

Immediately following the announcement, liberal blogs and New York's ethnic
media lit up with complaints about Ms. Gillibrand's positions. A group of
Hispanic state lawmakers have threatened to support a primary challenger to Ms.
Gillibrand, who must stand for election next year. And El Diario La Prensa, the
Spanish-language daily, described her as ''a disappointing choice.''

''If Gov. David Paterson wanted to deliver a slap to immigrant New Yorkers, he
effectively did so with his appointment yesterday of Representative Kirsten
Gillibrand,'' El Diario said in an editorial on Saturday.

The flap over Ms. Gillibrand's immigration record underscores the political
challenges she faces as she broadens her political constituency from an
overwhelmingly white district along New York's eastern fringe to the entire
state. Census data show that about 21 percent of the state's population and 36
percent of New York City's residents were born overseas, said Andrew A.
Beveridge, a demographer at Queens College.

Gun-control advocates, including Representative Carolyn McCarthy, a Democrat
from Nassau County, have also taken sharp issue with Ms. Gillibrand's opposition
to some gun control measures, with Ms. McCarthy threatening to run against her.

Ms. Gillibrand, who was sworn in as senator on Tuesday, has tried to allay some
of the concerns, reaching out to Hispanic elected officials and pledging to
reconsider some of her positions. Outside a reception in Washington following
her swearing-in ceremony, she acknowledged that she had an obligation to revisit
some of these questions as she now ''represents the whole state.''

Assemblyman Peter M. Rivera, a Bronx Democrat, received a phone call from Ms.
Gillibrand over the weekend after he said that her immigration record ''borders
on xenophobia.'' And when Mr. Rivera and some other Hispanic state lawmakers
scheduled a press conference for Tuesday morning to announce plans to meet with
''potential candidates to unseat her'' in 2010, an aide to Ms. Gillibrand called
the organizers and offered to have ''a sit-down,'' the assemblyman said.

The press conference was postponed for scheduling reasons, Mr. Rivera said.

''She did not answer the issues issue-by-issue,'' Mr. Rivera said of his
conversation with Ms. Gillibrand on Saturday. ''All she said was that she needs
to work with a broader group of individuals.''

Still, Ms. Gillibrand has not backed down from her long-standing opposition to
''amnesty'' for illegal immigrants, which has left some immigrant advocates
wondering whether she would support any law that would establish a path to
citizenship for illegal immigrants.

In Washington on Tuesday, the new senator elaborated, saying, ''I don't support
amnesty because I don't think it will work.'' She added that the amnesty bill
was ''fatally flawed.''

She said, for example, that ''the guest worker program all but guaranteed
illegal immigration.'' But she suggested one alternative might be to allow
consecutive five-year work visas, with the ability to apply for permanent
residency at the end.

Ms. Gillibrand also said that she would support finding ways to speed up the
reunification of immigrant families; some of them can wait as long as eight
years.

''They should get rid of the backlog,'' she told reporters in the Russell Senate
Office Building.

In the House, where she served from 2007 until this week, Ms. Gillibrand
frequently voted more conservatively on immigration issues than a majority of
her Democratic colleagues.

In votes that pitted her against a vast majority of her fellow Democrats, she
sided in favor of bills that required adult occupants of affordable housing to
provide proof of residency and that penalized cities that protected undocumented
immigrants, such as New York.

She also diverged from the overwhelming majority of Democratic representatives
by voting in favor of bills that increased financing for law enforcement against
illegal immigrants and that protected businesses requiring their employees to
speak English on the job.

She is a co-sponsor of the SAVE Act, widely disparaged by immigrant advocates,
which aims to crack down on illegal immigration with more border guards and
surveillance technology, accelerated deportations and a mandatory program
requiring employers to verify the immigration status of employees.

Americans for Better Immigration, a lobbying group that pushes for tighter
immigration enforcement and a reduction in immigration, has given her a grade of
B, placing her among the group's 22 top-rated Democratic House members.

Chung-Wha Hong, executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition, has
not yet spoken with Ms. Gillibrand since her appointment. But Ms. Hong said,
''The quicker and the clearer she distances herself from some of the positions
that are associated with anti-immigrant extremists, the better signal it is for
immigrant communities.''

''Her past positions are pretty much out of line with the rest of New York State
and the president and with her predecessor,'' Ms. Hong said.

Theodore Ruthizer, an immigration lawyer in New York and past president and
general counsel of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, said that he
has spoken at length with Ms. Gillibrand on a number of occasions and believes
she will ''modify'' her positions on immigration in her new job.

''I think she needs to be educated, frankly,'' he said. ''It was a low priority
for her.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. re-enacts the swearing-in of
Kirsten E. Gillibrand. Her husband, Jonathan, held the Bible. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 22, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Slippery Place in the U.S. Work Force

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; REMADE IN AMERICA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3162 words


MORRISTOWN, Tenn. -- The faithful stand and hold their hands high, raising a
crescendo of prayer for abundance and grace. In the evangelical church where
they are gathered, the folding chairs are filled with immigrants from Latin
America.

Balbino Lopez Hernandez, who came here illegally from Mexico, closes his eyes to
join the hallelujahs. But after the service Mr. Lopez, 28, a factory worker who
has been unemployed since June, shares his worries about jobs and immigration
raids with other worshipers.

Like many places across the United States, this factory town in eastern
Tennessee has been transformed in the last decade by the arrival of Hispanic
immigrants, many of whom are in this country illegally. Thousands of workers
like Mr. Lopez settled in Morristown, taking the lowest-paying elbow-grease
jobs, some hazardous, in chicken plants and furniture factories.

Now, with the economy spiraling downward and a crackdown continuing on illegal
immigrants, many of them are learning how uncertain their foothold is in the
work force in the United States.

The economic troubles are widening the gap between illegal immigrants and
Americans as they navigate the job market. Many Americans who lost jobs are
turning for help to the government's unemployment safety net, with job
assistance and unemployment insurance. But immigrants without legal status, by
law, do not have access to it. Instead, as the recession deepens, illegal
immigrants who have settled into American towns are receding from community
life. They are clinging to low-wage jobs, often working more hours for less
money, and taking whatever work they can find, no matter the conditions.

Despite the mounting pressures, many of the illegal immigrants are resisting
leaving the country. After years of working here, they say, they have homes and
education for their children, while many no longer have a stake to return to in
their home countries.

''Most of the things I got are right here,'' Mr. Lopez said in English, which he
taught himself to speak. ''I got my family, my wife, my kids. Everything is
here.''

Americans who are struggling for jobs move in a different world. Here, it
revolves around the federally financed, fluorescent-lighted career center on
Andrew Johnson Highway, a one-stop market for unemployment insurance and job
retraining.

One worker who frequents the center is Joe D. Goodson Jr., 46, who was laid off
more than a year ago from his job at a nearby auto parts plant. Born and raised
in Morristown, Mr. Goodson said his savings had run low but his spirits were
holding up, so far.

Through the career center, Mr. Goodson enrolled in retraining at a technology
college. He believes that the government aid system, though inefficient and
overwhelmed, will give him just enough support to survive the economic storm.

''I just try to look on the positive side always,'' Mr. Goodson said. ''Work
hard. Things get bad? Work harder.''

What help there is for illegal immigrants in Morristown comes mainly from
churches, like Centro Cristiano Betel Internacional, where Mr. Lopez connects
with a word-of-mouth network to find odd jobs.

Nationwide, Hispanic immigrants, both legal and illegal, saw greater job loss in
2008 than did Hispanics born in the United States or black workers, according to
the Pew Hispanic Center. Nearly half of foreign-born Hispanics are illegal
immigrants, according to the center, a nonpartisan research group in Washington.

Some illegal immigrants who lost jobs here, mostly workers with families back
home, have left the country. Most are determined to stay. Employers, wary of
immigration agents, now insist workers have valid Social Security numbers. Mr.
Lopez, who does not have one, said, ''Without the number, you are nothing in
this country.''

Gaining a Foothold

In a paradox of globalization, immigrant workers moved from Mexico to Morristown
just as many jobs were migrating from here to Mexico.

The influx here came as Hispanic immigrants were spreading across the United
States, moving beyond traditional destinations in California and the Southwest
to take jobs in the Northern Plains and deep into the South.

As recently as 2006 and 2007, more than 300,000 Hispanic immigrants, legal and
illegal, were joining the United States labor force each year, drawn by jobs in
meatpacking, construction and agriculture. They now make up nearly 8 percent of
the work force.

In Morristown, a manufacturing city set among Appalachian farmland, the loss of
jobs to Mexico and other countries with lower wages depressed local factory pay
long before the immigrants appeared. But while the poorest American factory
workers watched jobs leave, Americans with skills found new jobs in plants
making auto parts, plastics and printing supplies.

The 1960 census did not record a single immigrant in Hamblen County, of which
Morristown is the seat. By 2007, Hispanic immigrants and their families made up
almost 10 percent of the county population of 61,829, having nearly doubled
their numbers since 2000, census data show.

The immigrants started in tomato fields nearby, but by the late 1990s labor
contractors were bringing migrant crews into town, to fill jobs in construction
and at factories like two poultry plants belonging to Koch Foods, a company
based in Illinois.

The result was a two-tier blue-collar work force. Hispanic immigrants -- many
hired through temporary staffing agencies that offered no vacation pay or health
coverage -- were on the bottom, in jobs where they faced little competition from
Americans.

Prof. Chris Baker, a sociologist at Walters State Community College in
Morristown, said many factories in the region had been able to hang on because
of the immigrant workers. ''The employers hire Latinos, and after that, they
leave,'' he said. ''It goes from white to black to Latino to -- gone.''

Some residents did not take kindly to the immigrants, especially the illegal
ones. But their ire was not about jobs; it was mainly directed at the school
board, for devoting tax money to an international center to help
Spanish-speaking students learn English.

In the summer of 2006, one member of the Hamblen County Commission, Thomas E.
Lowe, organized a demonstration against illegal immigrants in front of City
Hall. It fizzled after the police, fearing disorder, turned out in a show of
force.

Then the friction abated. The United Food and Commercial Workers won an
organizing drive at Koch Foods by gaining the support of immigrants.

Mr. Lowe did not win re-election. The city chose a mayor, Barbara C. Barile, who
describes herself as ''an inclusive kind of person.'' She created a diversity
task force and proposed an annual immigrant fiesta. In December, she sent police
officers to accompany a midnight procession through downtown honoring the Virgin
of Guadalupe, the Mexican patroness.

But an immigration crackdown by state and federal authorities stirred the waters
again.

A few years ago, even illegal immigrants in Tennessee could obtain driver's
licenses, buy cars, open bank accounts and take out mortgages. In 2006, the
state canceled a program that authorized immigrants who were not legal residents
to drive.

Cooperation increased between state and local police and federal immigration
agents. For illegal immigrants, minor traffic stops could escalate and end in
deportation. After immigration raids in the region, employers and temporary
agencies started to give closer scrutiny to identity documents.

An Immigrant's Life

One immigrant whose Morristown welcome ended abruptly was Balbino Lopez
Hernandez.

After sneaking across the Arizona border at 17, he joined a brother who lived in
Morristown. In 2004 he landed a job at Berkline, a furniture company known for
reclining chairs whose headquarters are in town.

Mr. Lopez earned a minimum of $8.85 an hour assembling heavy metal frames for
chairs and sofas. But, like other immigrants here, he measured the job against
pushing a plow in Mexico. By that standard, he said, it was a ''blessing.''

At Berkline, seasoned American employees tended to avoid the physically
demanding position in which Mr. Lopez was placed, at the head of an assembly
line. Mr. Lopez loved the job, and before long he was one of the more productive
workers on the floor. The high productivity of new immigrant workers was one
reason employers like those in Morristown were glad to hire them, economists
said.

Mr. Lopez's task was to swing metal bars into place, then use a noisy drill,
over and over, to secure dozens of screws, nuts and washers. The bars had sharp
edges, and his arms are covered with scars. Still, he was content because he set
his own pace.

''Always,'' he said, ''I go to work and do my job and come home, to make myself
happy and make them happy too.''

Though he is not a legal resident, Mr. Lopez allowed his name and photograph to
be published because his status is known to immigration authorities.

The assembly floor operated on an incentive system: the more frames Mr. Lopez
made, the more he earned. But his energy put pressure on others on the line,
including some Americans who were not interested in doing more work without a
raise.

Mr. Lopez, shy and soft-spoken, did well at work but poorly in love. One
girlfriend, an American, three weeks after giving birth to his son, Jacob, left
Mr. Lopez to raise the boy alone. Another took to drugs and was frequently in
trouble with the police.

His luck changed when he met Brittany Martin, 18, a tall blonde with a level
head. Last January, he decided to spruce up his cottage in preparation for
marriage, so he picked up his speed at Berkline.

''I would get my sandwich and just eat there, eat and work,'' Mr. Lopez said.
''I never stopped for nothing.'' Soon he was producing three times his weekly
quota of chair frames, sometimes making more than $1,000 a week, pay stubs show.
Some Americans started to taunt him, calling him ''money man.''

''Why does that Mexican make so much money?'' Mr. Lopez said one worker asked
within earshot.

Not long after, on June 11, a senior manager summoned Mr. Lopez, saying Berkline
had been alerted that he might be an illegal immigrant. He confessed and was
fired.

Mr. Lopez believes that someone, perhaps a co-worker, turned him in. Two days
later, the Morristown police, citing the false Social Security number he had
presented at Berkline, arrested him on charges of criminal impersonation.
Although those charges were soon dismissed for lack of evidence, the police
reported Mr. Lopez to federal immigration agents.

Dennis Carper, senior vice president for human resources at Berkline, confirmed
that Mr. Lopez had been terminated because of his invalid Social Security
number. He said Berkline did not report Mr. Lopez to the police.

Mr. Lopez is now fighting deportation. He and Ms. Martin married in July and are
expecting a child in May. He was released from detention to care for his wife
and son, but since he was ordered deported before the wedding, it is not certain
he will be able to stay.

While his immigration case proceeds, he remains unauthorized to apply for a job.
He is scrounging for bits of work, fixing cars and patching roofs, and praying
at Centro Betel. It is bad, he said, but Mexico would be worse. ''In my
country,'' he said, ''I'm just going to feed my family salt and tortillas.''

The Shadows

In some ways, since Mr. Lopez no longer has to hide, he has advantages over many
immigrants in Morristown.

Enrique C., 48, and his wife, Rita, 38, both illegal immigrants from Mexico,
learned how vulnerable their livelihood here was when both of them lost their
jobs in recent months. The couple, neither of whom speaks English, asked that
their full names and photographs not be published because they feared detection
by immigration authorities.

During the long nights of winter, after their sons, 12 and 13, finished their
homework, they turned off all the lights in the cottage they own except one bulb
and gathered around a space heater. On some nights cockroaches emerged, seeking
the heat.

Rita had held night-shift jobs in sweltering factories and on the chilly
deboning line in a Koch chicken plant. Since she worked mainly through temporary
agencies, when the crunch came she was one of the first to go.

Her husband worked from 2001 until last August at Hardwoods of Morristown, a
wood-floor maker, earning $8.75 an hour splitting planks with a whirring saw.
For years Enrique liked his job, and his bosses praised him, he said, for doing
the work of two men.

But over time he had run-ins with supervisors, starting when they disagreed over
the treatment of a wrist injury.

He complained that splinters tore his gloves. Bathrooms were filthy, he said,
and the plant posted a rule limiting when workers could use them. He took
photographs of clogged toilets and collected bagfuls of ragged gloves.

After seven years, Enrique, who admits he can be ornery, lost his temper one day
and insulted the plant manager. The official separation notice states that he
was fired for insubordination. Tim Elliott, a top executive at Hardwoods, wrote
in an e-mail message that a worker who ''refuses to do a task assigned to him''
would disrupt the teamwork the company requires.

''They fired me because I started to make demands,'' Enrique said.

Once defiant, Enrique now lives looking over his shoulder and avoiding
confrontation. Although his driver's license has expired, he drives a carpool
with three other workers for an hour twice a day to a job he found through a
temporary agency in a furniture factory for $7 an hour.

It is a job he cannot lose. He has a mortgage to pay, and he is determined to
see his sons go to college. ''We're going to go along very quietly,'' Enrique
said. ''We don't want to be deported.''

The Americans

At the Five Rivers Regional Career Center, the cubicles of computers with free
Internet are filled every day with anxious job seekers. For several weeks in
January, phones the state set up to receive applications for unemployment
insurance were inundated, often giving callers only busy signals. Career center
staff members did their best to help, but more than one of them said they had
taken a ''cussing '' from a desperate worker.

For Joe Goodson, however, the recession is old news. He was laid off in December
2007, along with 67 other workers, after 17 years at the Morristown plant of the
Lear Corporation, which makes auto seats.

One day at the career center, Mr. Goodson, a welder and United Automobile
Workers member, spoke with pride of his skills. He started out as a manual
welder, but through retraining he learned how to operate the metal stamping
press he was running, for $17.80 an hour, when the layoffs came.

Mr. Goodson said he watched the Lear work force shrink over the years, as the
company installed robots and sent manual welding work to a plant in Mexico.
These days, he said, managers are only ''thinking about self.''

''It's gone away from the team thing,'' he said.

Four months after being laid off, he took an offer for retraining at the
Tennessee Technology Center in Morristown, where he is studying coils and
coolants to become an air-conditioning technician.

Through the career center, he collects unemployment insurance and a gas
allowance, and his tuition is paid by federal Trade Adjustment Assistance funds,
which support workers laid off when jobs move overseas. He squeaks by on odd
jobs he does for his parents, both retired.

''I've never seen a car that didn't have a seat,'' said Mr. Goodson, who still
believes that Lear will one day call him back. If not, he is ready to put his
new skills to use in another career.

Because of the government support and retraining, Mr. Goodson is not considering
the low-paying manufacturing jobs that Morristown's immigrants hold.

''I'm not too good to do any job that another man would do,'' Mr. Goodson said.
''But I've got many other skills.''

Other Americans in tougher spots who visited the career center said those jobs
were their last resort. Donnie Parker, 45, was laid off in September from his
$14-an-hour job as a skilled machine mechanic at a Koch poultry plant.

Because of a bureaucratic snag, Mr. Parker has not been able to collect
unemployment insurance. After paying a mortgage for 13 years, he missed three
payments and lost his house in December. He and his teenage son moved in with
his 72-year-old mother. He borrowed from his sister to buy gas to make the trip
to the career center. He traded his new truck for an older one, then the old
truck's transmission gave out.

His only defense against the calamity is a wry laugh.

Like Mr. Goodson, Mr. Parker sees a narrow path opening before him through the
unemployment system: he recently received a retraining grant. With food stamps
and his income tax refund, he might just make it.

While he is waiting for school to begin, Mr. Parker is adopting a new strategy.
He decided last week to apply for a few minimum-wage factory jobs that were
advertised at the center, after having avoided them until now.

''I didn't know it would get this bad and last this long,'' Mr. Parker said.
''Seven dollars is better than no dollars.''

Even in the recession, he said, it would not make financial sense for him to
stay for long in that kind of job. ''With my kid, I can't live on a minimum-wage
job,'' Mr. Parker said. ''There is no goal to reach. You're pretty much stuck.''

Although Koch has hired more Americans this year for its poultry production
lines, Mr. Parker is not thinking of going back there in a low-end job. ''It's
nasty and cold,'' he said.

Hanging On

As the recession worsens here -- unemployment in this region was 11.2 percent in
January, compared with 8.5 percent nationwide -- Americans and immigrants are
struggling, separately, to hold on to their gains. To date, tensions over jobs
have not surfaced.

Melissa B. Reynolds, the coordinator for the career center, said Americans
worried about receiving their benefits and getting help finding new jobs, not
about competition from immigrants.

''We don't have anyone that has any beefs with the Latino population that I've
seen come and go through here,'' Ms. Reynolds said.

If the slump is long, unemployment benefits run out and the safety net wears
thin, that could change. Across the country, in an industry like construction
with large numbers of Hispanic immigrants where job losses have been especially
steep, the fight for jobs could produce conflict.

Demetrios G. Papademetriou, president of the Migration Policy Institute, a
nonpartisan research center, said that if Americans were forced to take jobs
below their expectations for too long, competition -- and animus -- could
increase.

''American people who are hurting economically for a long while may start to
identify immigrants as the cause of that pain,'' Mr. Papademetriou said.

Mr. Parker, though he is hurting, said he did not look to place blame. ''It's
not Hispanics I'm competing with,'' he said. ''It's everybody. I'm not angry at
no one who's trying to find a job and work. They're doing the same thing I'm
doing.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Balbino Lopez Hernandez, left, has worked intermittently since
losing a factory job
Joe D. Goodson Jr. received retraining. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
Enrique C., left, an illegal immigrant, has a job making $7 an hour
he lost a long-term job in August. Donnie Parker was laid off in September, lost
his house and has moved in with his mother. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A22)
In December, about 200 people joined a midnight procession through downtown
Morristown, Tenn., honoring the Virgin of Guadalupe. The mayor sent police
officers to accompany them. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(pg.A23) Balbino Lopez Hernandez, left, has worked intermittently since losing a
factory job
Joe D. Goodson Jr. received retraining. PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES In December, about 200 people joined a midnight procession through
downtown Morristown, Tenn., honoring the Virgin of Guadalupe. The mayor sent
police officers to accompany them. JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES Enrique
C., left, an illegal immigrant, has a job making $7 an hour
he lost a long-term job in August. Donnie Parker was laid off in September, lost
his house and has moved in with his mother. PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES CHARTS: The unemployment rate rose faster for Mexican immigrants
than for most other workers from 2007 to 2008. (pg.A1)
RECESSION'S TOLL ON HISPANIC IMMIGRANTS: The recession has hit Hispanic
immigrants especially hard. They have suffered more job losses than most other
workers, and their earnings remain lower than those of other groups. Among
foreign-born Hispanics, an estimated 47 percent are illegal immigrants. Although
some of those immigrants have been pushed by the economic slump to leave the
United States, most have stayed and are struggling to hold on to jobs. (Note:
The unemployment rate and job loss numbers are for the fourth quarters.)
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS: The Pew Hispanic Center estimates that of the 11.9 million
illegal immigrants in the United States in 2008, more than 80 percent were from
Latin America. Nearly half of Mexicans who are illegal immigrants arrived since
2000. (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics
Jeffrey S. Passel, Pew Hispanic Center) (CHARTS BY HAEYOUN PARK/THE NEW YORK
TIMES
ADDITIONAL REPORTING BY AMANDA COX) (pg.A22)
 Growth in the foreign-born population is mostly due to Mexicans and Central
Americans, whose population increased by 36,837 from 2000 to 2007 statewide and
by 1,613 in Hamblen County. (Source: U.S. Census) (pg.A23)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 5, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

REMADE IN AMERICA; Deportation Furor Catches Texas Mayor in Middle

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3151 words


CORRECTION APPENDED

IRVING, Tex. -- Just after sunrise one morning last summer, as his two sons
hurried out the door to school, Oscar Urbina might have presented a portrait of
domestic stability in this Dallas suburb, a 35-year-old man with a nice home, a
thriving family and a steady contracting job.

But a few weeks earlier, after buying a Dodge Ram truck at a local dealership,
he had been summoned back to deal with some paperwork problems. And shortly
after he arrived, so did the police, who arrested him on charges of using a
false Social Security number.

Mr. Urbina does not deny it; he has been living illegally in the Dallas area
since coming to the country from Mexico in 1993. But the turn of events stunned
him in a once-welcoming place where people had never paid much attention to
Social Security numbers.

If the arrest had come earlier, it might have had little effect on his life. But
two years ago, Irving made a decision, championed by its first-term mayor,
Herbert A. Gears, to conduct immigration checks on everyone booked into the
local jail. So Mr. Urbina was automatically referred to the federal authorities
and now faces possible deportation, becoming one of more than 4,000 illegal
immigrants here who have ended up in similar circumstances.

As battles over illegal immigration rage around the country, Irving's crackdown
is not unusual in itself. What makes it striking is that it happened with the
blessing of a mayor like Mr. Gears, an immigrant-friendly Democrat with deep
political ties to the city's Hispanic leaders, a man who likes to preach that
adapting to immigration -- especially in a city like his, now almost
half-Hispanic -- is not a burden but an opportunity, or as he says, it's ''not a
have-to, it's a get-to.''

But as a wave of sentiment against illegal immigration built around Dallas and
the nation, Mr. Gears came to realize that his city would be unable to remain on
the sidelines -- and that his own political future would depend on how he
navigated newly treacherous terrain.

Irving is one of a growing number of cities across America where immigration
control, a federal prerogative, is reshaping politics at the other end of the
spectrum, the local level, in the absence of a national policy overhaul. To
watch its experiment play out over the better part of the past year in City Hall
and in its residents' lives is to see how difficult political moderation has
become in the debate over what to do with the country's estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants.

Irving's jail program was started by the city's police chief as an experiment
with federal immigration officials. But Mr. Gears saw in it a kind of release
valve for the political pressure building around him, which had been energized
by much more aggressive measures to force out illegal immigrants in Farmers
Branch, a smaller suburb next door.

''I let my instincts rule the moment in that instance,'' he said. ''What weighed
heavily in my thoughts is that if we didn't do something, a lot more immigrants
were going to be hurt.''

''And now,'' Mr. Gears added ruefully, ''I'm the hero of every redneck in
America.''

Nationally, most of the attention in the immigration fight has centered on
smaller cities that have taken a hard line on illegal immigration, like Farmers
Branch and Hazleton, Pa., or on cities that have moved to protect illegal
immigrants, like San Francisco and New Haven.

Irving is one of the places with a growing percentage of illegal immigrants that
has tried to take -- Mr. Gears's critics say has stumbled upon -- a much less
explored middle road.

As a first-ring suburb whose non-Hispanic white population has slipped from the
majority in the last few years, Irving describes itself as a multicultural
community. Under Mr. Gears, it recently opened a hospital clinic that caters to
low-income patients, many of them Hispanic, and gave $100,000 to support its
fledgling Hispanic Chamber of Commerce.

But even as it was doing so, its policy on immigration checks prompted the
Mexican consul in Dallas to issue an unusual warning to Mexican immigrants to
stay clear of Irving. And businesses both Hispanic-owned and not, including
Wal-Mart, began howling to the mayor that fear was driving away Hispanic
customers.

Mr. Gears, 46, is a big, gregarious, politically agile Texan who won re-election
last May against an opponent whose campaign promised much tougher immigration
measures. The mayor describes the rise of such sentiment around him as
disturbing, a manifestation of ''domestic extremism,'' and he derides its
adherents as ''the crankies.''

''We defeated the crankies, and no one thought we could,'' Mr. Gears said of his
re-election. ''We've defined what our responsibility is, and that's only to
allow the federal government to do its job. It's not our responsibility to
evaluate it or assess whether it's good or not.''

Mr. Gears happened to be making these points in a booth at his favorite local
bar, where he was being served by his favorite waitress, a friendly mother of
five -- in the country illegally -- whom he has known for years and tips
lavishly to help her make ends meet.

He acknowledges that Irving's policy, whose chief goal is to get rid of
dangerous criminals who are in the country illegally, has resulted in
''casualties,'' with many people deported as a result of lesser, nonviolent
offenses like driving without a license or insurance.

The police chief, Larry Boyd, said he believed that the city's enviable crime
rate (last year was its lowest on record) is at least partly due to the
deportation program. ''You will never hear me blaming Irving's crime problems on
illegal immigration,'' Chief Boyd said. But he added that the program ''keeps
some criminals off of Irving's streets longer and potentially keeps them off of
Irving's streets for good.''

The city's political straddle on immigration has angered and confounded Mr.
Gears's opponents. Critics to the right accuse him of opportunism and of
shirking his duty to legal residents. Advocates for the immigrants accuse him
essentially of undercutting them.

But Mr. Gears's position is one he seems to struggle every day to defend, said
Carlos Quintanilla, a vocal advocate who, like many other Hispanic leaders,
initially supported the jail program but now deplores it.

''I call Herb the most tormented man in America,'' Mr. Quintanilla said.

The Hard-liners

Lucia Rottenberg, an Irving resident for almost 40 years, was upset in June 2007
when she stood at a City Council meeting in the amphitheater-like chambers at
City Hall. Citing fears of crime, disease and economic harm to her city, Ms.
Rottenberg called for tougher measures against illegal immigrants and bragged
that her husband used his vacation time to volunteer with the Texas Minutemen, a
contentious civilian group that tries to keep people from crossing the border
illegally.

As she turned to leave the lectern, Mr. Gears leaned into his microphone and
stopped her.

''I need to clear something up, because I was told something that was
disturbing,'' he said. ''Were you at a meeting, a club meeting, where applause
was given to the comment that anyone who comes over the border should be shot?''

Ms. Rottenberg, who has contributed to one of Mr. Gears's campaigns and whom Mr.
Gears said he considers a friend, confirmed she was at the meeting. ''I don't
remember if there was applause or not,'' she said, taken aback.

''Did you make that remark?'' Mr. Gears asked.

''Yes, I did,'' she admitted, her voice rising. ''And my frustration is this --
''

Mr. Gears cut her short: ''You don't have to explain it to me. I understand.''

It was at that Council session that the city adopted the federal cooperation
program for residency checks inside the jail. It was also a public turning point
in the political reorientation of Mr. Gears, who spoke volubly, sometimes
irascibly, in defense of the checks while trying to shame those he saw as using
immigration to divide the city further.

''I viewed it as something that would be painful to some, and so that was
distasteful to me,'' Mr. Gears said later about the jail policy. ''But we were
in a battle here on this issue.''

Like many Texas cities its size, Irving was mostly white a generation ago, a
farming town turned sprawling suburb as middle-class families flocked to its
affordable neighborhoods.

In 1970, when the city's population hit 100,000, the Census estimated that less
than 5 percent was Hispanic. By 1990 the percentage had tripled, during the next
decade it doubled, and it is now thought to be 45 percent or higher. In the fall
of 2008, the last time a count was taken, 70 percent of the students enrolled in
kindergarten through fifth grade in Irving's schools were Hispanic.

While no one knows exactly how much of that increase was a result of illegal
immigration, Irving was one of several Dallas suburbs that experienced a huge
influx of illegal workers as part of the wave that has tripled the nation's
illegal population since 1996. Officials estimate that more than 20 percent of
Irving's 200,000 residents may be in the country illegally.

A drive down North Belt Line Road, one of the city's commercial spines, takes a
visitor past a big Kroger grocery store whose next-door neighbor is a La
Michoacana Meat Market almost its equal in size. Both stores sit not far from
dozens of Hispanic restaurants, laundries, stores, auto-repair garages and
curanderas, or psychics' shops, scattered throughout the city's south side.

Some white, longtime Irving residents say illegal immigration has done much more
to erode than bolster the city's older shopping strips and neighborhoods, its
image and its property values. They complain to Mr. Gears about white flight
from the Irving Mall and about well-kept older residential blocks marred by
''patron houses,'' overcrowded single-family homes, clustered with cars, used as
bunkhouses for illegal workers.

Beth Van Duyne, a city councilwoman who advocates tougher immigration policies
and has battled Mr. Gears, likes to show visitors a favorite exhibit in her
case, a hulking big-box store that was once a Montgomery Ward. It is now called
Irving Bazaar, a battered flea-market-like assortment of merchants with handmade
window advertisements in Spanish for wrestling matches and cheap jewelry.

''People hate it,'' Ms. Van Duyne said. ''It's just not a good thing to have in
your city.''

Such discontent had been rising for years, though as recently as 2005, when Mr.
Gears was elected to his first term, it remained well below the political
surface. Sue Richardson, the vice president of the Greater Irving Republican
Club and probably Mr. Gears's most persistent opponent, said she believed that
it had finally risen into view because many people realized Irving was in the
midst of a ''silent invasion'' from Mexico.

''The people who come here illegally across the border are not educated
people,'' Ms. Richardson said. ''They don't have any culture or any respect for
ours.''

A Political Career

Arriving one fall morning at a regular kaffeeklatsch of longtime residents -- a
mostly white group that once held court in a diner but, since it closed, has
moved to a Mexican restaurant -- Mr. Gears made his way around the table shaking
hands and telling jokes. ''This is where I cut my teeth,'' he said. ''These are
the people who really run the place.''

He looks and often plays the part of a good old boy, a flamboyant dresser with
flashy gold-rimmed eyeglasses and rings and cufflinks embossed with pictures of
Elizabeth Taylor, who reminds him of his mother when she was young. Mr. Gears's
stamina and self-confidence as a talker can evoke a combination of used-car
salesman and Southern Baptist preacher, though his fondness for vodka, Marlboro
reds and easygoing profanity might disqualify him from the pulpit.

''You're going to think I'm making this up, but I was known as Bubba when I was
young,'' he said. ''Now when I go back to the country they call me Mayor
Bubba.''

Mr. Gears makes a comfortable living running a financial consulting firm with
his wife. But he owes his political career to the poor and the working class,
both Hispanic and not. A pivotal issue in his first City Council campaign (the
contests are nonpartisan, though Mr. Gears describes himself as a conservative
Democrat) was his support for beleaguered mobile home residents, and the
''trailer-house vote,'' as he likes to call it, made the difference.

He could readily identify with those voters. He was born in East Texas to a
deeply troubled mother who raised him and his two sisters mostly by herself
while wrestling with poverty and drug addiction; she committed suicide at 63.

Mr. Gears clearly relishes the political life and thrives in it. He raised
almost $100,000 in contributions in last year's mayoral race, a huge sum for
such suburban contests. But he says he has no higher political aspirations than
perhaps to serve another term or two as mayor. He jokes that ''the Democrats
wouldn't have me -- especially now -- and I wouldn't have the Republicans.''
Still, he counts among his backers powerful and wealthy real-estate developers,
and his political options remain open.

In public, Mr. Gears reveals few hints of the internal turmoil that friends
describe. His oldest Hispanic friends say they understand why he supports the
jail policy but add that the position has always sat uncomfortably on the
shoulders of a man who has long worked for Hispanic causes, including serving as
president of a local nonprofit group that helps immigrants.

''I think the world of Herb,'' said Platon Lerma, who is considered the
grandfather of Irving's Hispanic activists. But Mr. Lerma, 82, said he believed
that the immigration checks had betrayed the mayor's ideals.

''To me the program itself is a crime, in human terms,'' he said. ''We're
breaking up families. We're not doing right in the eyes of God.''

But in the next breath he added that Mr. Gears had simply chosen ''the best of
several evils.'' Hispanic residents of Irving do not vote in large numbers, Mr.
Lerma explained, and it had become apparent that too many other voters were
clamoring for immigration change.

If the election last year had gone to Mr. Gears's closest opponent, a lawyer,
Roland Jeter -- who had warned that Irving was becoming a ''sanctuary city'' for
illegal immigrants -- it would have almost certainly sent the city down a more
stringent path.

In his campaign, Mr. Jeter advocated joining a federal program that deputizes
police officers as immigration agents. The program has resulted in large numbers
of deportations in other cities, and has sometimes led them to initiate other
aggressive measures to round up illegal immigrants.

Still, even the more passive approach taken by Irving soon became unpopular
among Hispanics. In 2006, before the systematic jail checks began, local police
officers were handing about 300 people a year to the federal government for
immigration reasons. By the summer of 2007, as many as 300 people a month were
entering immigration proceedings, and Mr. Quintanilla, the Hispanic advocate who
only three months earlier had spoken in support of the policy at the City
Council hearing, helped organize protests against it.

Mr. Gears soon found himself defending the approach on national television while
trying to deflect blame toward those he believes are responsible for the
problem.

''The complaint that people have with this program,'' he said on CNN, ''should
be directed at the federal government.''

Restive Allies

Now, nearly a year after his re-election, Mr. Gears is still vilified by his
conservative opponents while also facing a simmering rebellion from Mr.
Quintanilla and other Hispanic leaders, who say the jail policy has
unnecessarily damaged the lives of people who have had no serious run-ins with
the law.

As of early March, of the 4,074 people whose arrest led to their being handed
over to immigration officials, 129 had been charged with violent crimes or
illegal possession of weapons, and 714 with other types of serious felonies. In
addition, 579 had been charged with driving while intoxicated. The other 2,625
had been arrested for lesser offenses; the largest categories were public
intoxication and not having a driver's license or insurance.

If he were in charge of changing federal policy, Mr. Gears said, he would find a
way to allow many illegal immigrants to move toward citizenship. It is a goal
that was sought by President George W. Bush and now, in a similar plan, by
President Obama.

For now, Mr. Gears is still smiling, still talking and still trying to be the
mayor of all of Irving's inhabitants, even those he knows might soon be gone,
like Mr. Urbina, the illegal immigrant who now awaits a deportation hearing.

Not long before Mr. Urbina's arrest, the mayor tossed out the first pitch at the
opening of a Pony Baseball World Series for 9- and 10-year-olds, who had come to
town from places as far away as Puerto Rico and Mexico. The event felt like a
United Nations game, with national flags and food and blaring music. ''Isn't
this great?'' Mr. Gears said. ''This is what Irving's all about.''

Using his scant Spanish to throw around the occasional greeting, the mayor took
his place on the field in his French-cuffed shirt, sweating alongside players
from one of Irving's teams, their names spelled out on the backs of their
jerseys: Gomez, Conaway, Aleman, Shastid, Riker, Flores, Herrin, Childress,
Ehrke, Rodriguez.

As the strains of the Puerto Rican anthem faded from the loudspeakers, Mr. Gears
took the mound and wound up. His pitch was low, but the catcher scooped it up
from the dirt, and the mayor walked off to generous applause.

''Fighting him is kind of like fighting against your brother,'' Mr. Quintanilla
said of his friend the mayor. ''But you put your guard down, and the first thing
you know you're being hit in the face.''

Remade in America Part IV: The United States has experienced the greatest surge
in immigration since the early 20th century, with one in five residents now a
recent immigrant or a close relative of one. Today, in the fourth part of a
series of weekly articles on how the latest wave of immigrants are affecting
American institutions, The New York Times looks at politics in a Texas city
where illegal immigrants have become a big issue. Future articles will examine
businesses, social services and families.

Correction: April 12, 2009, Sunday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article
last Sunday about a crackdown on illegal immigrants in Irving, Tex., referred
incorrectly to a big-box store known as Irving Bazaar, which houses a
flea-market-like assortment of merchants who cater to the immigrants. It was
once a Montgomery Ward, not a Wal-Mart. And a map with the article mislabeled
one of the states whose law enforcement officers cooperate with federal
authorities by arresting immigration law violators. It is Alabama, not
Mississippi.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mayor Herbert A. Gears of Irving, Tex., left, championed a
policy seen as a middle way on immigration. Oscar Urbina, like many other
illegal residents, faces a deportation hearing as a result.
At a meeting in February, advocates urged Hispanic residents of Irving to
complain to the Justice Department.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRANDON THIBODEAUX FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES)(A18)
Carlos Quintanilla initially favored Irving's immigration checks but reversed
his stance. Beth Van Duyne, a city councilwoman, wants tougher
policies.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRANDON THIBODEAUX FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A19) CHART:
Polarized Responses to Immigration Wave: State and local authorities have
responded in different ways to the influx of Hispanic immigrants. Some law
enforcement agencies have joined Immigration and Customs Enforcement (I.C.E.) in
identifying and arresting immigration law violators. Others have been expressly
forbidden from enforcing immigration laws.(Sources: Current Population Survey
National Center for Education Statistics
Immigration and Customs Enforcement
 National Immigration Law Center)(A18)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 1, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Nativists Are Restless

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 772 words


The relentlessly harsh Republican campaign against immigrants has always hidden
a streak of racialist extremism. Now after several high-water years, the
Republican tide has gone out, leaving exposed the nativism of fringe
right-wingers clinging to what they hope will be a wedge issue.

Last week at the National Press Club in Washington, a group seeking to speak for
the future of the Republican Party declared that its November defeats in
Congressional races stemmed not from having been too hard on foreigners, but too
soft.

The group, the American Cause, released a report arguing that anti-immigration
absolutism was still the solution for the party's deep electoral woes, actual
voting results notwithstanding. Rather than ''pander to pro-amnesty Hispanics
and swing voters,'' as President Bush and Karl Rove once tried to do, the
report's author, Marcus Epstein, urged Republicans to double down on their
efforts to run on schemes to seal the border and drive immigrants out.

This is nonsense, of course. For years Americans have rejected the cruelty of
enforcement-only regimes and Latino-bashing, in opinion surveys and at the
polls. In House and Senate races in 2008 and 2006, ''anti- amnesty'' hard-liners
consistently lost to candidates who proposed comprehensive reform solutions. The
wedge did not work for single-issue xenophobes like Lou Barletta, the mayor of
Hazleton, Pa., or the former Arizona Congressman J. D. Hayworth. Nor did it help
any of the Republican presidential candidates trying to defeat the party's
best-known voice of immigration moderation, John McCain, for the nomination.

Americans want immigration solved, and they realize that mass deportations will
not do that. When you add the unprecedented engagement of growing numbers of
Latino voters in 2008, it becomes clear that the nativist path is the path to
permanent political irrelevance. Unless you can find a way to get rid of all the
Latinos.

What was perhaps more notable than the report itself was the team that delivered
it. It included Bay Buchanan, former adviser to Representative Tom Tancredo and
sister of Pat, who founded the American Cause and wrote ''State of Emergency:
The Third World Invasion and Conquest of America.'' She was joined by James
Pinkerton, an essayist and Fox News contributor who, as an aide to the first
President Bush, took credit for the racist Willie Horton ads run against Michael
Dukakis.

So far, so foul. But even more telling was the presence of Peter Brimelow, a
former Forbes editor and founder of Vdare.com, an extremist anti-immigration Web
site. It is named for Virginia Dare, the first white baby born in the English
colonies, which tells you most of what you need to know. The site is worth a
visit. There you can read Mr. Brimelow's and Mr. Buchanan's musings about racial
dilution and the perils facing white people, and gems like this from Mr.
Epstein:

''Diversity can be good in moderation -- if what is being brought in is
desirable. Most Americans don't mind a little ethnic food, some Asian math
whizzes, or a few Mariachi dancers -- as long as these trends do not overwhelm
the dominant culture.''

It is easy to mock white-supremacist views as pathetic and to assume that
nativism in the age of Obama is on the way out. The country has, of course, made
considerable progress since the days of Know-Nothings and the Klan. But racism
has a nasty habit of never going away, no matter how much we may want it to, and
thus the perpetual need for vigilance.

It is all around us. Much was made of the Republican mailing of the parody song
''Barack the Magic Negro,'' but the same notorious CD included ''The Star
Spanglish Banner,'' a puerile bit of Latino-baiting. It is easily found on
YouTube. Google the words ''Bill O'Reilly'' and ''white, Christian male power
structure'' for another YouTube taste of the Fox News host assailing the
immigration views of ''the far left'' (including The Times) as racially
traitorous.

And it takes only a cursory look at a worsening economic climate and grim
national mood to realize that history is always threatening to repeat itself.
Last week on Long Island, the authorities in Suffolk County unsealed new
indictments against a group of teenage boys accused in a murderous attack
against an Ecuadorean immigrant, Marcelo Lucero. Since that crime last year,
many more victims have come forward with stories of assaults in or near the same
town, Patchogue. The police in that suburb seem to have made a habit of ignoring
a long and escalating trail of attacks against immigrant men, until the hatred
rose up and spilled over one night, fatally.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paying Taxes, and Fearing Deportation

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 980 words

DATELINE: GREELEY, Colo.


For the past decade, thousands of Hispanic men and women who settled here went
to Amalia's Translation and Tax Services to pay their annual income taxes.

Whether these people were in the United States legally mattered little to Amalia
Cerrillo, who runs the business out of her home in this northern Colorado
farming town. The Internal Revenue Service, Ms. Cerrillo knew, requires
everyone, regardless of immigration status, to pay taxes on income earned in
this country.

''My clients wanted to do what any other American does,'' Ms. Cerrillo said.
''And they wanted to show that they paid their taxes if there is ever a chance
for amnesty or a green card.''

That all changed Oct. 17, when investigators with the Weld County Sheriff's
Office, armed with a search warrant, seized thousands of confidential tax
returns from Ms. Cerrillo's business. They told her they were looking for people
with fraudulent Social Security numbers, commonly used by illegal immigrants to
get work.

The seizure of the tax returns was the first step in a broad, continuing
investigation, called Operation Number Games by local law enforcement officials.
Sheriff John Cooke said his investigators had identified about 1,300 illegal
immigrants who had filed tax returns bearing fake or stolen Social Security
numbers. Many will face deportation proceedings.

Since October, 40 people have been arrested on identity theft or criminal
impersonation charges. Sixty-five additional arrest warrants have been issued,
and District Attorney Ken Buck said many more would be coming.

''I don't care whether they are meth addicts or petty thieves or illegal
immigrants,'' Mr. Buck said. ''What matters most to me is that they are
committing felonies through identify theft.''

The campaign is causing concern at the I.R.S., which says illegal immigrants
paid almost $50 billion in taxes from 1996 to 2003, and among immigrants' rights
groups, which call the operation a thinly disguised attempt to root out illegal
immigrants.

''For years, they said immigrants don't pay taxes and are a burden on our
system,'' said Julie Gonzales, the political coordinator for the Colorado
Immigrant Rights Coalition.

Late last Monday,  the American Civil Liberties Union of Colorado filed a
lawsuit in State District Court here arguing that by seizing and retaining
confidential tax information, the Weld County authorities had violated privacy
rights of thousands of taxpayers.

''If the sheriff and the D.A. can comb through thousands of records in a tax
preparer's office on the theory that some of their clients are doing something
wrong, then none of our confidential information is safe,'' said Mark
Silverstein, the legal director for the group.

Mr. Buck said all information from the investigation would be kept confidential.

Both sides agree that the issue has exposed a hole in federal immigration
policy. Since 1996, the I.R.S. has distributed about 15 million Individual
Taxpayer Identification Numbers to enable people without Social Security numbers
to pay taxes. Many illegal immigrants also buy fake or stolen Social Security
numbers on the black market to show to potential employers.

While not commenting specifically about the Colorado operation, an I.R.S.
spokesman, Frank Keith, said, ''We are concerned when information provided by
taxpayers to meet their legal tax obligations is used for purposes other than
federal tax administration.''

Sheriff Cooke said the federal policy was tantamount to ''the government turning
its back on victims of identity theft.''

If a stolen or false Social Security number is used only to get work, ''there is
no negative impact on the rightful owner,'' said a Social Security
Administration spokesman, Mark Hinkle; but it can wreak financial havoc if used
to gain access to bank accounts or to obtain credit cards.

Sheriff Cooke said the Greeley investigation began last August when a Texas man
contacted the authorities here and said he had been notified by the Social
Security Administration that someone was using his Social Security number in
Weld County.

Investigators traced the number to Servando Trejo, who according to a search
warrant told them he was in the United States illegally and had bought the
number. Mr. Trejo said he paid income taxes through Ms. Cerrillo's office, the
warrant said.

Ms. Cerrillo is not facing charges.

Sheriff Cooke blames the I.R.S. ''They know the Social Security numbers are
stolen,'' he said, ''and they choose to ignore it.''

Some illegal immigrants hope that the payment of taxes in compliance with
federal laws will benefit them if and when Congress addresses the immigration
issue. But Marielena Hincapie, executive director of the National Immigration
Law Center in Los Angeles, said the crackdown had put illegal immigrants in a
bind: if they pay their taxes, they risk exposure to immigration authorities.

''It cuts at the bedrock of confidentiality of tax law, whose central tenet is
that people come forward and report their income,'' Ms. Hincapie said.

The investigation has had a chilling impact on immigrants in Greeley, advocates
say. A man who asked to be identified only as Jose  because he is in the country
illegally said he had filed taxes with the dream of one day becoming a citizen.

Jose said that he was arrested late last year for using a false Social Security
number he bought in Denver and that he now faces prison and deportation.

''You try and do the right thing,'' Jose said of paying taxes, ''and it seems
they're using it as an excuse to take people out of the country.''

Mr. Buck, though, said the cases stemming from the inquiry are about identity
theft, not immigration. District attorneys in the Southwest, he said, have
called to ask about his tactics.

''Am I apologetic for spreading fear amongst people committing felonies?'' Mr.
Buck said. ''No.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''They are committing felonies through identify theft,''
District Attorney Ken Buck said.
 Investigators in Weld County, Colo., seized confidential tax returns from the
business Amalia Cerrillo runs out of her home, looking for people with
fraudulent Social Security numbers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gillibrand Hints at a Change of Mind on Immigration

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL; David W. Chen contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 506 words


Kirsten E. Gillibrand, New York's new senator, suggested to Latino elected
officials on Sunday that she would take the lead on some immigration issues --
and perhaps quickly drop some positions that they considered objectionable.

In particular, she promised to take a lead in promoting a Congressional bill to
roll back a federal provision that discourages states from charging in-state
tuition to the children of illegal immigrants who attend state-supported
universities. The bill also would permit illegal immigrants who have grown up in
the United States and are attending college to apply for legal status.

And despite her vote in Congress when she was a representative from upstate New
York, Ms. Gillibrand said she no longer supported cracking down on so-called
sanctuary cities like New York that fail to enforce all immigration laws.

She said she no longer favored the legislation, which would have led to
financial penalties for the city. ''In a lot of these issues, it's a case of
learning more and expanding my view,'' Ms. Gillibrand said in an interview after
the meeting.

Some of the Latino elected officials who met with the senator at the Brooklyn
offices of El Diario, the Spanish language newspaper, did not sound persuaded by
Ms. Gillibrand's statements. El Diario ran a front-page headline a week ago
declaring Ms. Gillibrand to be anti-immigrant, citing her votes in favor of
English-only regulations and a bill deputizing local police officers to act as
immigration agents.

''The reality we have before us is her voting record; it's a record that has
caused great dismay,'' said Melissa Mark-Viverito, who represents East Harlem
and the South Bronx in the City Council. ''She talked of 'reconsidering' and
'revising,' and we'll see what that means.''

In the House, Ms. Gillibrand, a Democrat, represented a majority Republican and
conservative rural district that encircles Albany and snakes toward the
Adirondacks. All of the political pressure in that region came from the right,
and her votes on immigration issues and on guns hewed to conservative lines
favored by her constituents. (On many other issues, from health care to Social
Security to Iraq, she voted along more liberal lines.)

She confronts a new reality now. The majority of the Democratic vote statewide
is in immigrant-rich downstate cities and towns, and in upstate urban centers
such as Buffalo and Rochester. Her visits on Sunday to Brooklyn and then to
Chinatown, where she marched in the Chinese New Year parade alongside Assembly
Speaker Sheldon Silver and Councilman John C. Liu of Queens, who has criticized
her immigration stances, underscored her need to reach out to a much different
constituency.

''She understands she no longer represents a small Congressional district
upstate,'' said Assemblyman Jose R. Peralta of Queens, who is the son of
immigrants from the Dominican Republic. ''We are going to help her and pay close
attention, and if she doesn't change, well, then we'll be speaking to other
contenders in 2010.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand in Chinatown with Assembly Speaker
Sheldon Silver and Councilman John C. Liu. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GIANNI CIPRIANO FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 11, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Raids

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 260 words


To the Editor:

''Despite Vow, Target of Immigrant Raids Shifted'' (front page, Feb. 4) reported
that Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials shifted their focus from
dangerous fugitives to the easiest people to find.

This is exactly what we saw in workplace raids around the country last year,
raids that focused on immigrants who embody, rather than undermine, core
American values like hard work, self-sacrifice and the importance of family
values that have defined this country from the beginning.

When Congress allocated hundreds of millions of dollars to ICE for this program,
the goal was not to lock up women who scrub toilets in courthouses after 5 p.m.;
or cooks and waiters who serve authentic ethnic food; or seamstresses who work
double shifts without overtime to turn out high-quality backpacks under
government contracts; or meatpackers who work in hazardous conditions. But all
these people were targets of ICE enforcement.

Arresting these people won't improve this country's national security. It only
terrorizes hard-working families and devastates stable communities, primarily
for political gain.

The organization where I work represents and advises hundreds of immigrants in
detention each year, including many arrested in workplace raids last year. Now
is the time for the new administration and Congress to step in, reset priorities
and show real leadership in ending these raids and reforming the immigration
system.

Sarah Ignatius Executive Director Political Asylum/ Immigration Representation
Project Boston, Feb. 9, 2009

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 11, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Open-Door Bailout

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 830 words

DATELINE: Bangalore, India


Leave it to a brainy Indian to come up with the cheapest and surest way to
stimulate our economy: immigration.

''All you need to do is grant visas to two million Indians, Chinese and
Koreans,'' said Shekhar Gupta, editor of The Indian Express newspaper. ''We will
buy up all the subprime homes. We will work 18 hours a day to pay for them. We
will immediately improve your savings rate  --  no Indian bank today has more
than 2 percent nonperforming loans because not paying your mortgage is
considered shameful here. And we will start new companies to create our own jobs
and jobs for more Americans.''

While his tongue was slightly in cheek, Gupta and many other Indian business
people I spoke to this week were trying to make a point that sometimes
non-Americans can make best: ''Dear America, please remember how you got to be
the wealthiest country in history. It wasn't through protectionism, or
state-owned banks or fearing free trade. No, the formula was very simple: build
this really flexible, really open economy, tolerate creative destruction so dead
capital is quickly redeployed to better ideas and companies, pour into it the
most diverse, smart and energetic immigrants from every corner of the world and
then stir and repeat, stir and repeat, stir and repeat, stir and repeat.''

While I think President Obama has been doing his best to keep the worst
protectionist impulses in Congress out of his stimulus plan, the U.S. Senate
unfortunately voted on Feb. 6 to restrict banks and other financial institutions
that receive taxpayer bailout money from hiring high-skilled immigrants on
temporary work permits known as H-1B visas.

Bad signal. In an age when attracting the first-round intellectual draft choices
from around the world is the most important competitive advantage a knowledge
economy can have, why would we add barriers against such brainpower  --
anywhere? That's called ''Old Europe.'' That's spelled: S-T-U-P-I-D.

''If you do this, it will be one of the best things for India and one of the
worst for Americans, [because] Indians will be forced to innovate at home,''
said Subhash B. Dhar, a member of the executive council that runs Infosys, the
well-known Indian technology company that sends Indian workers to the U.S. to
support a wide range of firms. ''We protected our jobs for many years and look
where it got us. Do you know that for an Indian company, it is still easier to
do business with a company in the U.S. than it is to do business today with
another Indian state?''

Each Indian state tries to protect its little economy with its own rules.
America should not be trying to copy that. ''Your attitude,'' said Dhar, should
be '' 'whoever can make us competitive and dominant, let's bring them in.' ''

If there is one thing we know for absolute certain, it's this: Protectionism did
not cause the Great Depression, but it sure helped to make it ''Great.'' From
1929 to 1934, world trade plunged by more than 60 percent  --  and we were all
worse off.

We live in a technological age where every study shows that the more knowledge
you have as a worker and the more knowledge workers you have as an economy, the
faster your incomes will rise. Therefore, the centerpiece of our stimulus, the
core driving principle, should be to stimulate everything that makes us smarter
and attracts more smart people to our shores. That is the best way to create
good jobs.

According to research by Vivek Wadhwa, a senior research associate at the Labor
and Worklife Program at Harvard Law School, more than half of Silicon Valley
start-ups were founded by immigrants over the last decade. These
immigrant-founded tech companies employed 450,000 workers and had sales of $52
billion in 2005, said Wadhwa in an essay published this week on
BusinessWeek.com.

He also cited a recent study by William R. Kerr of Harvard Business School and
William F. Lincoln of the University of Michigan that ''found that in periods
when H-1B visa numbers went down, so did patent applications filed by immigrants
[in the U.S.]. And when H-1B visa numbers went up, patent applications followed
suit.''

We don't want to come out of this crisis with just inflation, a mountain of debt
and more shovel-ready jobs. We want to -- we have to --  come out of it with a
new Intel, Google, Microsoft and Apple. I would have loved to have seen the
stimulus package include a government-funded venture capital bank to help
finance all the start-ups that are clearly not starting up today  --  in the
clean-energy space they're dying like flies  --  because of a lack of liquidity
from traditional lending sources.

Newsweek had an essay this week that began: ''Could Silicon Valley become
another Detroit?'' Well, yes, it could. When the best brains in the world are on
sale, you don't shut them out. You open your doors wider. We need to attack this
financial crisis with green cards not just greenbacks, and with start-ups not
just bailouts. One Detroit is enough.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 13, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wage Watchers

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 358 words


Most businesses try to compete by being efficient and smart. Some do it the
nasty way. They undercut their competitors by hiring and exploiting low-wage
workers. Recent years have been especially good for this repellent
bottom-feeding thanks to weak and indifferent government enforcement of workers'
rights and a darkening political climate against illegal immigrants -- the
backbone of the cheap, disposable work force.

Bad employers confidently cut corners, steal wages and ignore overtime and
workplace-safety laws because they know that governments at all levels are
unable or unwilling to investigate and workers are too frightened to complain.
But here is a heartening sign of change: New York State has begun a new effort
to expose and prosecute abusive employers by enlisting the people who know them
best: their immigrant employees.

Last weekend,  the State Labor Department began a pilot partnership with six
nonprofit workers' organizations, whose members will be the government's eyes
and ears in the abuse-prone immigrant workplace.

In New York City and on Long Island, workers at day-labor corners, laundries,
restaurants, nail salons, supermarkets and department stores will be trained to
know and defend their rights and be given contacts in the Division of Labor
Standards to report violations.

All sides of the immigration debate should be able to agree that this sort of
program, one of the first in the nation, is wise and overdue. For too long, at
too many levels of government, efforts to help immigrant workers have been
thwarted by the poison politics of immigration.

Blame the tag ''illegal'' for clouding people's understanding of immigrants'
rights. Attacking illegal immigration through enforcement alone -- piling
hopelessness onto fear -- will never make 12 million people disappear. It will
make them silent partners in a system that forces honest Americans and
businesses to suffer with them.

You don't need a bleeding heart to apprehend the tragedy of worker exploitation.
A cold eye will do, calculating the cost to honest businesses and workers when
bad employers pocket the wages of fear and desperation.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 14, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lawmakers Want Look At Sheriff In Arizona

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 613 words


Members of Congress  asked the Justice and Homeland Security Departments on
Friday to investigate accusations that the sheriff who presides over the Phoenix
metropolitan area has engaged in a pattern of racial profiling and other abuses
against Latino residents.

Four members of the House Judiciary Committee, including the chairman, John
Conyers Jr., Democrat of Michigan, raised of concerns about the sheriff, Joe
Arpaio of Maricopa County.

Sheriff Arpaio, a publicity magnet who is a hero to those who campaign against
illegal immigration and a pariah to immigration advocates, brushed off the
requests as political high jinks.

''If they have concerns, they can call the F.B.I.,'' Sheriff Arpaio said in an
interview, promising to continue enforcing immigration laws.

The lawmakers asked the Justice Department to conduct a civil rights
investigation of the sheriff's practices, which in the past year have drawn
complaints from civil libertarians and Mayor Phil Gordon of Phoenix.

They accused sheriff's deputies of unlawfully singling out Latinos for
immigration checks during several crime sweeps.

A Justice Department spokeswoman said the letter would be reviewed and had no
further comment.

But there were indications that the department, at least at some point in the
past year, might have been interested in the case.

A spokesman for Mr. Gordon, Scott Phelps, said the mayor had been advised by the
department ''some months ago'' to not comment on the subject ''because of
potential federal investigations.''

''He is a potential witness in some of the matters,'' Mr. Phelps said, declining
to elaborate.

The members of Congress also asked the Homeland Security Department, now headed
by Janet Napolitano, the former Arizona governor, to reassess its agreement with
the sheriff that allows deputies trained by the department to check the
immigration status of detainees.

Sean Smith, a spokesman for Ms. Napolitano, who has been friendly with the
sheriff but as governor had also expressed concerns about some of his tactics,
said she had already ordered a review of the program, known as 287(g), which
allows immigration officials to train and work with dozens of local law
enforcement agencies.

''Because of the questions about how 287(g) agreements are administered, and if
uniform standards are being applied, Secretary Napolitano has asked for a review
of the entire program,'' Mr. Smith said in a statement. He would not to respond
to the lawmakers' other concerns.

The review, ordered Jan. 30, is due Feb. 20. In addition, the Government
Accountability Office is investigating the program and plans to release a report
in early March, a spokesman said.

The letters came more than a week after Sheriff Arpaio, who has attracted
widespread publicity for requiring inmates to wear pink underwear and by
starring in a new reality television show, provoked an outcry when he marched
200 illegal immigrant inmates in the streets from one jail to another ''tent
city'' facility.

There, they are held separately, the sheriff said, to facilitate communication
with consular officials. Civil libertarians denounced the march and holding area
as unlawful segregation.

''Racial profiling and segregation are simply not acceptable,'' Mr. Conyers said
in a statement. ''Media stunts and braggadocio are no substitute for fair and
effective law enforcement.''

Sheriff Arpaio said the members of Congress were misinformed or misunderstood
his actions.

He said that his deputies had not improperly singled out Latinos and that even
if the agreement with federal immigration authorities was revoked, he would
continue to enforce state laws aimed at human smugglers.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 14, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

100,000 Parents of Citizens Were Deported Over 10 Years

BYLINE: By MICHAEL FALCONE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 365 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Of nearly 2.2 million immigrants deported in the decade ended 2007, more than
100,000 were the parents of children who, having been born in the United States,
were American citizens, according to a report issued Friday by the Department of
Homeland Security.

But the department lacks data that might have addressed questions left
unanswered by the report, like the number of American children who were left
behind in the United States or, alternatively, exited the country with their
deported parents. Nor could the report say in how many instances both parents of
such children were deported.

Similarly, said Representative Jose E. Serrano, Democrat of New York, since no
one knows how many children a given deportee had, the number of affected
children could be much higher than 108,434, the exact number of deported parents
of American citizens.

So ''the problem goes deeper than just the numbers you see,'' said Mr. Serrano,
who requested the study. He called the circumstance ''tragic.''

''If they took their children back,'' he said of the deportees, ''then
technically we deported an American citizen. No matter which side of the
immigration issue you fall on, there's something wrong with the notion of
kicking American citizens out of their own country.''

The Homeland Security Department's office of inspector general, which conducted
the review, said it had ordered a look at  the feasibility of tracking down more
data about the deportations.

Mr. Serrano, who represents a heavily Hispanic district in the Bronx, is vice
chairman of the House Appropriations subcommittee that oversees spending on the
department. He has introduced legislation that would allow immigration judges to
take family status into account when deciding on deportations.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a
policy institute in Washington that supports tighter controls on immigration,
said immigrant parents of children born here should not receive special
treatment.

''Should those parents get off the hook just because their kids are put in a
difficult position?'' Mr. Krikorian said. ''Children often suffer because of the
mistakes of their parents.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 15, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Military Will Offer Path To Citizenship

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words


Stretched thin in Afghanistan and Iraq, the American military will begin
recruiting skilled immigrants who are living in this country with temporary
visas, offering them the chance to become United States citizens in as little as
six months.

Immigrants who are permanent residents, with documents commonly known as green
cards, have long been eligible to enlist. But the new effort, for the first time
since the Vietnam War, will open the armed forces to temporary immigrants if
they have lived in the United States for a minimum of two years, according to
military officials familiar with the plan.

Recruiters expect that the temporary immigrants will have more education,
foreign language skills and professional expertise than many Americans who
enlist, helping the military to fill shortages in medical care, language
interpretation and field intelligence analysis.

''The American Army finds itself in a lot of different countries where cultural
awareness is critical,'' said Lt. Gen. Benjamin C. Freakley, the top recruitment
officer for the Army, which is leading the pilot program. ''There will be some
very talented folks in this group.''

The program will begin small -- limited to 1,000 enlistees nationwide in its
first year, most for the Army and some for other branches. If the pilot program
succeeds as Pentagon officials anticipate, it will expand for all branches of
the military. For the Army, it could eventually provide as many as 14,000
volunteers a year, or about one in six recruits.

About 8,000 permanent immigrants with green cards join the armed forces
annually, the Pentagon reports, and about 29,000 foreign-born people currently
serving are not American citizens.

Although the Pentagon has had wartime authority to recruit immigrants since
shortly after the Sept. 11 attacks, military officials have moved cautiously to
lay the legal groundwork for the temporary immigrant program to avoid
controversy within the ranks and among veterans over the prospect of large
numbers of immigrants in the armed forces.

A preliminary Pentagon announcement of the program last year drew a stream of
angry comments from officers and veterans on Military.com, a Web site they
frequent.

Marty Justis, executive director of the national headquarters of the American
Legion, the veterans' organization, said that while the group opposes ''any
great influx of immigrants'' to the United States, it would not object to
recruiting temporary immigrants as long as they passed tough background checks.
But he said the immigrants' allegiance to the United States ''must take
precedence over and above any ties they may have with their native country.''

The military does not allow illegal immigrants to enlist, and that policy would
not change, officers said. Recruiting officials pointed out that volunteers with
temporary visas would have already passed a security screening and would have
shown that they had no criminal record.

''The Army will gain in its strength in human capital,'' General Freakley said,
''and the immigrants will gain their citizenship and get on a ramp to the
American dream.''

In recent years, as American forces faced combat in two wars and recruiters
struggled to meet their goals for the all-volunteer military, thousands of legal
immigrants with temporary visas who tried to enlist were turned away because
they lacked permanent green cards, recruiting officers said.

Recruiters' work became easier in the last few months as unemployment soared and
more Americans sought to join the military. But the Pentagon, facing a new
deployment of 30,000 troops to Afghanistan, still has difficulties in attracting
doctors, specialized nurses and language experts.

Several types of temporary work visas require college or advanced degrees or
professional expertise, and immigrants who are working as doctors and nurses in
the United States have already been certified by American medical boards.

Military figures show that only 82 percent of about 80,000 Army recruits last
year had high school diplomas. According to new figures, the Army provided
waivers to 18 percent of active-duty recruits in the final four months of last
year, allowing them to enlist despite medical conditions or criminal records.

Military officials want to attract immigrants who have native knowledge of
languages and cultures that the Pentagon considers strategically vital. The
program will also be open to students and refugees.

The Army's one-year pilot program will begin in New York City to recruit about
550 temporary immigrants who speak one or more of 35 languages, including
Arabic, Chinese, Hindi, Igbo (a tongue spoken in Nigeria), Kurdish, Nepalese,
Pashto, Russian and Tamil. Spanish speakers are not eligible. The Army's program
will also include about 300 medical professionals to be recruited nationwide.
Recruiting will start after Department of Homeland Security officials update an
immigration rule in coming days.

Pentagon officials expect that the lure of accelerated citizenship will be
powerful. Under a statute invoked in 2002 by the Bush administration, immigrants
who serve in the military can apply to become citizens on the first day of
active service, and they can take the oath in as little as six months.

For foreigners who come to work or study in the United States on temporary
visas, the path to citizenship is uncertain and at best agonizingly long, often
lasting more than a decade. The military also waives naturalization fees, which
are at least $675.

To enlist, temporary immigrants will have to prove that they have lived in the
United States for two years and have not been out of the country for longer than
90 days during that time. They will have to pass an English test.

Language experts will have to serve four years of active duty, and health care
professionals will serve three years of active duty or six years in the
Reserves. If the immigrants do not complete their service honorably, they could
lose their citizenship.

Commenters who vented their suspicions of the program on Military.com said it
could be used by terrorists to penetrate the armed forces.

At a street corner recruiting station in Bay Ridge in Brooklyn, Staff Sgt.
Alejandro Campos of the Army said he had already fielded calls from temporary
immigrants who heard rumors about the program.

''We're going to give people the opportunity to be part of the United States who
are dying to be part of this country and they weren't able to before now,'' said
Sergeant Campos, who was born in the Dominican Republic and became a United
States citizen after he joined the Army.

Sergeant Campos said he saw how useful it was to have soldiers who were native
Arabic speakers during two tours in Iraq.

''The first time around we didn't have soldier translators,'' he said. ''But now
that we have soldiers as translators, we are able to trust more, we are able to
accomplish the mission with more accuracy.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Staff Sgt. Alejandro Campos, in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, became a
citizen after joining the Army.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)
 Lt. Gen. Benjamin C. Freakley heads Army recruitment.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE
GROLL/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A30)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 16, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Facing Graduation, Not Deportation

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 671 words


Three years ago, Amadou Ly was a shy East Harlem high school student with a
secret. He quickly became front-page news when his robotics team unexpectedly
won a spot in the national finals in Atlanta, but he could not board a plane
because he lacked government identification.

Born in Senegal, Amadou had been abandoned in New York at 14 by his mother, who
wanted him to try to finish an American education. At 18, he was facing
deportation as an illegal immigrant, with no way to attend the college where he
had been admitted.

But by the time he arrived at the robotics competition by train, the response to
an article in The New York Times had unleashed a news media whirlwind that
brought members of Congress, Hollywood stars and volunteer lawyers to his side.
They persuaded immigration authorities to drop deportation proceedings and grant
him a foreign student visa to stay and study in the United States.

Now that happy ending has been eclipsed by another: Mr. Ly secured a juvenile
green card just before his 21st birthday this month, thanks to his legal helpers
and obscure changes in New York State law that extended the age of eligibility.

He is on track to graduate in June from Kingsborough Community College in
Brooklyn, after struggling to pay tuition because as a foreign student he could
not work more than 20 hours a week.

And he has already begun a very American career, winning parts in two
independent films and a music video, and even an offer of a small role in an
episode of ''Law & Order.''

He had to turn down that television show last year, he said, because of the work
limits imposed by his visa. But now, as a legal permanent resident, ''I can work
as much as I want, and I can travel,'' Mr. Ly exulted last week, between college
classes in Brooklyn and a film rehearsal in Harlem.

In April, he plans a trip back to Senegal, his first chance to see his
grandmother since he came to the United States at 13. But he will not stay too
long.

''I feel like I belong in this country,'' he said, recalling how he longed to
vote in the presidential election. ''As soon as I have the next opportunity to
become a citizen, I will take it.''

Mr. Ly (pronounced Lee) originally wanted to become a computer engineer. But he
changed plans after he took an acting class in an effort to improve his public
speaking style, and he visited producers at Universal Studios in Hollywood. He
switched his college major to performing arts.

Amy Meselson, the Legal Aid lawyer who first took his case, said she was
initially worried about his new ambitions. But she has been impressed by how
hard he works, she said, and how much poise he has gained.

''When I first met him I was very struck by how shy he was,'' she said,
recalling the scared teenager who had been placed in deportation proceedings in
November 2004, after he was a passenger in a car accident in Pennsylvania and a
state trooper reported him to federal immigration authorities. ''Even his voice
was so quiet it was hard to hear him sometimes.''

''He's always been a principled person who had a sense of the right way to
act,'' she added. ''I feel like at every turn he has really taken the best from
his environment and left the worst.''

He is still  aware of his good luck, especially after visiting Senegalese
friends when they were held for months without legal representation in an
immigration detention center in Elizabeth, N.J. ''There are people who have
nobody to visit them,'' he said. ''They are just there alone.''

He now sits on a regional planning committee for the annual robotics
competition, known as First, which has its robot-building trials on March 6. And
he is trying to organize a robotics team in Senegal, said Kris Breton, who was
Mr. Ly's robotics coach in East Harlem and now works for the city overseeing
free after-school programs.

Whether Mr. Ly succeeds in show business, returns to engineering or finds a
different path, Mr. Breton added, he will make a fine American.

''Amadou has character,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Amadou Ly, 21, his legal residency secured, is embarking on a
career in show business.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 21, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Government Offers Look At Nation's Immigrants

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 472 words


Indians are the best educated newcomers from overseas. Somalis are the youngest
and poorest. Immigrants from Jordan and Bangladesh are most likely to be working
in sales and office jobs.

Those are among the findings of a profile of the nation's foreign-born
residents, legal or illegal, released this week by the Census Bureau.

Over all, the profile indicates that Latin Americans and Africans account for a
greater share of the nation's immigrant population than they did  five years
ago. In 1990, 22 percent of the foreign-born residents were from Mexico. By
2007, 31 percent were.

In 2007, the Census Bureau found, 54 percent of the nation's 38.1 million
foreign-born came from Latin America, 27 percent from Asia, 13 percent from
Europe and 4 percent from Africa.

More came from Mexico -- 11.7 million -- than from any other country, followed
by China, the Philippines, India, El Salvador, Vietnam and South Korea.

Dominican immigrants accounted for 2 percent of the foreign-born -- the same as
the share of Canadians and the same percentage as Germans as recently as 2000.
Indians made up 4 percent of the foreign-born.

A separate analysis found wide disparities among foreigners, especially
Mexicans, being drawn to different regions.

''The new immigrant magnets, especially in the Southeast, are disproportionately
attracting young Mexican men who are willing to accept low wages,'' said William
H. Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution. ''They have a lower
potential to assimilate into the community than foreign-born Mexicans going to
other destinations, and, as a result, they may be more prone to leave as
economic opportunities continue to dry up in construction and related
industries.''

The profile found that immigrants are about as likely to have graduated from
college as native-born Americans, 27 percent compared to 28 percent.
(Seventy-four percent of Indian immigrants have a bachelor's degree.)

Those from India, Australia, South Africa and the Philippines had the highest
median household incomes, with the figure for Indians at $91,195. Those from
Somalia and the Dominican Republic had among the lowest. The median for the
foreign born was $46,881 compared with $51,249 among the native born.

The oldest immigrants were from Europe (Hungarians, Italians, Greeks, Germans
and Irish all had median ages of about 60 or more) while Somalis had the
youngest median age (26.8).

A disproportionately high percentage  of Nigerians and Kenyans are employed or
looking for work.

Fully 97 percent of immigrants from Mexico  and the Dominican Republic do not
speak English at home. About 52 percent of foreign-born residents  say they
speak English less than very well.

Americans born in the Netherlands and Ireland had the lowest poverty rates (5
percent). Somalis had the highest (51 percent).

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 22, 2009 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Enforcement Gone Bad

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 393 words


The failures of the immigration system are many and severe, but the main problem
is not that the country is catching too few undocumented immigrants. It is
catching too many. Since the early 1990s, you could write the federal
government's immigration strategy on a cardboard sign: Deport Them All.

A report last week from the Pew Hispanic Center laid bare some striking results
of that campaign. It found that Latinos now make up 40 percent of those
sentenced in federal courts, even though they are only about 13 percent of the
adult population. They accounted for one-third of federal prison inmates in
2007.

The numbers might suggest we are besieged by immigrant criminals. But of all the
noncitizen Latinos sentenced last year, the vast majority -- 81 percent -- were
convicted for unlawfully entering or remaining in the country, neither of which
is a criminal offense.

The country is filling the federal courts and prisons with nonviolent offenders.
It is diverting immense law-enforcement resources from pursuing serious
criminals -- violent thugs, financial scammers -- to an immense, self-defeating
campaign to hunt down ... workers.

The Pew report follows news this month that even as a federal program to hunt
immigrant fugitives saw its budget soar -- to $218 million last year from $9
million in 2003 -- its mission went astray. According to the nonpartisan
Migration Policy Institute, of the 72,000  people arrested through last
February,  73 percent had no criminal record. Border Patrol agents in California
and Maryland, meanwhile, tell of pressure to arrest  workers at day-labor
corners and convenience stores to meet  quotas.

The country needs to control its borders. It needs to rebuild an effective
immigration system and thwart employers who cheat it. It needs to bring the
undocumented forward and make citizen taxpayers of them.

For all the billions spent on fences, raids, patrols and prisons, the number of
illegal immigrants has steadily grown to about 12 million last year from four
million in 1992. So has the need to overhaul the many parts of a festering,
broken system: to clear out backlogs in legal immigration, to rescue families
from limbo, to throw sunlight on the shadow economy, to deter unlawful hiring,
to replace chaos with lawfulness and order. All those priorities have languished
in the deportation era.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 5, 2009



CORRECTION: An editorial on Feb. 22 stated incorrectly that unlawfully entering
the country is not a criminal offense. It is a misdemeanor for a first-time
offender.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 27, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Thorny Path of Immigration, Post-9/11

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW
'CROSSING OVER'; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 775 words


When it comes to politics and the big screen, American filmmakers tend to fall
into two camps, the grossly exploitative and the earnestly instructive. On the
earnestly instructive side are well-intentioned downers and uppers like ''Grand
Canyon'' and their lower-budget equivalents, like ''The Visitor'' and ''Frozen
River,'' which offer prescriptive lessons in tolerance. On the grossly
exploitative are those films, like Wayne Kramer's ''Crossing Over,'' that
deliver their sanctimony with less hand-wringing and more fist-shaking, complete
with lurid violence and, for no real narrative reason, periodically bared female
flesh.

In general, the grossly exploitative flicks tend to be more entertaining or at
least bearable than the earnestly instructive variant. (Sam Fuller was a master
of the exploitative political film.) Such is the  case initially with ''Crossing
Over,'' which tries, through a carefully balanced range of characters, to tackle
some of the thornier problems involving immigration in America, post-Sept. 11.
Largely set in that boiling multicultural hot pot known as Southern California,
with a few stops south of the border, the mosaiclike story oscillates between
various, unrelated immigrants, legal and otherwise, and the American citizens
who are trying to help or  hinder them. The film's most obvious models are
''Crash'' and ''Babel,'' which both advance their multi-everything messages
structurally with fragmented, multistrand narratives.

If Mr. Kramer's bid to fuse form and content registers as rather less elegant
than  ''Crash'' or ''Babel,'' it is in part because he doesn't seem equally
committed to all his characters.  Though he's come up with a veritable United
Nations of human-interest stories  -- including those of an African child stuck
in a detention center and an Iranian patriarch on the verge of citizenship -- he
spends most of his time hanging out with his film's more familiar faces.  By far
the most well known is the appealingly gruff Harrison Ford as Max Brogan, an
officer for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, who comes equipped with a
marshmallow heart and a flinty partner with serious culture-shock issues of his
own, Hamid (a very fine Cliff Curtis).

In ''Crossing Over'' immigration isn't just a problem, it's also what defines
and limits each and every character. Yet, much like the characters' diversity --
the huddled masses include a Mexican mother and son, an Australian actress and a
Korean family -- immigration isn't really the point here. Violence is. When a
zealous Muslim teenager, Taslima (Summer Bishil), the daughter of Bangladeshi
immigrants, delivers a naive essay on the Sept. 11 hijackers at school, the
speech doesn't prompt any soul-searching. It isn't meant to: it's simply a
device to show (prove) how wretchedly bigoted everyone in this rainbow coalition
actually is, from the black teenagers who hurl insults at Taslima to the white
F.B.I. agent who comes cataclysmically knocking on her family's door.

If Mr. Kramer's outrage felt honest, his film would be easier to respect. But
time and again, he undermines his own righteousness  by pumping up the violence
(gangbangers threaten the Korean family) and stripping down  his talent,
including the Australian, Claire (Alice Eve), who, after attracting the sexual
interest of a sleazy immigration bureaucrat, Cole (Ray Liotta), ends up taking
really long showers. Cole is married to an immigration lawyer, Denise (Ashley
Judd), who wants to adopt the African child (Ogechi Egonu)  languishing in the
same detention center that Taslima lands in. It's all just one big circle of
life, which doubtless explains why Mr. Kramer routinely tries to bridge these
stories with aerial images of Southern California freeways, where people of
every origin flow together except, you know, during rush hour.

''Crossing Over'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult
guardian). Graphic gun violence, strong language and the occasionally bared
female breast and buttock.

CROSSING OVER

Opens on Friday in New York and Los Angeles.

Written and directed by Wayne Kramer; director of photography, James Whitaker;
edited by Arthur Coburn; music by Mark Isham; production designer, Toby Corbett;
produced by Frank Marshall and Mr. Kramer; released by the Weinstein Company.
Running time: 1 hour 53 minutes.

WITH: Harrison Ford (Max Brogan), Ray Liotta (Cole Frankel), Ashley Judd (Denise
Frankel), Jim Sturgess (Gavin Kossef), Cliff Curtis (Hamid Baraheri), Alice
Braga (Mireya Sanchez), Alice Eve (Claire Shepard), Justin Chon (Yong Kim),
Summer Bishil (Taslima Jahangir) and Ogechi Egonu (Alike).

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Harrison Ford and Alice Braga in ''Crossing Over,'' Wayne
Kramer's film exploring multicultural issues in California.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DALE
ROBINETTE/TWC)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Who's Running Immigration?

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 473 words


Immigration enforcement ran off the rails in the Bush era, when federal agents
stormed factories to shackle workers and local authorities staged their own
crackdowns with little or no oversight from Washington. It was a war without a
plan, and it solved nothing.

President Obama has repeatedly promised to take a smarter path. But if he and
the homeland security secretary, Janet Napolitano, are making a clean break with
the Bush way on immigration, we haven't seen it yet. That shambling machinery
lurches on.

Two recent examples tell the story.

The first was a large, peaceful protest in Phoenix on Saturday. Thousands stood
up to the feared sheriff of Maricopa County, Joe Arpaio, who has brutally
misused his powers under a program called 287(g). It enlists local police as
immigration enforcers. He has terrorized Latino neighborhoods with relentless
sweeps and has paraded shackled immigrants through the streets.

When she was the Arizona governor, Ms. Napolitano was an outspoken supporter of
delegating neglected federal immigration duties to local authorities. Sheriff
Arpaio is an example of that concept run amok. He has seldom been challenged as
forcefully as he was on Saturday --  not by government but by a dogged
organizer, Salvador Reza, a few clergy members and politicians and thousands of
people who dared to say: Enough.

The other example was the first workplace immigration raid of the Obama
administration, late last month in Bellingham, Wash. More than two dozen people
were arrested at a family-run company that rebuilds car engines. They were
charged with the usual paperwork offenses. The company said it was blindsided,
and so was Ms. Napolitano. She said she had not known about the raid in advance
and promised an investigation.

Americans who might applaud any crackdown on illegal immigrants, particularly in
a recession, should know that scattershot raids and rampaging sheriffs are not
the answer. The idea that enforcement alone will eliminate the underground
economy is a great delusion. It runs up against the impossible arithmetic of
mass expulsion -- no conceivable regime of raids will wrench 12 million illegal
immigrants from their jobs and homes.

The country is not a safer or better place because one more business and two
dozen more families are torn apart outside Seattle or because Sheriff Arpaio has
much of Maricopa County terrified. The system under which illegal immigrants
labor, without hope of assimilation, is not any less broken. A new report from
the Government Accountability Office shows that federal oversight of the 287(g)
program has been sorely lacking.

So, a question: Are Mr. Obama and Ms. Napolitano in charge or not? Let them show
it by ending the raids and Sheriff Arpaio's abuses. Something has to be done
about immigration, but it has to be smarter than this.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Haitian Deportations To Continue

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WASHINGTON; Pg.
18

LENGTH: 117 words


The Department of Homeland Security has said it will continue deporting illegal
Haitian immigrants, despite appeals by the Haitian government, which says
deportations could destabilize a country where food, water and housing have been
in extremely short supply since major storms last summer.  A Feb. 25 letter to
lawyers in Florida from Susan Cullen, the Homeland Security director of policy,
said the department intended ''to continue to coordinate the removal of Haitian
nationals to Haiti.'' Cheryl Little, a lawyer who has represented Haitian
immigrants for more than 20 years, expressed disappointment at the response,
which she characterized as ''status quo.'' Some 30,000 Haitians face
deportation.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 9, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Longtime Residents Not Allowed In-State Tuition

BYLINE: By ARIANA GREEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 678 words

DATELINE: PROVIDENCE, R.I.


Some high school teachers worry about grooming students for admission to elite
universities. Judah Lakin worries about getting his students' immigration papers
so that they can afford college.

Illegal immigrants do not qualify for federal financial aid, and those living in
Rhode Island, as in 39 other states, do not qualify for in-state tuition at
public universities. Since out-of-state tuition is about three times as high as
in-state, many young immigrants forgo higher education.

Mr. Lakin, a 26-year-old history teacher at Hope High School here, is out to
change that.

''One of my students has been here since she was 1 year old, but she can't
afford to pay the out-of-state rate to a university in a place she's grown up
in,'' Mr. Lakin said. ''Her mother has a work permit and pays taxes here, yet
her daughter is essentially denied access to higher education.''

The difference in the cost of tuition is considerable. At the University of
Rhode Island, out-of-state students pay $24,776 a year, compared with $8,678 for
in-state students. In the last few years, Mr. Lakin has become the go-to person
for immigrants at Hope High School. Ever since he helped one student navigate
the bureaucracy to gain citizenship and raised money on her behalf, he has had
students, parents,  teachers and even other schools asking him for assistance.

Mr. Larkin wants the school district to give presentations each school year
encouraging illegal immigrants in all grades to go to organizations that can
advise them on their legal options. He said that would have greatly benefited
the student who had been in the country since she was an infant.

''This student always assumed she'd go to a good college,'' Mr. Lakin said.
''She's used to getting awards and internships, but nobody ever explained to her
the gravity of what remaining undocumented would mean for her college
prospects.''

Twenty-two percent of Rhode Island children live in immigrant families,
according to the advocacy group Rhode Island Kids Count.

''People think immigration status is black and white, but in a lot of cases,
people can qualify as being here legally but don't know how to approach the
process,'' said Carl Kruger, a staff lawyer at the International Institute of
Rhode Island, an organization that assists immigrants. ''They need to know how
to get relatives to petition for them or to find out how else they could
qualify.''

But some of Mr. Lakin's students will have to wait many years to earn
citizenship. One student he tried to help is working as a dishwasher because,
without financial aid, he cannot pay for college.

Grace Diaz, a state legislator, has introduced legislation that would make
students who have lived in the state for more than three years eligible for
in-state tuition.

''I testify in support of her legislation whenever it comes up,'' said Robert
Carothers, who has been president of the University of Rhode Island for 18
years. ''It does no good to keep people who live here from an education by which
they could make contributions back to the state. It perpetuates ignorance, which
is not in our interest.''

The office of Gov. Donald L. Carcieri would not comment on the legislation.

But Terry Gorman, executive director of Rhode Islanders for Immigration Law
Enforcement, is strongly opposed. ''I think it's unfair to U.S. citizens to have
to pay the tax burden for the college educations of illegals,'' he said.

Debate on this issue continues nationally, with 30 states having considered
legislation to allow illegal immigrants to receive in-state tuition since 2001,
according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. Ten states passed
the legislation, but in 2007 Oklahoma repealed its law.

Even if the Federal Dream Act, which would provide a path to citizenship to
immigrants who go to college or serve in the military, were to pass, it would
not necessarily resolve the issue of in-state tuition because states could rule
that temporary residents are not eligible, said Michael Olivas, a law professor
at the University of Houston.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Judah Lakin with an ESL history class at Hope High School. Mr.
Lakin is the go-to person for Hope's immigrant students. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI
HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 10, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Policy For Foreign Athletes

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING SPORTS LAW; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 97 words


United States immigration officials have agreed to let foreign athletes keep
playing in the country as long as they leave after 10 years and apply for a new
visa. The change came in a new policy memo issued by United States Citizenship
and Immigration Services, after months of lobbying by sports leagues and lawyers
for foreign athletes.

Foreign athletes can come to the United States under what is known as a P-1
visa. Under the old regulations, recipients could receive five years on the visa
and extend it once for another five years, not to exceed a total of 10 years.
immigration

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 13, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In City of Lawyers, Many Immigrants Fighting Deportation Go It Alone

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1148 words


In the heart of Manhattan, amid one of the greatest concentrations of legal
muscle in the world, hundreds of New York's immigrant poor are locked up with no
access to a lawyer as they fight deportation.

Robert A. Katzmann, a federal judge on the Second Circuit Court of Appeals,
believes that fact alone should summon the city's legal profession to do more
volunteer work in the immigration court system, where no defendant has the right
to a court-appointed lawyer, and some of the most vulnerable end up in the hands
of fly-by-night operators who bungle cases wholesale.

But Judge Katzmann, son of a refugee from Nazi Germany and grandson of
immigrants from Russia, found that in the nation's historic gateway to
immigrants, few big corporate law firms seemed to hear that summons -- even as
the consequences of no lawyers or bad lawyers flooded the federal appeals
courts, including his own.

So the judge took a rare step: Almost alone among the nation's federal judges,
he has used the prestige of his office to push for more and better legal
representation of immigrants.

What started as a lecture to the city's bar association two years ago and
quietly evolved into a 7:45 a.m. ''study group,'' has turned into a movement
that filled an amphitheater at Fordham Law School on Wednesday afternoon,
drawing high-powered lawyers, judges, academics and city officials who talked
bluntly about a dysfunctional system and brainstormed into the night.

''Justice should not depend on the income level of immigrants,'' Judge Katzmann
told the group at the outset of this ''working colloquium,'' seen by some as a
model for circuits around the country. Studies show immigrants with legal
representation are three to four times more likely to win their case, yet
nationwide, only about 35 percent have any kind of lawyer. With 39 percent of
the Second Circuit's caseload now made up of immigration appeals, he said in an
interview, he considers his effort part of any judge's responsibility to improve
the administration of justice.

But the economic tailspin threatens cutbacks at big firms that do pro bono work,
and immigration has always been a stepchild of their charitable efforts, many at
the Fordham symposium agreed. And though his challenge to the bar has spurred
some new partnerships between nonprofits and private law firms, including a
fledgling ''Know Your Rights'' program at the detention center at Varick and
Houston Streets, ''the legal needs of the immigrant poor are largely
unfulfilled,'' he said.

The Varick Street detention center, operated for Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, which is part of Homeland Security, illustrates one part of the
problem. Closed after 9/11 and reopened a year ago, it now mixes noncriminals
swept up in immigration raids with legal immigrants who have criminal
convictions that may make them deportable, said Sarah M. Burr, assistant chief
immigration judge, one of the panelists.

Leaders of the fledgling legal triage program said it has only enough volunteers
to talk privately with a dozen of the 250 men held there, a few subway stops
from federal and state courthouses and the skyscraping headquarters of
international legal firms. Hundreds more immigrant New Yorkers are detained in
New Jersey jails where few or no free lawyers visit regularly.

Even paid lawyers are more reluctant to take on detention cases, because many
are quickly transferred, as far away as detention centers in Texas. And once
lawyers have told the immigration court they are taking a case, judges will not
let them withdraw, even when the client is a thousand miles away.

Two judges at Varick Street now handle 500 to 800 cases apiece, with 950 cases
pending. At 26 Federal Plaza, where 22 judges with 26,400 pending cases preside
over a wide range of hearings on immigrants who are not detained, Judge Burr
said an already crushing caseload is now swamped with many who should not have
been placed in deportation proceedings by the government in the first place.

She cited the case of a student ordered to defend himself against deportation
because the government suspected his visa had lapsed. In fact, it had not, ''but
it took three or four court appearances to determine that.''

While money for judges, clerks and free legal services is short, the Department
of Homeland Security has been very well financed, she noted.

''They have tons of new lawyers who are raring to go, and now they're just
arresting lots of people and shoveling them into immigration court,'' she said.

Meanwhile, with hard times making the politics of immigration ever more
contentious and the layoffs of thousands of lawyers at New York firms, many are
reluctant to give money and staff to any but the most popular causes, said
Robert E. Juceam, director of the Pro Bono Institute, and of counsel to Fried,
Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson.

He urged participants to redouble their efforts to enlist alumni groups, retired
colleagues and the myriad lawyers in civil service into the corps of volunteers.

In New York, bad or overwhelmed lawyers are the bane of courts in which a high
percentage of immigrants who are fighting deportation but who have not been
detained have some kind of representation.

The regulatory framework for rooting out the bad guys -- including nonlawyers
like travel agents and so-called notarios -- is still a work in progress,
acknowledged another participant, Carol A. Robles-Roman, deputy mayor for legal
affairs and counsel to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg who said immigrant communities
must learn to stop hiring bad lawyers.

''The risks are huge,'' said Claudia Slovinsky, a widely respected immigration
lawyer who sometimes represents people whose cases were mishandled by others,
including lawyers who mistakenly instructed clients to apply for residency when
they were not yet eligible. ''Before they used to just deny the application and
stick it away in a warehouse. Now they have the power to put the person into
removal proceedings.''

Denny Chin, a United States district judge who was to hear the guilty plea of
the swindler Bernard L. Madoff the next day, took time on Wednesday to remind
the group of how much is at stake in immigration cases. He told of his
grandfather, born in China, who somehow came to the United States in 1916, when
the Chinese Exclusion Act was in effect. He told of his own father, born in
China in the 1930s, who toiled as a waiter in New York until he could become a
citizen in 1947, and bring over his wife and children as refugees from Hong Kong
in 1953.

Now Judge Chin said he gives the oath of citizenship to hundreds of immigrants
in the same court room where his father became a citizen. He shows them his
father's naturalization certificate, and tells them about his grandfather, ''how
hard he worked, so that I, the son of a seamstress and a cook, became a federal
judge.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Judge Robert A. Katzmann is pushing for better representation
for immigrants.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 16, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Family Stories As Secret Text For Immigrants

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1271 words


Angela Wu Cen, 19, knew many details about her parents' 13-year migration from
China to Panama to New York. But she had never known much about a more intimate
aspect of her parents' lives: their courtship.

So when Ms. Wu, who was born in Panama and was 12 when the family came to the
United States, sat down to interview her mother for an honors seminar at Hunter
College last month, she was surprised to learn that her parents' marriage had
not been the fruit of a long romance, as she had assumed, but had come about in
a matter of weeks.

The two had been introduced by a mutual acquaintance of their families'. They
lived in separate towns, saw each other a few times and then decided to marry,
Ms. Wu said.

''So they really didn't know each other,'' she added, sounding amused. ''How can
they get married?''

Though children of immigrants may generally know the broad arc of their parents'
lives, the details -- of lives lived before America, of hardships in leaving and
struggles to adapt -- are frequently lost in the rush of assimilation, a time of
forging ahead rather than looking back.

And so it is that each year, when Nancy Foner, a professor of sociology at
Hunter, requires the students in her course ''The Peopling of New York'' to
interview a close relative about the family's recent history, the discoveries
are often startling, to the students as well as to their classmates.

In a class where most of the students are either immigrants themselves or the
children of immigrants, the assignment is not simply an exercise in historical
inquiry but also an intense exploration into their own lives and the sacrifices
of their forebears.

This year, Aleksandr Akulov, 19, found out that his mother had given up a
promising career in mechanical engineering in her native Russia to move to New
York, where she found work at a laundromat. Ilirjan Gjonbalaj, 18, discovered
that his Albanian parents were smuggled into the country from their home in
Montenegro. And Kanushree Jain, 19, learned that her parents were treated with
outright hostility in New York by their fellow immigrants from India because
they were new arrivals and could not speak English.

''There's kind of an image of immigrant kids born and raised in America as being
kind of ashamed of their parents,'' said Dr. Foner, who has written widely about
immigrants in New York. ''But these students are proud of their parents and
their parents' experiences. In some ways, the proudest students are those who
had the most difficult time.''

On a recent Thursday, 20 of her students presented their oral histories. In
class discussion and follow-up interviews, the students described what they had
learned.

Mr. Gjonbalaj's parents moved into a windowless basement apartment in the Bronx
with 10 relatives in the mid-1980s, and Mr. Gjonbalaj's father got a job as a
busboy. But in 1992, while running an errand, his father died in a traffic
accident. The family was forced to go on welfare because strict Albanian mores
forbade Mr. Gjonbalaj's mother from working.

But after several years, his mother grew frustrated with that cultural
restriction  and started working as a cleaning lady for a family on the Upper
East Side. Later she found work as a maid at the St. Regis Hotel and as a coat
checker at the Metropolitan Opera.

In the course of interviewing his mother, Mr. Gjonbalaj said, she revealed that
both she and his father were smuggled into the United States. His father had
come first, settled in the Bronx, then sent for his mother several months later.

''It opened my eyes a lot,'' Mr. Gjonbalaj said in an interview. ''I was kind of
shocked, kind of confused. I started asking: How did they do it?''

But his mother was short on details. ''She didn't really want me to know what
kind of things they had to go through,'' he said.

Ms. Jain was born in India and moved to the United States when she was 2. She
said the transition was particularly rough on her mother, who was not welcomed
by neighbors. With Ms. Jain's father at work most of the day, her mother had to
learn the ropes on her own.

''It was hard to make friends with other ethnicities because we didn't know
English,'' she told the class. ''And our Indian neighbors, a lot of them, they
tend to make fun of other struggling Indians -- I guess to make themselves feel
better because they were also struggling at one point.''

Before interviewing his parents, Mr. Akulov had known that his mother had
studied engineering in Russia, but, he said, ''I hadn't given it much thought.''
As a child in Russia, he was far more aware of his father's career as a doctor
than his mother's work, he said.

''At the time when we came to America, I wasn't even sure what engineers did,''
Mr. Akulov said in an interview.

When the family arrived in New York in 1998, Mr. Akulov's parents both found
work at a Russian-owned laundromat in the Bronx where they were paid less than
minimum wage. His father made extra money delivering newspapers.

''I don't know how they could take it psychologically,'' he told the class.
''That's crazy sacrifice.'' Mr. Akulov's mother now works as an accountant for
the Y.M.C.A., and his father is a clinical researcher at a nonprofit AIDS
research organization.

Like Mr. Akulov, many students said they learned about the depth of his parents'
commitment to provide a better life for their children.

''Growing up, I thought I knew everything about my parents,'' Sameer Khan, 18, a
Pakistani-American, said in an interview. ''What I found writing this story was
that I felt I had ignored their struggles.''

Mr. Khan was born in Lubbock, Tex., while his father, an agronomist from India,
was pursuing a Ph.D. in agriculture at Texas Tech University. His parents
struggled financially and were living paycheck to paycheck as their family grew
to four children. But once his father completed his doctorate, prejudice and
discrimination blocked job opportunities, Mr. Khan said.

The family moved back to Pakistan for a year, then to New York, where Mr. Khan's
father shelved his agronomy career, taking a job as an assistant manager in a
gas station and later as the manager of a discount store in Queens.

Mr. Khan said he was surprised to learn the degree of pressure his parents felt
to create an entirely new life for their family. ''I just didn't know about
it,'' he confessed. ''I feel stupid ignoring it my whole life.''

Danilo Rojas, 19, was struck by his father's drive to make a better life:
fleeing poverty in his native Honduras, sneaking across the Mexican border into
the United States and working as a dishwasher in a restaurant, a building
superintendent and a construction worker.

Mr. Rojas's father met his mother in New York. They had Danilo and two other
children and, in a picture of upward mobility, eventually bought apartments in
East New York and Coney Island in Brooklyn.

''My dad, he went through a lot and basically he didn't spend any money on
himself,'' Mr. Rojas said in an interview. ''He never thought about himself. He
thought about making things better for his family. I think most young people
today don't think about more than themselves. It's hard to be that selfless,
especially in today's world.''

''I'm 19 right now, and I can't even imagine having children in two years,'' Mr.
Rojas said. ''He had to grow up a lot faster.''

The interview changed the way he looks at the vast underclass of immigrants
toiling on the margins of society, like street vendors and busboys and day
laborers. ''I wonder about how hard they're working,'' he said, ''and how hard
they're trying to make it.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ANGELA WU CEN, CHINA: ''It was easy for my mom to adapt to this
environment because we moved to Sunset Park. It was more like an Asian and
Hispanic community, so we were able to speak the language with the people around
there.''
ILIRJAN GJONBALAJ, MONTENEGRO: ''Just like every other Albanian male immigrant,
my father was working in a restaurant, and hopefully, one day, he would get his
own restaurant. That was the plan. And just like every other Albanian wife at
the time, my mom was at home.''
SAMEER KHAN, PAKISTAN: ''Growing up, I thought I knew everything about my
parents. What I found writing this story was that I felt I had ignored their
struggles.''
KANUSHREE JAIN, INDIA: ''It was hard to make friends with other ethnicities
because we didn't know English, and our Indian neighbors, a lot of them, they
tend to make fun of other struggling Indians, I guess to make themselves feel
better because they were also struggling at one point.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY GIANNI
CIPRIANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg.A16)
ALEKSANDR AKULOV, RUSSIA: ''The most difficult prospects about moving to America
was leaving behind everything that he had known in his early years, such as the
friendships he had built, the languages that he had come to speak, the property
that he had acquired, the culture, the food, and the educational status he had
earned.''
IOANA PAUNESCU, ROMANIA: ''The main reason she wanted to come to the United
States was to provide educational opportunities for my brother and for me.''
JULIAN BALLEN, PHILIPPINES: ''She wants more of her family to come here. We send
stuff back to the Philippines like every month because it's rough there. A lot
of drugs
I've had family die from drugs, and shootings. My mom's really happy she came
here.''
 DANILO ROJAS, HONDURAS: ''He never thought about himself. He thought about
making things better for his family. I think most young people today don't think
about more than themselves. It's hard to be that selfless, especially in today's
world.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY GIANNI CIPRIANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg.A20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 18, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Agency Is Criticized on Health Care

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 356 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Immigration authorities routinely delay, deny or botch medical care for detained
immigrants in poorly equipped facilities nationwide, according to separate
reports released Tuesday by two advocacy groups.

Human Rights Watch and the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center say the problems
are the result of unskilled or indifferent staff, overcrowding, bureaucracy,
language barriers and limited services available to detainees of the Immigration
and Customs Enforcement agency. The groups contend that many medical problems
could be avoided if the agency, known as ICE, did not lock up people who are
elderly, have health issues or lack criminal records.

Advocates argue that alternatives to detention, like requiring people to check
in by phone or in person, are ''more humane'' and cost taxpayers as little as
$12 a day, compared with $95 a day to keep someone in custody.

''ICE needlessly detains people with severe illnesses and those who pose no harm
to U.S. communities,'' said Cheryl Little, executive director of the Florida
Immigrant Advocacy Center. ''Doing so drives up ICE costs,  even as the agency
provides increasingly inadequate medical and mental health care to those in its
custody.''

The agency detained more than 300,000 people in the 2007 fiscal year, with a
daily average of nearly 30,000 in custody. Most were held in state and county
jails under contracts with the bureau. Some detainees are held for months, even
years, though the agency says the average time is 31 days.

The agency responded that its health services division gave detainees general,
emergency, dental, chronic and mental health care.

Current and former detainees said members of medical staffs routinely violated
their own standards in areas like continuity of care, quick response to medical
complaints, explanation of the availability of services, and medical screenings
and follow-up care.

Women particularly suffered because routine reproductive care did not get
adequate attention in a system that emphasized emergency care and treating
conditions that might affect detainees' deportation status, according to the
Human Rights Watch study.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wisconsin: Nazi Guard Is Deported

BYLINE: By KAREN ANN CULLOTTA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING MIDWEST; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 151 words


An 83-year-old man, who admitted that as a Nazi concentration camp guard he took
part in a two-day killing spree in which 42,000 people were killed, was deported
to Austria from his home in Wisconsin, immigration officials said. The man,
Josias Kumpf, admitted that he participated in a murderous November 1943 Nazi
operation that went by the code name Aktion Erntefest -- Operation Harvest
Festival -- in which roughly 42,000 Jewish men, women and children were killed
at three Nazi camps in eastern Poland in two days. Mr. Kumpf acknowledged that
his role was as a guard and an assassin at the Trawniki Labor Camp, where 8,000
men, women and children were shot dead on Nov. 3, 1943, Justice Department
officials said. He was taken  earlier this week from his home in Racine, Wis.,
by federal immigration agents. Mr. Kumpf immigrated to the United States from
Austria in 1956, and became a citizen in 1964.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2009 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Nazi Guard Deported to Austria

BYLINE: By KAREN ANN CULLOTTA

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 291 words


An 83-year-old man who admitted that as a Nazi concentration camp guard he took
part in a two-day killing spree in which 42,000 people were killed was deported
to Austria Thursday from his home in Wisconsin, immigration officials said.

The former guard, Josias Kumpf, admitted that he participated in a murderous
November 1943 Nazi operation that went by the code name ''Aktion Erntefest'' --
Operation Harvest Festival -- in which roughly 42,000 Jewish men, women and
children were murdered at three Nazi camps in eastern Poland in two days.

Mr. Kumpf acknowledged his role was as a guard and an assassin at the Trawniki
Labor Camp, where 8,000 men, women and children were shot dead in a single day,
Nov. 3, 1943, Justice Department officials said.

He was removed earlier this week from his home in Racine, Wis., by United States
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents.

Mr. Kumpf immigrated to the United States from Austria in 1956, and became a
citizen in 1964. A spokesman for the Justice Department said officials began
their efforts to deport him in 2003, when a federal lawsuit was filed in the
Eastern District of Wisconsin to strip him of his citizenship because of his
participation in war crimes. His citizenship was revoked in 2005.

''Josias Kumpf, by his own admission, stood guard with orders to shoot any
surviving prisoners who attempted to escape an SS massacre that left thousands
of Jews dead,'' Acting Assistant Attorney General Rita M. Glavin, said in a
written statement Thursday. ''His court-ordered removal from the United States
to Austria is another milestone in the government's long-running effort to
ensure that individuals who participated in crimes against humanity do not find
sanctuary in this country.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 22, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Liberians 'Jubilant' at Extension of Temporary U.S. Residence Permit

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 729 words


Liberian immigrants in New York celebrated the news on Saturday that President
Obama had granted a temporary reprieve to some who were facing the possibility
of expulsion at the end of the month.

Mr. Obama signed an order on Friday extending by 12 months a policy that grants
Liberians the temporary right to live and work in the United States, an
administration official said.

The policy was to expire on March 31, presenting the Liberians with a stark
choice: Uproot themselves and return to Liberia, which remains politically and
economically unstable, or stay in the United States illegally and risk
deportation.

''People are jubilant, people are happy,'' said Jacob D. Massaquoi II, executive
director of African Refuge, a community organization on Staten Island that helps
Liberian refugees.

Special residency and employment rights for Liberians were first granted in 1991
as civil war tore apart their country. Thousands  fled their homeland and moved
to the United States. A particularly large number settled on Staten Island,
where many went to schools and colleges, married, had children, started
businesses and bought property.

The program was extended or renewed several times. But after the end of the
civil war in 2003, and elections in 2005, the United States government decided
it was time to lift the special allowance, known as Temporary Protected Status.
In 2007, President George W. Bush granted an 18-month extension, which federal
officials said would be the last one.

But in recent months, civic leaders in the Liberian-American community asked Mr.
Obama, who has sole authority in the matter, to extend the program once more.
They argued that the alternative could divide families and rupture communities.

''It would have a huge impact,'' said Jennifer Gray-Brumskine, vice chairwoman
of the Staten Island Liberian Community Association. ''Separating families would
create a new post-traumatic syndrome.''

The consequences, the advocates said, would also be acutely felt in Liberia. The
unemployment rate there is about 85 percent, and many people there depend on
money sent by Liberians in the United States to survive.

Now that the community has been granted another reprieve, its leaders say they
will press Congress to provide Liberian exiles with an expedited path to
citizenship.

But their campaign will most likely run up against strong opposition,
particularly from groups seeking tighter restrictions on immigration.

Roy Beck, executive director of NumbersUSA, a public policy group that seeks to
reduce immigration, said that Temporary Protected Status was intended to provide
relief to populations during acute emergencies.

In an e-mail message, he said that any ''heart-tugging personal stories of
separation'' were ''the unavoidable trade-off for having accepted America's
hospitality for so long.''

According to the Department of Homeland Security, about 3,500 Liberians were
registered under the program in 2007.

Liberian community leaders say that the refugee population is far larger -- in
the tens of thousands, by some estimates -- but that most either never
registered or failed to maintain their registration, and are therefore in the
country illegally.

An Obama administration official said on Saturday that Liberian exiles who were
not registered in 2007 would not be eligible to register under the new
extension.

Some Liberians, mindful of the impending deadline, filed applications in recent
months for a change of immigration status that would allow them to remain in the
country legally on various grounds when the current policy expires.

But in interviews on Staten Island this month, it was apparent that many, if not
most, Liberian exiles there had decided to stay regardless of  whether Mr. Obama
postponed the deadline, resigning themselves to staying under the radar of
immigration officials.

Among them is Madeline, a home health aide who has been living in the United
States since the early 1990s and spoke on the condition that neither her surname
nor her age be published for fear of alerting the immigration authorities.

She said that she had no intention of moving back to Liberia, and that her
family there supported her decision.

''I'm going to run away and hide somewhere,'' she said. ''Even my relatives are
saying, 'We're going to pray for you.' They're depending on me.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Separating Liberian immigrant families would be devastating,
said Jennifer Gray-Brumskine, left, of the Staten Island Liberian Community
Association, with the organization's president, Telee Brown, center, and board
chairman, Walters James Weah.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 22, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Drawing Borders Around Students

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1208 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Where Education and Assimilation Collide'' (''Remade in America''  series,
front page, March 15):

Congratulations for turning the spotlight on immigration with your  series. Its
principal focus should be on the long-term implications.

Thanks largely to immigration trends, the United States is on track to grow from
306 million today to 439 million by 2050, an increase in population with
enormous implications for water scarcity, social cohesion, quality of life,
educational attainment, the environment and our dependence on oil.

The critical question is not whether the country can absorb current levels of
immigration in 2009, but whether it can do so in the long run. We may live in
the moment, but future generations are condemned to living in the future. Let's
ensure that it's a sustainable future.

Richard D. Lamm   Denver, March 15, 2009

The writer was governor of Colorado, 1975-87.

To the Editor:

I am writing my dissertation about a Roman Catholic parish shared by Latin
American (largely Mexican) immigrants and white English-speaking Midwesterners.
They, too, are on different ''tracks,'' having distinct Masses and ministries.

Though many of the issues for these parishioners are different from those facing
the students in your article, the controversies over immigration are similar.

There are factors other than academic ''tracks'' that isolate immigrants. First
among them is loud local opposition to illegal immigration, which erodes trust.

Class prejudice appears to play a role at Hylton High School, the Virginia
school featured in the article,  and I found cultural misunderstanding to be a
powerful force in keeping people apart in one Midwestern town.

Schools and churches can help build trust slowly by providing periodic
structured opportunities for people on different ''tracks'' to interact.

Brett Hoover     Berkeley, Calif., March 15, 2009

The writer, a  Catholic priest, is an adjunct lecturer at the Franciscan School
of Theology.

To the Editor:

More than two decades ago, I attended high school near a ski resort where the
student body was divided along ethnic and class lines. About half of the
students' parents were professionals, while the others toiled in construction
and service jobs.

The impetus for the integration of cultures then was also economic: Hispanic
families, attracted by low-paying but plentiful jobs in a prosperous location,
abandoned their roots in search of better opportunities.

However, most of our families hailed from New Mexico, so there was not a
language barrier. Still, the socioeconomic distance and tension between the
groups were amplified by academic separation.

Many Hispanic students dropped out or languished in lower-level courses or
special education. Stigmas and stereotypes abounded. The few of us in more
advanced classes often felt like foreigners in our own classroom.

It's disappointing that while the scenery and particulars have changed over two
decades, the situation remains the same.

Wayne Trujillo    Denver,  March 15, 2009

The writer is editor of Latino Landscape, an online magazine.

To the Editor:

I came to the United States with my parents and sister after the Hungarian
Revolution of 1956. In Los Angeles, we went to Bishop Conaty High School,
instead of a school for non-English speakers many miles away. Although we did
not speak a word of English, the students and faculty welcomed us.

The first year was very difficult; we spent many hours on homework, translating
every word. But the next year, an amazing transformation occurred -- we started
speaking and understanding English. We graduated; my sister became a chemist and
I became a doctor.

Integrating non-English-speaking students into the mainstream makes sense. We
must educate other students and faculty about helping non-English-speaking
students.

Judith Korek Amorosa    New Brunswick, N.J., March 15, 2009

To the Editor:

We applaud Hylton High School's efforts to educate newcomer students, but we
think success for newcomers is based on more than academics. Work with the
family is critical, as is providing opportunities for the child beyond the
classroom.

Community schools, in which vitally needed services as well as extended academic
opportunities are based at the school, offer more chances for a student to adapt
and excel. In this approach, trained staff members reach out to immigrant
families, bringing them into the school and connecting them to services. They
introduce them to other neighborhood families and help them feel less fearful
and more comfortable.

The outreach extends to new mothers to help them provide language-rich
environments for their infants. Children whose families are connected to their
schools fare better in life and in school than students who learn English by
cramming for high-stakes exams.

Richard Negron     New York, March 15, 2009

The writer is director of community schools for the Children's Aid Society.

To the Editor:

Applying one-size-fits-all state exams and the No Child Left Behind law to
immigrant children results in narrowed curriculums, endless test prep and
arbitrary declarations of school failure. Increasing percentages of students are
denied a quality education, which benefits neither the students nor society.

Policy makers must face the reality of the country's public school population
and revise testing mandates accordingly. In particular, the law's goal of 100
percent proficiency by 2014 is impossible when so many non-English-speakers
enter our schools every year.

President Obama and Secretary of Education Arne Duncan should consider these
realities when proposing legislation to ''fix the failures of No Child Left
Behind'' as promised in last fall's campaign.

Jesse Mermell    Executive Director, FairTest    Boston, March 15, 2009

To the Editor:

What a disgrace that the talented Ginette Cain, who directs the high school
program for English learners in your article, needs to waste valuable class time
teaching immigrant students how to memorize disjointed facts so they will pass
required standardized tests.

Public education in the United States has so much to offer students -- from
social assimilation to the ability to achieve personal and economic success --
yet these opportunities are being lost because of high-stakes testing.

This is the time to return to the education of the whole student.

Elizabeth Ball    Glenview, Ill., March 15, 2009

To the Editor:

I thought we'd pretty well settled in 1954 that segregation's stigma was not
something American schools should perpetuate. But your article's more
distressing image was the teacher informing her charges: ''You don't really need
to know anything more about the Battle of Britain, except that it was an air
strike. ... If you see a question about the Battle of Britain on the test, look
for an answer that refers to air strikes.''

No wonder dropout rates are high. It appears that the testocracy that runs our
schools has turned even the most vital, engaging stories of human history into
an exercise akin to memorizing phone books.

If I were still in high school, I might find something better to do with my
time, too.

Sara Mayeux    Palo Alto, Calif., March 15, 2009

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MICHAEL SLOAN)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 23, 2009 Monday
                         The New York Times on the Web

A Path to Citizenship

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 244 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Family Stories as Secret Text for Immigrants'' (news article, March 16):

The classroom stories that Hunter College students report about the
extraordinary sacrifices their immigrant parents have made on their behalf offer
a deep insight into the lengths people will go to bring their children better
lives. The cumulative impact provides a powerful argument for passage of the
Dream Act, which Congress is expected to reconsider later this year.

The Dream Act would offer a chance for citizenship to those who were brought to
this country illegally as children on the condition that they complete high
school and finish college or serve two years in the military. Passage would give
thousands of undocumented men and women, who otherwise face very bleak futures,
a chance to step out of the shadows and become taxpayers and citizens of the
only country they have really ever known.

I am proud of the Hunter students who persuaded their parents to disclose often
painful secrets about what they left behind and what they endured to get their
start in America, and I am proud of Prof. Nancy Foner for organizing and
conducting the honors seminar that makes this possible.

The stories deserve to become part of the debate over the Dream Act, for they
are dramatic proof of how greatly immigrants enrich our nation and how much we
need to rationalize their path to citizenship.

Jennifer J. Raab President, Hunter College New York, March 17, 2009

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 24, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Flinches on Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 449 words


In a little-noticed act of political faintheartedness, the Obama administration
has pulled back from nominating Thomas Saenz, a highly regarded civil-rights
lawyer and counsel to the mayor of Los Angeles, to run the Justice Department's
civil rights division.

Mr. Saenz, the former top litigator in Los Angeles for the Mexican American
Legal Defense and Educational Fund, or Maldef, was privately offered the job in
January. The floating of his name led to fierce outbursts from anti-immigrant
groups and blogs, which detest him for being so good at what he does.

He was a leader of the successful fight to block California's Proposition 187,
an unconstitutional effort to deny social services and schooling to illegal
immigrants. He has defended Latino day laborers who were targets of misguided
local crackdowns, from illegal police stings to unconstitutional
anti-solicitation ordinances. An editorial in Investor's Business Daily slimed
Mr. Saenz by calling him ''an open-borders extremist'' and said Maldef wanted to
give California back to Mexico.

None of it was true, but it was apparently too much for the White House. Mr.
Saenz was ditched in favor of Maryland's labor secretary, Thomas Perez, who has
a solid record but is not as closely tied to immigrant rights.

Immigrant advocates are stuck with the sinking feeling that Mr. Obama's supposed
enthusiasm for immigration reform will wilt under pressure and heat.
Representative Luis Gutierrez of Illinois, a member of the Congressional
Hispanic Caucus, found it sadly unsurprising that a lawyer could be rejected for
the nation's top civil-rights job because he had stood up for civil rights. ''In
what other position do you find that your life experience, your educational
knowledge and commitment to an issue actually hurts you?'' he asked.

Mr. Obama may have avoided a nasty fight this time. But if he is ever going to
win the battle to put 12 million illegal immigrants on a path to citizenship, he
will to have to confront and dismantle the core restrictionist argument: that
being an illegal immigrant is an unpardonable crime, one that strips away
fundamental protections and forgives all manner of indecent treatment.

The Constitution's bedrock protections do not apply to just the native-born. The
suffering that illegal immigrants endure -- from raids to workplace exploitation
to mistreatment in detention -- is a civil-rights crisis. It cannot be left to
fester while we wait for the big immigration bill that may or may not arrive
under this president.

Mr. Saenz would have been an ideal candidate to reaffirm values that have been
lost in the poisoned immigration debate, had Mr. Obama dared to nominate him.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 26, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Florida: Agency Faulted In Detention of Mother

BYLINE: By YOLANNE ALMANZAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 133 words


Advocates for immigrants accused a private foster care agency of turning a
Mexican mother of two toddlers, and her own parents, over to the local
authorities to be deported. Lawyers working with the family said a private child
welfare group providing services to the Florida Department of Children and
Families reported the woman, Karen Arriaga, 19, to the local police, who have
the authority to enforce immigration laws under a program known as 287(g) that
the White House has promised to review, and arranged to have her detained during
a supervised visit with her two young sons. Ms. Arriaga's parents were detained
during another visit with the boys. A spokeswoman at the state agency said the
police were contacted because of  accusations of neglect, not in an effort to
have the family deported.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 28, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Don't Deport Benita Veliz

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 725 words


A question from the realm of the unanswerable: How will this country be a better
place once we force Benita Veliz to leave it?

Ms. Veliz is an illegal immigrant facing deportation, but she is nobody's idea
of a criminal, social undesirable or drain on the public till.

She is a 23-year-old college graduate from San Antonio who works in a church
office. She is smart, self-sufficient and hard-working. She is bursting with
academic and professional ambitions -- dreams that she has set aside because her
paths to achieve them have all been closed. Immigration lawyers have told her
that she has no hope of avoiding expulsion. She can only postpone it.

Ms. Veliz is here illegally, but not by choice. She arrived from Mexico with her
parents in 1993 on a tourist visa. She was 8. She had never lived in the United
States before but has lived nowhere else since. By all detectable measures, she
is an American, a Texan.

And an impressive one at that. She was valedictorian at Jefferson High School,
graduating at age 16. She went to St. Mary's University in San Antonio on a full
scholarship. She doubled majored in biology and sociology and fully deployed
herself beyond the classroom in clubs, student government, choir. She
volunteered in a children's hospital. And she waited tables 45 hours a week in a
Mexican restaurant.

Her honors thesis was about the Dream Act.

A quick digression about that. The Dream Act is a Congressional bill that would
allow children of illegal immigrants to earn citizenship after going to college
or serving in the military. The idea is that America should not expel but
assimilate dedicated young people who are not at fault for their illegal status.
The Dream Act seeks to make citizens out of people, like Benita Veliz, who are
longing -- and fighting -- for its passage. Bipartisan Dream Act bills were
introduced in the House and Senate just this week, their future uncertain.

Ms. Veliz wanted to go to law school, but couldn't afford tuition and didn't
qualify for federal loans. So she started a photography and design business,
taught piano and tutored in math and science. She now works in a regional office
of a Pentecostal church in San Antonio, doing payroll and other administrative
tasks.

Her fateful encounter with the law happened on Jan. 21. A police officer pulled
her over, saying she had rolled through a stop sign. She says that is not true,
but she acknowledges driving without a license. She had a Mexican consular
identity card, and after a series of questions, the officer called immigration
authorities. She was jailed overnight and released on bond.

Nancy Shivers, an immigration lawyer in San Antonio whom Ms. Veliz has
consulted, said she met some of the requirements that might have allowed her to
stay in the United States. She has been here more than 10 years and is
demonstrably of good moral character. But without a qualifying parent, spouse or
child to petition on her behalf, she cannot stay.

Ms. Shivers says Ms. Veliz is a poster child for the Dream Act, but hardly the
only one. For every Benita Veliz, she said, there many others who dropped out
because they saw no point in getting a college degree. They are working in
low-wage jobs, off the books, their bright futures prematurely dead-ended.

Ms. Veliz's voice cracks when talking about her case, but she gets excited when
asked about her dreams. The words just tumble out:

''I would like to go to law school and be an attorney for a few years, and then
after that get into politics on a Congressional level, either senator or
representative. I've actually always wanted to do international relations, get a
master's in international relations, with a law degree. I would want to do
international law, or immigration law, but not really just that, but that's just
one small sort of thing in the long spectrum of things.''

For Ms. Veliz, the long spectrum of things might involve a long or permanent
stay in Mexico, a country that she does not know or belong in anymore.

As for the country she knows and loves, if it were smarter and kinder, more like
the country we see in fuzzy old documentaries, where hopeful families cluster on
the decks of ships passing the Statue of Liberty, it would find a way to let her
stay. It would let her go to law school. It would accept Benita Veliz as the
American she is.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 29, 2009 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

At Clinic, Tales and Health Concerns of Hispanics

BYLINE: By DENISE GRADY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1494 words

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS


As in many public hospitals across the country, the largest number of
foreign-born patients at Hennepin County Medical Center are Hispanic immigrants.
They are in the emergency room, the maternity ward, neighborhood clinics and in
a part-time clinic in the main hospital set aside for Spanish-language patients.

The clinic, open three half-days a week, is so busy that it is hard to get an
appointment. Dr. Carmen Divertie, an  internist from Peru, founded it 15 years
ago, modeling it after a clinic for Russians at the hospital.

Many of Dr. Divertie's patients are recent immigrants from Mexico or Ecuador,
and she assumes that virtually all are illegal, though she does not ask. The
hospital has a policy of not considering immigration status in offering care,
but the money spent on illegal immigrants accounts for a sizable part of the
hospital's unreimbursed tab of $45 million a year -- a sore point for people
upset about illegal immigration, even in this city with a long history of
reaching out to immigrants.

Dr. Michael Belzer, the medical director at Hennepin, said wryly, ''We've
cornered the market on the uninsured.''

The hospital's Spanish, Somali and Russian clinics all lose money because many
insurers will not cover the cost of interpreters and because appointments take
longer with everything being said twice, said Dr. Craig Garrett, who started the
Russian clinic and oversees all three.

Even with Hennepin's open-door policy, hospital officials say, getting health
care is increasingly difficult for many illegal immigrants. Previously allowed
to use Medicaid, people here illegally are no longer eligible, except for
children, pregnant women or those with emergency cases. Some illegal immigrants
are too afraid to approach a public hospital like Hennepin, fearful that any
official interaction might tip off immigration agents.

The chatter in the hallways and waiting rooms indicates that Minneapolis -- a
full 1,150 miles from the Mexican border -- is less a destination of convenience
than necessity for illegal immigrants. Some went first to California, Chicago or
New York, and then came here to get their children away from gangs or find
affordable housing, jobs, good schools and health care.

''Some have already lost a child,'' Dr. Divertie said of the gang violence in
other cities.

One woman who arrived at the clinic last summer for a checkup said she had
recently paid a coyote, or human smuggler, $3,000 to cross the heavily guarded
border into Arizona. The crossing took just two hours.

''She must have had a good coyote,'' Dr. Divertie said.

The patient, a widow in her 50s with five grown children, said the trip required
running and jumping. A companion fell and broke her leg, and did not complete
the trip. Dr. Divertie said some of her patients trained for crossing the border
as they would for an athletic event.

Dr. Veronica Svetaz, an Argentine physician at a Hennepin neighborhood clinic,
treated a 13-year-old girl who had been raped and made pregnant by a coyote. The
girl was so ashamed that she did not tell her mother what had happened until she
realized she was pregnant. The family wanted to end the pregnancy, but by the
time the decision was made, a late-term abortion was needed, requiring a trip to
Chicago. The family could not afford it. The girl had the baby, and kept it.

''It's overwhelming,'' Dr. Svetaz said.

Teenage pregnancy is a huge problem, she said, and sometimes it seems as if more
girls, and younger ones, are showing up pregnant every day. Some were abused,
some slipped up on birth control, and some decided that 15 was a good age to
have a baby. But what saves Dr. Svetaz from despair is what she described as her
relentless drive to push and inspire them to go back to school and to avoid a
second teenage pregnancy.

Dr. Svetaz takes care of entire Latino families, and in adults and teenagers she
sees a great deal of back pain, injuries, diabetes, high blood pressure,
depression, anxiety and stress.

''Mental health is huge,'' she said. ''The levels of anxiety and depression are
amazing.''

But her patients worry about being labeled crazy if they admit to emotional
problems.

''Latinos tend to somatize more,'' she said, meaning that their psychological
troubles are expressed as things like back and neck pain.

''This is where cultural competence comes in,'' she said. ''I've seen an 18- or
19-year-old with chest pain and a headache, who had a panic attack, but was
worked up in the emergency room for heart attack and given a head CT or M.R.I.''

Hennepin has a discount program with sliding-scale fees for the indigent. But
even the discounted fees are more than some can afford, Dr. Divertie said, so
many delay care until the need becomes urgent. Hoping bronchitis will go away,
they wind up with pneumonia. Patients with heart failure wait until they cannot
breathe. For lack of Pap tests, women develop advanced cervical cancer, a deadly
disease that can be prevented. Breast cancers also tend to be found late, when
the odds of survival are lower.

People with diabetes show up at Hennepin's clinics with blood sugar so high that
they are sent straight to the hospital. Some have severe diabetic complications,
even gangrene. And it is hard to convince Mexicans to take insulin, no matter
how badly they need it, Dr. Divertie said. Many have seen diabetic relatives die
while using insulin, and they blame the medicine rather than the disease.

''Most of my patients are illiterate, the majority, and they're ashamed of it,''
Dr. Divertie said. ''They don't tell you.''

Many of Dr. Divertie's patients take antidepressants. Often, they live in
overcrowded housing to lower their rent and work more than one job to send money
back to their home country. Some long for children left behind and worry that
they are being abused by relatives who are supposed to be looking after them.

''They come in crying,'' she said.

On top of the emotional troubles are cultural beliefs and habits that can make
immigrants difficult to treat.

''Lots of my patients come in and they've already been taking antibiotics that
didn't work, and that's why they come to me,'' Dr. Divertie said.

Taking the wrong antibiotic or the wrong amount can cause problems. But
immigrants are used to dosing themselves because antibiotics are widely
available in Mexico without a prescription, and some Hispanic stores in
Minneapolis sell them that way, too -- $1 apiece for loose capsules -- even
though it is illegal.

On a Friday afternoon in September at a separate neighborhood clinic, the Family
Medical Center, run by Hennepin in a Hispanic neighborhood in South Minneapolis,
doctors treated Jesus R., a 57-year-old illegal immigrant from Mexico who did
not want his full name to be used.

Mr. R., who has diabetes, said through an interpreter that he had run out of
insulin and other medicines months before, but had not come in sooner because
his discount card for the clinic had expired and he did not think the doctors
would treat him (the clinic director said they would have). For a while he had
been trying to make his insulin last longer by injecting smaller doses. He had
not seen a doctor in 10 months.

Though he looked a bit older than 57, Mr. R., wearing denim shorts, sandals and
a T-shirt, looked healthy and fit, only a little overweight.

But his blood sugar was 680 (normal is 140 or lower). A level that high
essentially turns the blood into syrup, causes severe dehydration and can knock
a person unconscious. Over time it can cause organ damage.

Dr. Ronald Yee, the third-year resident taking care of Mr. R., explained to him
and his wife that he would be given intravenous fluid and insulin right away at
the clinic and would then be taken to the emergency room at the main hospital
for further treatment.

Mr. R's wife began to weep.

Doctors and nurses at the clinic said they saw so many patients with readings
like Mr. R's that stabilizing them and sending them off to the hospital had
become a routine drill.

Dr. Jerry Potts, the director of the neighborhood clinic, said, ''This will cost
thousands of dollars that could have been saved if he had walked in the door a
few months ago.''

Mr. R. spent about three hours in the emergency room that Friday night, and
returned to the clinic with his wife the following Thursday to meet with a
dietitian to learn how to help keep his blood sugar under control.

Working through an interpreter, they spent nearly an hour with rubbery models of
tortillas, rice, beans, slices of bread, tomatoes and chicken legs.

Mr. R. confessed to ''abuse of Coca Cola'' and excessive milk drinking, but
expressed great relief that he could still eat plates full of cucumbers
sprinkled with lemon and hot sauce. One thing that really disappointed him,
though, was that he would have to limit watermelon.

''Yes,'' the dietitian said, ''I remember you said that when we did this last
year.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 2, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ohio: Request To Block Deportation

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING MIDWEST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 98 words


An Ohio man with a reputed Nazi past is asking the United States to block his
deportation to Germany, citing humanitarian reasons. The man, John Demjanjuk,
made the request in a document filed with Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
Mr. Demjanjuk, who turns 89 Friday, is charged in an arrest warrant in Germany
with 29,000 counts of acting as an accessory to murder while working as a guard
at a Nazi death camp during World War II. In the statement, Mr. Demjanjuk says
that he is in a poor physical condition and that being sent to Germany would be
inappropriate and degrading treatment.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 2, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Rush for Work Visas Even as Demand Dips

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 710 words


The yearly scramble by employers for temporary visas for foreign scientists and
technology engineers started on Wednesday, with immigration authorities
expecting fewer new petitions this year because of the recession and because of
new restrictions on financial companies that received emergency federal aid.

For five business days beginning Wednesday, Citizenship and Immigration Services
will accept petitions for the temporary visas known as H-1B for the 2010 fiscal
year, which begins Oct. 1. In recent years, visa limits were reached in the
first days of the application period.

Over the weekend, employers like Microsoft and Cisco Systems rushed to send
petitions by express mail and courier services so they would reach the agency
when it opened Wednesday.

In spite of an expected lull in demand, employers and researchers predicted that
the limits would quickly be reached again this year in part because of backlogs
from last year. The annual H-1B limit is 65,000 visas, with a few exemptions,
including the first 20,000 petitions from immigrants with degrees at the
master's level or above from American universities. In 2008, about 163,000
petitions were filed.

At many American universities, more than half of graduates with advanced degrees
in science and engineering are foreign. ''These visas are really the only
practical way for employers to hire them,'' said Stuart Anderson, executive
director of the National Foundation for American Policy, who has studied use of
the visas.

In February, as part of the economic stimulus legislation, Congress added
conditions for H-1B visas for banks that received assistance from the Troubled
Asset Relief Program, known as TARP. The banks must show that they will not
displace an American from a job to be filled by an immigrant for three months
before and after the immigrant is hired.

Bank of America and Merrill Lynch, among others, said that provision led them to
rescind small numbers of job offers to graduating foreign students and financial
technology engineers.

In 2008, according to figures from Citizenship and Immigration Services, the top
four companies seeking H-1B visas were  from India. By far the most visas --
4,559 --went to Infosys Technologies, a $4 billion company in Bangalore, which
used them to place Indian information technology workers in American companies.
Microsoft, the first American company on the list, received 1,037 visas last
year.

One of the biggest Indian companies using H-1B visas last year was Satyam
Computer Services, based in Hyderabad. Its founder and chairman, B. Ramalinga
Raju, is facing criminal charges in India, accused of inflating his employee
rolls by more than 10,000 workers and falsifying accounts by more than $1
billion. The company is up for auction.

Indian companies' heavy use of the visas has drawn accusations of fraud from
some lawmakers. Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, and Senator
Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, said they intended to introduce a bill
this week that would impose stricter hiring terms for all H-1B visas and
increase enforcement. The senators said they would not consider raising the
numerical limits on the visas until loopholes they had identified were closed.

''With unemployment at rates higher than we've seen in decades, there is no
shortage of people looking for work,'' Mr. Grassley said Wednesday, ''so
companies should need less H-1B visas than last year.''

In January, in a move that unsettled the outsourcing industry, federal
prosecutors in Iowa brought criminal charges against the Vision Systems Group, a
New Jersey company that provides temporary information technology workers to
companies in several states. The company is accused of seeking H-1B visas for
workers for an office in Iowa that did not exist, and of paying the workers
based on the prevailing wage in Iowa, which is lower than in many states where
the immigrants actually worked.

Lawyers for Vision Systems asked the Iowa court on Wednesday to dismiss the
case. ''We don't believe that bringing highly trained and highly productive
people to work in the U.S. in an industry that is underserved by our own
population is or should be a crime,'' a lawyer for the company, Mark Weinhardt,
said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 3, 2009 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Documents Related to the Death of Ahmad Tanveer

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 338 words


The three documents that follow, obtained by the American Civil Liberties Union,
concern the death of a 43-year-old Pakistani New Yorker in immigration custody
-- a death only recently brought to light.

The sequence of the man's first and last names remains uncertain. He is called
Ahmad Tanveer by officials at the Monmouth County Correctional Institute in
Freehold, N.J., where he was being held for Immigration and Customs Enforcement
when he suffered a heart attack on Sept. 9, 2005, and by the county morgue.

He is Tanveer Ahmad to immigration officials, who recently acknowledged that his
death in custody had been overlooked for years. Note that in these documents,
versions of his name vary: They include Ahmed Tender, Mr. Ahmed, Ahmed Tander
and Ahmad Tander.

The first document is a hand-scrawled letter of two pages dated 9/9/2005,
written by a fellow immigration detainee who, in imperfect English, describes
the hours before the Pakistani's death and urges an investigation. According to
the letter, when the Pakistani complained of chest pain and told an officer he
needed to go to the medical unit, the officer left him to wait for an hour, as
his condition worsened. The man spent more than another hour suffering in the
medical waiting area, the letter says, before a nurse checked his blood pressure
and summoned an ambulance; he died on arrival at the emergency room.

The second is a one-page document titled ''Department of Homeland Security ICE
Report of Investigation'' that summarizes the allegations received about the
death in a packet of correspondence from Jean Blum, a citizen activist in
Paterson, N.J.

The third, from the Office of the Inspector General in Homeland Security, is an
Oct. 6, 2005, cover memo and one-page case summary, referring the matter to the
immigration agency's Office of Professional Responsibility ''for appropriate
action and disposition.'' It notes that the agency need not report back its
findings or actions.

Documents Related to the Death of Ahmad Tanveer (pdf)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 3, 2009 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Detainee Dies, And a Life Is Buried, Too

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN; Margot Williams contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1887 words


The hand-scrawled letter from a New Jersey jail was urgent. An immigration
detainee had died that day, Sept. 9, 2005, a fellow inmate wrote in broken
English, describing chest pains and pleas for medical attention that went
unheeded until too late.

''Death  ... need to be investigated,'' he urged a local group that corresponded
with foreigners held for deportation at the jail, the Monmouth County
Correctional Institute in Freehold. ''We care very much because that can happen
to anyone of us.''

Yet like a message in a bottle tossed from a distant shore, even the fact of the
detainee's death was soon swept away.

Inquiries by the local group were rebuffed by jail officials. Complaints
forwarded to the Department of Homeland Security were logged, then forgotten.
And when pressure from Congress and the news media compelled Immigration and
Customs Enforcement to produce the first list of people who had died in their
custody, the Freehold case was not on it.

The difficulty of confirming the very existence of the dead man, Ahmad Tanveer,
43, a Pakistani New Yorker, shows how death can fall between the cracks in
immigration detention, the rapidly growing patchwork of more than 500 county
jails, profit-making prisons and federal detention centers where half a million
noncitizens were held during the last year while the government tried to deport
them.

The case underscores the secrecy and lack of legal accountability that continue
to shield the system from independent oversight, despite years of escalating
Congressional inquiries and new efforts by Obama administration appointees to
promote transparency.

''We still do not know, and we cannot know, if there are other deaths that have
never been disclosed by ICE, or that ICE itself knows nothing about,'' said Tom
Jawetz, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union, which has been
battling in court for months to obtain government records on all detention
deaths, including the Freehold case and those named on the first government
list, obtained by The New York Times under the Freedom of Information Act and
published last year.

Even now, most questions about Mr. Tanveer are unanswered, including just who he
was and why he  had been detained. The rescue of his death from oblivion took a
rare mix of chance, vigilance by a few citizen activists, litigation by the
civil liberties union and several months of inquiry by The Times. Even as the
newspaper confirmed Mr. Tanveer's death with jail officials, and tracked his
body's path from a Freehold morgue to the cargo hold of an airplane at Kennedy
Airport, immigration authorities  maintained that they could find no documents
showing such a person was ever detained, or died in their custody.

Not until March 20, in response to a new request by The Times under the Freedom
of Information Act, did the agency release an internal e-mail message
acknowledging that the death had been overlooked. It issued a corrected list
that now includes him -- his first and last names transposed -- among 90 people
who died in immigration custody between Oct. 7, 2003, and Feb. 7, 2009.

''We believe we have accounted for every single detainee death,'' Kelly Nantel,
a spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said last week, adding
that a death in March was promptly reported to Congress under a policy directive
from Dora Schriro, the new administration's special adviser on detention.

Yet even the latest list, which Ms. Nantel called ''comprehensive, thorough,''
is missing a known death from 2008: that of Ana Romero Rivera, a 44-year-old
Salvadoran cleaning woman who was found hanged last August in an isolation cell
in a county jail in Frankfort, Ky., where she was awaiting deportation. Federal
officials now disagree whether she was legally in their custody when she died.

There are unverified reports that other detainees may have died unnamed and
uncounted. At the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center in Miami, for example,
directors cite a letter in late July 2007 from a detainee who described an
18-year-old Haitian woman, ''Mari Rosa,'' coughing up blood for hours without
medical attention at the Glades County Jail in Moore Haven, Fla. The letter said
she fell to the ground, had no pulse when she was finally taken to the medical
unit and was never brought back, adding, ''The detainees think she is dead.''

The center has been unable to confirm what happened to that woman, said Susana
Barciela, its policy director.

No central body is required to publicly keep track of deaths in custody in the
fragmented detention system. No independent inquiry is mandated. The House
recently passed a bill that would require states that receive certain federal
funds to report all deaths in custody to their attorneys general. But the
measure has yet to be taken up in the Senate, where similar legislation stalled
last fall.

''How can you overlook a guy who died in your custody?'' asked Rep. Zoe Lofgren,
a California Democrat who has presided over two subcommittee hearings dealing
with care and deaths in detention, battling unsuccessfully for full disclosure
from immigration officials. ''Did they forget other people? Was it an isolated,
single error, or was it something more sinister?''

As Congress and the news media brought new scrutiny to the issue, several
detention deaths have highlighted problems with medical care and accountability.
In one, a Chinese computer engineer's extensive cancer and fractured spine went
undiagnosed at a Rhode Island jail until shortly before he died, despite his
pleas for help. In another, records show a Guinean tailor who suffered a skull
fracture in a New Jersey jail was left in isolation without treatment for more
than 13 hours.

In Mr. Tanveer's case, efforts to draw public scrutiny were exceptional, yet
went nowhere. The scrawled note by his fellow detainee, a Nigerian who garbled
the dead man's name as ''Ahmed Tender,'' reached citizen activists at the New
Jersey Civil Rights Defense Committee, who were unable to confirm it. Other
complaints that Mr. Tanveer did not receive proper care separately reached a
former member of the group, Jean Blum, a disabled Holocaust survivor who had
continued corresponding with dozens of detainees from her home in Paterson,
N.J., even though she could barely afford the postage.

''I am very, very aware of the issues that involve displaced people,'' said Ms.
Blum, 73, who was a child when she and her parents, Polish Jews, fled the Nazis.
''I could not turn my back, because that is my history.''

Ms. Blum forwarded a packet of correspondence about the death to the Department
of Homeland Security's inspector general by Sept. 20, 2005, seeking an
investigation. But within weeks, documents show, the matter was simply passed
for internal inquiry to the immigration agency, which is part of Homeland
Security, with the notation that it need not bother to report back its findings.

Years after Mr. Tanveer's death, the scrawled note about his heart attack came
to the attention of the A.C.L.U., and its lawyers noticed that no such name
appeared on the first government list of 66 people published by The Times in
2008. The union added the name to its lawsuit, and eventually obtained the paper
trail on what Ms. Blum had sent the government.

The union learned that the inspector general's office had written up a synopsis
of the allegations for investigation by the immigration agency, saying that
''Ahmad Tander,'' a Pakistani detainee housed at the Monmouth jail, had died
''from a heart attack whose symptoms were obvious, severe and ignored until it
was too late,'' amid ''conditions of neglect and indifference to medical
needs.''

But when the A.C.L.U. pressed for more, government lawyers said no further
records could be found.

Early this year, The Times called a spokeswoman for the Monmouth County Sheriff,
who confirmed the death and gave the  name as Tanver -- later correcting the
spelling to Tanveer.

In names transcribed from a foreign alphabet, such variations often pose a
problem of identification. But the facts matched: Mr. Tanveer had arrived at the
jail in immigration custody on Aug. 12, 2005, and on Sept. 9 was taken by
ambulance to CentraState Medical Center in Freehold, where he died, the
spokeswoman, Cynthia Scott, said. Under the jail's federal contract, she said,
nothing more could be disclosed.

A CentraState spokesman initially denied that such a patient had died at the
hospital. Later the medical record was found misfiled, and the spokesman, James
M. Goss, confirmed the man's death at age 43. But, citing privacy laws and
policy, he declined to answer other questions about the case, including what had
happened to the body.

In New Jersey, as in many states, autopsy reports are private. But the county
morgue confirmed that an autopsy had been performed. Eventually, two details
were shared: the name of the Queens funeral home that picked up the body for
burial on Sept. 12, and the fact that the autopsy report was sent two months
later to Mark Stokes, an official in the New York office of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement.

Yet for more than three years since, the tallies and testimony that the agency
submitted to Congress about detainee deaths have not included the Tanveer case.

In January 2009, equipped with confirmation, The Times again requested documents
in Mr. Tanveer's death. President Obama had just directed federal agencies to
err on the side of transparency in releasing records to the public. But a
Freedom of Information officer soon said she was stymied: Immigration
record-keepers told her no documents could be located without the dead man's
date of birth or eight-digit alien registration number.

And the body? The director of the funeral home, Coppola-Migliore in Corona,
Queens, said Mr. Tanveer's New York relatives had it flown to Pakistan for
burial, using Pakistan International Airlines. But the funeral director declined
to identify the relatives without their permission and said they had not
returned phone calls. And the Pakistani Consulate had no record of the case.

Also futile was a search for witnesses among fellow detainees, many since
deported. The Nigerian detainee who wrote the urgent letter, an ailing diabetic,
was later released pending a deportation hearing. According to social workers at
the Queens-based charity that was his last known contact, he is now a homeless
fugitive, lost in the streets of New York.

Victoria L. Allred, chief of staff in the financial office of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, wrote in an internal e-mail message March 4 that the death
had not been discovered until after the chart omitting it  had been submitted to
Congress for the latest subcommittee hearing, March 3. ''I apologize for the
discrepancy,'' she wrote.

Yet as of  Thursday, immigration authorities still have not released records on
Mr. Tanveer's detention or death, which they attribute to ''occlusive coronary
atherosclerosis,'' nor have they addressed the complaint that his heart attack
went untreated in the jail for more than two hours.

On the expanded list, he is the only detainee with no birth date. And in the
e-mail message acknowledging the death, his alien registration number has been
redacted -- to protect his privacy, the government said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 4, 2009



CORRECTION: An article on Friday about the death of Ahmad Tanveer, a Pakistani
New Yorker, in a New Jersey jail in 2005, a case that underscores the secrecy
and lack of accountability in the nation's immigrant detention system,
misstated, in some editions, the time period covered by the latest list of
deaths in immigrant custody released by Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The
list, which concludes with a death on Feb. 7, 2009, names 90 such deaths
beginning on Oct. 7, 2003 -- not Jan. 1, 2003.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A letter from a detainee prompted an inquiry into the
case.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION)(A1)
  Jean Blum, at the Monmouth County Correctional Institute, was among those who
tried to find out how Ahmed Tanveer died.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW
YORK TIMES)(A26)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 3, 2009 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Immigration Agency's Revised List of Deaths in Custody

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 725 words


The document that follows, ''List of Detainee Deaths since October 2003,'' is
the government's latest account of deaths in immigration detention, through Feb.
7, 2009. Compiled by Immigration and Customs Enforcement and obtained by The New
York Times under the Freedom of Information Act, it lists the names of 90 people
who died, their dates of birth and death, their nationality, where they died or
were last held, whether an autopsy report or death certificate was secured, and
the cause of death.

The chart updates the first government list of 66 names, also attached, which
covered a period between Jan. 1, 2004, and November 2007. The new chart adds
deaths that occurred before and since, and corrects some omissions.

Notably, it adds the Sept. 9, 2005, death of Tanveer Ahmad, also known as Ahmad
Tanveer, 43, of Pakistan. Officials had maintained for months that no records of
his death could be found, despite complaints that he had died after his severe
and obvious symptoms of a heart attack went untreated for hours at the Monmouth
County Correctional Institute, in Freehold, N.J.

New errors appear on the latest list, and it omits at least one known death from
2008: that of Ana Romero Rivera, 44, of El Salvador, found hanged in a cell at
the Franklin County Jail in Frankfort, Ky., on Aug. 21. Ms. Romero, a cleaning
woman, had been placed in isolation for not eating, according to local newspaper
reports. Though she was being held for deportation, federal officials now
disagree whether she was legally in immigration custody when she died.

The list no longer distinguishes between where the detainee was last held and
where the death occurred. Sometimes it cites the hospital where a dying detainee
was taken, but not the jail involved, and sometimes the reverse.

Some information has been changed without explanation. For example, the cause of
death for Boubacar Bah, 52, who was held at the Corrections Corporation of
America detention center in Elizabeth, N.J., previously was listed as ''brain
hemorrhage, fractured skull'' and now reads ''undetermined.''

The government has reported one more death since the list was issued, bringing
the known total to 92: that of Roberto Martinez Medina, 39, of Mexico, who had
been held at the Correction Corporation's Stewart Detention Center in Lumpkin,
Ga. He died March 11 at St. Francis Hospital in Columbus, Ga., apparently of a
heart attack.

There are more than 500 detention centers around the country, but one private
operator, the Correction Corporation, had at least 18 deaths, including eight at
its Eloy, Ariz., center alone, three of those since July 2008. The 18 Correction
Corporation deaths include one in 2004 that the new list mistakenly places at
the ''Jefferson County jail.''

After correcting for such errors, The Times counted 32 of the 92 deaths at jails
run by private companies; 37 of them at county or regional jails, and 20 at
federally run detention centers. The remaining 3 deaths fall into other
categories.

That breakdown differs from one provided at a March 3 House subcommittee hearing
that cited only six deaths in private facilities. That low figure was based on a
classification supplied by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which reflected
who owned the jail building and the type of government contract in effect, not
the operator.

Both lists sometimes obscure who was operating detention centers where people
died, or even in which state a death occurred. A 2007 death first listed at the
Otero County jail, in New Mexico, is now incorrectly placed at ''El Paso SPC,''
referring to a service processing center in Texas. The Otero County jail, where
there was another death in 2008, is operated by Management and Training
Corporation, a private company.

Of the 92 people who died in detention, 21 were from Cuba, 19 from Mexico, 6
each from Guatemala and Honduras, 5 from El Salvador, three each from Colombia,
Haiti and Jamaica; two each from Ghana, Guinea, India, Korea and one each from
18 other countries, including Germany, Brazil, Afghanistan and the Philippines.

Readers with information about the men and women listed on the document, or with
knowledge of other deaths in immigration detention, can contact The Times by
using this link.

List of Detainee Deaths Since October 2003 (pdf)

Previous List of Detainee Deaths (pdf)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 4, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

In a Town With Few Immigrants, an Unlikely Horror

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ; Nina Bernstein contributed reporting from New York
City.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 672 words

DATELINE: BINGHAMTON, N.Y.


It is one thing to be an immigrant in New York City, and quite another to be an
immigrant in this working-class city 175 miles to the northwest.

Binghamton is the kind of upstate community where immigrants and minorities are
but a fraction of the population, true foreigners in Broome County, the kind of
all-American, majority-white county that is the Home of the Square Deal, as the
nearby village of Endicott is known. The city  has a population of 43,000, 80
percent white. Only 8 percent are foreign born.

The American Civic Association headquarters on Front Street is not much to look
at -- a one-story blond-brick building in a neighborhood of small businesses,
some of them boarded up. But for years, it had been, in its own quiet,
multilingual way, the equivalent of Ellis Island for Binghamton and the rest of
Broome County.

The association, a member agency of the United Way of Broome County, offers
citizenship classes, immigration assistance, personal counseling, family
reunification and interpreters. ''When I came to the U.S., they helped me out,
too,'' said Thanh Huynh, a high school teacher and Vietnamese immigrant who
lives in Binghamton. ''They gave me food. They gave me money. They helped me
with immigrant papers.''

On Friday, the immigrant center was the scene of carnage when a  gunman killed
13 men and women before apparently taking his own life.

By the end of the  brief but terrifying episode, the shaken survivors led out of
the building by the police were an unlikely portrait of Binghamton -- Russians,
Kurds, Chinese, Arabs, Laotians.

As the police moved in to start their investigation, they were confronted with
an immediate challenge: the language barrier. Several volunteer translators,
including Mr. Huynh, were called in to help the authorities debrief nearly 40
survivors at the city police station.

Mr. Huynh helped translate for a young Vietnamese woman who was in the classroom
next to the one where the shooting unfolded and  described seeing blood on the
floor and a dead body in the hallway.

The work of the American Civic Association is modest, appropriate to the scale
of a city that feels more like a small town than the cultural hub and  seat of
Broome County. Since 2004, the association has resettled 53 refugees, said
Lavinia Limon, the executive director of the United States Committee for
Refugees and Immigrants, a nonprofit agency based in Washington that resettles
refugees for the State Department through groups like the American Civic
Association.

Those 53 refugees included some children, and a majority were Vietnamese.
''We're talking about 53 people in five years; they're not exactly inundating
Binghamton,'' Ms. Limon said.

Though its population of immigrants is relatively small, Binghamton has quietly
welcomed refugees from war-torn countries for decades. The association began
operating in 1939.

Anthony Fiala, the husband of Barbara Fiala, the county executive -- who is also
a board member of the association -- said conflicts involving immigrants
happened elsewhere. ''Not in Binghamton,'' Mr. Fiala said. ''We've got Asians,
Vietnamese people. And my wife swears them in, too, when they become citizens.''

Mary Pat Hyland, a former journalist who occasionally taught cooking and Gaelic
classes at the association, said the building was a celebration of Binghamton's
ethnic heritage.

''It's constantly changing,'' she said. ''If you come here in the summer, any
weekend there's an ethnic weekend.''

Rong Lu, 25, knew the building well. Last year, she took a class there to
improve her English. She had immigrated from the city of Fuzhou in China. The
five-day-a-week, monthlong class was intensive, but free, and she became
friendly with her Vietnamese, Mexican and African classmates.

On Friday night on Main Street, she took orders behind the counter of Red Wok
Chinese Restaurant, which her relatives own. It was a small sign of the
association's accomplishments: a recent immigrant, communicating in the language
it had taught her.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At the Redeemer Lutheran Church in Binghamton, a prayer vigil
was held on Friday for those who died in the massacre.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON
WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 5, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Help for Torture Victims

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 208 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Foreign Ways and War Scars Test Hospital'' (''Remade in America'' series,
front page, March 29):

Hennepin County Medical Center in Minneapolis is to be commended for generous,
comprehensive and sensitive treatment of its immigrant neighbors.

Unfortunately, for other immigrants who have experienced the horrific physical
and emotional suffering of torture, health care remains out of reach. Many of
the 500,000 torture survivors estimated to be in the United States are not here
legally, or are in the midst of applying for asylum.

An increasing number of asylum applicants are held in detention centers, a
confinement that places them even further from much-needed care.

For these immigrants, the first health intervention they require is a doctor to
document physical and emotional scars left by torture, corroborate their claims,
and get them out of detention and into a caring community like the one in
Hennepin County.

To address the health needs of these immigrants, we must improve access to care
-- beginning in detention, during the asylum process and after.

Tom Dougherty  New York, March 31, 2009

The writer is executive director of HealthRight International, a global health
and human rights organization.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 8, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Raid Leads To Colleague, Then Lawsuit

BYLINE: By SOLOMON MOORE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 354 words


James and Sheila Slaughter said that when they answered the door of their home
in San Luis, Ariz., on a July afternoon last year, they were surprised to find
five armed Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers strapped into bulky
bulletproof vests accusing them of harboring an illegal immigrant.

''Is this 'Candid Camera'?'' Mrs. Slaughter recalled asking.

That irritated the lead officer, her husband said Tuesday. ''He said: 'No, it
isn't ''Candid Camera.'' You need to step back into the middle of the room.' ''

The couple said they complied, and the officers prepared to search their home.
Mr. Slaughter, a six-foot, 285-pound former Marine, said he then told them,
''Look fellas, do you guys realize that I'm a U.S. Customs K-9 officer at the
San Luis land port?''

''The lead officer's eyes got about as big and round as silver dollars, and the
three guys who were standing just inside the door went straight outside,'' said
Mr. Slaughter, 51, who with a Labrador retriever, Whitey, searches cars at the
Mexican border for narcotics. ''They left without saying a word. They knew they
messed up.''

The Slaughters recently filed a lawsuit in Federal District Court in Phoenix
accusing the Department of Homeland Security of violating their Fourth Amendment
rights against unreasonable searches and seizures. They are seeking $500,000
from each of the five officers.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials in Arizona and Washington said
they could not discuss pending litigation.

Mr. Slaughter, whose family lives on East 26th Street, said he learned later
that the illegal immigrant sought by the officers lived on East 26th Place. He
recognized the immigrant's name from junk mail that accidentally came to the
Slaughter home.

The officers, Mr. Slaughter said, should have checked the name on property
records, ''or they could have watched me walk out of my house every day wearing
my uniform.''

''They bullied their way into my house -- the same organization that I work for,
doing 16-hour shifts,'' Mr. Slaughter said. ''I bleed red, white and blue. I
serve my country, and then they do this to me?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 9, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration at Issue in Suburban Chicago Race

BYLINE: By LORI ROTENBERK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 337 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


The mayor-elect of a North Shore suburb said Wednesday that he would drop many
restrictions against illegal immigrants imposed by his predecessor.

''The current mayor was not open to listening to what the community really
needed,'' said Robert Sabonjian, who on Tuesday defeated the incumbent mayor of
Waukegan, Richard H. Hyde, a Democrat. ''The community was put in fear by the
ordinances put in place.''

Among the regulations Mr. Hyde, 81, imposed in his two terms in office was one
that allowed the police to arrest people exclusively on immigration charges,
most often charges of being in the United States illegally.

Before the election, a grass-roots Hispanic organization in Waukegan, a
blue-collar community of about 91,000 residents, canvassed the town, urging
Hispanic residents to support Mr. Sabonjian, an independent who won 52 percent
of the vote to Mr. Hyde's 43 percent.

The group, the New Waukegan, estimated that 31 percent of the roughly  7,000
votes cast were by Hispanic voters. The population is about 50 percent Hispanic.

A restaurant owner, Jose Zavala, said he formed the group to help make the city
more welcoming to immigrants. Its main goal, Mr. Zavala said, is the eventual
election of a Hispanic mayor.

Mr. Hyde said on Wednesday that he was ''upset for 30 seconds'' over his loss to
Mr. Sabonjian, whose father was also once mayor of Waukegan. ''The people spoke,
and I listened,'' Mr. Hyde said, adding that many voters questioned whether, at
81, he was up to the job. ''They also claimed that I am anti-Hispanic and that I
imposed rules to send immigrants back to their homes,'' he said, ''and that is
incorrect.''

The executive director of the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee
Rights in Chicago, Joshua Hoyt, said the election ''changed a political dynamic
of the City of Waukegan for generations to come.''

''Mayor Hyde was a national symbol of a strategy to scapegoat immigrants and
harass them, using the local police,'' Mr. Hoyt said, ''and that is why he
lost.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 12, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

ON NYTIMES.COM

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 224 words

DATELINE: A slide show of work by Martha Cooper


-- known as Kodakgirl -- whose photographs have chronicled subway graffiti and
urban art for decades.

nytimes.com/thecity

SLIDESHOW: PENTECOSTAL FIRE

A visit to the Bronx parish of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, where
Pastor Daniel Ajayi-Adeniran, at left, preaches a fiery form of Pentecostalism.

nytimes.com/magazine

AUDIO: AT THE AUTO SHOW

At the 2009 New York International Auto Show, consumers have mixed views about
the industry.

nytimes.com/autoshow

Opinion

100 Days

How to End a War

Bringing troops home from Iraq may require President Obama to be like Ike,
writes Jean Edward Smith. The blog also features a new interactive timeline,
with audio, documents and photos of the notable early moments of five
presidencies.

nytimes.com/100days

VIDEO: SIGNS OF WEAR

In Palm Beach

Palm Beach, Fla., may have lost more money per square mile than any other town
because of the economy and Bernard L. Madoff's Ponzi scheme.

nytimes.com/business

AUDIO: IMMIGRANTS' VOICES

Four skilled immigrants with H-1B visas -- a physicist, a designer, a doctor,
and an architect -- share their experience of working in America.

nytimes.com/immigration

AUDIO: ART IN THE EVERYDAY

Jean Shin, an artist who finds art in severed pant legs, castoff pill bottles
and other recycled objects, discusses her body of work.

nytimes.com/design

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARTHA COOPER
 FINLAY MACKAY)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 12, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 78 words


An article last Sunday about a crackdown on illegal immigrants in Irving, Tex.,
referred incorrectly to a big-box store known as Irving Bazaar, which houses a
flea-market-like assortment of merchants who cater to the immigrants. It was
once a Montgomery Ward, not a Wal-Mart. And a map with the article mislabeled
one of the states whose law enforcement officers cooperate with federal
authorities by arresting immigration law violators. It is Alabama, not
Mississippi.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 26, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lucia Fuentes, Irene Recio

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 223 words


Lucia Maria Fuentes and Irene Maria Recio were married Saturday in Gloucester,
Mass. Leanne J. Berk, a Massachusetts justice of the peace, officiated at the
Ocean View Inn and Resort.

Ms. Fuentes, 35, is a management program analyst in the Office of Professional
Responsibility for Immigration and Customs Enforcement in Washington. She
graduated from Florida International University.

She is the daughter of Leopoldina Fuentes and Lazaro Fuentes of Miami. Her
father retired as a steward at the Grand Bay Hotel in Miami. Her mother retired
as the manager of the office of Dr. Andres Cao, a general practitioner in Miami.

Ms. Recio, 40, is of counsel in the Washington office of Reed Smith, the
Pittsburgh law firm, where she focuses on immigration law. She is the chairwoman
of the Greater Washington Hispanic Chamber of Commerce and is on the board of
the foundation of the National Lesbian and Gay Law Association. Ms. Recio
graduated cum laude from the University of Miami, where she also received a
master's degree in business management and a law degree.

She is the daughter of Irene Canosa Recio and Francisco H. Recio of Coral
Gables, Fla. Her father is the chairman of SabiaMed, a company in Miami that
develops software for health care companies and hospitals. Her mother is the
secretary at Conchita Espinosa Academy in Miami.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 28, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT
NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 479 words


NEW YORK STATE'S

Long Lost Sister

The Chinese provinces that are most prominent in most American minds generally
have to do with alimentation (Hunan and Sichuan), immigration (Fujian and
Guangdong) and agitation (Tibet and Xinjiang). But it is Jiangsu, a prosperous
region on China's east coast, that for 20 years has been the sister province of
New York State.

Sam Natapoff, senior adviser to Gov. David A. Paterson for international
commerce and development, said there were many parallels between New York and
Jiangsu.

Mr. Natapoff said that Nanjing, in Jiangsu province, has been China's capital,
most recently from 1927 to 1949, during the Nationalist reign. New York, of
course, was the capital of the young United States from 1785 to 1790. Water
plays an important part in both New York and Jiangsu, he noted: the southern
regions of each are close to rivers and oceans, which helped make them centers
of trade.

And Suzhou, a wealthy city of six million on the Yangtze River in Jiangsu
Province, has long been an influential cultural center known for its gardens,
music and silk. New York City, with eight million, has long been an influential
cultural center known for its parks, music and fashion.

Mr. Natapoff, who is chairman of a joint commission between the two regions, has
never been to Jiangsu and is not likely to make the trip anytime soon. ''My
flying to a foreign country isn't necessarily the best way to spend taxpayer
money,'' he said.

In case you go, here is a compare and contrast:

POPULATION 75 million (Jiangsu), 19 million (New York)

DEMOGRAPHICS 99.6 percent Han Chinese (J), 60 percent white, 17 percent black,
16 percent Hispanic, 7 percent Asian-American (N.Y.)

FOUNDED 1667 (J), 1664 (N.Y.)

DENSITY 1,877 people per square mile (J), 408 people per square mile (N.Y.)

PER CAPITA INCOME $4,000 (J), $25,000 (N.Y.)

BIRTHPLACE OF Kunqu opera (J), hip-hop (N.Y.)

DIVISIONS Between an urban, prosperous south and a poorer, more rural north
(both)

JENNIFER 8. LEE

ALSO

ON THE BLOG

Excavation: At $633 million, the cost of the vehicle security center at the new
World Trade Center nearly rivals that of the National September 11 Memorial and
Museum. But the checkpoint through which vehicles must pass en route to the
trade center's underground roadways has attracted little public attention (and
that's probably the way officials want it). Now that excavation has finally
begun, there is no longer anywhere to hide.

Hibernation: The weekend's warm weather deprived some of the region's hardiest
swimmers of a bit of frigid glory. Members of the Coney Island Polar Bear Club,
who pledge to dip in the ocean every Sunday from November to April, were
disappointed with water temperature in the 50s and air nearing 90 degrees.
''It's no good -- it's too easy,'' said one member, Alfred Volante, 52, a truck
driver from the Bronx.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Trading at the New York Stock Exchange, top, resembles that in
Nanjing in China's Jiangsu Province.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON DECROW/ASSOCIATED
PRESS)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEAN YONG/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 2, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants' Rallies Draw Small Crowds In Flu Scare

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON and KIRK SEMPLE; Julia Preston reported from San Diego,
and Kirk Semple from New York. Mathew R. Warren and Karina Ioffee contributed
reporting from New York, Rebecca Cathcart from Los Angeles, and Karen Ann
Cullotta from Chicago.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 762 words


Immigrants turned out for May Day demonstrations across the country in much
smaller numbers than last year, with marchers pointing to uneasiness about the
flu scare and job worries in the recession to explain why many people stayed
home.

Organizers had called for marches and rallies as a show of support for
immigration overhaul legislation that President Obama has said he will offer
before the end of the year. But in Los Angeles, Chicago, Miami and New York,
among other cities, turnout was sharply lower than expected as immigrants, many
of them from Mexico, said they did not feel the time was right for marching in
the street.

Mexican immigrants and businesses in the nation have not seen major negative
impacts from the rapidly spreading flu epidemic, despite wide publicity that the
illness first erupted in Mexico and has spread from there. But in New York, a
major annual Cinco de Mayo festival was canceled because of fears of flu
contagion.

And Mexicans around the country said the fallout from the swine flu had arrived
in more subtle ways, from remarks that struck them as prejudicial, to friends
who declined dinner invitations without giving a reason.

In Boston, Jay Severin, a conservative radio talk show host on WTKK-FM who is
known for outrageous banter, was suspended indefinitely from his afternoon show
after he referred to Mexican immigrants in insulting terms, executives at the
station said Friday. In comments about the flu epidemic in recent days, Mr.
Severin had called Mexicans ''primitives,'' ''leeches,'' and ''criminaliens.''

Immigrant advocates had hoped that Friday's rallies would help them build
pressure on President Obama to move forward with broad immigration legislation,
which would include measures to give legal status to about 12 million illegal
immigrants in the country.

But in Chicago, only about 5,000 people came out, a far cry from the estimated
65,000 who turned out a year ago. Some immigrants said that because of the flu,
they did not feel it was safe to bring their families to a crowded rally;
organizers supplied face masks and hand sanitizer to those who were fearful.

But some participants said the low attendance was also related to disappointment
that Mr. Obama has not acted to end a crackdown on illegal immigrants.

''People had hoped to see change sooner with our new president,'' said Sandra
Cajas, an immigrant advocate.

In Los Angeles, there was no big march as in past years, as immigration groups
chose to hold several smaller rallies. Police officials said six groups had
received permits.

At one rally, with about 1,000 people carrying Mexican flags and wearing
T-shirts saying ''Legalize America now,'' the mood was subdued. Dozens of
marchers wore face masks as a precaution against the flu.

In one of the more dramatic effects of the epidemic, organizers in New York this
week postponed the Festival del Cinco de Mayo in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park,
Queens, the largest of several events in the city celebrating the Mexican
holiday. They cited concerns about flu contagion.

''We think it's very, very high risk to put thousands of people in this
situation,'' said Carmelo Maceda, 49, vice president of Casa Puebla, a
Manhattan-based advocacy group for Mexicans and the organizer of the annual
festival.

The event draws tens of thousands of spectators a year to see performances by
dozens of popular Mexican musical groups. Mr. Maceda noted that some New Yorkers
who had contracted swine flu attended schools near the festival site.

Casa Puebla and other sponsors of the event have lost about $100,000 in
advertisements and nonrefundable city permits, plane tickets, and down payments
for equipment and hotel rooms, Mr. Maceda said.

Other effects of the swine flu outbreak were less conspicuous. Maria Macaren,
42, an employee at La Bomba Records, a Latino music store in East Harlem, said
she was heckled by a passing motorist when she was standing outside the store.

''Someone passed me and yelled, 'You should have a mask on because you're
Mexican,' '' she said.

Erika Harrsch, 38, a Mexican artist living in Long Island City, Queens, said she
returned last Sunday from a six-week trip to Mexico.

Even though Ms. Harrsch is in perfect health, she said Friday in a telephone
interview, ''no one wants to see me -- I'm totally serious. People don't say it;
they just play busy.''

''In Mexico,'' she added, ''everyone wants to be near you to help you when
you're sick, but here nobody wants to be with you.

''I've never felt so lonely in this country,'' she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At a May Day rally in Los Angeles, dozens of marchers took
precautions against the spread of swine flu. Turnout at immigration marches
there and in many cities was lower than expected.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID
MCNEW/GETTY IMAGES)
 Workers made a delivery Friday to East Harlem, where some Mexicans report being
singled out over the flu outbreak. (PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 31, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Thousands From Muslim Nations Were Investigated Before '04 Election, Data Show

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU; Julia Preston contributed reporting from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1019 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


An operation in 2004 meant to disrupt potential terrorist plots before and after
that year's presidential election focused on more than 2,000 immigrants from
predominantly Muslim countries, but most were found to have done nothing wrong,
according to newly disclosed government data.

The program, conducted by the Department of Homeland Security, received little
public attention at the time. But details about the targets of the investigation
have emerged from more than 10,000 pages of internal records obtained through a
lawsuit by civil rights advocates. Parts of the documents were provided to The
New York Times.

The documents show that more than 2,500 foreigners in the United States were
sought as ''priority leads'' in the fall of 2004 because of suspicions that they
could present threats to national security in the months before the presidential
election and the inauguration. Some of those foreigners were detained and
ultimately deported because they had overstayed their visas, but many were in
this country legally, and the vast majority were not charged.

The internal reports show that immigration agents questioned the foreigners
about what they thought of America, whether violence was preached at their
mosques, and whether they had access to biological or chemical weapons. A
sampling of 300 cases turned over by federal officials showed that none of those
interrogated were charged with national security offenses. Fewer than one in
five were charged, most of them with immigration violations.

A spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Richard Rocha, would say
only, ''Due to ongoing litigation, ICE is not at liberty to provide any
comment.''

Officials said they were not aware of any similar programs now under way.

At the time of the 2004 operation, the immigration agency said publicly that it
was tracking leads in an effort to disrupt potential terrorism plots, but
emphasized that its investigations were being conducted ''without regard to
race, ethnicity or religion.''

But the records showed that 79 percent of the suspects were from Muslim-majority
countries, according to an analysis by students at the National Litigation
Project at Yale Law School, who obtained the records, as did the American-Arab
Anti-Discrimination Committee. Each group sued for the records under the Freedom
of Information Act, and both say the operation showed that the government was
using ethnic profiling to identify terrorism suspects.

''This was profiling,'' said Michael Wishnie, a professor at Yale Law School who
helped lead the research effort. He added that the findings raised questions
about both the effectiveness and the propriety of the program.

''The resources devoted to this were enormous,'' he  said, ''but the results
clearly were not.''

The issue of ethnic profiling in counterterrorism programs has taken on added
significance because of new Justice Department guidelines that go into effect
Dec. 1 and give investigators even broader authority to open terrorism
investigations without evidence of wrongdoing. The American Civil Liberties
Union and other rights groups argue that the new guidelines will allow federal
investigators to make targets of Muslims, Middle Easterners and others without
evidence of links to terrorist groups.

After the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the administration began a series of
efforts that strained relations with Muslims and Arab-Americans in particular.
The detention of more than 700 illegal immigrants as terrorism suspects -- often
for months at a time without lawyers -- generated a blistering report from the
Justice Department on the ''unduly harsh'' treatment of the prisoners. Follow-up
efforts in 2002 and 2003 led to the questioning of thousands of Muslims and
Middle Easterners as well as measures requiring that immigrants from some
countries register their presence with federal authorities.

The investigations conducted in the fall of 2004 were part of what federal
authorities called Operation Front Line. It was unusual in that it relied on
intelligence data from across the government to identify ''priority leads'' and
then conduct interrogations in October 2004, just before Election Day.

One foreigner, in the country on a student visa, was asked his ''opinion of
America,'' according to internal investigative reports. He responded that he was
''living the American dream and cared greatly for the equal opportunities,
rights and values that are afforded in America.'' Another person, from South
Asia, was asked about a mosque he attended and told an agent that ''the mosque
did not espouse any radical or fundamental form of Islam or denounce the United
States in any way.'' A third visa holder was asked if he owned any chemical or
biological explosives. He said he did not.

The Homeland Security Department announced several hundred arrests at the time,
mostly of visitors whose visas had expired, but the records obtained in the
lawsuit show that the scope of the operation reached much further. More than
2,500 people were interrogated, with more than 500 arrests for immigration
violations like overstaying visas.

A former immigration official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because
aspects of the program remain classified, said the operation analyzed data,
gathered by the Central Intelligence Agency and other agencies, to identify
people who might pose particular threats to national security. ''I think the
intelligence we were getting was bona fide and mineable, and we were doing the
best we could to follow it up,'' the former official said.

Kareem Shora, national executive director of the American-Arab
Anti-Discrimination Committee, said he considered the findings a ''slap in the
face'' because they contradicted the  claims of American officials.

''It is very disappointing to see that despite all the reassurances that they
were not profiling people, this comes out,'' Mr. Shora said. With nearly 80
percent of the targets in the 2004 operation coming from Muslim nations, he
asked, ''how can you tell us you're not focusing on people from these
countries?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 6, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Florida, an Initiative Intended to End Bias Is Killed

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 704 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


An obscure ballot initiative in Florida intended to end a legacy of bias against
Asian-Americans was defeated Tuesday, apparently because voters incorrectly
assumed it would prevent illegal immigrants from owning property.

Had it passed, the initiative, known as Amendment No. 1, would have removed from
the state's Constitution language adopted in 1926 allowing the Legislature to
prohibit foreigners who were barred from citizenship -- Asian-Americans at the
time -- from owning land.

No such legislation was ever enacted here, and every other state that had such
laws has scrapped them on grounds of equal protection. But on Tuesday, Florida's
effort to delete the provision went down, with 52 percent voting ''no'' and 48
percent voting ''yes.''

Immigrant advocates said they were stunned.

''It's terribly disappointing,'' said Cheryl Little, executive director of the
Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center. ''At a time when our country has turned away
from a history of racism, we have left a racist and anti-immigrant provision in
Florida's Constitution.''

Ms. Little and others who supported removing the provision said that a mix of
confusion and prejudice seemed to have led to defeat.

The language before voters did not explain that the laws first appeared around
1913 during a public panic that Asian immigrants, mostly from Japan, would work
on farms for less than Americans and buy up vast tracts of land. It failed to
spell out that state provisions were intended to work hand-in-glove with
discriminatory federal laws that prevented Asian-Americans from becoming
naturalized citizens until 1952.

Rather the ballot simply asked voters if they were willing to delete
''provisions authorizing the Legislature to regulate or prohibit the ownership,
inheritance, disposition and possession of real property by aliens ineligible
for citizenship.''

Steve Geller, a former state senator who worked to get the initiative on the
ballot, said Florida election rules only allowed a description of 75 words, and
required that the language of the old provision -- ''aliens ineligible for
citizenship'' -- be included. As a result, he said, ''a lot of people thought it
had to do with illegal aliens, and it had nothing to do with illegal aliens.''

In fact, some organizations opposing illegal immigration latched onto the
provision and advised people to vote no.

On the Web site of one group, Americans for Legal Immigration, a member wrote
that it should be left standing because '' 'illegal aliens' should not have
'rights' like U.S. citizens have. The only right they should have is
deportation!''

The group's president, William Gheen, did not respond to e-mail messages seeking
comment but Enos Schera, 81, who posted the message, said that he was ''1,000
percent'' satisfied that the law remained in place.

He is a founder of Citizens of Dade United, a Miami group opposing illegal
immigration, and he said he knew the provision's history but hoped that keeping
it on the books would encourage lawmakers to prevent all illegal immigrants from
owning property.

''They're buying up the whole country,'' he said.

Mr. Geller said he wished that Florida's Asian-American groups had done more to
fight back. Part of it, he said, is that the state's Asian population is only
2.2 percent, half the national average. But the Organization of Chinese
Americans, one of his most active allies, also did not use advertisements or
direct mail to rally support.

Winnie Tang, president of the group's Florida chapter, said she did not have a
budget for that. She said she had underestimated the level of public anger about
illegal immigration, especially in the northern part of the state, where the
foreign-born population is small, but controversial.

''They think if they're illegal they shouldn't have any right to do anything,''
Ms. Tang said. ''That's the sentiment of a lot of people.''

Ms. Tang, 47, who came to the United States from Macao in 1978, said that next
time would be different. She said she hoped to put the initiative on the ballot
again as soon as possible.

''We've learned,'' she said. ''From here on, we will have to get together to
raise some funds to get information to the communities.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Winnie Tang, president of the Florida chapter of the
Organization of Chinese Americans, said that she underestimated the anger over
illegal immigration and that the group would try again. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD
PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: MAJOR BALLOT MEASURES: ABORTION
AFFIRMITIVE ACTION
ENGLISH LANGUAGE
ENERGY
MARIJUANA
SAME-SEX MARRIAGE
 TAXES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 12, 2008 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Janet Napolitano

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; THE NEW TEAM; Pg.

LENGTH: 461 words


As he prepares to take office, President-elect Barack Obama is relying on a
small team of advisers who will lead his transition operation and help choose
the members of a new Obama administration. Following is part of a series of
profiles of potential members of the administration.

Name: Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona

Being considered for: Attorney general or secretary of homeland security.

Would bring to the job: Pragmatism and nonpartisanship. Like Mr. Obama, Ms.
Napolitano promotes herself as a postpartisan executive governing from the
center, even if it infuriates the left and the right. Allies and adversaries
alike praise her as having  a sharp mind. Before being elected governor in 2002,
she was a popular state and federal prosecutor. As the Democratic governor of a
border state at the center of the immigration debate, she has been vocal about
the need to revamp immigration laws. She angered some on the left by calling for
the National Guard at the border but has dismayed some conservatives by
advocating a guest-worker program.

Is linked to Mr. Obama by: Her crucial endorsement a few weeks before the
Arizona presidential primary on Feb. 5. They met at the Democratic National
Convention in Boston in 2004, when Mr. Obama came to national prominence. Mr.
Obama heavily courted her endorsement last year despite her ties to the Clintons
(President Bill Clinton nominated her for United States attorney in 1993). The
loss of the endorsement was a blow to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, who went
on to barely win the primary.

In her own words: ''In my view, it wasn't about gender, nor was it about race. I
chose Senator Obama because to me this election is fundamentally about change,
and it's about a new vision in Washington, D.C.'' (In a conference call to
reporters in January announcing her endorsement.)

Used to work as: United States attorney (1994-1998), state attorney general
(1998-2002).

Carries as baggage: Her role as a counselor to Anita F. Hill during the
confirmation hearings for Clarence Thomas to the Supreme Court, which still
makes some Republicans see red. The Senate had delayed her confirmation as
United States attorney over lingering questions about whether she had
overcoached a witness at the hearings. While she is popular in Arizona,
Republicans have scoffed at her maneuvering on issues, accusing her of shifting
with the political winds rather than standing on deep principles.

Biography includes: Born Nov. 29, 1957, in New York City but reared in
Albuquerque. ... graduate of Santa Clara University in San Jose, Calif., and the
University of Virginia law school. ... single, no children. ... voracious
reader, enjoys Monty Python jokes, has called climbing Mount Kilimanjaro among
her biggest challenges.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 16, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Mourning an Immigrant, a Call for Unity on Long Island

BYLINE: By ANGELA MACROPOULOS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 851 words

DATELINE: PATCHOGUE, N.Y.


An Ecuadorean immigrant taunted and stabbed to death in what Suffolk County
authorities are calling a hate crime was memorialized on Saturday evening as a
man whose simple life might serve as a catalyst to improve relations between
Latinos and white residents of this ethnically diverse village.

The funeral service, at the Congregation Church of Patchogue, had a tone of
reconciliation -- in particular toward Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive,
an outspoken opponent of illegal immigration who has been accused of instigating
a culture of hate in the county.

And yet emotions still ran high when the mourners, most of them Hispanic and
many of them Ecuadoreans, spilled out from the church, four blocks from where
the immigrant, Marcelo Lucero, 37, a serious-minded man who had lived in the
United States for 16 years, was stabbed to death a week earlier.

Many of the lingering mourners gathered around the mayor of Patchogue, Paul V.
Pontieri Jr., as he asked people to give him the chance to work toward easing
racial and ethnic tensions.

Marco Balbuca, 38, who is from Gualaceo, Ecuador, Mr. Lucero's hometown, told
Mr. Pontieri: ''We just want a good life. We want a future here.''

But, he added, ''We didn't know we could go anywhere, to your office. We only
think of going to the police, and they tell us they can't do anything.''

Seven young men, some from the nearby hamlet of Medford and some from Patchogue,
are accused of taunting and punching Mr. Lucero, the authorities said. One of
them, Jeffrey Conroy, a star athlete at Patchogue-Medford High School, is
accused of fatally wounding Mr. Lucero by plunging a knife into his chest. He is
charged with first-degree manslaughter as a hate crime and gang assault; the
others are charged with gang assault. All have pleaded not guilty.

About 500 people attended the funeral, the same number that showed up for a
vigil on Friday night to honor Mr. Lucero. Children ambled down the aisles of
the church and played while several ministers, including Allan B. Ramirez, the
pastor of Brookville Reformed Church and a noted advocate for immigrants, read
biblical passages and eulogized Mr. Lucero in both Spanish and English.

An open gray metal coffin held Mr. Lucero's body, dressed in a dark gray
pinstripe suit, crisp white shirt and gray and blue striped tie. To the right of
the coffin was a painted framed portrait of Mr. Lucero dressed in white centered
in a green and gold halo with the Ecuadorean flag to his left and the flag of
his hometown on the right. Copies of the image were printed on offering boxes at
the front of the church, where mourners could donate money for the benefit of
the Lucero family in Ecuador. His body is to be flown there on Tuesday for
burial.

In the front pew sat Mr. Lucero's sister, Catalina, and his brother, Joselo, who
roomed with his brother. Representative Nydia M. Velazquez, a New York City
Democrat, sat to Catalina's right and consoled her as the sister sobbed,
watching people approach and kiss her brother's body during the wake. New York's
secretary of state, Lorraine A. Cortes-Vasquez, also attended.

The pastor of the Congregational Church of Patchogue, the Rev. Dwight Lee
Wolter, emphasized that while Mr. Lucero led a simple life, working at a dry
cleaner's to support his mother, another sister and a nephew back in Ecuador,
his death could be a tipping point for the Patchogue-Medford community.

''Perhaps what Marcelo accomplished in death is far greater than he might have
been able to do in his life,'' Mr. Wolter said. ''What he has done for this
community since his spirit left this earth is that he can possibly be the source
of healing, hope and reconciliation for a town that can reform itself.''

Mr. Levy, the Suffolk County executive, did not attend. A county legislator,
Ricardo Montana, said Mayor Pontieri asked Mr. Levy not to come.

Acknowledging that he had disagreements with Mr. Levy regarding immigration
policies, Mr. Montana said that the county executive's tone in discussing
immigration, particularly illegal immigration, had contributed to ethnic and
racial tensions in the county.

Mr. Montana said that he did not blame Mr. Levy alone for the attitudes that may
have contributed to Mr. Lucero's death.

''He's had many followers who follow his rhetoric,'' Mr. Montana said. ''He's
had these policies that have hurt immigrants, but he couldn't pass these without
the help of the Legislature which I sit on. It's not a one-man show.''

Mr. Pontieri confirmed that he asked Mr. Levy not to meet with Hispanic
community leaders on Saturday afternoon, as the county executive had said he had
wanted to do.

Mr. Pontieri said that he wanted to delay such a meeting until the emotions
among all Patchogue residents cooled down.

''This is a community struggling with itself,'' the mayor said. ''There is the
Hispanic community that is trying to understand why this is happening to them.
But what you don't hear is anger. You hear a lot of confusion, but you also hear
a lot of people trying to say, 'How are we going to stop this and how can we
help.' ''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mourners at the memorial service for Marcelo Lucero, an
Ecuadorean immigrant who was killed in Patchogue, N.Y., on Nov. 8. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY KIRK CONDYLES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 20, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant's Death Overshadows a Debate

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME.

E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 856 words

DATELINE: PATCHOGUE, N.Y.


Over the years, the immigration issue has been very, very good to Steve Levy,
Suffolk County's suddenly embattled county executive.

Beginning with his support of an English-only proposal two decades ago, to a
number of high-profile initiatives he's pushed since he was elected county
executive in 2003, Mr. Levy has become hugely popular locally and a national
figure as a proponent of measures meant to crack down on illegal immigration.

Now, in the wake of the killing of an Ecuadorean immigrant, Marcelo Lucero, by
what the police said was as a group of seven teenagers intent on finding ''a
Mexican'' to attack, and Mr. Levy's widely criticized comments after the death,
the picture is decidedly more mixed. (In response to a question whether the
episode was unique to Suffolk County, Mr. Levy said that that the killing would
have been a one-day story elsewhere.)

But when he delivered a televised speech to Suffolk County residents on Tuesday,
expressing regret and horror, holding his ground and taking a step or two back
at the same time, he did manage to evoke both a local tragedy and a national
quandary. Can you crusade against illegal immigration and not be accused of
playing to fear and prejudice?

Given the polarized and angry debate in the county, it's fair to say Mr. Levy
hasn't pulled it off. Whether anyone can do better is no small issue in American
life.

''We all stand united, and speak loudly with one voice, when we say that the
brutal killing of this innocent, hard-working man for no other reason than he
was Hispanic is a dark and reprehensible moment for our county,'' he said in his
speech.

That stain, he added pointedly, is particularly shameful on Long Island, which,
he said, a study has shown to be among the most segregated areas in America.

But he denied there was a link between the heated debates over immigration in
the county and the crime. ''Opposition to the policy of illegal immigration must
never allow individuals to justify acts of violence,'' he said. ''Likewise,
advocates for those here illegally should not disparage those opposed to the
illegal immigration policy as being bigoted or intolerant.''

But, in fact, Hispanic officials and advocates for years have depicted Mr. Levy
as a bullying figure, making hay out of an issue that's popular with many white
residents even though the county has very little role in enforcing immigration
laws.

Phil Ramos, a state assemblyman, and Ricardo Montano, a county legislator, said
Mr. Levy's comments and policies had contributed to an atmosphere in which
attacks and harassment of Hispanics are common.

''The constant rhetoric coming from some elected officials has the impact of
creating an atmosphere in which a crime like this can occur,'' Mr. Ramos said.
''We need mature leadership in this county that doesn't pander to the worst
qualities in our residents.''

Michael D. Dawidziak, a political consultant who has worked for Mr. Levy, said
he doesn't agree with Mr. Levy on every issue, but he said it's very hard to
find any statements or policies by Mr. Levy that are beyond the norm for the
immigration debate.

And Mr. Levy said that in the end, a horrible crime and his own policy
prescriptions have nothing in common. ''The reason so few officials will touch
this issue is because it's a lightning rod, and they can get burned and
demonized very easily,'' he said. ''But reasonable people can disagree on the
issue of illegal immigration.''

Of course, the lightning rod works both ways, and for a politician who takes
pride in discerning the gut of the electorate, the issue has worked for him far
more than against him, helping Mr. Levy, a Democrat, win votes in reliably
Republican areas.

Critics say if he wants to change the tone, one place to start would be to find
a way for victims to report crimes and for the police to aggressively register
hate crimes against Hispanics. According to official figures, such crimes
decreased to one in 2007 from 15 in 2004.

It takes about five minutes of speaking to immigrant workers to realize there is
more than one anti-Hispanic hate crime a year in Suffolk County.

Mr. Levy said his most notorious statement, seeming to complain about the
widespread news coverage the killing received, was a comment on the attention
given to immigration issues in Suffolk, not an attempt to minimize the crime. In
his speech, he said he needed to do better.

''Hopefully, Marcelo Lucero's death will not be in vain. Perhaps it can be the
spark for all of us -- yours truly included -- to admit our faults, to work more
closely with one another, to pay more attention to what our children are doing,
and to pay more attention to what we say,'' he said. ''Words do matter, and I
will do all I can to help ensure that my words are as sensitive as possible
toward meeting our goal to heal and to unite.''

Critics say that's a start, but just a start.

''I've known Mr. Levy for many years, and I judge him on his actions, not just
his words in one speech,'' Mr. Montano said. ''I welcome his comments, but he'll
be judged on his future words, deeds and actions, not on one speech.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jayson Llivicura, 7, put money into a donation box at a
memorial for Marcelo Lucero, who was killed on Nov. 8.
 Steve Levy apologized for remarks made after the killing.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY GORDON
M. GRANT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 26, 2008 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                National Edition

A Catastrophic Silence

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 617 words


The killing of Marcelo Lucero, an Ecuadorean immigrant, on Long Island this
month brought with it a cruel blessing. From a shocking crime -- an assault by a
gang of boys accused of making a hobby of hunting Latinos -- came a chance for a
stricken, divided community to bind old wounds and to bury anger.

Instead, the moment is collapsing into the same old shouting. Advocates for
immigrants are condemning the Suffolk County executive, Steve Levy, as somehow
complicit in the killing for his rigid devotion to immigration enforcement. Mr.
Levy is lashing back and trying to distribute blame fairly. He wonders, for
example, how a gang out of ''A Clockwork Orange'' could have run free for so
long, firing BB's and hateful slurs at random victims, jumping and punching them
for sport.

Why, he asks, were their friends and acquaintances silent? It's a fair question,
but there is another silence Mr. Levy should focus on.

The silence that echoes most painfully is that of the Latino victims of these
and other hidden crimes. Mr. Lucero's death has set loose a flood of stories of
abuse and harassment. A police precinct commander lost his job over his handling
of two other attacks against Latino men that fatal day, an acknowledgment that
in Suffolk, equal protection may not always apply to everyone.

Suffolk is not the only place with hate crimes or fearful immigrants. The same
silence ruled in Postville, Iowa, where children worked brutal hours on a
slaughterhouse killing floor. It hung over a factory in New Bedford, Mass., that
systematically cheated workers of wages and the Louisiana shipyards where legal
guest workers were held in modern-day indentured servitude.

The silence of undocumented immigrants is the catastrophic silence of people
taught by legislative harassment and relentless stereotyping to live mute and
afraid.

Mr. Levy sees no role for himself in this drama.

''Since when is enforcing the law seen as something negative and inflammatory?''
he asked his critics this week. Here is an attempt to explain.

The fixation on uprooting and expelling immigrants is negative because it
doesn't work. It's inflammatory because it tears communities and families apart.

When you turn the local police into la migra, as Mr. Levy once tried to do, you
turn immigrants into the mute prey of criminals. When you relentlessly pick
fights with advocates who criticize you, as Mr. Levy has, you are unable to
stand with them when disaster strikes.

And when you tolerate the poisonous notion that ''illegal'' is a stain that can
never be erased, with no path to atonement, then you turn the undocumented into
a permanent class of presumed criminals who have no rights.

The undocumented do have rights. They have the right to be paid for their labor,
to speak freely and to congregate in public places without fear.

Mr. Levy has an agile mind and a commitment to doing what he sees as right.
There is a way for him to make Suffolk a better place. He can give the jobs of
deportation and border control back to the federal government and concentrate on
making things safer and more lawful in his community. He can stand up for the
rights of the undocumented, like day laborers, to congregate safely and to be
paid for their work, to prevent federal crimes like wage theft and to keep
off-the-books businesses from eroding pay and conditions for all workers.

He can pursue common ground with his Latino constituents -- even those who are
angry at him but would jump at the chance to sit down and talk. He can listen to
Marcelo Lucero's brother, Joselo, who has been a voice for peace. He can lead
his county into the calm silence of reconciliation instead of silence based on
fear.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 29, 2008



CORRECTION: An editorial Wednesday about crimes against immigrants gave the
wrong location for a shipyard accused of mistreating workers. It is in
Mississippi, not Louisiana.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 30, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Deportee Brings Street Dance to Street Boys of Cambodia

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1021 words

DATELINE: PHNOM PENH, Cambodia


It may be the only place in Cambodia where the children are nicknamed Homey,
Frog, Floater, Fresh,  Bugs and Diamond.

And there are not many places like this small courtyard, thumping with the beat
of a boom box, where dozens of boys in big T-shirts are spinning on their heads
and doing one-hand hops, elbow tracks, flairs, halos, air tracks and windmills.
And, of course, krumping.

It is a little slice of Long Beach, Calif., brought here by a former gang member
by way of a federal prison, an immigration jail and then expulsion four years
ago from his homeland, the United States, to the homeland of his parents,
Cambodia.

The former gang member is Tuy Sobil, 30, who goes by the street name K.K. The
boys are Cambodian street children he has taken under his wing as he teaches
them the art he brought with him, break dancing, as well as his hard lessons in
life.

K.K. is not here because he wants to be. He is one of 189 Cambodians who have
been banished from the United States in the past six years under a law that
mandates deportations for noncitizens who commit felonies. Hundreds more are on
a waiting list for deportation.  Like most of the others, K.K. is a noncitizen
only by a technicality. He was not an illegal immigrant. He was a refugee from
Cambodia's Khmer Rouge ''killing fields'' who found a haven in the United States
in 1980.

He was an infant when he arrived. In fact, he was born in a refugee camp in
Thailand and had never seen Cambodia before he was deported. But K.K.'s parents
were simple farmers who failed to complete the citizenship process when they
arrived.

Like some children of poor immigrants, K.K. drifted to the streets, where he
became a member of the Crips gang and a champion break dancer. It was only after
he was convicted of armed robbery at 18 that he discovered that he was not a
citizen.

Like many deportees, he arrived in Cambodia without possessions and without
family contacts. He was a drug counselor at first and then founded his break
dancing club, Tiny Toones Cambodia, where he now earns a living teaching about
150 youngsters and reaching out to hundreds more.

With the financial support of international aid groups like Bridges Across
Borders, based in Graham, Fla., he has expanded his center into a small school
that teaches English and Khmer and computers in addition to back flips, head
stands and krumping, or crazy dancing.

Some other deportees have found work that uses their fluency in English,
particularly in hotels. Some have reunited with families. But many have slipped
into unemployment, depression and sometimes drug use.

''Some were doing well initially but now over time have become unemployed or
never did get employment, and just got discouraged,'' said Dimple Rana, who
works with Deported Diaspora, which is based in Revere, Mass., and helps
deportees adjust.

''I know of a whole bunch of returnees whose mothers were sending money from
their Social Security,'' she said. ''Now, with the economy in the United States,
it is very hard and families are not able to send even $100 or $150.''

K.K. stands out as a success, both in finding a calling and in embracing his
fate. He has a fair command of the language, unlike some deportees who arrived
with no knowledge of Khmer.

''I think it was meant for me to be here, even though I lost my family,'' he
said. ''And my kid is there, Kayshawn. He is 8.''

K.K. is in touch with his relatives in Long Beach but has not seen them since he
was deported.

''Right now, you know, these kids are my family,'' he said. ''I don't have a kid
here, but I adopted one, a street kid. His mom and dad are on drugs.''

The boys and girls leaping and spinning here are the children of Cambodia's
underclass, like thousands who fill the slums of Phnom Penh -- children who
spend their evenings, as K.K. put it, ''begging and digging through garbage to
find food.''

K.K., whose youth was not so different from theirs, said he teaches them to find
pride in who they are. A wall of his center is marked with students' graffiti:
''I want to be a rapper,'' ''I want to be a D.J.,'' ''I want to be a doctor.''

''I try to tell them not to judge people by the way they look,'' he said. ''I
still have a struggle here in Cambodia. People judge me. People see me with
tattoos and think I'm a bad guy.

''Sometimes it's, 'Come on, we're going to kill some Americans,' '' he said,
describing threats from street toughs. ''I'm not American. I'm Khmer, man.''

His journey between identities reached a point of strangeness when he was
invited last December to perform with some of his students at a Christmas party
at the United States Embassy.

''The American ambassador gave me a handshake and a hug, and asked me one day
when his kid is a little older he wanted to put him in my school,'' K.K. said.

The ambassador at the time, Joseph A. Mussomeli, recalled the performance as
''great fun,'' but he said the piquancy of the moment had not been lost on him.

''You are right that there is a certain wonderful irony to him being 'rejected'
or at least 'ejected' from the U.S. and still landing on his feet -- or
shoulders and head -- dancing,'' Mr. Mussomeli said in an e-mail message.

''While watching him I was reminded of that great patriotic speech by Bill
Murray in 'Stripes,' '' he added, ''where he talks about Americans as being
rejects from all the good, decent countries of the world! K.K. is/was an
American in everything except in law -- and he has shown this by his creativity,
tenacity, and undying optimism.''

Now another irony is in store for K.K. His club has been invited to send dancers
to perform in the United States --  Cambodian boys who speak no English and have
never left their country.

The real American among them, K.K., deported and excluded from the United States
for the rest of his life, must stay behind.

''I can't go,'' he said over the thump of the boom box, as his boys jumped and
bounced around him like tiny springs. ''I can understand that they deported me
here. I'd like to go visit -- only visit, because I live here now. I have a
brand new life.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tach Piseth, 11, practiced spinning on his head at the Tiny
Toones break dancing club in Phnom Penh, Cambodia. The club teaches about 150
youngsters.
 Tuy Sobil, or K.K., right, a former gang member from Long Beach, Calif.,
founded the club after being deported in 2004. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STUART ISETT FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 2, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

INSIDE THE TIMES: December 2, 2008

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2190 words


Foreign

A GROWING TEMPEST IN BRITAIN AFTER PARLIAMENT MEMBER'S ARREST

Damian Green -- a 52-year-old member of Britain's Parliament and the
Conservative Party's chief immigration spokesman -- has been front-page news
since Scotland Yard's counterterrorism squad arrested him last Thursday, held
him for nine hours and raided his home and offices. His offense seems to have
centered on his relationship with a civil servant in the Home Office, Britain's
interior ministry, who is said to have passed on documents from the office of
the Home Secretary pertaining to immigration. PAGE A8

A RAMPAGE IN NIGERIA

At least 400 people were killed on Friday in Jos, Nigeria after angry Christian
and Muslim mobs protested what they said were rigged local elections. In the
short-lived but brutal rampage, groups of young men killed residents and burned
homes, churches, mosques and schools. The house of a Muslim mother of nine was
burned. Across the street, were the burned remains of a church and Christian
clinic. As an uneasy calm returned on Monday, bodies were still being
discovered. PAGE A12

BLOCKADES HURTING THAI ECONOMY

Antigovernment protests that intensified last week with the takeover of
Bangkok's two airports have not only plunged Thailand into its worst national
crisis in at least a decade, but might severely damage the country's economy as
well. The blockades have stalled some crucial industries, especially tourism, at
a time when the Thai economy was already showing signs of a slowdown because of
the global financial crisis. PAGE A9

FILLING PAULSON'S SHOES

Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. will travel to China on Wednesday to
attend his fifth and last round of semiannual economic talks. After that, he
will lay down the reins of American financial policies toward Beijing when he
leaves office next month. That raises some questions: Who will pick up those
reins in the Obama administration, and will the Treasury Department continue to
be the lead agency in managing relations with China? PAGE A15

BOMBINGS KILL AT LEAST 32 IN IRAQ

Suicide bombings in Baghdad and Mosul created carnage that recalled the levels
of violence before the American troop buildup last year. At least 15 people were
killed in two explosions at a police training academy in Baghdad. In Mosul, a
suicide car bomber killed at least 17 people, mainly civilians, in an attack
against a joint American-Iraqi convoy. The wave of violence follows the Iraqi
Parliament's approval last week of a security agreement with the United States.
PAGE A10

Italian Premier Sues His Critics A16

National

HOUSE DEMOCRATS PUSH FOR AID

To Help Struggling States

Democrats in the House want to pass an economic recovery bill costing $400
billion to $500 billion next month as governors asked Congress for money to
build roads and bridges, provide health care to low-income people and develop
alternative sources of energy. Speaker Nancy Pelosi said she hoped Congress
could deliver a bill to President-elect Barack Obama when he takes office.
Senate aides said that Democrats would need to negotiate with Republicans to
ensure swift approval of such a large package. PAGE A19

DELAYS RAISE CANCER RISK

A new study by the Weill Cornell Medical College found that one in five breast
cancer patients ages 65 and older postponed radiation therapy or did not
complete the full radiation regimen after breast-conserving surgery, and the
lapses in care took a significant toll on their health. ''Patients need to
understand the importance of going to all their treatments and going through
them in a timely manner,'' the study's lead author said. ''The treatment is
typically every day, Monday to Friday, for several weeks, and that's a huge
burden, especially in this older population.''  PAGE A24

MAYOR OF BIRMINGHAM ARRESTED

Larry P. Langford, the mayor of Birmingham, Ala., was arrested by federal agents
and charged in a 101-count indictment with taking more than $230,000 in cash,
clothing and jewelry in exchange for giving county financial business to a
favored firm when he led the Jefferson County Commission.  PAGE A18

CELEBRATING AN ISLAND'S HERITAGE

The National Indigenous Festival of Jayuya, P.R., celebrates the culture of the
Taino tribe, the native group that lived on the island before being wiped out by
European conquest and assimilation. The tribe has come to occupy a special place
in the island's cultural hierarchy: a geneticist in Puerto Rico found that at
least 61 percent of Puerto Ricans possess remnants of Taino DNA -- and nearly
everyone seems to believe they belong in that group. Above, Carelis Padilla, 8,
talks with Melvin Guzman, 14, who holds a replica of a Taino drum at a cultural
center in Jayuya. PAGE A18

Obituaries

BILL DRAKE, 71

His syndicated radio format delivered more music, fewer commercials and
high-energy ''Boss Jocks'' -- D.J.'s big on personality but economical with
words -- that changed radio. Those changes helped revamp -- and homogenize --
radio stations across the United States.  PAGE A27

New York

TAKING THEIR FAMOUS RECIPE ACROSS (OR UNDER) THE RIVER

After the landlord raised their rent significantly, the proprietors of Ray's
Real Pizza, which had long been a popular spot among celebrities and sports
figures, decided to ply their trade elsewhere. They reopened their restaurant in
the decidedly less busy hamlet of Hazlet, N.J. Sure, there are no worries about
alarms and gates. But also no New York tap water -- an important ingredient in
their dough. ''You can taste the difference,'' one of them said.  PAGE A26

EVERYONE'S A POLITICAL CONSULTANT

Now that Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton has been introduced as President-elect
Barack Obama's choice for secretary of state, Gov. David A. Paterson has to
decide who will fill her Senate seat. Readers have offered their own
suggestions: Bill Clinton, Andrew M. Cuomo, even Eliot Spitzer. Clyde Haberman,
NYC.  PAGE A26

Business

LINING UP FOR A SLIVER

Of the Other $25 Billion Package

Many companies are angling for $25 billion in government money, but it's not for
the much-debated bailout of the Big Three automakers. It's a program run by the
Department of Energy that is supposed to speed up the development of
fuel-efficient cars. And a host of companies -- Silicon Valley start-ups,
old-line Detroit auto suppliers and even the Big Three themselves -- are trying
to make their cases for a piece of the pie.  PAGE B6

CONSUMERS PRY OPEN WALLETS

The nation's retailers got a much-needed boost as shoppers, who had been
reluctant to part with their money for months, eagerly opened their wallets to
take advantage of stunning discounts over Thanksgiving weekend. But analysts
warned that a day or so of power shopping was not enough to rescue beleaguered
chains.  PAGE B6

FACEBOOK EXTENDS ITS REACH

Facebook is introducing Facebook Connect, which will allow its members to log
onto other Web sites using their Facebook identification and see their friends'
activities on those sites. It's part of a shift in thinking in Silicon Valley:
instead of trying to hoard information about their users -- a practice fraught
with concerns over privacy -- several Internet giants have all announced plans
to share at least some of that data so people don't have to enter the same
identifying information again and again on different sites. PAGE B3

Constructing Spending Declines B3

science

UNDER THE HEALTH HALO, THE CALORIES JUST DISAPPEAR

It seems like a paradox: Americans have paid more and more attention to eating
healthfully, but keep getting fatter and fatter. One researcher blames the
''health halo.'' Americans have been seduced into overeating by the so-called
health halo associated with certain foods and restaurants. So, John Tierney
asks, might New York's pioneering ban on trans fats have done more harm than
good?   PAGE D1

THE ALL-ORGANIC CHALLENGE

Fruits, vegetables and animals can be 100 percent organic. What about people?
Dr. Alan Greene, a pediatrician and author from California, decided to find out
by eating nothing but organic foods for three years. And although questions
remain about whether organic foods are really better for you, he says he has
more energy, wakes up earlier and is rarely ill despite constant exposure to
sick children.  PAGE D5

IN SOMEONE ELSE'S SHOES, MENTALLY

Psychotherapists often work to pull people out of themselves or transport them,
mentally, into the mind of another. For example, in marriage counseling, couples
may role-play to understand a spouse's point of view. Now though, scientists
claim they can do the same thing physically. With a ''body-swapping'' illusion,
put simply, tricking the brain, people can adopt another human's form, no matter
how different, as their own.   PAGE D5

Doctor, Where Are Your Manners?  D6

Carbon Detectives Are on the Case   D3

Sports

PLAYING FOR THE LOVE OF A SPORT,

Away From the Varsity Lights

You can't get a college scholarship for it, but if you are a student seeking to
test her mettle against students from other colleges in, say, bass fishing or
Brazilian martial arts, intercollegiate club sports could be for you. Club
sports, which feature highly skilled, student-organized teams that often belong
to regional conferences and play for national collegiate championships, fall
outside the purview of the N.C.A.A. and university athletic departments. And
their popularity is spreading.  PAGE B11

A DAY AT CITI/TAXPAYER FIELD

The Mets' new ballpark is still named Citi Field, even as the banking goliath
Citigroup receives billions in taxpayer dollars to help right its financial
ship. The bailout's upshot? Taxpayers are, in a loose sense, shareholders in the
Mets. The downside? Because Citigroup is still under contract to subsidize the
Mets' bullpen, which had dozens of late-inning defeats in the last two years,
the taxpayer is, too. George Vecsey, Sports of the Times.  PAGE B12

Arts

HOW DO YOU GET TO CARNEGIE HALL?

Practice. Oh, and YouTube.

In an effort to bolster the organized presence of classical music on YouTube,
Google is launching a project called the YouTube Symphony Orchestra. One part
asks musicians to upload video of themselves performing various parts of a
four-minute orchestral piece; winning performances    will be made into a
mash-up   for a final YouTube version of the piece. The other part of the
project will have a short list of musicians performing ''American Idol''-style,
with YouTube users choosing the winners -- who will be flown to Carnegie Hall to
perform in an April concert.  PAGE C1

ROCKING A PALTRY CROWD

When the rapper Jean Grae took the stage at the Highline Ballroom show, there
were only a few dozen audience members to greet her. ''You better make your
friends sorry that they weren't here!'' she implored the small crowd. There
weren't many people there, but by the show's end they all had their hands in the
air. A review by Nate Chinen.  PAGE B8

ON THE COUCH WITH CAPTAIN KIRK

William Shatner's new talk show, ''Shat-ner's Raw Nerve,'' gives the famously
weird ''Star Trek'' actor a chance to pose probing questions to famous people.
(He asks Valerie Bertinelli what she thinks of sin.) Is his peculiar brand of
intensity just a shtick, or is he really nuts? Ginia Bellafante writes that
whatever viewers may conclude, the biggest problem with the show is that it
allows people other than Mr. Shatner to speak.  PAGE C1

Circuits

BIGGER THAN A BLACKBERRY,

But Not Quite a Laptop

There's a new category of lightweight electronic devices that fit into the
technological vacuum between pocket-sized gadgets like the iPhone and BlackBerry
and full-size laptops or notebooks with larger screens: Netbooks. But because
they're limited in function -- Netbooks are mainly for Web browsing and e-mail
at this early stage -- they can be an awkward sell. Not that companies like
Hewlett Packard and Dell aren't trying.  PAGE F1

Editorial

MR. OBAMA'S TEAM

After years of American leadership crumbling under the weight of bad decisions
made in a White House shuttered to all debate, President-elect Barack Obama's
national security team is a relief. PAGE A32

HAWAII'S MOON SHOT

Hawaii has no oil, natural gas, hydroelectric dams or nuclear plants. What it
does have is a stunning abundance of clean-energy sources: sunshine, wind,
powerful tides and waves. A new campaign hopes to wean Hawaii from its
dependence on fossil fuels in 10 years.  PAGE A32

THE GUN LOBBY'S LOSS

After this year's election, the politicians who have been intimidated by the gun
lobby's war chest and trumpeted ability to deliver single-issue voters should be
far less afraid and far more willing to vote for sensible gun control laws. PAGE
A32

Op-Ed

DAVID BROOKS

The real foreign-policy doctrine of the future will be hammered out in a
bottom-up process as the United States and its allies use their varied tools to
build government capacity in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Lebanon, the Philippines and
beyond.  PAGE A33

BOB HERBERT

There is big-time talent on the Obama team. The question is whether it is
prepared to bring about big-time change.  PAGE A33

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 3, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wages of Fear

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 387 words


Fear, abuse, exploitation and crime are real-life concerns for the immigrant
poor and working class, even in comfortable suburbs like Long Island's.

The death last month of Marcelo Lucero, an Ecuadorean killed in Patchogue by
what the police say was a hate-inspired teenage mob, was one terrible example,
but not the only one. The day before Mr. Lucero died, the New York State Labor
Department ordered a cleaning company in Amityville, which is in the same
county, to pay hundreds of thousands of dollars in back wages that the agency
said the company had stolen from 170 workers.

State investigators found that the company, Icon Cleaning, had whittled workers'
paychecks to the bone through illegal deductions. The workers, nearly half of
them immigrants, worked 12-hour days and 60-hour weeks to clean air ducts and
carpets. Some took home less than $100 a week for that work. They had been
forced to pay $500 security deposits on being hired, and then had their wages
docked to pay for things like equipment, uniforms, promotional campaigns and
revenue lost when customers' checks bounced.

It's shocking that a company could expect to get away with such blatant and
absurd mistreatment of its work force. It was all because of fear. State labor
officials said that in this case, as in practically every case involving
immigrant workers, victims had been cowed into silence by fear of retaliation
and firing. Silent workers afraid to defend their rights are workers who are
abused.

The Amityville debacle gives a hint of the monumental task ahead in Suffolk,
where the police and county officials have begun a grab bag of steps toward
making the immigrant population less afraid. The police have assigned one
Spanish-speaking officer to foot patrol in Patchogue and plan other initiatives,
like passing out Spanish-language fliers in Hispanic neighborhoods that urge
victims to report crimes and giving cards with useful Spanish phrases to
officers.

Officials said these efforts would rely largely on volunteers and private
donations. They aren't bad ideas, but if they trickle into effect without enough
money and sustained effort to make them work, the scale of the problem could
easily overwhelm their good intentions. Suffolk County's positive reactions in
the wake of the Lucero killing are only the beginning.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 4, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Egypt Regains Old Treasures

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY; Compiled by DAVE ITZKOFF

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 127 words


Federal immigration officials returned more than 80 ancient artifacts to the
Egyptian government on Wednesday, pieces that had been stolen from a museum near
Cairo in 2002 by a United States Army helicopter pilot and later sold to an
antiquities dealer. The antiquities, right, seized by Immigration and Customs
Enforcement after an investigation in 2006, were among 370, dating to 3000 B.C.
or earlier, that were discovered missing from a museum in Maadi, a suburb of
Cairo. At a ceremony in Manhattan, Peter J. Smith, special agent in charge of
the immigration department's Office of Investigations, returned the artifacts to
Egypt's consul general in New York, Hussein Mubarak, and Attiya Radwan, who
oversees the Central Department for Upper Egypt Monuments.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATIE ORLINKSY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 8, 2008 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

State of Fear

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 503 words


If Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona is confirmed as homeland security secretary,
she will leave behind a state in full Republican control, with immigration
zealots embedded in both houses of the Legislature, and not enough moderates to
go around.

That is the down side of President-elect Barack Obama's decision to bring Ms.
Napolitano to Washington. For years, she has been the most powerful voice of
reason in a state that continues to hatch some of the dumbest, cruelest ideas
anywhere for getting tough on immigrants. This is the border state that brought
us the Minutemen, where duly elected Yosemite Sams keep thinking up new ways to
brand illegal immigrants as a class of undesirables and criminals.

Their goal is to make immigrants' lives so miserable that they have no choice
but to abandon their lives, jobs and families and move away.

One of Governor Napolitano's major achievements for two terms has been simply to
veto bill after bill on the xenophobes' long wish list. Those many noxious
measures would have required the police to become federal immigration enforcers,
denied day laborers' speech rights, rejected the 14th Amendment guarantee of
citizenship to children born in the United States, created a state militia,
allowed the police to arrest the undocumented for trespassing and made English
the official language.

Ms. Napolitano's successor as governor would be the secretary of state, Jan
Brewer, a Republican who is expected to be far more willing to sign whatever
tough immigration measures get to her desk. That puts the burden of
levelheadedness on the new speaker of the House, Kirk Adams, a conservative
Republican who, to his credit, has a reputation for understanding that
immigration extremism can be bad for business.

None of the changes in Arizona's capital will have much effect on one of the
state's worst actors, Joe Arpaio, the aggressive sheriff of Maricopa County who
has taken the pursuit of the undocumented to unconstitutional extremes.

Ms. Napolitano has been criticized for not taking a tougher stance against
Sheriff Arpaio, although she did cut off some of his state financing. There
isn't much anyone in Arizona can do to stop the sheriff, since he is an elected
official who has just won a fifth term.

Here lies the brightest side of Ms. Napolitano's promotion to the top federal
immigration job. She can do what she has been imploring Washington to do for
years: reassert federal control over immigration enforcement duties that have
been randomly and haphazardly delegated to state and local governments; put
enough meaningful enforcement resources at the border and in the workplace; and
promote sensible reforms that allow immigrants to enter legally and to work
safely in jobs where their rights and dignity are protected.

We suggest she start by reining in the 287(g) program, which deputizes local
police as federal immigration posses and is so frighteningly prone to abuse.
That is probably the best hope of stopping Arizona's own Sheriff Arpaio.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 10, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tactics Used In U.S. Raids Draw Claims Of Brutality

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE and YOLANNE ALMANZAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 419 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Advocates for immigrants here demanded an investigation Tuesday into a series of
federal raids last month that they said left at least six Guatemalan men
bloodied and bruised in a roundup of nearly 100 people.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement denied all accusations of misconduct by
agents in the raids on Nov. 19 in three South Florida counties, noting that the
operation focused on sex trafficking and led to charges against seven people and
the release of several women.

But lawyers working with other detainees said they were concerned that the
agency was using human trafficking laws as a front for broader operations, and a
cover for harsh tactics.

''There is a way that these operations should be conducted,'' said Jose
Rodriguez, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union of Miami-Dade
County. ''And this is not it.''

At a news conference, Mr. Rodriguez and others said agents had relied on vaguely
worded warrants to invade people's homes and arrest nearly anyone who looked
Hispanic. In all, according to the federal agency, 77 illegal immigrants were
detained in the operation, and only a handful appear to have been charged with a
crime.

In the case involving the accusations of beatings, none of the men have been
charged with sex trafficking. Lawyers working with the men said the agents used
excessive force:  bursting into their home in Homestead about 8:30 p.m., pulling
their guns in front of a 4-year-old girl, then forcing all 10 or 11 men inside
onto the floor in handcuffs.

No guns or drugs were found. All the men were Guatemalan immigrants, and the
advocates said at least six of them arrived at a nearby detention center with
bruises and cuts.

The wife of one detainee, the mother of the 4-year-old girl, said she saw agents
kick her husband and others while they were on the floor. She declined to give
her name because she feared retribution.

Agency officials, in a statement denying the accusations of abuse and the
display of a weapon near a child, said they were required to arrest anyone found
to be violating immigration law, regardless of the circumstances.

The statement also said the accusations would be forwarded to the agency's
Office of Professional Responsibility for review.

But the advocates said that was not enough. Witnesses have already been
deported, they said, and without a robust investigation by the agency's
inspector general or the United States attorney's office in Miami, agents who
might have violated the law might never be punished.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 12, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

An American's Lament: 'I Was Deported, Too'

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; TIJUANA JOURNAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 918 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA


The two men could barely communicate. One was a Mexican laborer, the other an
American wanderer, neither with any pesos in his pockets. But they bonded,
having just gone through similar ordeals.

''The migra got me,'' lamented the downcast Mexican, using slang for the United
States Border Patrol.

''I know what you mean,'' said the American, sitting on a bench near Tijuana's
seedy Avenida Revolucion, strumming his guitar in the hopes someone might toss
him some change. ''I was deported, too.''

The United States government formally deported or otherwise returned more than a
million foreigners -- most of them Mexicans -- according to immigration data.
That figure has risen steadily over the years. But much to the surprise of many
Americans, there is a trickle of deportees that flows north from Mexico to the
United States as well.

Between January and September, the National Migration Institute, Mexico's
immigration service, deported 350 Americans, some of them lawbreakers who had
finished prison sentences in the country, but others merely travelers who were
found to be without proper paperwork.

One of them was the scruffy wanderer in his early 40s who goes by the name
Crash, eschews regular employment and racks up stories of his adventures.

''I didn't know you could be deported from Mexico,'' he said, requesting that
his full name not be used to avoid running further afoul of the law. ''I didn't
know it was possible. Now I know.''

He said he had been riding in the back of a pickup truck from Huatulco, a
popular vacation spot in the southern state of Oaxaca, to the resort city of
Acapulco several weeks ago when the vehicle approached a checkpoint. The
authorities asked Crash for his passport. He did not have one.

He said he was taken away and later found himself in a police lineup. He said he
had been told that a woman had been robbed in Acapulco by a blond man with a
goatee. Looking at the other men in the lineup, Crash said they could have been
his brothers, all of them blond and with goatees.

He was not chosen as the robber but said he was sent to jail nonetheless, which
was not an altogether unpleasant experience for Crash. ''The cell was better
than some of the 300-peso hotel rooms I've stayed in,'' he said. ''The only
thing was that it had bars.''

He said he spent about a week there while the American Consulate prepared travel
documents for him. When informed that he was going to be deported to the United
States, he said he initially could not believe it. ''I thought to myself,
'You've got to be kidding. This is a joke. You're deporting me from Mexico?'
''Crash said. ''I told one of the guys, 'This gives you great satisfaction,
doesn't it?' He said, 'You've been doing it to our people for years.' ''

As it turns out, Americans make up a tiny portion of Mexico's deportees, who are
usually Central Americans crossing Mexico's southern border with Belize and
Guatemala. The 350 Americans sent home in the first nine months of this year
represented just over 1 percent of the 28,778 deportations carried out by
Mexican authorities. In contrast, Mexicans represent nearly two-thirds of
America's deportees.

But the experience is remarkably similar, say some of those who have undergone
it.

Crash was put on a plane from Acapulco to Tijuana and then carried to the actual
border in a government van. Led to a crossing, he was told that if he returned
within the next year he could face hard time.

Not one to be told what to do, Crash stayed in the United States about 15
minutes, he said. He then walked back across into Tijuana and, as is the case
with most Americans, no official asked him for identification to get in.

His adventures did not slow up. As he roamed the streets of Tijuana, he said a
man approached and offered him a more lucrative job.

Now, Crash, a California native who has worked in the past as a cook, nanny,
farm worker and ship builder, among other jobs, is no materialist.

''As long as I have a pack of cigarettes in my pocket, tacos in my stomach and a
beer in my hand, I have no needs in the world,'' he said.

But at that particular moment, he said he had nothing and readily accepted the
nebulous money-making offer. The stranger took him to a house near the border
and supplied Crash with all the beer and marijuana he desired. The only catch
was that he also locked Crash up in the house for several days.

Then, another man came along and told Crash that he would be driving a truck
across the border to the United States. Led to the vehicle, he said he saw
several Mexicans hiding under a blanket in the back. They were obvious, Crash
said, but he still hopped in the vehicle and headed to a border crossing.

American authorities easily spotted the illegal immigrants. He said they took
him into a station along the border, put his personal information into a
computer and then released him with the promise that any more smuggling would
lead to jail time.

Again, Crash crossed the border back to Mexico, where he considers life cheaper
and more carefree. He is now on crutches, having fallen and injured his ankle.
He is staying with a stranger he met through couchsurfing.com, a site that
promotes cheap traveling.

One of the songs he sings these days to earn some change is ''Plane Wreck at Los
Gatos (Deportee),'' in which Woody Guthrie laments the plight of a group of
Mexican farm workers who died in a plane crash while being deported in 1948.

''Now I can sing it with a lot more emotion,'' Crash said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Crash, an American wanderer, was recently deported from Mexico.
After 15 minutes in the United States, he walked back to Tijuana, where he
spends his days playing guitar for a few pesos.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EROS HOAGLAND FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 19, 2008 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Rights Group Accuses U.S. of Failing to Protect Latinos

BYLINE: By ANNE BARNARD

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 333 words


A civil rights legal advocacy group, LatinoJustice PRLDEF,  filed an unusual
international petition Thursday accusing the United States of failing to
adequately protect Latinos living within its borders, regardless of citizenship.

The claim was filed with the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, an organ
of the Organization of American States, of which the United States is a founding
member. It charges that the United States is failing to live up to the group's
declaration on human rights, the American Declaration of the Rights and Duties
of Man.

It cites violence against Latinos, including the murders over the past five
months of three immigrants: Jose Sucuzhanay in Brooklyn last week, Marcelo
Lucero in the Long Island town of Patchogue on Nov. 8, and Luis Ramirez in
Shenandoah, Pa., on July 14. In all three cases, prosecutors say the assailants
used anti-Latino slurs. Hate-crime attacks on Latinos rose 40 percent between
2003 and 2007, the petition says, citing the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

The complaint also cites the rising use of agreements that allow local
communities to deputize their police forces to carry out immigration law. They
were created after Sept. 11, 2001, to increase cooperation between local police
departments and federal immigration authorities.

The group argues that deputization leads the police to treat all Latinos as
suspects of immigration violations, engenders mistrust of the police among
Latinos, divides communities and promotes a belief that Latinos can be attacked
with impunity. The complaint notes that such an ordinance was adopted in
Shenandoah and was under consideration in Suffolk County, where Patchogue is
situated.

The United States has not recognized the commission's decisions as binding, but
has sometimes responded to them in the diplomatic arena, lawyers at
LatinoJustice say. In order for the petition to go forward, the commission must
determine that the plaintiffs have exhausted all domestic legal remedies.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 26, 2008 Friday
                                National Edition

Getting Immigration Right

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 637 words


It's way too early to tell whether the United States under President-elect
Barack Obama will restore realism, sanity and lawfulness to its immigration
system. But it's never too early to hope, and the stars seem to be lining up, at
least among his cabinet nominees.

If Mr. Obama's team is confirmed, the country will have a homeland security
secretary, Janet Napolitano of Arizona, and a commerce secretary, Bill
Richardson of New Mexico, who understand the border region and share a
well-informed disdain for foolish, inadequate enforcement schemes like the Bush
administration's border fence. And it will have a labor secretary, Hilda Solis
of California, who, as a state senator and congresswoman, has built a reputation
as a staunch defender of immigrants and workers.

The confluence of immigrants and labor is exactly what this country --
particularly, and disastrously, the Bush administration -- has not been able to
figure out.

In simplest terms, what Ms. Solis and Mr. Obama seem to know in their gut is
this: If you uphold workers' rights, even for those here illegally, you uphold
them for all working Americans. If you ignore and undercut the rights of illegal
immigrants, you encourage the exploitation that erodes working conditions and
job security everywhere. In a time of economic darkness, the stability and
dignity of the work force are especially vital.

This is why it is so important to reverse the Bush administration's immigration
tactics, which for years have attacked the problem upside down and backward. To
appease Republican nativists, it lavished scarce resources solely on hunting
down and punishing illegal immigrants. Its campaign of raids, detentions and
border fencing was a moral failure. Among other things, it terrorized and broke
apart families and led to some gruesome deaths in shoddy prisons. It mocked the
American tradition of welcoming and assimilating immigrant workers.

But it also was a strategic failure because it did little or nothing to stem the
illegal tide while creating the very  conditions under which the off-the-books
economy can thrive. Illegal immigrant workers are deterred from forming unions.
And without a path to legalization and under the threat of a relentless
enforcement-only regime, they cannot assert their rights.

It's a system that the grubbiest and shabbiest industries and business owners --
think of the hellish slaughterhouse in Postville, Iowa, running with immigrant
child labor -- could not have designed better. Through it all, the Bush
administration's response to criticism has been ever more enforcement.

Ms. Solis, whose father immigrated from Mexico and was a Teamsters shop steward
and whose mother, from Nicaragua, worked on an assembly line, promises a clean
break from that past. She lives in El Monte, a Los Angeles suburb  where two
compelling stories of immigrants and labor have emerged in recent years.

The first was tragic: a notorious 1995 raid at a sweatshop where Thai workers
were kept in slave conditions behind barbed wire. The second is less well-known
but far more encouraging: a present-day hiring site for day laborers at the edge
of a Home Depot parking lot. The Latino men who gather in that safe, well-run
space uphold an informal minimum wage and protect one another from abusive
contractors and wage thieves. It's good for the store, its customers and the
workers.

Ms. Solis is a defender of such sites and has opposed efforts in other cities to
enact ordinances to disperse day laborers and force them underground. She
understands that if day laborers end up in our suburbs, it is better to give
them safe places to gather rather than allow an uncontrolled job bazaar to drive
wages and working conditions down.

That's a bit of local wisdom that deserves to take root in the federal
government.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 27, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

ON NYTIMES.COM

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 357 words


Find worldly comfort on a coffee plantation and spiritual calm in an ancient
temple on this Indonesian island. At top left, tourists watching the sunrise
from the eighth-century temple of Borobudur outside Yogyakarta. The temple is
hailed by Indonesians as the eighth wonder of the world. At bottom left, a
couple watching Mount Merapi from a nearby village. The mountain, technically an
active volcano, has been quiet for years.

nytimes.com/travel

SLIDESHOW: SAN FRANCISCO'S HIP COCKTAILS

In the Bay Area, a growing scene of local distillers and bartenders capable of
wielding their elixirs to maximum effect has emerged. With wry flair, they
combine technical perfection with subtle, undeniable showmanship and an
eagerness to experiment with Northern California's agricultural bounty.

nytimes.com/travel

VIDEO: JAILING THEIR OWN IN AN IMMIGRANT TOWN

Locking up unauthorized immigrants for deportation is a growth industry. The
jail in Central Falls, R.I., cashed in, but in a town full of immigrants, the
result is a community living in fear.

nytimes.com/nnational

AUDIO: WEEKEND BUSINESS: YEAR IN REVIEW

Jeff Sommer, Gretchen Morgenson, Vikas Bajaj and David Leonhardt discuss the
extraordinary issues faced by the economy and the markets in 2008, and the
prospects for 2009.

nytimes.com/business

Laugh Lines '08 Comedy in Revue

It was a funny year: a governor gone rogue, a reverend gone wild and everyone's
favorite Prada-wearing hockey mom.

nytimes.com/laughlines

Paper Cuts The View From Revolutionary Hill

Five years before Richard Yates's ''Revolutionary Road,'' a first-time author
named John Keats wrote a best-selling book called ''The Crack in the Picture
Window,'' a journalistic screed against postwar Levittown-style development.

nytimes.com/papercuts

Wheels Tough Times For the Tata Nano

The Tata Nano, with a projected price of about $2,500, was hailed as the world's
cheapest car when it was introduced in January, but nearly a year later there is
still no factory to build it.

nytimes.com/wheels

Motherlode Parenting Lessons From Marley

As in ''Marley and Me,'' getting a dog can be good preparation for having
children.

nytimes.com/motherlode

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Journey Through Java: Find worldly comfort on a coffee
plantation and spiritual calm in an ancient temple on this Indonesian island. At
top left, tourists watching the sunrise from the eighth-century temple of
Borobudur outside Yogyakarta. The temple is hailed by Indonesians as the eighth
wonder of the world. At bottom left, a couple watching MountMerapi from a nearby
village. The mountain, technically an active volcano, has been quiet for years.
nytimes.com/travel (PHOTOGRAPH BY LYNSEY ADDARIO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 27, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dependent on Jail, City of Immigrants Fills Cells With Its Own

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4751 words

DATELINE: CENTRAL FALLS, R.I.


Few in this threadbare little mill town gave much thought to the Donald W. Wyatt
Detention Facility, the maximum-security jail beside the public ball fields at
the edge of town. Even when it expanded and added barbed wire, Wyatt was just
the backdrop for Little League games, its name stitched on the caps of the team
it sponsored.

Then people began to disappear: the leader of a prayer group at St. Matthew's
Roman Catholic Church; the father of a second grader at the public charter
school; a woman who mopped floors in a Providence courthouse.

After days of searching, their families found them locked up inside Wyatt --
only blocks from home, but in a separate world.

In this mostly Latino city, hardly anyone had realized that in addition to
detaining the accused drug dealers and mobsters everyone heard about, the jail
held hundreds of people charged with no crime -- people caught in the nation's
crackdown on illegal immigration. Fewer still knew that Wyatt was a portal into
an expanding network of other jails, bigger and more remote, all propelling
detainees toward deportation with little chance to protest.

If anything, the people of Central Falls saw Wyatt as the economic engine that
city fathers had promised, a steady source of jobs and federal money to pay for
services like police and fire protection. Even that, it turns out, was an
illusion.

Wyatt offers a rare look into the fastest-growing, least-examined type of
incarceration in America, an industry that detains half a million people a year,
up from a few thousand just 15 years ago. The system operates without the rules
that protect criminal suspects, and has grown up with little oversight, often in
the backyards of communities desperate for any source of money and work.

Last spring, The New York Times set out to examine this small city of 19,000 and
its big detention center as a microcosm of the nation's new relationship with
immigration detention, which is now sweeping up not just recent border-jumpers
and convicted felons but foreign-born residents with strong ties to places like
Central Falls. Wyatt, nationally accredited, clean and modern, seemed like one
of the better jails in the system, a patchwork of county lockups, private
prisons and federal detention centers where government investigations and the
news media have recently documented substandard, sometimes lethal, conditions.

But last summer, a detainee died in Wyatt's custody. Immigration authorities
investigating the death removed all immigration detainees this month -- along
with the $101.76 a day the federal government paid the jail for each one. In
Central Falls, where many families have members without papers, a state campaign
against illegal immigrants spread fear that also took a toll: People went into
hiding and businesses lost Latino customers in droves. Slowly, the city awoke to
its role in the detention system, and to the pitfalls of the bargain it had
struck.

In a sinking economy, immigration detention is a rare growth industry. Congress
has doubled annual spending on it in the last four years, to $2.4 billion
approved in October as part of $5.9 billion allotted for immigration enforcement
through next September -- even more than the Bush administration had requested.

Seeking a slice of that bounty, communities like Farmville, Va., and Pahrump,
Nev., are signing up with developers of new detention centers. Jails from New
England to New Mexico have already made the crackdown pay off -- for the private
companies that dominate the industry, for some investors and, at least in
theory, for places like Central Falls, a city so strapped that the state pays
for its schools.

Here, a specially created municipal corporation built the jail in the early
1990s to hold federal inmates, and last year more than doubled its size. As the
City Council president, William Benson Jr., put it, ''The more inmates they
have, the more money we get.''

Yet in a community whose 1.3 square miles are said to be too small for secrets
-- ''If you sneeze on Washington Street, someone on Pine Street says,
'Gesundheit,' '' Mr. Benson said -- city officials, overwhelmingly non-Latino,
seemed  uninformed about who those inmates were. ''Nobody knows exactly who's
down there,'' he said. ''I hear some are Arab terrorists.''

The mystery is in some ways understandable. Though immigration detainees made up
one-third of the daily population and a majority of the 4,200 men and women who
moved through Wyatt's 722 beds in a year, most were from other states, and those
from Rhode Island did not remain long: Immigration and Customs Enforcement
typically transferred them within a week.

Some were legal immigrants who had served time for serious crimes. But
increasingly they were the kind of people who in the past would not have been
arrested -- people without papers, similar to some of the people who play, cheer
and live in Wyatt's shadow. Sometimes the same people.

Anthony Ventetuolo Jr., one of Wyatt's developers and now the jail's chief
executive, said that who the inmates were made no difference to the jail, which
was run like a business, under strict standards. ''I'm not interested in getting
involved in the politics of immigration,'' he said. ''All we do is detain people
that our clients tell us to detain.''

Swallowed by the System

Over 10 years, Maynor Cante, 26, hardly glanced at the jail he passed as he
hurried between home, two jobs and St. Matthew's Church, where he led a prayer
group.

He was 15 when he left Guatemala in 1997, sneaking across the Mexican border to
join seven older siblings, legal residents who had spent years scraping new
lives out of the industrial ruins of Rhode Island's Blackstone Valley. Caught in
Texas, the teenager was quickly let go pending a hearing, like so many arrested
under the ''catch and release'' policy that prevailed while the nation's boom
times demanded cheap immigrant labor. When he failed to show up in court, a
deportation order was issued.

A decade later, Mr. Cante spoke near-fluent English, and had spent thousands of
dollars trying to legalize his status. Mornings, he cleaned a factory for $8 an
hour. Evenings, he worked at his nephew's new clothing shop on Dexter Street,
one of several Latino businesses that had revived a bleak stretch of vacant
storefronts.

Then, early one morning in October 2007 when he headed out the door for his
cleaning job, five immigration agents hustled him into a van. That night, as
frightened relatives tried to find him, he was delivered to Wyatt in chains.

Inside, a plaque declares that the detention center's mission is ''to protect
the public from people who pose a threat to society.'' One corridor, waxed to an
immaculate shine, leads to a darkened control room where correction officers
watch a dozen video monitors fed by 200 cameras. A guard can scan an entire unit
housing 72 detainees in two- to four-man cells; zooming in on a card game, he
can see that one player is holding hearts.

The jail was built for inmates awaiting trial on federal charges -- drug
possession, child pornography, political corruption. But to help pay off $106
million borrowed for its recent expansion and refinancing, Wyatt was now
counting on prisoners like Mr. Cante: administrative detainees not charged with
a crime, but held while the government tries to deport them.

Now he found himself slated for deportation without a hearing -- or even any way
to make a phone call.

''I was scared,'' he said, recalling how he prayed the rosary and stared out the
tiny window of his cell to watch a freight train pass at 6 a.m.

Outside, his sister Emma, 33, was distraught. Since their mother's death in
2006, she had felt more responsible for protecting Mr. Cante, a big-shouldered
man who was still her little brother. ''Three days passed and we didn't know
where he was,'' she said.

On the fourth day, after calls to many jails, a high school friend located Mr.
Cante, and members of his prayer circle flocked to Wyatt. His priest, the Rev.
Otoniel J. Gomez, had never visited the jail in the eight years since he was
sent to Central Falls from Colombia. He spoke to his weeping parishioner through
a thick plexiglass barrier.

''I thought, 'This is like a horror movie, talking with a criminal,' '' he said.

Yet the priest soon realized that Mr. Cante was lucky. ''Most of these people
didn't have any relatives or friends near them,'' Father Gomez said, ''not even
a lawyer.''

The official list of free legal help was largely a dead end. Wyatt's expensive
inmate telephone service was often useless, because it took days to set up an
account, and it could not be used to call cellphones. Desperate, other detainees
passed Mr. Cante phone numbers on scraps of paper, begging him to ask his
visitors to call and tell where they were.

Out of Sight, Out of Reach

Plucked from communities from Maine to New York, some had already been
transferred through several jails; many would soon be moved again, as the
federal immigration agency improvised to make space for detainees from new
roundups.

''It's like having a room with five bathtubs and water coming in and out of each
one to maintain an equilibrium,'' explained Todd Thurlow, acting deputy director
of the Boston field office of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which
contracts for about 1,000 beds in dozens of jails across New England.

Wyatt had a reputation as one of the most professionally run. But for newcomers
without help, it could be rough.

One complaint, echoed by former jail employees, was that detainees in pain from
illness or injury often went without adequate treatment. Other detainees spoke
of going hungry, like Edgar Bocce, 25, a Guatemalan cleaner who said two
muscular inmates took away his first dinner tray -- rice, beans and spaghetti --
while guards did nothing. Spartan meals could be supplemented with food from the
jail's commissary, but only if relatives sent money, or detainees stayed long
enough to earn some; on the cleaning crew that kept the jail so spotless,
starting pay was 40 cents a day.

Though officials said detainees were housed according to their history of
violence, only one unit was dedicated to immigration detainees, and the rest
were mixed in with criminal suspects and convicts.

Perhaps the greatest frustration, inmates said, was their inability to make
sense of what was happening to them.

''Why am I here in jail?'' asked one, a Central Falls mechanic who had been
seized at immigration headquarters in Providence when he went to check why his
green card application was taking so long. Wyatt guards had no answers. ''They
tell me, 'Sorry, guys, but we're not Immigration.' ''

Mr. Cante's sisters borrowed money and hired him a lawyer. But a day after the
lawyer's first visit, their brother was gone -- transferred to a Boston jail.
That week, he was shackled and bused with 60 other men to detention in York,
Pa., then put on a government plane with 300 chained immigrants.

He ended up one of 2,000 detainees packed into a windowless tent city that had
sprung up only a year earlier in Raymondville, Tex. -- the nation's largest
immigration prison camp, run for profit and still growing.

For weeks after his lawyer reopened his case for a hearing in Boston, she could
not locate him. He was on the verge of deportation by the time she managed to
persuade the government to fly him back from Texas, two days before last
Christmas.

Mr. Cante finally appeared before an immigration judge on Jan. 2, after three
months in the detention maze. Because his case fell under the more lenient laws
in force before 1997, he not only was released on bond, but allowed to work
until his immigration hearing in December 2009. He is now trying to pay back
thousands of dollars in loans and legal fees.

A Market for Inmates

Mr. Cante, whose time in detention cost federal taxpayers about $10,000, was
part of what many call an ''immigrant gold rush'' that turned the private prison
industry from bust to boom.

Across the country, starting in Texas in the 1980s, prison companies built jail
cells on speculation as they rushed to cash in on the war on drugs. They
overbuilt; abuse scandals and escapes soured many states on private prisons, and
by the late 1990s, as competition for inmates increased, the companies' stock
was suffering.

Yet given the lure of easy financing and big fees for constructing deals,
developers of prison space did not hold back on growth. Instead, big companies
like the Corrections Corporation of America, the GEO Group (formerly Wackenhut)
and the Cornell Companies added more beds and lobbied harder at the source of
the most lucrative inmates, the federal government.

The payoff came after 9/11 in an accelerating stream of new detainees:
foreigners swept up by the nation's rising furor over illegal immigration.

Central Falls was similar, in its poverty, to more remote communities that had
hitched their hopes to jails. Set in the river valley where America's industrial
revolution was born, its textile mills had hired large immigrant families --
French Canadians and Poles, followed by Syrians and Portuguese -- and squeezed
them into triple-decker tenements. Even after the work moved away, the mills'
cheap housing continued to draw immigrants, mostly from Latin America.

The city was nearly bankrupt in 1990 when developers made a proposition: Build a
profit-making jail for two or three hundred nonviolent federal detainees, and
guarantee a steady stream of money and jobs for Central Falls.

But the deal that emerged, like many elsewhere, proved better at paying private
investors than generating public revenue. The municipal corporation borrowed $30
million through a state bond issue to build Wyatt, and hired the Cornell company
to run it. Six years later, the municipal body borrowed $38 million to
refinance, buying back most of the bonds at a premium that gave the original
bondholders a lump-sum return of 28.5 percent on their investment in addition to
9 percent annual interest.

And from its opening party in November 1993, Wyatt ran into the same problem as
its competitors: finding enough inmates. For a time it imported murderers and
rapists by the busload from North Carolina's crowded prisons. When city
residents objected, they learned that Central Falls had no control over who was
housed at Wyatt and would get no money unless it was full.

At best, Wyatt paid Central Falls $2 to $3 a day for each detainee -- less than
$400,000 in the good years -- to offset its use of city services. At times when
the flow of inmates faltered, payments slowed to a trickle. Yet, following the
strange logic of prison growth, Cornell and Wyatt officials were soon pushing to
refinance yet again and expand.

Thomas Lazieh, the mayor who had championed the deal that built Wyatt, defended
it as the best the city could get. His successor, Lee Matthews, took a darker
view and sued to stop the expansion. ''The city was sold a bill of goods,'' he
said.

Wyatt doubled in size anyway, with the backing of the current mayor, Charles D.
Moreau. Convinced that it could wrest more revenue from the jail as immigration
enforcement boomed, the municipal corporation took full control in August 2007.
The budget it approved late that year included $6,000 a month for a Washington
lobbyist to seek more detainees at higher rates.

A Recession, and Raids

By then, as in many parts of the country, people in Rhode Island were looking at
Latino immigrants as prime suspects in a dismal economy. A polarizing
immigration debate had converged with a huge state budget deficit and high
unemployment. As this year began, resentment flared.

The catalyst was an ordinary New Year's feature in The Providence Journal about
the first baby born in Rhode Island in 2008. Mother and newborn were still in
the hospital when federal agents, spurred by the publicity, raided their
apartment in Providence and took away the father on immigration violations.
Afterward, the police said, the mother discovered that a roommate from Guatemala
had hanged himself behind his locked bedroom door, apparently during the raid.

The baby's father, initially held in secret at Wyatt, was eventually deported. A
Guatemalan landscaper with two misdemeanor convictions, he had been ordered to
leave the country in August 2007, but stayed, his lawyer said, because his
fiancee, a United States citizen, was pregnant with their second child.

To some, the case illustrated how illegal immigrants, who make up less than 4
percent of Rhode Island's population, drained public services.

''Rhode Island taxpayers are the real victims!'' declared Alice Losasso of West
Warwick, in a letter to The Journal. ''I'm tired of paying for interpreters so
that immigrants can take their driver's test in whatever language they speak.
I'm tired of finding that their girlfriends and children are on welfare.''

Her words echoed a major theme of the governor, Donald L. Carcieri, a
Republican. In March, he issued an executive order directing the State Police to
help federal authorities round up illegal immigrants, saying that they depressed
wages and strained services.

Public approval for that order reached 75 percent in one poll after an illegal
immigrant from Guatemala was charged with carjacking and raping a woman outside
a mall. He had been arrested twice before by the Providence police, and already
had an outstanding order of deportation. The governor appeared on the Bill
O'Reilly program to accuse the Providence mayor of sheltering criminals.

In Central Falls, the crackdown sowed panic. At the public charter school two
blocks from Wyatt, parents, already afraid to be photographed at school events,
were now reluctant to drive to meetings, said Sarah Friedman, a founder of the
school.

An 8-year-old girl, one of the school's high-scoring students, stopped speaking
in class when her father disappeared into detention, the girl's mother said.
Without his income, mother and daughter, United States citizens, were almost
evicted from their apartment.

At Central Falls High School, some students stopped coming to class because
their families had gone into hiding, said Margie Cruz, a school-home liaison:
''The child was born here, the child is legal. But the family has to hide
because the father will be deported.

''I've seen students stopped for a traffic violation and the whole family got
deported,'' she added. ''Children that were here for years. I watched them grow
up.''

One longtime Little League mother said she used to worry that child molesters
could be watching from the jail windows. Now, she said, she worried that her
sister's children would end up inside -- the niece who had just graduated from
high school with no path to legal status; the nephew who had been taught that
local Quakers hid fugitive slaves, and asked his aunt to hide him if his parents
were detained.

They were part of a generation of Central Falls teenagers born abroad who were
coming of age as outlaws in their own town. Some had already lost relatives,
like the 14-year-old whose older brother had made a left turn on red and ended
up in a detention odyssey that led to deportation.

''My mother's afraid the same thing that happened to my brother could happen to
me, because I play soccer, I'm out there,'' he said.

A few blocks from Wyatt, Police Chief Joseph P. Moran III praised the jail as
''a great neighbor -- it keeps things under control.'' But he went on to tell
about the difficulty of investigating the killing of a Dominican cabdriver,
because witnesses had not come forward for fear of deportation. He talked of the
blurring line between police work and immigration enforcement.

One domestic violence call by a husband illustrated the new reality. After a
routine computer check, both he and his wife were taken into police custody, and
her 8-month-old baby was handed to a friend. The man had an outstanding bench
warrant; his wife had a deportation warrant issued by immigration authorities --
something not included in the police database a few years ago.

''We work hand in hand with ICE,'' Chief Moran said. At the same time, he added:
''I have friends from Honduras, Ecuador. My kids went to school here. It makes
it very, very difficult.''

Profit and Loss

For defenders of the jail, the bottom line has always been the bottom line:
Wyatt's growth meant more federal money for the city.

''They're going to detain them somewhere,'' said the manager of Mr. Williams
True Styles Barbershop, on the struggling Dexter Street commercial strip. ''It's
a billion-dollar business. Unless we're going to free them, what difference does
it make?''

But at least in Central Falls, the incarceration economy was not delivering on
its promise.

In late June, Mayor Moreau, a big man with a florid face and a police siren in
his car, offered up a budget that laid off firefighters -- and told angry city
employees to get used to it.

''We're at the end of the financial rope for Central Falls,'' he told the City
Council, citing more than 200 boarded-up homes, foreclosures at the rate of 25 a
week, and cuts in state and federal aid that required a 4 percent property tax
increase and an 8 percent spending cut in the new $17.4 million budget.

Outside, past the defunct factory where Hasbro once made G. I. Joe, beyond the
rusty hulk of the downsized Sylvania plant, the summer twilight gleamed on
Wyatt's new facade.

What had happened to the windfall of money and jobs it had offered?

The jail's annual revenue had almost doubled in a year, to $21 million, mainly
from increasing immigration detention. But the city budget projected revenue of
only $525,000 from Wyatt, which is exempt from taxes.

That was not even enough to cover its share of city services, according to an
estimate by the city's finance department. It was certainly nothing like the $2
million a year that Mr. Benson, the City Council president, had mentioned to a
reporter in April. The mayor, he said, predicted the city would get that much in
profits formerly reaped by the Cornell Companies, now that the local board had
taken over. Neither the mayor nor the board members, unpaid mayoral appointees,
would talk about Wyatt.

As for jobs, only 10 of about 200 Wyatt employees lived in Central Falls. The
jail's board was even declining to make the $1,500 donations to local groups it
once supported, like a scholarship fund and youth football.

Mr. Ventetuolo, the Wyatt chief executive, would not say how much had been saved
by dispensing with Cornell's for-profit services, maintaining that it had all
gone toward keeping prices low for the federal government. Wyatt was still in
transition, he said, striving to fill new beds to meet soaring payments to
bondholders, now up to $8.4 million yearly from $2.7 million under the terms of
the latest refinancing.

Yet Mr. Ventetuolo's consulting company had won a raise, to $230,000 from
$156,000. And as the number of detainees increased, so did revenue from
surcharges on their collect calls to relatives, under a contract with Global Tel
Link that gave Wyatt a cut of about $564,000 a year. That arrangement had
survived a state ban on phone surcharges at prisons, thanks to lobbying that
gave Wyatt a loophole.

Other large fees went to lawyers and financiers, as Mr. Matthews, the former
mayor, pointed out. ''There just happens to be a lot of money made by folks
other than the people of the City of Central Falls,'' he said.

Out in the Open

City officials in Central Falls -- mostly descendants of earlier immigrants --
were mindful that they presided over a community at least 60 percent Latino,
where fear of the immigration crackdown was widespread.

At the same time, the city had built its hopes for economic stability on a jail
that was helping to make that crackdown possible. The combination created a
local immigration politics that sometimes verged on denial.

But last summer, Wyatt itself was suddenly caught in the glare of the state's
crackdown.

On the evening of July 15, a dozen State Police officers and 50 immigration
agents swept into six courthouses across the state. They arrested 31 cleaners on
suspicion of immigration violations, people paid $7.40 an hour to vacuum floors
and scrub toilets in Rhode Island's halls of justice. All worked for two large
state contractors, one owned by the brother of a state legislator allied with
Governor Carcieri.

In the uproar that followed, experiences that had been private in cases like Mr.
Cante's were put on public display: the difficulty of locating those in custody;
the distress of relatives, many of them legal residents or citizens; the absence
of basic legal protections familiar to anyone who watches ''Law & Order.''
Advocates eventually located most of the cleaners. Four were at Wyatt, including
a 29-year-old single mother detained in its new women's unit.

Two days after the raids, as city officials raised the Colombian flag over City
Hall to honor that nation's Independence Day, Mayor Moreau criticized the
roundup, and chided Governor Carcieri for spending law enforcement resources on
it.

''We have better things to do,'' he said, ''than chasing the lady that cleans
the attorney general's office.''

A reporter asked how he squared that criticism with Wyatt's role in holding
illegal immigrants, including the cleaning woman locked up there.

''One has nothing to do with the other,'' he retorted. ''It has nothing to do
with the City of Central Falls.''

Soon, a case that drew national attention made that distinction harder to
maintain.

On Aug. 6, Hiu Lui Ng, 34, a Chinese computer engineer from New York who had
overstayed a visa, died in Wyatt's custody after a year in various detention
centers and months in pain.

The Times reported a week later that despite his repeated pleas for help, his
fractured spine and extensive cancer had gone undiagnosed until shortly before
his death. Officials at Wyatt, where he spent his last month, said he had
received plenty of medical attention, and immigration authorities started an
internal investigation. But local pastors and Latino advocacy groups gathered
outside Wyatt on Aug. 15 to demand an independent inquiry.

A guard who watched the demonstration, who asked that his name not be published
for fear of losing his job, voiced the ambivalence toward Wyatt that seems to
shape the attitudes of many in Central Falls.

He spoke with sympathy of ''good, hard-working people'' detained there, and with
distaste of the rookie guards -- a result of low pay and high turnover -- ''who
talk to people with no respect, like they're dogs.''

But he added: ''Immigration and all that, that has nothing to do with us. We're
just the prison.''

Even in the Latino population, the new awareness of Wyatt stirred little
resistance.

''If the Spanish were all registered to vote they could take the city in one
election,'' observed Councilman Benson. ''A lot of them don't vote because they
don't trust the government, and a lot of them are illegal, so they can't.''

In contrast, Mr. Cante, who finally had proper papers, said he felt like part of
Central Falls for the first time.

''In all these years I've been here illegally, everywhere I went, everything I
used to do, I used to feel like a reject,'' he said. ''Now I feel like I've been
accepted for the community. I don't feel afraid anymore. I feel, like, free.''

Just how closely Central Falls was entwined in the business of locking up people
like Mr. Cante became more obvious this month, when Immigration and Customs
Enforcement officials, citing their continuing investigation into Mr. Ng's
death, abruptly removed all immigration detainees from Wyatt, scattering them to
other jails in New England, Texas and Louisiana.

With Wyatt's solvency, if not its survival, uncertain, the mayor lobbied the
state's Congressional delegation to get back a share of the growing market in
immigration detainees. Meanwhile, jail officials hunted for deals like the one
they narrowly lost last spring, to house 80 Vermont inmates judged criminally
insane for crimes like murder and rape.

Mr. Lazieh, the former mayor who first championed Wyatt, called the government's
immigration policies immoral, arguing that ''the system has gone overboard --
we've turned to criminalizing all immigrants.''

But he had no regrets about his city's part. ''If it's not in Central Falls,''
he said, ''then this facility would be someplace else.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Donald W. Wyatt Detention Facility in Central Falls, R.I.,
was built on the hope that it would revive the city's economy.(PHOTOGRAPH BY
SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
HELP WANTED: Guard recruits at the Wyatt detention center in Central Falls, R.I.
Few of its employees live in the city.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW
YORK TIMES)(pg. A12) SWEPT UP: Maynor Cante, left, leads a prayer group at St.
Matthew's Roman Catholic Church in Central Falls, where he arrived from
Guatemala more than a decade ago. Arrested by immigration agents in October
2007, he was held in detention centers in four states over three months.
OLD NEIGHBORS AND NEW More than 200 homes are boarded up in Central Falls, a
city of 19,000 that was nearly bankrupt when officials proposed building the
Wyatt detention center. Public ball fields, right, abut the jail. (PHOTOGRAPHS
BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A13) CHART: Spending on detention by
Immigration and Customs Enforcement has risen, along with the number of
detainees. Chart details Detained during the year, thousands
and Federal spending, billions.
A Growing Detention Network: People picked up on suspicion of immigration
violations are held in a patchwork of detention centers. Most of the largest are
privately run.(Sources: Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Congressional Research Service
Yahoo Finance
company Web sites) Charts detail map of US
 pie chart and line graph for Weekly stock price of three largest companies,
indexed to Jan. 2001.(FORD FESSENDEN AND NINA BERNSTEIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg.
A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 30, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Riddle

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 440 words


A working-class corner of Long Island is staring at a riddle posed by hard
economic times and wondering what to do.

Huntington Station is a microcosm of America in the age of suburban immigration.
Shops sell pizzas and pupusas in a business district that has been revitalized
by Latino entrepreneurs but has a long way to go. Stately Victorians loom among
tidy townhouses and shabby rentals. Not far from a platform where bankers board
the train to Manhattan, immigrant men sleep in the woods. In the middle of it
all, on Depot Road, are day laborers, 100 or more, in rain, shine or snow.

When home renovation and landscaping were booming, day laborers made the good
times possible. They were a cheap, convenient way to get hard work done and were
treated with tolerance. A hiring site was set up on Depot Road so they could
wait in shelter and safety. Now that the local economy has flat-lined, their
lives are far harder. A hundred men will gather on a typical weekday. Maybe
three will find work.

The Town of Huntington is grappling again with old complaints about groups of
men standing around. Last summer, in a regrettable turn, the town passed an
ordinance forbidding anyone from looking for work on public property. Now it is
considering phasing out its financing for the hiring site.

The town supervisor, Frank Petrone, has supported the site since it opened a
decade ago, calling it a pragmatic answer to a problem of traffic management. He
wonders whether it is wise to keep spending money on a hiring site where hardly
anybody gets hired.

Peggy Boyd, who works for the Family Service League, a nonprofit organization
that runs the site with financing from the town and two private foundations, is
acutely aware of the conundrum. She and her colleagues have kept the place
going, getting to know 90 to 100 of the men who gather there to find not just
jobs, but also food, warm clothing and English lessons.

She understands that money is tight. But she also knows that it will take a
financial meltdown far harsher than any we have seen to make the laborers
disappear.

Mr. Petrone deserves credit for resisting -- so far -- the simple solution,
which is to pull the plug and to chase the laborers into the shadows. That would
defy common sense and the Constitution. The town should commit itself to keep
some services going, and thus keep homelessness, vagrancy, sickness and blight
at bay until the good times return.

And until then, the Suffolk County executive, Steve Levy, could also step in,
with funds and leadership, to show the rest of Long Island how a community helps
all its members, in good times and bad.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 1, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Washington: Move on Immigrants

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING NORTHWEST; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 110 words


Gov. Chris Gregoire wants to deport illegal immigrants serving time in state
jails, a move intended to save the state more than $9 million in the next
two-year budget. The proposal is modeled after a program in Arizona that has
saved the state more than $18.5 million since 2005, said Eldon Vail, secretary
of the Washington Department of Corrections. The proposal calls for the state to
come to an agreement with federal Immigrations and Customs Enforcement, which
would carry out the deportations. About 350 prisoners would be eligible to be
transferred to federal authorities. On average, it costs the state $90 a day to
imprison an inmate, Mr. Vail said. (AP)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 10, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants in Charter Schools Seeking the Best of Two Worlds

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1545 words



MINNEAPOLIS -- Fartun Warsame, a Somali immigrant, thought she was being a good
mother when she transferred her five boys to a top elementary school in an
affluent Minneapolis suburb. Besides its academic advantages, the school was
close to her job as an ultrasound technician, so if the teachers called, she
could get there right away.

''Immediately they changed,'' Ms. Warsame said of her sons. ''They wanted to
wear shorts. They'd say, 'Buy me this.' I said, 'Where did you guys get this
idea you can control me?' ''

Her sons informed her that this was the way things were in America. But not in
this Somali mother's house. She soon moved them back to the city, to the
International Elementary School, a charter school of about 560 pupils in
downtown Minneapolis founded by leaders of the city's large East African
community. The extra commuting time was worth the return to the old order: five
well-behaved sons, and one all-powerful mother.

Charter schools, which are publicly financed but independently run, were
conceived as a way to improve academic performance. But for immigrant families,
they have also become havens where their children are shielded from the American
youth culture that pervades large district schools.

The curriculum at the Twin Cities International Elementary School, and at its
partner middle school and high school, is similar to that of other public
schools with high academic goals. But at Twin Cities International the girls say
they can freely wear head scarves without being teased, the lunchroom serves
food that meets the dietary requirements of Muslims, and in every classroom
there are East African teaching assistants who understand the needs of students
who may have spent years in refugee camps. Twin Cities International students
are from Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia and Sudan, with a small population from the
Middle East.

Amid the wave of immigration that has been reshaping Minnesota for more than
three decades, the International schools are among 30 of the state's 138 charter
schools that are focused mostly on students from specific immigrant or ethnic
groups. To visit a half-dozen of these schools, to listen to teachers,
administrators and parents -- Somali immigrants who are relatively new to
Minnesota, as well as the Hmong and Latinos who have been in the state for
decades -- is to understand that Ms. Warsame's high educational aspirations for
her children, and her fears, are universal.

''The good news is that immigrant kids are learning English better and faster
than ever before in U.S. history,'' said Marcelo M. Suarez-Orozco, the
co-director of immigration studies at New York University and co-author of
''Learning a New Land -- Immigrant Students in American Society'' (Harvard
Press, 2008). ''But they're assimilating to a society that parents see as very
threatening and frightening. It's anti-authority, anti-studying. It's
materialistic.''

Some critics argue that these kinds of charter schools are contributing to a
growing re-segregation of public education, and that they run counter to the
long-held idea of public schools as the primary institution of the so-called
''melting pot,'' the engine that forges a common American identity among
immigrants from many countries.

''One of the primary reasons that American society supports public schools is to
give everyone a solid civic education,'' said Diane Ravitch, an education
historian, ''the sort of education that comes from learning together with others
from different backgrounds.''

But Dr. Suarez-Orozco says the reality is that most new immigrants become
isolated in public schools, and that large numbers of them become alienated over
time and fail to graduate.

A place like Minnesota, with its strong charter-school movement, offers
immigrant parents, who have long been conflicted about their children becoming
Americanized, a strong voice in their children's education, Dr. Suarez-Orozco
said, and shows their eagerness to participate in democracy.

''What the parents are saying,'' he said, ''is, We want our children to
assimilate, we want them to acculturate, but we want to be proactively engaged
in shaping that process.''

Ali Somo, a 70-year-old father of three children at the International Schools,
put it this way: ''We bring our children here because we want them close to us
so they don't get lost.''

It was a weekday morning, but Mr. Somo and Ms. Warsame and a group of other
parents, some holding down double shifts as cabdrivers, hotel housekeepers, and
parking lot attendants, were squeezing in a meeting in the school library, with
its shelves lined with ''Huckleberry Finn,'' ''The Red Badge of Courage,''
''Little House on the Prairie'' and other American classics.

Getting lost in America, Mr. Somo explained, means losing your culture, your
language, your identity. It means acting like the teenagers the parents see on
the street -- wearing baggy jeans, smoking, using drugs, disrespecting elders.

''I have been in America, and I have observed,'' Mr. Somo testified. ''I have
seen children with their pants falling off. I have seen them doing drugs.''

The parents around him nodded. Another father, Jelil Abdella, talked about how
it saddened him that his two grown children, who had attended large district
schools, did not know how to speak Somali. ''They're neither American, nor
Somali,'' Mr. Abdella said.

As a newcomer, he said, he was too busy going to school and earning a living --
driving a taxi, cleaning floors, working in a factory, picking blueberries -- to
supervise their educations closely.

''I don't want to make the same mistake with my younger children,'' he said. ''I
want them to keep the good things we used to have back home -- respecting their
parents, helping each other, respecting their elders.''

Another father, Mahamaud Wardere, said: ''It is important that they all know
they're American. It is equally important that they know they're Somali.''

It is this dual identity that the International Schools work to encourage. There
are lessons in snowshoeing and baseball, and field trips to the Mall of America,
where instead of shopping, the students participate in another American ritual,
the charity fund-raising walk. There are also teen-agers complaining that their
parents worry too much.

''I can at least account for more than 200 lectures I've had from my mom and dad
about American culture here,'' said Omar Ahmed, a 14-year-old eighth grader.
''My dad always says, 'Back in Somalia, when I was 14, I could see myself
running my own business, having my own children. You're 14, you can't get your
studies done.' ''

''Every time my mom sees something bad about teens in the news,'' Omar said,
''there's another lecture on that subject.''

Perhaps nothing more vividly demonstrated the students' enthusiasm for American
democracy than a debate this fall in Elizabeth Veldman's eighth-grade social
studies class about the presidential race. The two teams of students had spent
days preparing.

''Look at our history -- look at what happened with the Vietnam War,'' said
Yaqub Ali, 14, a fervent supporter of Senator John McCain who arrived five years
ago from a refugee camp in Kenya, knowing little English, and who is now fluent.
''Do you want to lose a war?''

''Sit down, Yaqub!'' commanded Ridwa Yakob, who describes herself as ''a girl
who loves to talk.'' She argued that Senator Barack Obama would fix everything
from education to the economy.

Yaqub, wearing a dark suit for the occasion, rose again. ''John McCain is old,''
he said. ''It is better to be old.''

At the International school, where elders are revered, even Ridwa was silenced.

At their meeting, the parents talked of the importance of speaking English at
school -- and Somali or Oromo at home. At other charter schools, Hmong refugee
and Latino parents expressed the same wish, the difference being that they want
their children to speak Hmong, or Spanish, at home, the other difference being
that many of their children are already so Americanized that they are learning
their parents' languages in school.

''The other day a spider fell from the roof and my son picked it up,'' Mr. Somo
said, referring to his 13-year-old, Hussein. ''What do you call it in English, I
asked him. He told me. How to say it in Oromo -- I told him myself. How to say
it in Arabic and Somali -- he learned it himself. He was able to say the word
for ''spider'' in four languages.''

With that kind of linguistic talent, Mr. Somo said of his son, ''he can work for
America anywhere in the world.''

Dr. Suarez-Orozco said: ''What these parents are doing, in taking ownership of
their children's schools, is as American as apple pie. They're doing what soccer
moms and dads in Lexington, Mass., and Concord and Cambridge do day in and day
out. They're modeling for kids the story of acculturation and how it works.''

Correction: January 14, 2009, Wednesday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on
Saturday about immigrant families who choose charter schools as a way to shield
their children from the American youth culture misstated the age of Yaqub Ali,
an eighth grader in Minneapolis, and referred incorrectly to his arrival in the
United States. He is 14, not 13, and he arrived five years ago, not four.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Pupils at the Twin Cities International Elementary School, a
charter school in Minneapolis that serves East African immigrants.(PHOTOGRAPH BY
BEN GARVIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
A charter school for East African immigrants in Minneapolis is where girls, here
in a physical education class, say they can wear head scarves without being
teased.
 The Hmong Academy in St. Paul serves another large population. Parents say the
charter schools shield their children from aspects of American youth culture
that clash with their traditions.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEN GARVIN FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)(A11)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 12, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Calls on Republican Party to Be Inclusive

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 560 words


President Bush warned his fellow Republicans on Sunday against appearing
''anti-immigrant'' while offering kind words for his successor in one of his
last major interviews before leaving the presidency on Jan. 20.

''Look, obviously we got whipped in 2008, and there will be a new wave of
leadership arriving on the scene,'' Mr. Bush said. ''But it's very important for
our party not to narrow its focus, not to become so inward-looking that we drive
people away from a philosophy that is compassionate and decent.''

Mr. Bush was interviewed by Brit Hume on Fox News Sunday, in an interview taped
on Wednesday.

In clear reference to the bruising fight he had with members of his own party
when he was trying to push a sweeping overhaul of the nation's immigration laws
two years ago, Mr. Bush went on, ''We should be open-minded about big issues
like immigration reform, because if we're viewed as anti-somebody -- in other
words, if the party is viewed as anti-immigrant -- then another fellow may say,
well, if they're against the immigrant, they may be against me.''

The interview came during what has been dubbed the ''Bush legacy tour,'' aimed
at putting Mr. Bush's own stamp on the early post-mortem examinations of his
presidency, which aides have complained have been unfairly harsh.

A major goal of Mr. Bush's tenure was to make sweeping changes in the
immigration system, including  creating a process to give legal status to those
who lead productive and law-abiding lives in spite of arriving here illegally.
Throughout the fight, which he ultimately lost, Mr. Bush and his Republican
allies on immigration had warned his Republican opponents that they risked
alienating immigrants, particularly Hispanics.

President-elect Barack Obama has discussed pursuing similar immigration
measures.

Speaking about Mr. Obama, Mr. Bush said: ''Listen, the man is obviously a
charismatic person, and the man is able to persuade people that they should
trust him. And he's got something -- he's got a lot going for him.''

But Mr. Bush echoed recent comments from Vice President Dick Cheney in urging
Mr. Obama and his administration to consider keeping in place their
counterterrorism programs,  which have included controversial interrogation
techniques Mr. Obama has decried.

''I would hope that the team that is, has the honor of, serving the country will
take a hard look at the realities of the world and the tools now in place to
protect the United States from further attack,'' Mr. Bush said. ''They will find
that with a considerable amount of care and concern for civil liberties, for
example, that I have put in place procedures that will enable the professionals
to better learn the intentions of Al Qaeda, for example.''

Mr. Bush voiced a sense of vindication over the credit his increasing of troops
in Iraq -- known colloquially as the surge -- has won for helping to stabilize
the nation after initially harsh critiques.

However, he acknowledged the political pressure his Iraq policy had placed on
his party.

''During the darkest days of Iraq people came to me and said, you're creating
incredible political difficulties for us. And I said, oh, really, what do you
suggest I do? Some suggested, retreat, pull out of Iraq,'' he said. ''I didn't
compromise that principle for the sake of trying to bail out my political party,
for example.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush gave an interview last week to Fox News as part
of an effort to shape his legacy. Mr. Bush leaving St. John's Episcopal Church
in Washington on Sunday after attending services.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HARAZ N.
GHANBARI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 23, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nashville Rejects a Law Making English Its Official Language

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 320 words


Nashville voters on Thursday rejected a proposal to make English the city's
official language and largely to prevent government workers from communicating
in other languages.

The proposal was introduced by Eric Crafton, a metropolitan councilman. It was
opposed by a broad coalition including the mayor, civil rights groups, business
leaders, ministers and the heads of nine institutions of higher education.

''The results of this special election reaffirm Nashville's identity as a
welcoming and friendly city,'' Mayor Karl Dean said in a statement.

Mr. Crafton had said the policy would encourage immigrants to learn English and
save the city more than $100,000 in translation and related costs. The policy
allowed exceptions to its English-only rule for issues of health and safety.

Critics said the proposal would tarnish Nashville's reputation as a cultural
mixing pot and drive away immigrants and international businesses. They also
accused Mr. Crafton of worsening anti-immigrant sentiment and wasting at least
$350,000 of taxpayer's money on a special election.

Thirty states, including Tennessee, and at least 19 cities have declared English
their official language, according to the U.S. English Foundation, which
advocates such policies.

The proposal needed 50 percent to pass, and drew only 43.5 percent. It would
have made Nashville, with a population of about 600,000, by far the nation's
largest city to adopt such a policy, which supporters call English First and
critics call English Only.

''People here said Nashville is a warm, welcoming and friendly environment that
celebrates diversity,'' said Tom Oreck, an opponent of the proposal and the
chairman of the Oreck Corporation, a vacuum cleaner manufacturer. ''If this had
passed, it would have sent an isolationist message in a global economy.''

Mr. Crafton, who has pushing for the measure for two years, could not be reached
for comment.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 28, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Another Jail Death, and Mounting Questions

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1639 words


He lived 42 of his 48 years in the United States, and had the words ''Raised
American'' tattooed on his shoulder. But Guido R. Newbrough was born German, and
he died in November as an immigration detainee of a Virginia jail, his heart
devastated by an overwhelming bacterial infection.

His family and fellow detainees say the infection went untreated, despite his
mounting pleas for medical care in the 10 days before his death. Instead, after
his calls for help grew insistent, detainees said, guards at the Piedmont
Regional Jail in Farmville, Va., threw him to the floor, dragged him away as he
cried out in pain, and locked him in an isolation cell.

Mr. Newbrough, a construction worker who had served jail time for molesting a
girlfriend's young daughter, was found unresponsive in the cell several days
later, on Nov. 27, and died at a hospital the next day without regaining
consciousness. An autopsy report last week cited a virulent staph infection as
an underlying cause of his death from endocarditis, an infection of the heart
valves that is typically cured with antibiotics.

Accounts of Mr. Newbrough's last days echo other cases of deaths in immigration
custody, including one at the same jail in December 2006, which prompted a
review by immigration officials that found the medical unit so lacking that they
concluded, ''Detainee health care is in jeopardy.''

But Immigration and Customs Enforcement never released those findings, even when
asked about allegations of neglect in that death, of Abdoulai Sall, 50, a
Guinea-born mechanic with no criminal record whose kidneys failed over several
weeks. Instead, officials defended care in that case and other deaths as
Congress and the news media questioned medical practices in the patchwork of
county jails, private prisons and federal detention centers under contract to
hold noncitizens while the government tries to deport them.

The 2006 report -- and a set of talking points the agency produced for its press
officers to use when discussing deaths in detention -- were only recently
obtained by the American Civil Liberties Union through a lawsuit under the
Freedom of Information Act; the group provided copies to The New York Times,
which first reported Mr. Sall's death.

''This facility has failed on multiple levels to perform basic supervision and
provide for the safety and welfare of ICE detainees,'' the six-page report
concluded shortly after he died. ''The medical health care unit does not meet
minimum ICE standards.''

The report said the jail had failed to respond adequately as Mr. Sall grew
sicker, and that even when he was found unconscious on the floor, employees
''stood around for approximately one minute'' before trying to revive him. The
jail's superintendent, who said he never saw the report, adamantly denied those
conclusions this week.

But Tom Jawetz, a lawyer with the civil liberties union's National Prison
Project, said the new death at the same jail underscored the lack of
accountability in immigration detention nationwide.

''Piedmont is a facility that was understaffed and underresponsive to clear
medical needs,'' Mr. Jawetz said. ''The reports of Mr. Newbrough's death raise
serious questions about whether those failures were ever remedied.''

Asked Monday what measures it had taken after Mr. Sall's death, the immigration
agency promised a response but did not provide one. Kelly A. Nantel, a
spokeswoman, said earlier that an investigation of Mr. Newbrough's death was
under way.

The 780-bed Piedmont jail, run by governments of six Virginia counties,
typically houses about 300 immigration detainees, and is now down to fewer than
150. But Ms. Nantel denied rumors that the agency was pulling them out, as it
did last month at a detention center in Central Falls, R.I., where a Chinese
computer engineer's extensive cancer and fractured spine went undiagnosed until
shortly before his death on Aug. 6.

In that case, investigators for the federal immigration agency found that the
engineer, Hiu Lui Ng, had been denied proper medical treatment, and dragged from
his cell to a van as he screamed in pain six days before his death.

The parallels with detainee accounts of Mr. Newbrough's treatment are striking
to Jeff Winder, an organizer for the grass-roots Virginia group People United,
who was contacted by several inmates at Piedmont who also spoke to a reporter.
The latest death has heightened the group's opposition to plans by private
developers and city officials to build another immigration detention center in
Farmville, with 1,000 to 2,500 beds.

''ICE has no obligation to send detainees there after the next detainee dies,''
Mr. Winder said. ''Farmville could be left with the reputation as a place where
detainees die of medical neglect.''

Ernest L. Toney, the jail superintendent, denied accounts that Mr. Newbrough had
been mistreated, saying, ''That is not our protocol here.'' He referred all
other questions about his death to the federal immigration agency.

But Dr. Homer D. Venters, an expert in detention health care who learned about
the case from Mr. Newbrough's family and reviewed the autopsy, said available
evidence showed violations of detention standards that let the detainee's
treatable local infections rage out of control. Dr. Venters, a public health
fellow at New York University, was critical of the medical care in immigration
detention when he testified last year at a Congressional subcommittee hearing,
and is on an Immigration and Customs Enforcement advisory group.

''First, Mr. Newbrough's medical complaints were apparently ignored,'' he wrote
in a preliminary analysis of the case for Mr. Newbrough's parents. ''Second, Mr.
Newbrough was placed in a disciplinary setting while ill and despite having
voiced medical complaints. Third, Mr. Newbrough was not adequately (if at all)
medically monitored'' in the isolation cell.

During those last days, Dr. Venters added in an interview, even guards should
have noticed that Mr. Newbrough was in critical condition as the bacteria
colonizing his heart broke loose, creating abscesses in his brain, liver and
kidneys. ''When endocarditis is not treated, it kills people,'' he said. With
modern hospital care, the death rate is 25 percent or less.

''We were sitting here, powerless,'' said Mr. Newbrough's stepfather, Jack
Newbrough, 70, a former Air Force sergeant who met Guido's mother, Heidi, and
Guido, then 2, when he was stationed in their native Germany. ''I am just so
disappointed in my country, this homeland security system they got set up.''

Mrs. Newbrough, 65, said her son, who had an estranged wife and three
American-born children, had quit drinking after serving 11 months for
molestation  and, on probation, moved back to his childhood home in Manassas,
Va., from a trailer park in Stafford. A 1999 article about life in the park, in
the first issue of Tina Brown's Talk magazine, featured him prominently -- under
the rubric ''Dialing America.''

''Nobody knew he wasn't American,'' his mother said. ''Even he didn't know. He
found out the day they picked him up here.''

His arrest last February, immigration records show, was a result of Operation
Coldplay, which combs probation records to find past sex offenders whose
immigration status makes them deportable. Mr. Newbrough had taken what is known
as an Alford plea to charges of ''indecent liberties with a minor,'' and
aggravated sexual battery in 2002 -- denying his guilt, but acknowledging that
prosecutors had evidence that could cause a jury to convict him of molesting his
girlfriend's 4-year-old.

Mr. Newbrough, who spoke no German, would have automatically become a citizen if
his American-born stepfather had formally adopted him when he was a child, or if
his mother had been naturalized while he was a minor, rather than just four
years ago.

While Mr. Newbrough waited at Piedmont for nine months, an immigration lawyer
argued that he had derived citizenship from his stepfather. An immigration judge
disagreed. The appeal was pending in mid-November when Mr. Newbrough began to
complain in phone calls of terrible back pain and stomach aches, his family
said. When they urged him to tell the medical staff, they said, he replied: ''
'I did. They just don't care.' ''

Several detainees interviewed by telephone last week said that in the two weeks
before Thanksgiving, Mr. Newbrough's back pain grew so bad that he began sobbing
through the night, and some in the 90-man unit took turns making him hot
compresses. By the Sunday before Thanksgiving, he was desperate, two detainees
said, and banged at the door of the unit's lunchroom, yelling for help. They
said by the time guards responded, he was seated at a table.

''They told him to get up, and he said he couldn't get up because he was in a
lot of pain,'' said Salvador Alberto Rivas, who identified himself as Mr.
Newbrough's bunk mate, awaiting deportation to El Salvador. ''Because of the
pain, he started crying, and he was trying to tell them he had put in requests
for medical and didn't get any. And then one of the guards threw him to the
floor.''

''They drag him by his leg, in front of about 30 people,'' said another
detainee, who gave his name only as Jose for fear of retaliation, adding that
many witnesses had since been transferred to other jails or deported.

''We didn't know that he was dying,'' added Jose, who wrote about the case in a
letter published online by a Spanish weekly. ''They took him to the hole. He was
yelling for help in the hole, too.''

That information, he said, came from a detainee in the isolation section at the
same time, but since deported, who was so upset by Mr. Newbrough's death that he
left his name and alien registration number -- Rene Cordoba Palma, No. 088424581
-- in case anyone wanted his testimony.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jack Newbrough and his wife, Heidi, with a photo of his
stepson, Guido, who died of an untreated infection while in
detention.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Guido Newbrough, who lived in the United States for 42 years, died as an
immigrant detainee.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 15, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; REMADE IN AMERICA THE NEWEST
IMMIGRANTS AND THEIR IMPACT; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 379 words


The United States has experienced the greatest surge in immigration since the
early 20th century, with one in five residents now a recent immigrant or a close
relative of one. Today The New York Times begins a series of weekly articles on
how the latest wave of immigrants are affecting American institutions -- first,
schools, then the workplace, hospitals, businesses, politics and social service
agencies -- and on how immigrant families are torn in ways their predecessors
could not have imagined. About a third of the country's foreign-born residents,
an estimated 11.9 million people, are Mexicans here illegally, testing
traditions of assimilation and stirring frustration and political opposition.

Never before have so many of America's immigrants come here unlawfully. The
integration of the new immigrants is all the more uncharted because, for the
first time in at least a century, one country and one language have dominated
the influx since the early 1990s. Mexico accounts for 31 percent of the
foreign-born, while, over all, Spanish-speaking Latin Americans make up about
half of the total. Of the next four countries -- the Philippines, India, China
and Vietnam -- each accounts for fewer than 5 percent.The immigrants have spread
from coastal and border states, carrying their languages and cultures to many
American places that had no recent experience with newcomers. Their arrival is
transforming communities across the American landscape and posing surprising,
often contentious, challenges.

IMMIGRATION ONLINE

In addition to today's article on schools: Readers can explore two special
features on-line. The first, a searchable database, includes the history of
ethnic diversity in every school district in the country. The second,
aninteractive map, displays census data that show where different immigrant
groups have settled. In the ''Room for Debate'' forum, experts in the education
of immigrant children are already discussing strategies that schools around the
country are adopting to help immigrant students meet rising academic standards.
Comments from readers are welcomed. A video report from the high school in
today's article introduces immigrant students on a separate academic track.
These features can be found at: nytimes.com/immigration.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAPS: Mexicans: Mexican immigrants continue to be concentrated in the
Southwest. But since 1990, a larger share of Mexicans have settled in other
parts of the country, drawn by low-wage jobs in places with affordable housing
and better schools for their children. The shift is partly a result of the
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, which granted amnesty to more than
three million illegal immigrants, giving them more freedom to move.
Other Major Groups: Philippines
India
China, Vietnam, South Korea
Central America: El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua
Caribbean: Cuba, Dominican Republic, Jamaica, Haiti, Trinidad and Tobago
Middle East: Iran,Egypt, Lebanon, Iraq, Turkey (Sources: Andrew A. Beveridge and
He Huang, Social Explorer, www.socialexplorer.com
Helen B. Marrow, University of California, Berkeley
Anny Bakalian, Mehdi Bozorgmehr, Phil Kasinitz, Pyong Gap Min, Robert C. Smith,
City University of New York
''New Faces in New Places,'' Douglas S. Massey, Princeton University) (MAPS BY
HAEYOUN PARK/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ADDITIONAL REPORTING BY ROBERT GEBELOFF AND ARCHIE TSE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 4, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Upstate Gunman Kills 13 at Citizenship Class

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN; Reporting was contributed by Ray Rivera in
Binghamton, N.Y., Nate Schweber in Johnson City, N.Y., Al Baker, Jack Begg, Nina
Bernstein and Anahad O'Connor in New York City, and Francesca Segre in
Inglewood, Calif.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1601 words


A gunman invaded an immigration services center in downtown Binghamton, N.Y.,
during citizenship classes on Friday and shot 13 people to death and critically
wounded 4 others before killing himself in a paroxysm of violence that turned a
quiet civic setting into scenes of carnage and chaos.

The killing began around 10:30 a.m. and was over in minutes, witnesses said, but
the ordeal lasted up to three hours for those trapped inside the American Civic
Association as heavily armed police officers, sheriff's deputies and state
troopers threw up a cordon of firepower outside and waited in a silence of
uncertainty.

Finally, officers who had not fired a shot closed in and found a sprawl of
bodies in a classroom, 37 terrified survivors cowering in closets and a boiler
room and, in an office, the dead gunman, identified as Jiverly Wong, 42, a
Vietnamese immigrant who lived in nearby Johnson City.

Two pistols and a satchel of ammunition were found with the body. In what the
police took to be evidence of preparation and premeditation, the assailant had
driven a borrowed car up against the center's back door to barricade it against
escape, then had walked in the rain around to the front to begin the attack.

What motivated the assault remained a mystery. Binghamton officials said the
assailant apparently had ties to the center, which helps immigrants and refugees
with counseling, resettlement and other issues.

It was the nation's worst mass shooting since April 16, 2007, when Seung-Hui
Cho, 23, shot and killed 32 people in a dormitory and classroom at Virginia Tech
University in Blacksburg, Va., then killed himself in the largest shooting in
modern American history. In the last month, 25 people, including 2 gunmen, were
slain in three mass shootings, in North Carolina, California and Alabama.

As city, state and federal officials from numerous agencies began what was
likely to be a lengthy investigation, expressions of condolence for the victims
and their families were offered by Gov. David A. Paterson and other officials
who went to Binghamton; by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., in New York to
address a civil rights group; and by President Obama, in Europe for NATO talks.

The vice president said Americans must find a way to prevent the kind of
bloodshed that erupted in Binghamton. ''We've got to figure out a way to deal
with this terrible, terrible violence,'' Mr. Biden told a meeting in New York.

Binghamton, a city of about 43,000 at the confluence of the Susquehanna and
Chenango Rivers in the Southern Tier, some 175 miles northwest of New York City,
is the home of Binghamton University, part of the State University of New York.
It is a working-class town whose population is more than 80 percent white and
about 10 percent black, with small percentages of Asians and Latinos.

The American Civic Association, a small nonprofit resettlement agency financed
largely by the United Way, has resettled 53 refugees through its Binghamton
center since 2004, most of them Vietnamese who studied English as a second
language there. It operated quietly for years, its officials said, and seemed an
improbable venue for a murderous attack.

Little was known about the assailant Friday night. Cautious officials declined
to name the gunman, but there appeared to be little doubt about his identity.
The name Jiverly Wong was provided by a law enforcement official who declined to
be named because he was not authorized to release information.

But the official said Mr. Wong had a New York State pistol license that listed
two handguns, apparently the weapons he used at the immigration services center:
a .45-caliber Beretta and a 9-millimeter Beretta. The authorities matched the
serial numbers of the two weapons found with the gunman's body to the serial
numbers on the pistol license. Officials said they were trying to trace the
histories of the guns. Other public records indicated that Mr. Wong had also
lived in California in recent years.

At Mr. Wong's home in Johnson City on Friday night, the police were seen
removing a rifle case, a box with a picture of a rifle on the side, and two
black boxes that may have been handgun cases.

Maurice Hinchey, who represents the area in Congress, said he was told by law
enforcement officials that the gunman drove to the center in a car registered to
his father and barricaded the center's back door with it. ''He made sure nobody
could escape,'' Police Chief Joseph Zikuski said at a late-afternoon news
conference.

It was unclear what connection the gunman previously had with the immigration
services center, but there appeared to be no doubt that he was acting alone,
Chief Zikuski said.

Armed with the two handguns and wearing a green jacket, the executioner came out
of the rain through the glass front doors of the center, entering a reception
area where he encountered two secretaries. He said nothing, but shot both. One
slumped dead, but the other, Shirley DeLucca, pretended to be dead, and as the
gunman walked on, she crawled to a desk and called 911.

Beyond the entryway, about 50 people -- Russians, Kurds, Chinese, Arabs,
Laotians and others -- were arrayed in several classrooms at their desks in
language and citizenship classes. The gunman entered the first room, a
citizenship class, and resumed firing. As victims wounded and dying crumpled to
the floor, students in nearby classrooms heard the shots.

Thanh Huynh, who translated the account of a young Vietnamese woman, said the
group fell silent. The teacher called 911, then hurried out with the others,
running for the back stairs to the basement. ''They heard the continued
shooting, very fast,'' the translator said, ''like 10 bullets, 10 shots
together. They tried to hide in the basement anywhere they can, under chair,
closet, storage room. Then, after they heard, so quiet.''

Zhanar Tokhtabayeva, 30, from Kazakhstan, told The Associated Press that she was
in an English class when she heard the shots. Her teacher screamed for everyone
to go into a storage room. ''I heard the shots, every shot,'' she said. ''I
heard no screams, just silence, shooting. I heard shooting, very long time. And
I was thinking, when will this stop? I was thinking that my life was finished.''

At least 26 people took refuge in a boiler room, the police chief said. The
first officers were on the scene within two minutes of the first 911 call, he
said. In all, he said, 37 survivors were found.

Meanwhile, swarms of Binghamton police officers and Broome County sheriff's
deputies with rifles and shotguns converged on the scene a block off Main
Street, just west of the Chenango River, and took cover behind a tangle of
vehicles and the corners of nearby buildings.

Streets were cleared for blocks around. Apartments and homes nearby were
evacuated, along with shops and other business establishments in the area.
Nearby, Binghamton High School went into lockdown. The ensuing hours were tense,
with no further shots fired inside and no information on how many were dead,
wounded and trapped.

About 1:30 p.m., police SWAT teams moved into the building methodically,
encountering the gunman with his weapons and ammunition satchel. It was unclear
in what part of the body he had shot himself. Most of the dead were found
sprawled in a classroom -- their names were not released -- and survivors were
found scattered about in closets, storage rooms and the boiler room. Many were
too terrified to come out of hiding, the police said.

In addition, the police were unaware at the time that there was only one
assailant. On the possibility that others were involved, some of the male
survivors were handcuffed when they were brought out. Chief Zikuski later
apologized for this.

Four wounded survivors were taken to area hospitals. Two women and a man
suffering gunshot wounds were being treated at Wilson Medical Center in Johnson
City, and a man was being treated at Our Lady of Lourdes Memorial Hospital in
Binghamton. The police and other officials called their conditions critical, but
hospital representatives gave various reports of conditions.

On Friday night, the scene of the shooting and much of the block around it
remained cordoned off with yellow crime-scene tape. Crowds that had milled
around throughout the day had dwindled to a group of onlookers who mingled with
television news crews, lingering in the ordinarily quiet neighborhood, a mix of
homes and small businesses.

Just a few doors down is the First Congregational Church of Binghamton, a local
landmark. The pastor, the Rev. Arthur Suggs, said the shooting that had
transformed the city was only part of a larger pattern in the nation. ''It's
like our number came up,'' he said.

Omri Yigal, 53, said in a telephone interview late Friday night that his wife,
Doris Yigal, also 53, was taking an English class at the center at the time of
the shooting and remained ''unaccounted for.'' The police told him she was not
among the survivors they had interviewed, Mr. Yigal said, adding that he could
not find her at the local hospitals.

Ms. Yigal, a homemaker originally from the Philippines, came to the United
States about a year ago. She was taking English classes to help her compete in
the job market.

''She has always dreamed of coming to the United States,'' Mr. Yigal said. ''But
certainly she had no idea of the kind of dangers that were present in our
society.''

She has two sisters, he said, both of whom called wanting to know how she was.
''They're very distraught,'' he said.

Mr. Yigal said he planned to stay up through the night, calling hospitals and
hoping. ''Right now, I'm looking at our wedding pictures,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Survivors leave the American Civic Association in Binghamton,
N.Y., after a shooting spree left 13 dead and 4 critically wounded.(PHOTOGRAPH
BY REBECCA CATLETT/THE PRESS & SUN-BULLETIN, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A1)
Across from the American Civic Association, a center for immigrants in
Binghamton, N.Y., where the police say a gunman fatally shot 13 people and then
himself.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STAN HONDA/AFP -- GETTY IMAGES)(A17) GRAPHICS: The
Sequence of Events (Sources: Binghamton Police Department (sequence of events)
Beth Putrino, former treasurer of the American Civic Association
and Mary Grassi, volunteer (schematic of building interior)) (GRAPHICS BY XAQUIN
G.V., HAEYOUN PARK AND SERGIO PECANHA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 MAPS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 28, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

End the 'Widow Penalty'

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 395 words


For hundreds of unlucky immigrants, the death of a wife or husband has been
quickly followed by an order to leave the country. It's called the ''widow
penalty,'' a tragic quirk in federal law that unfairly punishes recently married
immigrants whose citizen spouses die before their green-card paperwork is
processed.

United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, which handles applications
for legal permanent residence, says its hands are tied. According to its
interpretation of the law, if a citizen dies before the agency acts on his or
her petition for a spouse's green card -- and if the marriage is less than 2
years old -- the surviving spouse automatically ceases to be a spouse.

The petition dies with the petitioner. No exceptions can be made.

Advocates for shattered families -- grieving widows and their young children,
grandparents about to be bereaved a second time, as their grandchildren are
deported -- have sought legal relief for years. Congress has been no help so
far, but a number of courts have rejected the absurdity of a situation in which
the bonds of marriage, and a chance at citizenship, can be destroyed by routine
bureaucratic processing delays.

The most recent victory came last week in a class-action suit in federal
district court in Los Angeles. Judge Christina A. Snyder instructed the
Department of Homeland Security, to which Citizenship and Immigration Services
belongs, to reopen the cases of 13 immigrants who had been denied green cards
after their American spouses had died. The lawyer who brought the case, Brent
Renison, is hoping that momentum is finally building to correct the injustice.

As other cases make their way through courts around the country, the best
solution remains the simplest: a legislative or administrative fix. Bills to
remedy the flaw have been introduced in the House and Senate, and the Department
of Homeland Security has said the widow penalty is among the rules and
procedures it has been reviewing at the instruction of the department's
secretary, Janet Napolitano.

Ms. Napolitano and Michael Aytes, the acting leader of Citizenship and
Immigration Services, should abolish the ''widow penalty,'' or Congress should
do it for them. The law should protect immigrants who follow the rules. It
should never let their dreams of citizenship be tragically derailed by death and
an unthinking bureaucracy.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 25, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Malaysia: Premier To Investigate Human Trafficking Accusation

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING ASIA; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 97 words


The prime minister promised Friday to investigate a report by American lawmakers
saying that thousands of Myanmar refugees were handed over to traffickers and
ended up working in Thai brothels. The United States Senate Foreign Relations
Committee found that illegal Myanmar migrants deported from Malaysia were often
forced to work in brothels, fishing boats and restaurants in Thailand if they
could not buy their freedom. ''We do not want Malaysia to be used as a point for
human trafficking,'' Prime Minister Najib Razak, above, said. He said his
government needed ''more facts.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 11, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Florida: Smuggling Charges Filed In Fatal Voyage

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 69 words


A boat captain from the Dominican Republic has been charged with smuggling
illegal immigrants after his vessel ran aground near Miami on Oct. 31, killing
six people. The passengers from Brazil and the Dominican Republic said they paid
the captain, Crecencio Hernandez,  $4,000 to $15,000 to be smuggled into the
United States. Mr. Hernandez, 62, was charged with alien smuggling and could
face 10 years in prison.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 13, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Louisiana: Guest Workers Rulings

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 70 words


Employers are not obligated to cover the moving costs and other expenses
incurred by many immigrant workers, a federal appeals court has ruled in a case
against a New Orleans hotelier that hired dozens of foreign workers after
Hurricane Katrina. The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
ordered the dismissal of a suit that accused Decatur Hotels of exploiting
foreign employees recruited in August 2005.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 10, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Hiring Bind For Foreigners And Banks

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 833 words


What could be worse than graduating from an American business school this year
with an interest in banking?

Being such a graduate who is not a United States citizen.

A provision in the economic stimulus package  limits the hiring of foreign
workers by any company receiving government bailout money. In finance, that is
nearly every big employer.

At least one financial institution, Bank of America, has rescinded job offers to
foreign citizens, citing the new law, signed by President Obama last month.

Some banks are quietly trying to sidestep the limits  -- and perhaps to make
good on their job offers  -- by finding positions abroad for noncitizens,
according to college officials.

Financial institutions seem to be tiptoeing around the core debate about whether
it is best to protect American jobs or allow unfettered competition, wishing not
to alienate the very lawmakers who are dispensing taxpayer money that is keeping
some of them afloat.

Absent precise regulations, which have yet to be issued, big banks are being
forced to re-examine the hundreds of students that many of them would normally
add to their training classes at the end of the academic year. The bill affects
people who might have obtained what are called H-1B visas, typically granted to
foreign professional workers with skills sought by United States employers.
Existing workers are not affected.

Patricia Rose, director of career services at the University of Pennsylvania,
said companies were coming up with ad hoc policies.  ''Each bank is consulting
with their outside legal counsel,'' she said,  ''and trying to determine what
they can and cannot do.''

The provision --  sometimes called Made in America, because it is intended to
preserve jobs for Americans in this time of distress --  is being criticized by
some immigration advocates and deans of business schools, which draw significant
numbers of students from overseas.

''It sends a protectionist-oriented message that's not necessarily conducive to
fostering economic recovery,'' said Bob Sakinawa, associate director of advocacy
at the American Immigration Lawyers Association in Washington. People like the
business school students affected by the law are valuable assets that the
country should use, he said. ''Why cut off that avenue of talent?''

R. Glenn Hubbard, the dean of Columbia's business school, raised concerns about
the restrictions on hiring in letters to Timothy F. Geithner, the secretary of
the Treasury, and Lawrence H.  Summers, head of the National Economic Council.

In talking with students recently, Mr. Hubbard called the limits on companies
receiving federal bailout funds ''absolutely terrible,'' according to Columbia.
He added, ''It gives an advantage to international institutions over American
institutions.''

The number of people affected is small relative to the job losses of late.
According to David M. Santos, a spokesman for United States Citizenship and
Immigration Services, the number of H-1B visas is capped at 65,000 annually,
with some exceptions. And several big colleges and business schools said the
effect on their students was minimal.

But the subject of immigration is highly contentious at a time of rapidly rising
unemployment.

''What the folks at the financial institutions have done is essentially hire
people from abroad at lower wages when there are plenty of American workers who
can do very fine work,'' said Bernard Sanders, the independent senator from
Vermont and a sponsor of the provision.

Mr. Sanders  said that he was sympathetic to the plight of students whose job
offers had vanished.

''I'm sure they're decent, bright young people,'' Mr. Sanders said of business
school students from abroad. ''But I also appreciate the people in this country,
who have worked their entire lives, who were laid off by the industry. I think
they should have the first opportunity.''

Representatives of several banks declined to comment  about the visa issue,
including JPMorgan Chase, which according to the government had about 150 H-1B
visa applications approved last year, and Citigroup. At  Wells Fargo and PNC,
representatives  said that the visa provision would have very little effect
because the companies hired few H-1B workers.

A spokeswoman for Bank of America confirmed that the company had rescinded job
offers to a small number of people who would have needed H-1B visas, citing
''recent changes in legislation.'' The spokeswoman, in an e-mail message, added
that the bank ''had very much looked forward to these individuals joining the
company.''

Officials of several colleges and business schools held out hope that when the
rules putting the restrictions into effect are issued, they will help resolve
concerns. ''We're waiting to see, to better understand for each firm, what the
implications will be,'' said Regina Resnick, assistant dean and director of
career services at Columbia's business school. ''We've reached out to all the
firms that recruit here.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: R. Glenn Hubbard of Columbia's business school has concerns
about limiting visas.(pg. B8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 14, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Labor Secretary Proposes Suspending Farm Rules

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 532 words


Labor Secretary Hilda L. Solis announced Friday that she would suspend
regulations that the Bush administration introduced in December to make it
easier and cheaper for agricultural employers to use foreign workers in
temporary jobs.

Just hours after being officially sworn on Friday morning, Ms. Solis said she
would suspend the regulations for nine months. The move could create turmoil for
growers who had already applied to bring in temporary farm workers under the new
rules.

Last year, tens of thousands of foreign workers were brought in under the
temporary agricultural program, known as H-2A, harvesting lettuce, sweet
potatoes, tobacco, cucumbers, sugar cane and other crops. The new rules cut the
wages that many of these workers will receive and reduced the amount that
growers had to reimburse these workers for their travel. They also eased
administrative burdens by letting employers simply attest that they had met
various program requirements. Ms. Solis, who criticized the rules when she was
in Congress, said suspending them was ''the prudent and responsible action'' to
take ''because many stakeholders have raised concerns about the H-2A
regulations.''

Many farm worker and labor groups had attacked the Bush regulations, saying they
would push down wages for H-2A workers and take away jobs from workers in the
United States. Growers generally applauded the rules, saying they would reduce
red tape in employing foreign seasonal workers who they said did arduous farm
jobs that few Americans wanted to do.

Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao announced the rules on Dec. 18, and they took
effect on Jan. 17. Ms. Solis said the proposed suspension would be open for
public comment for 10 days.

''It will throw a lot of people into limbo,'' said Sharon Hughes, a consultant
to many growers who use H-2A workers. ''A lot of people have placed orders for
these workers, and this will cause some panic in the industry.''

Erik Nicholson, a national vice president of the United Farm Workers, applauded
Ms. Solis's decision, calling the Bush rules ''some of the worst setbacks for
farm workers in decades.'' He added, ''They meant worse wages and worse housing
conditions for these workers and worse discrimination against American
workers.''

Labor Department officials said one reason for the suspension was a fear that
there would be major administrative delays in  granting temporary work visas.

In December, Ms. Solis, then a California representative, condemned the
regulations.

''With many families already burdened by this bad economy,'' she said, ''our
nation cannot afford these guest worker program changes. There is no question
that the guest-worker program needs significant overhaul, but slashing wages and
reducing basic rights for the most vulnerable workers in our country, especially
hardworking Latino farm workers, is not the answer.''

Jasper Hempel, executive vice president of the Western Growers Association,
praised the Bush rules as reducing red tape. But he said the nation needed
legislation, known as the AgJOBS bill, that would stabilize the farm labor
situation by giving the more than one million illegal farm workers a path to
legalization.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 24, 2008 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Owed Back Pay, Guest Workers Comb the Past

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1226 words

DATELINE: FRESNO, Calif.


Here comes Abraham Franco now, 86 years old, skin leathery and bronzed from
decades of work in the fields, slowly bending his small but sturdy frame into a
metal chair at a faux wood office table at the Mexican Consulate here.

He still could not quite believe the news: Decades after working as a bracero,
as thousands of Mexican guest farm workers were called in a program from 1942 to
1964, the Mexican government had recently agreed to a one-time payment, $3,500,
of long overdue withheld wages.

The braceros are fading fast, some pushing or over 90, and are ever reliant on
family and friends to get by.

With two sons in tow, Mr. Franco unraveled a yellowing, fraying document patched
together with tape, one of the few he still has from that long-ago era. Mexican
immigration papers. Would this be good enough?

''No, these are stamped in Mexico, but we need something showing you were in the
United States then,'' a consulate worker informed him and his sons.

''Papi, you don't have the check stubs they gave you?'' his son Carlos asked.

''I don't know; we have to look,'' Mr. Franco replied, and back out they go,
like so many others, on a fervent hunt through closets, shoe boxes, dusty cases
and disintegrating envelopes for fragments from the past that could finally pay
dividends in the present.

Scholars believe that more than 2.5 million people were braceros, which is
Spanish for ''strong arms,'' at a time when ''guest worker program'' did not set
off as fierce a debate as today.

Most worked three to six months a year in agriculture, the bulk of them in
California, with a smaller number in railroads. The program began because of
farm labor shortages brought on by the war, and it continued afterward at the
urging of growers until 1964.

The Mexican government took 10 percent of the wages paid to braceros, supposedly
holding it until their eventual return to Mexico.

In 2001, a group of braceros from the World War II era filed a federal lawsuit
against Mexico to recoup their money. Four years later, facing pressure from
former braceros in Mexico and their advocates, the government announced a
reparation program, but required braceros in the United States to travel to
Mexico to register, a difficult journey for the elderly and infirm.

The settlement, which a federal judge will consider granting final approval in
February, prodded Mexico to apply its program to braceros in both countries,
eliminating the travel requirement.

They are spotted here and there, this aging community of unknown numbers,
leaning on canes and pushed along in wheelchairs, still sporting the field
attire of checkered and denim shirts and broad-brim hats.

Many braceros like Jose M. Ortiz, 85, after life of squalor and deprivation in
the fields, struggle to make ends meet.

''I will pay off my debts,'' he said, of the prospect of collecting the
settlement, which may not happen for another year as Mexico sorts through
claims. ''I have a lot of bills, like the gas, to pay.''

Mr. Franco would like to share the sum with his 12 children, as retribution for
his long periods away from them working in the fields.

''It is for my family,'' he said, adding, with a smile, ''but I would like to
take a trip somewhere.''

Lazaro Gonzalez's plans speak to the realities of his generation.

''All of us braceros are dead,'' he said, clutching a cane and staring out the
big picture window of a house near here that he shares with his children. ''It
would be for my funeral.''

All of them dream, perhaps few will collect.

Leonel Flores, an advocate for farm workers here, said he doubted that very many
former braceros still had the documents to meet the standards of proof. In
addition, he said, their documents are rife with erroneous dates and spellings
of names, the handiwork of braceros who hardly went to school, if it all, and
government bureaucrats on both sides of the border.

''This says you were born in 1922, and this says you were born in 1921,'' Mr.
Flores told Mr. Ortiz, holding aloft his Mexican birth certificate and bracero
identification card at a recent meeting of braceros. ''That's an error that can
get you rejected.''

Later, in an interview, Mr. Ortiz offered still another document, his United
States naturalization certificate, with a birth date indicating 1923.

''I feel bad because these are mistakes I did not make,'' he said. So when was
he born?

''1923, I am pretty sure,'' he replied.

Mr. Gonzalez had kept his papers, but they were lost in a home burglary several
years ago, a fate many braceros have suffered because criminals know they are
easy prey.

Still, he said, ''Yes, I still have some, but I have to keep looking.''

Mr. Flores said local lawyers were documenting the problems in an effort to
persuade Mexican authorities to be more flexible.

But the government, representatives said, must balance an effort to guard
against fraudulent claims with ''recognizing their civil rights,'' said Saleme
Barcelo, the consul general here.

She said the government was carefully scrutinizing required documents proving
they were Mexican citizens and had participated in the program.

''We are reviewing them case by case and telling them why they do not comply or
what they have to do,'' she said. ''They may still have time to get their
documents in order.''

The payout bonanza has rekindled memories of hard days.

On his kitchen table, Francisco Flores, 83, lays out a 1948 contract, the proof
he hopes will get him the money he always knew was there, somewhere.

It spells out not only his wages, 50 cents an hour, but also, for good measure,
it answers, what price a limb?

For the loss of both hands, $1,000; $500 for an eye, $25 for the loss of a
digit, and so on. No, this was not easy work, picking, shoveling, slicing,
loading and hauling fruit and vegetables under a broiling sun for 12 hours a
day, more if the bosses demanded it.

Sweltering nights made rest, often just a few hours, impossible. Bunk beds were
stacked three high or more in cramped sheds. Food shortages were common.
Pesticides were sprayed on crops and workers with abandon.

''It was a miserable life,'' Mr. Flores said.

The melons, Mr. Franco said, they were the worse, because they were the heaviest
fruit and the workers had to race to fill up transport trucks.

''We would run after the gondola carrying bags of melons,'' he recalled. ''We
were drenched in sweat.''

Many knew the Mexican government was taking 10 percent of their wages. But few
then asked for details, gratified at getting any job, especially ones that paid
much higher than anything in their home country.

Mr. Flores, though, kept almost everything, putting him in a good position to
collect now.

''I saw guys ripping up their pay stubs and I said, Wait, save all those papers,
some day it is going to be useful,'' he recalled, showing off a small black case
stuffed with papers from a bygone era.

But for many others, it is all but hopeless.

Cirilo Perez-Torres, 86, lost all his papers years ago in a flood in his home
state of Guanajuato.

A consulate worker the other day handed him a slip of paper with the phone
number for the hot line, (877) 436-9359, established by the law firm in the
settlement for inquires.

''I remember everything, the fields, the places, the crops,'' he said afterward.
''But they are not accepting my memories.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Francisco Flores, 83, and his wife, Rosa, are among the lucky
ones who saved records from his time in the fields as a bracero.
 Leonel Flores, at right, is helping former braceros with the documents they
will need to get money from the Mexican government. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA
ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 12, 2008 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Unveils New Rules For Guest Worker Hiring

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 510 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The Bush administration announced new rules on Thursday that it said would
lessen the bureaucratic burden on employers seeking to hire foreign farm
workers. Advocates for the workers, however, contended the changes would depress
wages and working conditions.

The Labor Department released the changes in a document of more than 500 pages,
the culmination of reviewing  11,000 comments since it  proposed new regulations
in February.

The changes apply to a guest worker program known as H-2A, after the visa that
allows farmers to hire foreign  workers on a temporary basis for field jobs they
cannot fill with Americans.

Most farmers ignore the program because of red tape and delays that could cost
them precious harvesting time. In California, the 5,000 H-2A workers are a
fraction of the peak agriculture work force of  450,000, according to the
California Farm Bureau.

But, after Congress failed to revamp immigration laws and come up with a new
guest worker program in 2007, the administration, seeking to attract more
farmers to the program, moved forward with  revisions not requiring
Congressional approval.

The changes, the first major ones in 20 years, include eliminating duplication
among state and federal agencies in processing applications, putting in place a
new wage formula the department said would be fairer to workers, and increasing
fines for willfully displacing United States workers with foreign ones.

An assistant secretary of labor, Leon R. Sequeira, said in an interview that
while the changes would make the program ''more predictable and timely, the
program is still far from simple and easy to comply with.''

Growers agreed, and suggested the new rules would fall prey to litigation and
perhaps reversals by the new administration.

''This is a program everybody acknowledges needs an overhaul,'' said Craig J.
Regelbrugge, co-chairman of the Agriculture Coalition for Immigration Reform, a
trade group. ''Even if regulatory reform were wildly successful and carried on
to the next administration, it can't even begin to solve the agricultural labor
crisis. The bottom line is Congress is still on the hook.''

Farmer and worker groups have backed long-stalled legislation that would make
more sweeping changes.

Anthony Coley, a spokesman for Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of
Massachusetts, a major proponent of that legislation, denounced the revisions
and said the senator ''feels strongly that they should be withdrawn.''

Worker advocates said the Bush administration was seeking to put its stamp on
the guest worker program instead of more rationally waiting for the next
president. The regulations will be published next Thursday in The Federal
Register and would take effect on Jan. 18, two days before President-elect
Barack Obama is inaugurated.

Bruce Goldstein, executive director of Farmworker Justice, an advocacy group
based in Washington, said of the changes, ''The intent is a massive expansion of
the guest worker program by enticing workers into a program with low wages and
poor working conditions.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 13, 2008



CORRECTION: An article on Friday about newly announced rules for a guest worker
program misstated a word in a quotation from Bruce Goldstein, executive director
of Farmworker Justice, an advocacy group that opposes the changes. He said,
''The intent is a massive expansion of the guest worker program by enticing
employers into a program with low wages and poor working conditions,'' not
enticing ''workers'' into the program.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 13, 2008 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Migrant Worker Decapitated in Russia

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 696 words

DATELINE: MOSCOW


The police in Moscow are investigating the ghastly murder of a Central Asian
migrant worker, who was stabbed several times and decapitated in an apparent
attack by ultranationalists.

The severed head of the victim, a citizen of Tajikistan, was discovered in a
dumpster on Wednesday wrapped in a plastic bag, the press service for the
investigative wing of the Prosecutor General's Office said.

Investigators say the victim and another Tajik migrant worker were attacked last
Saturday after they left work at a food warehouse just south of Moscow. The
newspaper Kommersant cited unnamed police sources, who said the murder victim
was Salekh Azizov, 20, from the city of Vidnoe, also south of Moscow. The second
Tajik worker was able to escape, but was hospitalized with injuries, according
to the investigators.

An obscure group calling itself the Militant Organization of Russian
Nationalists announced it was responsible for the killing in an email sent to
two human rights organizations that monitor hate crimes in Russia. The email
also included a photo of the victim's decapitated head.

The authors of the email said the killing was ''a demonstration of their resolve
to fight against the non-Russian occupation, and a warning to officials that the
same will happen to them if they do not stop the flow of immigration,'' said
Galina V. Kozhevnikova a deputy director at the Sova Center, one of the rights
organizations that received the email.

Millions of migrant workers, mostly from the former Soviet republics of Central
Asia, reside in Russia, which is dependent on their labor because of the
country's rapidly declining population and dwindling domestic workforce.

But violent attacks against ethnic minorities in Russia are common and have been
growing in severity as increasing numbers of non-Slavic migrant workers leave
economically blighted regions for large Russian cities in search of work,
analysts said.

In 2008, 85 people have been reported killed and 367 injured in attacks by
violent nationalists, said Ms. Kozhevnikova, though she said that the numbers
were likely far higher since many attacks go unrecorded or are reported months
after they occur. Most of the victims tend to be dark-skinned men from Central
Asia or the Caucasus region, though tourists and foreign students have also been
attacked.

Stanley Robinson, a young African-American student from Rhode Island, on a study
abroad program to Volgograd in southern Russia, remains in critical condition
after he was stabbed three times last week on his way from the gym, a relative
of Mr. Robinson said.

Human rights groups have frequently criticized Russian officials for appearing
to sympathize with violent nationalists and for failing to adequately address
the problems of racist attacks in the country.

State-run Russian television channels have largely ignored the murder of the
Tajik worker, though newspapers, which are typically more independent from
government meddling, have covered it heavily.

A police crackdown on nationalist and neo-fascist groups in Moscow earlier this
year resulted in the attacks in the capital abating somewhat over the summer,
Ms. Kozhevnikova said.

Yet violence in Moscow has begun to climb again in recent months, particularly
following the rape and murder two months ago of a 15-year-old ethnic Russian
girl. A city maintenance worker from Uzbekistan was charged with the crime,
sparking protests and revenge attacks by ultranationalist groups, who often
refer to non-Slavs on Russian soil as ''occupiers.''

Police found the head of the slain Tajik worker next to the Mozhaisky District
administration building in western Moscow, not far from where the girl was
murdered.

The incident is reminiscent of another grisly beheading videotaped and
disseminated on the internet over a year ago. In the video, a masked individual
decapitates a bound, dark-skinned man with what appears to be a large knife.
Moments later, another man, also bound, is shot point-blank in the head. The
video ends with two people in masks giving Nazi solutes in front of a red banner
emblazoned with a swastika.

Police have still not identified the killers.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 14, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Police in Moscow Investigate Killing of a Migrant Worker

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 603 words


MOSCOW -- The police in Moscow are investigating the killing of a Central Asian
migrant worker who was stabbed several times and decapitated in what appeared to
be an attack by ultranationalists.

The severed head of the victim, a citizen of Tajikistan, was discovered last
Wednesday in a trash bin, wrapped in a plastic bag, the press service for the
investigative wing of the Prosecutor General's Office said.

Investigators say the victim and another Tajik migrant worker were attacked on
Dec. 6 after they left work at a food warehouse south of Moscow. The newspaper
Kommersant cited unidentified police sources, who said the victim was Salekh
Azizov, 20, from Vidnoe, also south of Moscow. The second worker escaped but was
hospitalized with injuries, the investigators said.

An obscure group calling itself the Militant Organization of Russian
Nationalists claimed responsibility for the killing, in an e-mail statement sent
to two human rights organizations that monitor hate crimes in Russia. The
statement included a photograph of the victim's severed head.

The statement said the killing was ''a demonstration of their resolve to fight
against the non-Russian occupation, and a warning to officials that the same
will happen to them if they do not stop the flow of immigration,'' said Galina
V. Kozhevnikova, a deputy director at the Sova Center, one of the organizations
that received the statement.

Millions of migrant workers, mostly from the former Soviet republics of Central
Asia, live in Russia, which is dependent on their labor because of a rapidly
declining population and a dwindling domestic work force. But violent attacks
against ethnic minorities in Russia are common and have become more severe,
analysts said.

This year, 85 people have been reported killed and 367 injured in attacks by
nationalists, Ms. Kozhevnikova said. She said the numbers were probably far
higher because many attacks were unrecorded or were reported months later. Most
of the victims have been dark-skinned men from Central Asia or the Caucasus, but
tourists and foreign students have also been attacked.

A foreign student who was attacked on Dec. 5, Stanley Robinson, a young
African-American from Providence, R.I., on a study-abroad program to Volgograd
in southern Russia, remained in critical condition after being stabbed three
times on his way back from a gym, a relative said. The police are investigating
whether the attack on Mr. Robinson was a hate crime.

Human rights groups have frequently criticized Russian officials for appearing
to sympathize with violent nationalists and for not adequately addressing racist
attacks. State-run Russian television has largely ignored the killing of the
Tajik worker, though newspapers, which are typically more independent of the
government, have covered it heavily.

A police crackdown this year on nationalist and neo-fascist groups reduced the
number of attacks in Moscow this summer, Ms. Kozhevnikova said.

Yet violence in Moscow has begun to rise again in recent months, particularly
after the rape and killing of a 15-year-old ethnic Russian girl two months ago.
A city maintenance worker from Uzbekistan was charged with the crime, setting
off protests and revenge attacks by ultranationalist groups.

The episode is reminiscent of another beheading videotaped and disseminated on
the Internet more than a year ago, in which a masked person decapitates a bound,
dark-skinned man. Moments later, another man is shot in the head. The video ends
with two people in masks giving Nazi salutes in front of a red banner emblazoned
with a swastika. The killers have not been identified.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 21, 2008 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Q. and A.: Caroline Kennedy's Platform

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 779 words


Following are the answers Caroline Kennedy and her staff provided to 15
questions posed by The New York Times:

Q. Does she support state or federal legislation that would legalize same-sex
marriage?

A. Caroline supports full equality and marriage rights for gay and lesbian
couples.

Q. Would she oppose legislation that would require minors to notify a parent
before obtaining an abortion?

A. Caroline believes that young women facing unwanted pregnancies should have
the advice of caring adults, but this should not be required by law.

Q. Does she support any state or federal restrictions on late-term abortions?

A. Caroline supports Roe v. Wade, which prohibits third-trimester abortions
except when the life or health of the mother is at risk.

Q. Do you support amnesty for undocumented workers?

A. Caroline believes all undocumented workers should be required to legalize
their presence in the United States and that we must create a way for them to do
so. Undocumented workers should pay a fine, learn English and go to the back of
the line behind those who came here legally.

Q. Has the North American Free Trade Agreement worked?

A. Caroline believes that Nafta has had unintended, negative consequences in
some regions of New York, and that is why she agrees with President-elect Obama
that we need to take a careful look at the agreement and pay particular
attention to its impact on jobs and wages in American manufacturing communities.
She also believes that we must ensure that American communities and workers
benefit as we craft new trade agreements.

Q. Do you support any federal or state restrictions on gun ownership? If so,
which ones?

A. Caroline Kennedy is a strong supporter of gun control. She supports New York
City's and New York State's gun control laws. On the federal level, she support
the Brady Law, and other measures to keep guns out of the hands of minors and
criminals.

Q. Do you believe that an undivided Jerusalem must be the national capital of
the State of Israel?

A. Yes, Caroline believes that an undivided Jerusalem must be the national
capital of the State of Israel.

Q. Do you support the auto industry bailout package passed by the House of
Representatives earlier this month?

A. Yes, Caroline supports the auto industry bailout package passed by the House
of Representatives earlier this month.

Q. Should there be a cap on local property taxes in New York State?

A. Caroline believes that is an issue for the legislature and the governor to
decide.

Q. The president-elect proposes higher taxes on the wealthy to help pay for
government programs. Governor Paterson is opposed to increase the state income
tax on the wealthiest New Yorkers. Who is right?

A. Both President-elect Obama and Governor Paterson are showing tremendous
leadership during these tough times. David Paterson has led the fight in
Washington to increase aid to the States. If his efforts are successful it may
change the tough choices that he currently has to make in terms of budget cuts
and revenue increases. In terms of specifics of the Governor's budget, it was
just released last week and Caroline believes it is up to the Governor and the
legislature to work out the details.

Q. Do you support a two-state peace solution for Israel?

A. Caroline supports a two-state peace solution for Israel, so long as there is
a true partner for peace in the Palestinians, and so long as Israel's security
is assured.

Q. Do you support the federal Employee Free Choice Act, otherwise known as the
''card-check'' bill?

A. Yes, Caroline supports the federal Employee Free Choice Act.

Q. Do you believe that school vouchers should be offered to parents of children
in New York City public schools?

A. Caroline's priority is to help the public schools improve so that all
children have the opportunity to attain an excellent education. She does not
support private school vouchers.

Q. Do you want to maintain mayoral control of New York City schools as currently
practiced, or do you favor modifying it? If the latter, how?

A. Caroline supports maintaining mayoral control and believes the mayor should
be held accountable for the education that our children receive. She is always
open to new ideas on how to make the law better so long as they don't prevent
the Mayor from taking the actions he thinks are appropriate and for which he
will be held accountable.

Q. Do you support closing the Indian Point nuclear power plant?

A. Caroline supports the state's efforts to close Indian Point, while
recognizing the need to develop alternative sources for the critical energy it
currently supplies to New York City and the Metropolitan area.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 10, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Russia's Migrants, Economic Despair Douses Flickers of Hope

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; CHELOBITYEVO JOURNAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 942 words


CHELOBITYEVO, Russia -- The tattered shacks of a shantytown for migrant workers
are huddled in the shadow of a nuclear power plant here, just outside sprawling
Moscow's last ring road.

A naked bulb flickers on and off in one, a modified shipping crate that serves
as the home of Avaz Akhatov and his family. Despite the frigid evening, the air
inside is stifling from the heat of a wood-fired stove and the body heat from
his two young sons, wife and sister, all of whom live in a space no larger than
a walk-in closet.

The conditions are miserable, Mr. Akhatov, a 44-year-old laborer from
Tajikistan, admits. And they are getting worse.

Marginalized and maligned in the best of times, Russia's millions of migrants
are facing increasing hardship as the country enters its worst economic decline
since the 1998 ruble collapse. Recruited in droves mostly from former Soviet
republics in Central Asia to build shopping malls, skyscrapers and luxury homes
during Russia's decade-long economic boom, migrant workers now top 10 million
people by some estimates, giving Russia the second largest immigrant population
in the world, trailing only the United States.

Work on construction sites or renovations in private homes, the two most
lucrative migrant professions, are becoming more scarce and employers are
increasingly withholding wages for work already completed, leaving migrants
increasingly desperate.

Many now live directly on construction sites inside the structures they are
building. Others find shelter in ragged shacks cobbled together from
particleboard and scraps of sheet metal and lumped together to form ghettos like
the one here in Chelobityevo.

Russian officials, themselves besieged by the effects of the economic crisis,
are mostly concerned with reining in the number of migrants to preserve jobs for
Russian citizens.

Pressed by the gathering economic crisis, Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin,
while acknowledging Russia's dependence on migrant labor, has called for quotas
on work permits for migrants to be temporarily cut in half.

For all that, Mr. Akhatov says, opportunities in Russia are still better than
they are back home.

''You work and earn 100 rubles, 200 rubles, 500 rubles, and you can feed
yourself,'' the equivalents of $3 to $15 for a day's labor, Mr. Akhatov said.
''But in Tajikistan, you couldn't make 500 rubles in a year.''

Mr. Akhatov has decided to stay if he can -- to work for a pittance, suffer
extortion from employers and the police and live in fear of racist attacks --
just like many of Russia's millions of other migrant workers, whose lives are
mired in similar penury but who have little hope of surviving in their
homelands.

''People have no alternative for making money,'' said Bakhrom Khamroyev, an
ethnic Uzbek who has become a leading advocate for immigrant rights in Russia.
''There is no source other than Russia right now.''

From here, Moscow, with its expensive cars, boutiques and restaurants, is just
barely visible as an orange glow in a cloudy evening sky. Power lines crisscross
overhead with the incessant buzz of electricity moving from the nearby nuclear
power plant to the city.

At Mr. Akhatov's home, water for tea boils in a bucket on the wood-fired stove
as friends and acquaintances come in to talk. They now spend much of their days
listlessly, waiting for regular work.

''I have family there -- 15 people,'' Aleksandr Babokhonov said of his life back
in Tajikistan. ''They need to be clothed, they need to be fed, but with what?''
he asked. ''There is now enough money only for food.''

Increasing attacks by aggressive nationalists also weigh on their minds, as jobs
grow scarcer and a public backlash against migrant labor gains strength. A
Moscow-based human rights group recently announced that 10 people had been
killed in what were apparently racist attacks just since the start of the year.

On top of these problems, migrants often find themselves at the mercy of the
police, who can confiscate cash and other valuables on seemingly any pretext, or
without reason at all, experts and witnesses said.

In the last few months, police officers have raided the shantytown at
Chelobityevo several times, witnesses said, ostensibly to check for illegal
migrants. As often as not, however, legal status is no guarantee of protection.

''Even when all your documents are in order, they can beat you and take your
money,'' Mr. Khamroyev said. ''It's not helpful to be here legally.''

In a recent raid, witnesses said, that about a dozen men were made to strip to
their underwear in frigid temperatures and burn their clothing when they could
not produce enough cash.

Once, the police went into a makeshift mosque during a Muslim holiday and beat
and arrested those praying inside. In another recent raid, police officers
confiscated presents that had been bought as New Year's gifts for family members
back home, residents said.

Frequently, those who do not pay are put to work doing manual labor at police
stations or at the homes of officers, the migrant workers said. Passports and
work permits are also frequently confiscated, subjecting migrants to further
legal hassles and allowing the police another excuse for bribes.

Mr. Akhatov was buying his two children clothes at the market recently when
police officers detained all three, accusing them of having false documents. The
charge was confirmed by a police official, though Mr. Akhatov says his papers
are in order.

His children, Ilkhom, 5, and Idibek, 8, became feverish from several hours spent
in detention, and the police have confiscated Mr. Akhatov's passport.

''They said they'd deport me,'' Mr. Akhatov said. ''I don't know what to do.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chelobityevo, an industrial wasteland outside Moscow, is home
to migrant workers living in tattered shacks. Russia's migrants are faced with
increasing hardship and discrimination.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIKHAIL GALUSTOV FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES)   MAPS: Migrants have built shantytown ghettos in Chelobityevo.
Map details Chelobityevo, Russia.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 20, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Prosecutor Indicts Foes, And Cheney and Gonzales

BYLINE: By JAMES C. MCKINLEY JR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 600 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


The longtime district attorney in Willacy County, Tex., is not retiring from
public office quietly after a defeat at the polls this year. Instead he has
issued a flurry of indictments against his local political enemies, and then for
good measure filed charges against Vice President Dick Cheney and former
Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales.

Mr. Cheney was charged with ''engaging in an organized criminal activity'' in
connection with the 2001 beating death of an inmate by two fellow inmates at one
of the privately run federal detention centers in the county, which is near the
Mexican border, court officials said.

The indictment, brought by the district attorney, Juan Angel Guerra, asserts
that Mr. Cheney has some culpability in what happened because he had invested in
the GEO Corporation, a company in Florida that owns and operates the federal
detention center in Raymondville where the death occurred.

For his part, Mr. Gonzales is accused of using his influence to stop an
investigation into corruption during the building of another federal jail used
by marshals. The indictment also says both Mr. Cheney and Mr. Gonzales
''committed the crime of neglect'' because, it contends, illegal immigrants were
ill-treated at detention centers.

A lawyer for Mr. Cheney, Terrence O'Donnell, said the vice president had no
direct investments in the GEO prison company but did have money invested in a
mutual fund  that might have invested in the company. He called the charge that
Mr. Cheney had something to do with the assault or the running of the detention
center ''bizarre.''

George J. Terwilliger III, a lawyer for Mr. Gonzales, said, ''This is obviously
a bogus charge on its face, as any good prosecutor can recognize.''

Mr. Guerra was under indictment on charges of theft and tampering with records
for more than a year and a half, until a judge dismissed them last month. During
that time, Mr. Guerra, a Democrat who has been in office 12 years, lost a
re-election bid. He leaves office on Dec. 31.

He also has been acting rather oddly since his arrest in March 2007. At one
point, he camped outside the county jail in a trailer with a horse, three goats
and a rooster, daring the sheriff to arrest him. Convinced that local law
enforcement officers had aided the investigation against him, he threatened to
dismiss hundreds of criminal cases in retaliation.

Then on Monday,  Mr. Guerra, 53, persuaded a grand jury to issue indictments
against people he said had something to do with the investigation against him,
charging them with wrongful arrest and abuse of office.

Those charged included two local district court judges, the Willacy County court
clerk, a special prosecutor appointed to investigate him and a former assistant
United States attorney.

In a separate case, Mr. Guerra brought an indictment against a political rival,
State Senator Eddie Lucio Jr., a Brownsville Democrat, charging that he accepted
money from a company that handles the day-to-day operations at the Raymondville
detention center.

''It's just retaliation,'' the county court clerk, Gilbert Lozano, said. ''He's
not happy with some of the officials he had indicted.''

On Wednesday evening, a judge set an arraignment date for Friday for Mr. Cheney
and Mr. Gonzales, but said they could have their lawyers appear on their behalf.
The judge, Manuel Banales, said he would not listen to motions to quash the
indictments until that hearing, because Mr. Guerra was not  in court.

Since no one knew where Mr. Guerra was, the judge sent Texas rangers to his
house to check on his well-being.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 10, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Punishment Over a Detainee's Death

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 877 words


A Rhode Island detention center says it is punishing seven employees in
connection with the case of a New York computer engineer from China whose
extensive cancer and fractured spine went undiagnosed, despite his pleas for
help, until shortly before he died in immigration custody last summer.

The disciplinary actions, ranging from firing to reprimand, resulted from an
internal investigation that found ''specific failures to comply with facility
policies and procedures,'' according to a statement issued this week by the
board of the center, the Donald W. Wyatt Detention Facility in Central Falls,
R.I., a locally owned jail that mainly houses federal detainees.

Spokesmen for Wyatt, which is being sued by the widow of the engineer, Hiu Lui
Ng, 34, declined to provide any more details. And they stood by earlier
assertions that ''Mr. Ng was provided appropriate and timely medical attention
to diagnose the late-stage cancer which ultimately caused his death.'' He died
on Aug. 6, after a year in immigration custody, the last month of it spent at
Wyatt.

Lawyers for Mr. Ng's family said the announcement raised more questions than it
answered at a time when federal immigration authorities, citing their own
continuing investigation into Mr. Ng's treatment, have removed their detainees
from Wyatt and stopped placing any more of them there. The federal investigation
began soon after The New York Times reported in August on the case, one of
several detainee deaths that have drawn Congressional scrutiny to complaints of
inadequate medical care, human rights violations and a lack of oversight in
immigration detention.

''The extent of the discipline highlights that there is a systemic problem at
Wyatt,'' said Steven Brown, director of the American Civil Liberties Union of
Rhode Island, who is one of the lawyers representing the family. He maintained
that the detention center's decision to discipline seven employees did not
square with its defense of Mr. Ng's medical treatment.

Wyatt and Central Falls city officials, citing the jail's long record of
accreditation by the American Correctional Association and warning of layoffs
and economic distress, have been lobbying Rhode Island's Congressional
delegation for a return of the immigration detainees, who filled about a third
of the jail's 722 beds. The government paid Wyatt more than $100 a day for each,
and officials say the jail has been losing about $100,000 a week since the
detainees were scattered to other jails last month.

John J. McConnell Jr., a lawyer who is handling the Ng litigation without fee
for the American Civil Liberties Union, said Wyatt was ''walking a fine line,''
trying to take just enough disciplinary action to get back the detainees,
without admitting wrongdoing.

''I just wish somebody would take responsibility for the needless torture of
Jason Ng,'' Mr. McConnell said, using the American name that Mr. Ng adopted when
he arrived from Hong Kong as a teenager with his parents on visitors' visas.
''No one is taking responsibility for him. That, for me, is the terrible thing
about how we as a society treat immigration detainees.''

The lawyers have been frustrated in their efforts to obtain Wyatt's records on
Mr. Ng, who overstayed a visa years earlier and was detained for possible
deportation after his wife, an American citizen, sponsored him for a green card.

In court papers, Wyatt claimed that under a federal regulation issued after
9/11, it could not disclose any information about a detainee, even a name,
without specific authorization from Immigration and Customs Enforcement. A
federal judge has postponed a ruling on the matter while she studies the intent
behind the regulation.

Asked whether the immigration agency was withholding permission to provide
records to Mr. Ng's survivors, Kelly Nantel, a spokeswoman, declined to answer,
citing its investigation.

But lawyers for the Ng family are confident they will eventually get to examine
the evidence of Mr. Ng's ordeal, including video recordings made by guards. In
affidavits and interviews, lawyers, relatives and other detainees have said that
even when Mr. Ng (pronounced Eng) was in too much pain to walk, use the bathroom
or stand in line to get pain medication, he was accused of faking his illness
and was repeatedly denied a wheelchair.

A week before his death, according to an affidavit by a lawyer who spoke with
Mr. Ng and other witnesses at the time, five guards dragged him out of his cell
and drove him in shackles to a federal lockup in Hartford, where an immigration
agent pressured him to drop his appeals and agree to deportation.

Asked about that episode, Phillip Loscoe Jr., a spokesman for Wyatt, said,
''Whether or not Mr. Ng should or should not have been sent to Hartford is not a
decision that we at Wyatt make.''

Mr. Loscoe and another spokesman would not say which jail employees were being
punished or why, citing the litigation by Mr. Ng's family and the federal
investigation. The warden, Wayne Salisbury, confirmed in a recent interview that
a captain who refused Mr. Ng the use of a wheelchair was suspended last fall,
with pay. On Friday, Mr. Salisbury referred a reporter's questions to jail
spokesmen, who declined to answer them.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Officers at the Wyatt detention center in Rhode Island, where a
New York man, Hiu Lui Ng, died in August. Mr. Ng had cancer and a fractured
spine, which went undiagnosed at the jail.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 12, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Puts Halt to ID Theft Inquiry Focusing on Immigrants

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 443 words

DATELINE: DENVER


An identify theft investigation in northern Colorado that has implicated more
than 1,000 people suspected of being illegal immigrants has now been halted by a
judge until he decides whether tactics used by the authorities were legal.

The judge, James H. Hiatt of State District Court, ordered Weld County officials
on Tuesday to hand over documents seized during a search of a tax preparer's
office last October. Sheriff's investigators and the local district attorney
have been using the tax documents as the basis for arrests on charges involving
fraudulent Social Security numbers, commonly presented by illegal immigrants to
get work.

Judge Hiatt's ruling came in a lawsuit filed by the American Civil Liberties
Union of Colorado against Weld County's district attorney, Kenneth R. Buck, and
its sheriff, John Cooke, who together undertook the investigation.

The civil liberties union claims that the authorities violated the privacy
rights of thousands of taxpayers when they seized the documents from the tax
preparer, Amalia's Translation and Tax Services, in Greeley.

Judge Hiatt is to decide next month whether the authorities acted legally. In
the meantime, the ruling Tuesday ''is certainly a sign that the judge understood
our arguments regarding the right to privacy and the potential harm that flows
from this massive and illegal fishing expedition,'' said Mark Silverstein, legal
director of the A.C.L.U. of Colorado.

Jennifer Finch, a spokeswoman for the district attorney's office, said the
judge's temporary halt to the inquiry had been expected. ''This case has brought
up a variety of issues that need to be sorted out and decided on,'' Ms. Finch
said.

The investigation has inspired a debate over whether local authorities can use
personal tax information to pursue suspects on identify theft charges. The
government  requires residents of the United States, legal or not, to pay taxes
on income earned here, and many illegal immigrants do so because they hope it
will lead to legal status.

The inquiry has so far led to the arrest of 62 people on identify theft or
criminal impersonation charges, and warrants have been issued for the arrest of
59 others. Those cases, already in the justice pipeline, are not affected by
Tuesday's order, but the authorities are barred from any more arrests until
Judge Hiatt rules next month.

On Monday, another state district judge, James Hartmann, presiding over a
separate case involving the search of the tax preparer's office, ruled that
local law enforcement officers had not had sufficient probable cause for it. Ms.
Finch said the district attorney's office would appeal that decision.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 2, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Massachusetts: Obama's Aunt Can Stay to Make Asylum Case

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING NORTHEAST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 101 words


President Barack Obama's aunt will remain in the United States until at least
next year as she awaits a chance to make her case before an immigration judge in
her bid for asylum from her native Kenya. At a hearing in Boston, a judge set
the case of Zeituni Onyango, for Feb. 4, 2010. Ms. Onyango, 56, first applied
for asylum in 2002, but was rejected and ordered deported in 2004. She did not
leave the country and continued to live in public housing in Boston. Her lawyer
said Ms. Onyango first applied for asylum because of violence in Kenya but did
not reveal what grounds she had cited in her renewed bid.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ohio: Board Rules For Deportation

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING MIDWEST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 142 words


An immigration appeals board ruled that John Demjanjuk could be deported to
Germany to face charges that he served as a Nazi death camp guard during World
War II. Mr. Demjanjuk's son said his father, a retired autoworker from suburban
Cleveland, would immediately appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for
the Sixth Circuit. The board's denial of an emergency stay of deportation makes
it more likely that Mr. Demjanjuk, 89, will soon be sent to face a warrant
claiming he was an accessory to some 29,000 deaths at the Sobibor camp in
Nazi-occupied Poland in 1943. Once in Germany, he could be formally charged in
court. Mr. Demjanjuk, a native Ukrainian, has denied involvement in any deaths.
He filed a motion to the board in Falls Church, Va., saying that he was in poor
health and that being forced to travel to Germany would amount to torture.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 14, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Halts Investigation Into ID Theft In Colorado

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 655 words

DATELINE: GREELEY, Colo.


A state judge here ordered a halt Monday to a controversial identity theft
investigation that has implicated more than 1,000 suspected illegal immigrants,
ruling that the search at the start of the investigation was unlawful and
violated privacy rights.

The judge, James H. Hiatt of Colorado District Court, ruled that the Weld County
Sheriff's Office lacked probable cause last October when investigators seized
thousands of tax returns and other documents from a Greeley tax preparer, Amalia
Cerrillo, the owner of Amalia's Translation and Tax Services.

Local authorities used the documents in arresting dozens of suspects, most of
them illegal immigrants, on charges involving fraudulent Social Security
numbers. Illegal immigrants often use such numbers to get jobs.

The ruling stemmed from a lawsuit filed by the American Civil Liberties Union of
Colorado against the Weld County district attorney, Kenneth R. Buck, and Sheriff
John Cooke, who led the investigation.

Comparing the search to a hypothetical police raid on a doctor's office in
search of medical records of drug addicts, Judge Hiatt said the authorities had
operated on the premise that ''somewhere in Ms. Cerrillo's records of some
customers, there would be evidence of some crime by someone.''

He said, ''There was little public gain through this search, compared to the
private harm to Ms. Cerrillo, her clients, her clients' privacy.''

Judge Hiatt granted the civil liberties group a preliminary injunction and
ordered that all documents seized in the raid be returned to Ms. Cerrillo, or
destroyed, within seven days.

While the ruling was preliminary, A.C.L.U. lawyers said they interpreted it as
an end to the case -- unless a state appeals court rules otherwise -- because
all the evidence in their lawsuit had been presented.

''This ruling is a tremendous victory for the right to privacy,'' the legal
director for the A.C.L.U. of Colorado, Mark Silverstein, said, ''and I hope it
sends a message to law enforcement in other jurisdictions.''

But Mr. Buck, the district attorney, said in a brief interview that he would
wait for a Colorado Supreme Court ruling in a related case before deciding how
to proceed. In that case, another state judge, James Hartmann, also ruled that
the investigators from Sheriff Cooke's office had not had probable cause to
search Ms. Cerrillo's tax service. Mr. Buck appealed Judge Hartmann's ruling.

Since the investigation was begun, it has provoked an intense debate throughout
Colorado over whether local authorities can lawfully use personal tax
information to pursue suspects -- particularly illegal immigrants -- on identify
theft charges.

In his ruling, Judge Hiatt agreed with immigrant rights groups that the Internal
Revenue Service requires United States residents, whether legal or not, to pay
taxes on income earned in the United States. Many illegal immigrants do so in
the hope of gaining legal status.

Mr. Buck had argued that the tax records were not yet in the possession of the
I.R.S. He had also insisted that the case was about identify theft, not
immigration policy, and that he had a duty to protect citizens from serious
crime.

An aggressive district attorney who has clashed with immigrant rights groups
before, Mr. Buck made headlines here when, after the lawsuit was filed, he had
T-shirts printed that read, ''The A.C.L.U. sued my District Attorney &
Sheriff.'' He sold the T-shirts in an effort, he said, to offset the taxpayer
cost of defending against the lawsuit.

By last month, when Judge Hiatt ordered an interim halt to the investigation so
he could review the lawsuit, more than 60 people had been arrested on identify
theft or criminal impersonation charges. Warrants have been issued for the
arrest of 61 others. Those cases, already in the court system, are not affected
by Monday's ruling, although it appeared that the decision might help the
defendants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 15, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ohio: Accused Death Camp Guard Is Granted a Stay

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING MIDWEST; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 161 words


The return of the accused Nazi death camp guard John Demjanjuk to Germany for
trial on war crimes was delayed again by a federal court, shortly after six
immigration officers removed him from his suburban Cleveland home in a
wheelchair. He was later released from federal custody. A three-judge panel of
the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, in Cincinnati, granted
a stay until it could further consider Mr. Demjanjuk's motion to reopen the case
that ordered him deported, in which he says painful medical ailments would make
travel to Germany torturous. An arrest warrant in Germany claims that Mr.
Demjanjuk was an accessory to some 29,000 deaths during World War II at the
Sobibor camp in Nazi-occupied Poland. Citing the need to act because of the
possibility of Mr. Demjanjuk's imminent deportation, the court issued the stay
without addressing the United States government's argument that the court had no
jurisdiction to rule on the appeal.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 24, 2009 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

North Korea Decides to Indict 2 U.S. Reporters

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 418 words

DATELINE: SEOUL


North Korea said Friday that it had decided to indict two American journalists
who have been detained for more than five weeks on charges of illegally entering
the country and committing ''hostile acts.''

''Our related agency has completed its investigation of the American
journalists,'' North Korea's state-run news agency, KCNA, reported. ''It has
formally decided to put them on trial based on confirmed criminal data.''

The reporters, Laura Ling and Euna Lee, work for Current TV, a San
Francisco-based media company founded by Al Gore, the former vice president.
They were arrested by the North Korean military on March 17 on the border
between China and North Korea. They had been in China reporting on the North
Korean refugees who fled hunger at home and were living in hiding in China.

The news agency did not say specifically what charges the journalists will face.
But North Korea officials said on March 31 that the reporters would be indicted
on charges of ''illegal entry'' and perpetrating ''hostile acts'' against the
Communist state.

Their indictment comes amid high tension between North Korea and the United
States after the North launched a long-range rocket on April 5. The United
States pressed the United Nations Security Council to call for tightened
sanctions on the North.

In return, Pyongyang told the United Nations' nuclear monitors last week to
leave the country and vowed to quit six-nation talks on dismantling its nuclear
weapons facilities. It threatened, too, to restart a plant that makes bomb-grade
plutonium.

The United States does not have diplomatic relations with North Korea, but a
Swedish diplomat based in North Korea has met with the two American journalists
on Washington's behalf. They are being are held in Pyongyang, the capital.

After Ms. Ling and Ms. Lee were arrested under circumstances that are still
unclear, they appear to have become part of the political standoff between
Pyongyang and Washington, analysts said, with North Korea likely to use their
trial as political leverage against the United States.

North Korea has said that it would allow the reporters consular access and treat
them according to international law. Amnesty International has said it doubted
that they will receive a fair trial, given the North Korean judicial system's
lack of independence or transparency.

North Korea also has detained a South Korean worker in a joint industrial
complex in the North for almost a month on charges of denouncing the North
Korean regime.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 25, 2009 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

North Korea Decides to Indict 2 U.S. Reporters

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN; Liz Robbins and Sharon Otterman contributed reporting
from New York.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 770 words

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea


North Korea said Friday that it had decided to indict two American journalists
who have been detained for more than five weeks on charges of illegally entering
the country and committing ''hostile acts.''

''Our related agency has completed its investigation of the American
journalists,'' North Korea's state-run news agency, KCNA, reported. ''It has
formally decided to put them on trial based on confirmed criminal data.''

The reporters, Laura Ling and Euna Lee, work for Current TV, a San
Francisco-based media company founded by Al Gore, the former vice president.
They were arrested by the North Korean military on March 17 on the border
between China and North Korea. They had been in China reporting on the North
Korean refugees who fled hunger at home and were living in hiding in China.

Ms. Ling, 32, is the younger sister of Lisa Ling, a television journalist who
reported undercover in North Korea for National Geographic in 2006. In the
piece, ''Inside North Korea,'' Lisa Ling posed as part of a medical team that
used a hidden camera; her report exposed some of the hardships of living in
North Korea and criticized the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-il.

She had gained prominence as a co-host on the talk show, The View, from 1999 to
2002, and has since been a contributor for the Oprah Winfrey Show and National
Geographic.

Lisa Ling has not commented on her sister's capture.  A message to Mr. Gore's
spokeswoman on Friday was not immediately returned. In addition, Current TV has
removed content relating to the capture of Ms. Ling, a reporter, and Ms. Lee, an
editor, on its web site.

On Friday, Doug Ling, who lives in Carmichael, Calif., and raised Lisa and Laura
as a single father, would say only that ''We hope, wait and pray.''

Ms. Lee has been a video and film editor in San Francisco and, according to her
web site is linked with a partner, Michael Saldate, who is an actor and stand-up
comic. When reached on Friday, Mr. Saldate also said he could not comment.

A Facebook group with about 2,400 members has sprung up to show support for the
women and members have pledged to hold several rallies: one at the MSNBC studios
in New York next month and two next Tuesday, one outside Current TV's office in
San Francisco and the other at the high school that Laura Ling attended in
California.

The North Korean news agency, KCNA, did not say specifically what charges the
journalists will face. But North Korea officials said on March 31 that the
reporters would be indicted on charges of ''illegal entry'' and perpetrating
''hostile acts'' against the Communist state.

Their indictment comes amid high tension between North Korea and the United
States after the North launched a long-range rocket on April 5. The United
States pressed the United Nations Security Council to call for tightened
sanctions on the North.

In return, Pyongyang told the United Nations' nuclear monitors last week to
leave the country and vowed to quit six-nation talks on dismantling its nuclear
weapons facilities. It threatened, too, to restart a plant that makes bomb-grade
plutonium.

Russian Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov confirmed on Friday that North Korea
had withdrawn from the talks.

North Korea ''is not prepared to return to the negotiating table now,'' Mr.
Lavrov said at a news conference in Seoul following a visit to Pyongyang earlier
this week. ''Our common goal is to provide conditions in which the resumption of
the negotiations would be possible,'' he said.

The six-party talks on the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula involve
North Korea, South Korea, Russia, the United States, Japan, and China.

After Ms. Ling and Ms. Lee were arrested under circumstances that are still
unclear, they appear to have become part of the political standoff between the
governments in Pyongyang and Washington, analysts said, with North Korea likely
to use their trial as political leverage against the United States.

The United States does not have diplomatic relations with North Korea, but a
Swedish diplomat based in North Korea has met with the two American journalists
on Washington's behalf. They are being are held in Pyongyang, the capital.

North Korea has said that it would allow the reporters consular access and treat
them according to international law. Amnesty International has said it doubted
that they will receive a fair trial, given the North Korean judicial system's
lack of independence or transparency.

North Korea also has detained a South Korean worker in a joint industrial
complex in the North for almost a month on charges of denouncing the North
Korean regime.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 14, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Coming to America, Fighting for a School

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg.
12

LENGTH: 566 words


The Long Road

To a Safe Haven

To the Editor:

Re ''The Year of Living Nervously'' (Dec. 7), about a Cameroonian activist's
long quest for political asylum in the United States:

The restrictions on legal work during the approval process are not the only
burdens placed on asylum applicants. Because of changes in immigration rules
dating to 1996, asylum applicants must also make their application within one
year of their arrival in the United States.

This change was supposedly made to prevent fraud, although the application
process already requires enough documentation and interviews to ensure
credibility.

Gay and lesbian applicants, transgender people and those who have suffered from
extreme abuse often find it hard to meet this deadline. Their experiences,
frequently compounded by a language barrier, make it painful to relive and
testify to abuse and trauma in the face of what can be an openly hostile legal
environment.

Any effort at ''immigration reform'' must address this onerous requirement,
which denies protection to many individuals most deserving of the law's
protection. Matthew Lamberti

Flushing, Queens

Defending a Principal

Who Faced Big Problems

To the Editor:

''Sad Students, and Echoes of a Strict Era'' (Dispatches, Nov. 30), about former
students who joined a class-action lawsuit alleging unfair treatment at Boys and
Girls High School in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, omitted crucial details that
speak to racism and make Frank Mickens, the school's former principal, look less
a villain.

When Boys and Girls was built in the 1970s, the community was first told that
the new school would be a model ''education option'' school. But that changed,
and Boys and Girls became the school of last resort for black students in
Brooklyn. Any parents with means sent their children out of the zone to other
schools.

When Mr. Mickens became principal in 1986, he reminded the community of the
Board of Education's earlier pledge and, with broad support, began to operate
the school according to the promise. Under Mr. Mickens, the school became
stable, students began to go to college and teachers no longer left in droves
each year.

When asked to provide a tenure recommendation for Frank Mickens in 1987, I did
so because of his achievements at the school and because whatever failures the
school had reflected the failure of the central board to provide adequately for
all the children in that area, not because of any blatant elitism on the part of
Mr. Mickens or his supporters. Stephen Phillips

Kensington, Brooklyn

The author is a former superintendent of alternative high schools and programs
for the city's Board of Education.

Mastering the City,

One Street at a Time

To the Editor:

Re ''Suddenly, Street Wise'' (New York Observed, Nov. 23), about the author's
growing anxiety as her son learns the city's geography:

As I read the essay, I kept thinking that I was peering into a crystal ball. We,
too, live on the Upper East Side. My son is 10, and I'm dreading the day that he
starts navigating the city by himself.

We have recently put our toes in the water by letting him go around the corner
to Dean & DeLuca to buy a baguette. Funny, though -- he never comes back with
the change, just a cookie for himself. But I guess that's a different life
lesson. Irene Siotka

Carnegie Hill

E-mail: society@nytimes.com Information: (212) 556-1141

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Njoya Hilary Tikum, a Cameroonian who sought asylum. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 29, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Massachusetts: Businessman Sentenced

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING NORTHEAST; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 137 words


The owner of a leather-goods factory was sentenced to a year in prison Tuesday
for harboring and concealing illegal immigrants at the plant, which agents
raided in 2007. The man, Francesco Insolia, pleaded guilty in November. He said
in court he took full responsibility for not taking any action after being
informed that illegal immigrants were working in his factory in New Bedford.
''I'm responsible for the conduct,'' Mr. Insolia said. ''Never in my worst
nightmare would I think I'd find myself in the position I am in today.'' Mr.
Insolia's company, Michael Bianco Inc., was ordered to pay $1 million for 18
counts of knowingly hiring illegal immigrants from 2004 to late 2006. When the
factory was raided in March 2007, federal authorities arrested 361 workers, most
of them from Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company
