
                               1 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 2, 1989, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Rings Smuggling U.S. Aliens Gain Sophistication

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 668 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, March 1


Recent detentions of Latin-American aliens aboard United States airliners
reflect the increasing sophistication of rings smuggling aliens into and within
the United States, immigration officials said today.

''It's no longer a guy at a hotel in Tijuana saying, 'Do you want to go across
the border?' '' Bob O'Leary, a senior special agent with the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service's anti-smuggling unit in Washington, said
today. ''It's a whole organization making big money.''

For the third time in three days, immigration officials today seized a group of
aliens aboard a scheduled domestic flight. Officials today detained 27 suspected
illegal aliens aboard a flight in Charlotte, N.C. The aliens had begun the
flight Tuesday night on an America West flight to Phoenix, from Los Angeles and
had transferred to a Piedmont Airlines flight from Phoenix to New York with a
stopover in Charlotte.

Officials said that stricter requirements of the nation's 1986 immigration law
were forcing smuggling operations to become increasingly sophisticated and
expensive for aliens. Groups that seek to help with aliens say the growing
number of middle-class people fleeing Central America was also a factor in the
number of aliens resorting to airline travel.

Immigration officials here said the aliens aboard the first Eastern Airlines
flight detained here Monday paid about $40,000 to the smugglers who arranged
their travel. Officials said they suspect such operations work out of airports
along the nation's Southern borders.

The officials said that although there have been detentions of aliens aboard
airlines in the past, smuggling was becoming increasingly sophisticated and
brazen. Mr. O'Leary said smugglers now advertise in newspapers in many countries
like the Philippines and the Dominican Republic. In Guatemala and other Latin
American countries they nail fliers to trees. They offer travel arrangements
through Mexico, across the border and into the interior of the United States.
With the advent of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, they also
often offer packages with false documents, he said.

Wide Variety of Smugglers

Other aliens, particularly those from Mexico, make their own way to towns on
both sides of the Mexican border where a wide variety of smugglers arrange trips
across the border or within the United States.

Mr. O'Leary said traffickers frequently advertise one price and then charge
added fees, while providing pitiful documentation of no value on this side of
the border.

Mario Moreno, associate counsel for the Mexican-American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund in Washington, said: ''The smugglers gouge these people. They
take advantage of them. Their lives are endangered.'' The number of detentions
at the border has fallen steadily since the enactment of the new immigration
law. In the 1986 fiscal year, officials seized 1.6 million aliens trying to
enter the nation illegally. Last year there were 940,601 detained.

But the number of aliens coming from greater distances, particularly in Central
America, has continued to grow, officials said. Such aliens are more likely to
rely on smugglers because of the complexity of their trip. Similarly, the
requirement that workers show proof of lawful residence to work here legally has
drawn others to smuggling operations.

Neil Jacobs, assistant district director for enforcement in Atlanta, said,
''With all the border agents that are being assigned down there, the aliens are
resorting to going by air rather than by van or car.''

But Mr. Moreno said the detentions also reflect the growing number of
middle-class people fleeing the turmoil in Latin America.

''We're as much in favor of protecting the sovereignty of our borders as anyone
else,'' he added, ''but to do it, we have to deal with the heart of the problem,
not the symptoms. You get the symptoms at the Atlanta Airport. The heart of the
problem is the economic and political problems in Central America.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 27, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Jobs Even More Out of Aliens' Reach

BYLINE: By DAVID S. WILSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 928 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 25


Immigrants having trouble getting work because employment of illegal aliens is
prohibited are now finding it even harder because of a Federal crackdown on
their makeshift hiring halls: street corners.

But several cities and churches in Southern California are exploring ways to
help the workers find jobs.

Street-corner groups of men looking for landscaping, construction or other work
paying $2 to $10 an hour and often lasting only a day have rapidly grown this
summer as immigration authorities began to enforce a ban on employing illegal
aliens that is part of the 1986 overhaul of immigration laws.

But immigration agents have arrested more than 600 illegal day workers in recent
weeks in Orange and Los Angeles counties and have warned 72 employers that they
could be fined and their vehicles confiscated for hiring and transporting
illegal aliens. Immigration officials say the crackdown on street hiring has cut
the crowds in half.

'I Have to Work'

Immigrants and those helping them say, however, that the ranks of immigrants
needing work is still growing. They say employers seeking quick and cheap labor
still hire illegal aliens because the workers are even more desperate for jobs
and will take lower pay.

''I have to work,'' said an illegal alien who was among dozens on a heavily
traveled Redondo Beach street the other day, despite a law banning hiring of
laborers from street corners. He said he was supporting six children he had left
behind in Guatemala. ''It's very bad there,'' he said.

In Los Angeles, two Roman Catholic churches have become sanctuaries and informal
hiring sites for illegal workers. Priests contend that the aliens have a right
to work.

Costa Mesa, in Orange County, plans to open a city-run hiring hall soon for
workers who are legal residents. Glendale is considering a similar plan as well
as a law like Redondo Beach's.

The No. 1 Destination

Southern California is the No. 1 destination of Latin American immigrants. In
the seven-county Los Angeles district of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, 910,270 illegal aliens applied for legal status under the 1986
immigration law, which was intended to discourage illegal immigration.
Nationwide, 1.4 million applied. Thousands of illegal aliens ineligible for
amnesty have continued to arrive, and some aliens already here have been fired
by employers who fear sanctions.

The street-corner groups mushroomed. John Brechtel, assistant director for the
Los Angeles District of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said:
''Corners that used to have 15 or 20 men now had 200 or 300.''The agency is
flooded with complaints from businesses and residents of harassment and
littering by the workers, he said.

Aliens Arrested to Go Home

The agency found in a survey that 90 percent of the street-corner job seekers
were illegal immigrants. Nearly all of the more than 600 arrested in raids in
the last month have agreed to return to their homes in Mexico or Central
America, immigration officials said.

The workers' supporters criticize the street-corner crackdown. ''It's
frightening people away from the employment they are best able to do,'' said
Sister Annette Debs, a Roman Catholic nun who is an immigration lawyer at the
Community Law Center in Santa Ana, in Orange County. Disputing immigration
service figures, she says only half, rather than 90 percent, of the day laborers
are illegal aliens.

The Rev. Michael E. Kennedy of Our Lady Queen of Angels, a Roman Catholic church
in downtown Los Angeles, predicted that the law would ''eventually self-destruct
on its own.''

''The immigration law is a burden to our economy,'' he said. ''These men do jobs
no one else will do. A city like Los Angeles needs slave labor - that's the only
way to put it.''

Havens for Day Workers

His church and the nearby Delores Mission have become overnight havens and
hiring halls for over 400 illegal Hispanic day workers.

Immigration officials declined to comment on the sanctuaries. No action has been
taken against them, although it is illegal to harbor illegal aliens.

In Costa Mesa, meanwhile, city officials have given initial approval to
converting an unused filling station into a hiring hall for day laborers, said
Cheryl A. Friedling, the project coordinator. The hall is intended to replace
the current gathering place, a city park in a middle-class neighborhood where
100 workers congregate daily.

'Employers Won't Use It'

By October, she said, the new center will open with a system, as yet
undetermined, to weed out illegal aliens as well as employers trying to skirt
the law.

The plan has drawn praise, but Carlos R. Holguin, general counsel for the
National Center for Immigrants Rights, said: ''Employers won't use it. They know
the legal immigrants there will demand higher wages.''

He said ''the enlightened policy'' would be to discourage exploitation of
illegal workers by assuring them of rights no different from other workers.
Subminimum wages and few or no benefits are key reasons that employers hire
illegal workers, he said.

A spokesman for Mayor Tom Bradley of Los Angeles said the Mayor's aides were
examining whether a city-run hiring hall would work.

Two weeks ago, the City Council of Glendale, a city of 160,000 people bordering
Los Angeles, deferred a ban on street-corner hiring and instructed the city
manager, David H. Ramsey, to propose other solutions. ''We are sympathetic with
the desire of people to work,'' Mr. Ramsey said. ''A public street is just not
the place to look for it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of The Rev. Michael E. Kennedy meeting with illegal aliens at Our
Lady Queen of Angels church in Los Angeles, one of two in the city that have
become sanctuaries and informal hiring sites for illegal workers (NYT/Michael
Tweed)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 1, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. to Enforce Sanctions for Hiring Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 696 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 31


Beginning Wednesday, immigration officials are stepping up enforcement against
employers who knowingly hire aliens who are in the country illegally.

Penalties against employers who hire such aliens took effect when the sweeping
immigration law was enacted in November 1986. In the first phase of enforcement,
the immigration authorities familiarized employers with the law and issued
warnings rather than fines in most cases.

But beginning Wednesday, immigration officials are empowered to seek fines
against employers the first time they are found hiring workers who are not
eligible for employment in the United States.

The employer sanctions, designed to curtail the availability of jobs that
attract illegal workers across the border, are one of the major components of
the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. The law also established an
amnesty program that offered legal status to several million aliens.

Forces to Be Increased

Immigration officials said the new phase of enforcement is not intended to be a
crackdown against employers. ''The mode of enforcement will not dramatically
change,'' said Duke Austin, a spokesman for the service. ''However, in cases
that are egregious, willful and knowing we will take action immediately.''

To augment its enforcement efforts, the immigration service is increasing from
800 to 1,700 the number of immigration inspectors. The Border Patrol is adding
1,100 officers and is to bring the total force to 4,200 officers by end of the
year.

Immigration officials said they would concentrate their enforcement efforts in a
few key industries that have historically employed ineligible alien workers,
including the construction, garment, hotel and service industries. Agricultural
employers will not be subject to the more stringent enforcement procedures until
December of this year.

The new stage of enforcement of the law comes as its critics contend it will
have a small impact on illegal immigration, prompt some employers to
discriminate against workers on the basis of their national origin or ethnic
backgrounds and create a police-like role for businesses attempting to comply.

Employer Apprehension

Representatives of business groups, who opposed the law, said they are awaiting
the new phase of enforcement with apprehension. ''The I.N.S. has been pretty
responsive to employer concerns so far,'' said Frederick J. Krebs, director of
the employee relations policy center for the United States Chamber of Commerce.
''The real test will come after June 1 and whether there will be a
confrontational approach or a more responsible one.''

For the first violation, an employer may be fined between $250 and $2,000 for
each illegal alien, but a repeat violator may be fined up to $10,000 per
unauthorized alien. Employers who engage in a ''pattern and practice'' of
violations also face a prison sentence of up to six months. The illegal workers
are subject to deportation.

The law applies to the estimated seven million employers in the United States,
including household employers, who hire workers on a regular basis.

Immigration officials said that in 1987, after the law was enacted, they
detected a drop in the number of illegal aliens apprehended by the authorities.
However, the rate of apprehensions, which is regarded as an indicator of illegal
immigration, remained largely unchanged in the first months of this year. Some
critics of the law interpret the statistics as a sign that the law is losing its
deterrent effect.

''It's not going to turn off the flow until you address the underlying problems
in the sending countries,'' said Mario Moreno, associate counsel of the
Mexican-American Legal Defense and Education Fund. He said that until
unemployment and inflation in Mexico and Central America decline, ''you're not
going to see people staying in their countries. The pressures are just to great
and the risks are not that much.''

A special prosecutor's office has been established within the Justice Department
to investigate discrimination cases under the law, but members of Congress
concerned about the issue said discrimination has not emerged so far as a major
problem.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 19, 1989, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Laxity Found in Checks on Hiring of Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 27, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 653 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 18


The immigration law calls for sanctions against those who employ illegal aliens,
but Federal officials have checked only 0.2 percent of the nation's employers
for compliance, says a study made available today.

Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, while conceding that
budget constraints have limited the inspectors' visits to employers, said that
rather than emphasize penalties early on, they have concentrated on educating
employers about the law.

Because so few visits have been made, the study, conducted by the office of
Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brookyn, a member of the
immigration subcommittee, concluded that the true level of compliance is not
known. The researchers reported that $3.2 million in fines that have been
imposed bear ''little relation'' to probable violations.

General Laxity Is Reported

The study said the service has been generally lax and has applied regionally
inconsistent standards in carrying out the Immigration Reform and Control Act of
1986 since it took effect.

As of Jan. 31, the I.N.S. had conducted inspections of an estimated 12,000
employers on the basis of tips. and about 4,000 random inspections representing
visits to 0.2 percent of the nation's 7 million employers, the report said. It
said the percentage of employers visited ''appears to be dramatically low.''

Range of the Penalties

The agency estimates that 67 percent of the employers visited were found to have
broken no laws. Of those inspections that resulted from tips, 56 percent found
employers in compliance; for random inspections the figure was 87 percent. The
law calls for civil penalties of $250 to $10,000 for each illegal alien hired,
depending on the number of prior violations. Criminal penalties include six
months in jail for employers with a pattern of violations.

Of the fines, $2.2 million were against service industries, $628,650 against
light industries including small businesses, $309,850 against the construction
industry, $94,000 against agricultural employers involved in nonseasonal goods,
and $28,950 against heavy industry.

Mr. Schumer said the study bore out some of his early concerns. ''One of the
fundamental thrusts of the act was that sanctions would be enforced quickly and
rather stiffly so that a message would go out,'' he said. ''The sort of
laid-back approach that the Administration has taken makes it far more difficult
for sanctions to succeed.''

He said the problem was mostly due to budgets that were ''just chopped and
chopped so they don't have the manpower and weren't as well organized as they
might have been.''

'Stricter' Enforcement Promised

Greg J. Leo, the immigration service's director of Congressional and public
affairs, said Mr. Schumer's concerns were unfounded because the service has been
stressing educating employers on the law. ''Now that we think there has been a
high level of understanding, we will incrementally shift over to stricter kinds
of enforcement,'' Mr. Leo said. ''Our efforts have been to get people to comply
voluntarily.''

But a study made public in November by the General Accounting Office, an
investigative arm of Congress, raised questions about the effectiveness of those
education efforts.The researchers reported that 22 percent of the employers
surveyed did not know they could be penalized under the immigration law.

The Schumer study noted that enforcing had been delegated to four regional
offices of the service and raised questions about ''unexplained disparities'' in
fines.

The service's Southern region has the largest number of personnel and has
reported that 405 employers have been fined as of the beginning of this year -
at least 100 more employers than in any other region. The Southern region has
collected $279,694 in total fines, the least of any region. The Western region
fined 294 employers and collected $930,000 in penalties.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 19, 1988, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Carlsbad Journal;
Aliens Have Amnesty but Little Else

BYLINE: By JACKIE FITZPATRICK, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 708 words

DATELINE: CARLSBAD, Calif.


A year ago Aleriberto Rosas was an illegal alien. Now, because of the
immigration amnesty law, he has crossed the threshold into legality. But little
else has changed for him.

He leads a visitor up a dusty embankment to his home in the undeveloped hills of
northern San Diego County, a tent of plastic stretched over some sticks and a
wooden box for a bedroom. His stove is an iron gate over some blackened coals,
his bathtub a bucket of cold water, his bed a table with blankets on it.

He works five days a week at a McDonald's making $4.25 an hour and in the nearby
fields when he can find work. He sends half his pay home to his family in Mexico
City.

''This is very good here,'' Mr. Rosas said. ''It would take three months to make
in Mexico City what I make here in a week, and I have my house.''

But the San Diego County Department of Health is moving to tear down his home
and those of several hundred other migrant workers. The department says the
migrants' camp, Calle Verde, is a health hazard, in part because of an
unlicensed restaurant without refrigeration that serves chicken, rice and beans
to 200 workers a day.

''The same guy who was considered an illegal alien is now a temporary legal
resident,'' said Bill Dominguez, an official of the county's Department of
Trans-Border Affairs. ''Yet he's living in a hut or a riverbed. The way these
people live is intolerable, and yet the subsidized housing market here has been
overburdened for years.

''What are we going to do for all these people? This camp serves as an example
of the changing problems we face because of the amnesty program.''

The workers who have applied for amnesty under the Immigration Reform and
Control Act of 1986 are considered temporary legal residents while their
applications are being processed. Mr. Dominguez said about 20,000 of them live
in squalid conditions in his county and, since Nov. 30, when a separate amnesty
program for agricultural workers ended, the Border Patrol has begun to get tough
with property owners who allow migrants to camp on their land.

''These camps are health hazards,'' said Ron Yardley, a spokesman for the county
Department of Health. ''There are open sewers, restaurants operated without
licenses. It's a problem that's been around for years, but with amnesty it's
more critical. These people have to be housed.'' There have been increasing
complaints from the camp's neighbors, who live in homes that sell for $200,000
to $1 million.

''We've paid thousands of dollars for our homes and they're living right behind
them,'' said Thomas Metroyanis, a resident of the neighborhood of Rancho
Penasquitos. ''These people aren't immunized and they're walking through our
neighborhoods looking for work, congregating outside as our children walk to
school. They may be temporarily legal, but they're still vagrants.''

Some aliens work in the fields, others at construction sites and fast-food
restaurants. Work is as difficult to find as cheap housing.

Most of the unemployed aliens stand on busy thoroughfares waiting for a driver
to pull over and offer a day's yard work or housecleaning. Few make more than
$20 to $30 a day, in an area where small two-bedroom apartments rent for $500 to
$700 a month.

Carlsbad officials are taking applications for housing from families that are
about to be displaced from the camps. The waiting list is long.

''There are pregnant women and children in the camp and we want to see the
families placed first,'' said the Rev. Rafael Martinez of the North County
Chaplaincy, an ecumenical group that provides social and religious support to
migrant workers. ''We need to get them a place to live, prenatal care and health
care.''

The Congressman who represents the area, Representative Ronald Packard, a
Republican, says the amnesty law provides some financial help to communities
faced with new problems with housing, but that is only part of the answer.
''Housing is the first priority,'' Mr. Packard said. ''That will help us solve
the related crime and nuisance problem.''

In the meantime, Calle Verde will be razed, open-air chapel, restaurant and all,
if the county meets its Jan. 1 deadline, leaving Mr. Rosas to look for a new
home. ''I don't know where,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of shacks at the Calle Verde migrant camp; Rojena Lopez washing
clothes (NYT/Robert Burroughs)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 15, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

77 Aliens, in Debt to Smugglers, Found in Captivity in California

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 465 words

DATELINE: FULLERTON, Calif., Oct. 14


A three-bedroom house here became a debtors' prison for 77 illegal aliens who
could not afford to pay the smugglers who brought them into the United States
from Mexico, the authorities said Thursday.

Ninety-one people were found in the house when it was raided Sunday, 14 of them
suspected of being smugglers, the authorities said.

Twelve of the suspects were arraigned here Wednesday on charges of conspiracy
and immigrant smuggling. The other two suspects are juveniles and will be
deported, the authorities said.

Agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service raided the house as part of
a four-month investigation into a ring suspected of smuggling aliens into the
country, said Tom Gaines, an assistant district director for the immigration
service.

Mr. Gaines said all the aliens were from Mexico and owed the smugglers from $300
to ''whatever the market would bear.''

''Some of them had just arrived, some had been there a couple of days,'' Mr.
Gaines said. ''There were no guns found in the house. The smugglers just had
guards at every door. It was plain intimidation to keep them there.''

Neighbors of the house, which had been rented, had noticed the coming and going
of strangers in numerous automobiles over the last three weeks, said Donna
Gimondo, who lives next door.

''We'd see three or four, as many as five get in a car, and it would be gone a
half an hour and then just the driver would come back,'' she said.

She said the household was generally quiet, adding, ''But on trash days there
would be just this humongous pile of trash outside.''

On Sunday, she said she saw three cars pull up to the house and heard an
announcement, ''Open up! Immigration officers.''

Ms. Gimondo said the people in the house did not try to flee. She said she saw
one family that included a mother, father and three children.

''One kid was 3 to 6 months old and the mother had him cuddled in a blanket,''
she said. ''One was about 2 1/2 to 3 years old and the oldest was a 4-year-old
boy. All were crying.''

While she thought there might have been as many as 30 people in the home, she
said, ''I was quite shocked and that there were so many in the house.''

Helen Sklar of the National Center of Immigrant Rights in Los Angeles said such
incidents would continue because the new immigration law did not address the
problems that make people desperate enough to try illegal entry into the United
States.

''The law considers the pull factor and not the push factor,'' she said.
''Unless there is a comprehensive solution involving reduction of the debt
facing Latin American countries and an end to civil strife, people are going to
be fleeing here to escape starvation and war. That is a force powerful enough to
nullify the effect of any employer sanctions law.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 27, 1989, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Metro Matters;
Sentence Served And Life on Hold For Illegal Alien

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 778 words


On Friday, the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service detention
center on Varick Street in lower Manhattan housed 180 aliens. None have been
held there longer than Lyonel Dor.

''I thought I was going to be here two weeks,'' he said, recalling the day he
was taken into custody upstate. Instead, he has been there almost five years.

Mr. Dor, 28 years old, could have left sooner, of course, but that would have
meant leaving not only the detention center, but also the United States. Since
1984, he has sought to avoid deportation to his native Haiti.

No one denies that in 1972, Mr. Dor entered this country illegally. He was 12
years old then, and, after his father died, he was sent here to live with his
father's half sister, Anita Brutus, who owned a rooming house on Gates Avenue in
the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn. By several accounts, she brutalized
Mr. Dor, verbally, physically and sexually. He said he was afraid to complain.

Four years later, the teen-age son of a servant who worked for Mrs. Brutus's
family in Haiti, joined the household. After also enduring abuse, the second
boy, Michelet, was said to have suggested a solution: murder. Mr. Dor said he
rejected the suggestion repeatedly, but finally relented. On Jan. 3, 1978, he
struck his aunt twice with a pipe as Michelet stabbed her to death. Michelet was
remanded to Family Court. Mr. Dor was indicted for murder.

Acknowledging evidence of child abuse, the prosecutor allowed Mr. Dor to plead
guilty to manslaughter. Denied youthful offender status, he was sentenced to 5
to 15 years in state prison. There, he earned his high school equivalency
diploma and an associate of arts degree from Corning Community College,
completed vocational courses and, after converting to Islam, was elected imam of
the prison's American Muslim Mission.

The Rev. Gene Callihan, a United Methodist minister and state correction
counselor, described Mr. Dor's behavior as ''outstanding'' despite the scars
from ''cruelty and psychological torture that would have made one of the most
horrifying stories of merciless servitude and brutality if investigated within
the current atmosphere of social attitudes'' on child abuse. Mr. Dor, the
minister wrote, has ''demonstrated a significant maturation that makes him a man
well prepared to make a worthy contribution to American society.''

After serving six-and-a-half years of his sentence, Mr. Dor was paroled to the
custody of immigration agents. ''I thought I had done the time and I had paid
the price,'' he said.

But an immigration judge found that Mr. Dor had failed to demonstrate his
eligibility for asylum and that his manslaughter conviction constituted ''a
danger to the community of the United States.''

Through the United States Catholic Conference and the Lawyers Committee for
Human Rights, Mark Eli Nerenberg of the law firm of Galef & Jacobs was enlisted
to take the case, without fee. Mr. Nerenberg pursued a panoply of legal and
administrative appeals, some on the basis of the 1986 immigration law overhaul,
but was repeatedly rebuffed.

''This gentleman was found deportable by an immigration judge who denied him all
relief,'' said Charles R. Troy, a spokesman for the Immigration Service. ''Since
then, he has taken advantage of every stage of due process known to man and at
every stage in the process has been denied.''

Along the way, Mr. Nerenberg recruited J. Lee Clay, a supervising correction
counselor at Rikers Island, who had sought to adopt Mr. Dor; a psychiatrist at
Rikers, who posted $20,000 bail, which was refused, and Julie Blackman, a social
psychologist who concluded that Mr. Dor deserved ''a chance to enter a virtually
unknown domain for him - a world of freedom without fear.''

Mr. Dor, a slight, soft-spoken man, says he became a peacemaker in prison and
vows that he is now incapable of the kind of violence he committed 11 years ago.
He complains that he is being largely judged by people who have never met him,
yet he retains his faith in American justice.

''If this were Haiti,'' he said. ''I would have been deported four-and-a-half
years ago.'' He said he has no relatives there, does not speak Creole, and fears
he would be jailed or ''lost in the system.'' Haiti, he said, would be even
harder on Kerry Dor, a Massachusetts nurse whom he met over the telephone when
she called the detention center to inquire about another inmate. They were
married there 10 months later.

Mr. Dor's latest, and perhaps last, administrative appeal is pending in
Washington. ''It would be kind of naive on my part to expect the best,'' he said
on Friday. ''Now, I just hope for the best.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 10, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

REDEFINING THE BOUNDARIES: Who May Come In;
PRO & CON: What Price An Anarchist?

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5, Column 5; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1270 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A COUNTRY'S borders provide not only identity in the eyes of the world but an
important measure of self-definition. Whom a nation permits to enter, whom it
excludes, whom it welcomes or fears - all indicate how a country sees itself,
its present and its future.

For much of this decade, the focus of the debate over such questions has been
illegal immigration. The result was the Immigration Control and Reform Act of
1986, a carrot-and-stick compromise that made it illegal to hire undocumented
workers while at the same time offering amnesty to those who can prove residence
since 1982. With applications for amnesty running below estimates, Congress may
extend the May 4 deadline.

Now, a broader debate encompasses not only a fresh look at the criteria by which
the country chooses its future citizens, but also a vigorous effort to repeal
provisions of the 36-year-old McCarran-Walter Act, which allows the Government
to deny both visitors' and immigrant visas on the basis of factors ranging from
political beliefs to homosexuality.

On Tuesday, the House Judiciary Committee's immigration subcommittee is
scheduled to consider a bill to repeal the exclusionary provisions of the act.
Linda Greenhouse, a reporter in the Washington bureau of The New York Times,
discussed the bill with its sponsor, Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of
Massachusetts, and with Daniel A. Stein, executive director of the Federation
for American Immigration Reform, which advocates cutting back current levels of
immigration.

BARNEY FRANK: Open Up To Ideas

Question. The country has been living with the McCarran-Walter Act for 36 years.
Why change it now?

Answer. It's just wrong for the Government to tell people what they can and
can't hear politically. And that's in part how the law has been used. It's a
hangover from one of the grim periods of American history, the McCarthy period
at its worst. You can understand how that happened historically, the Korean War,
the buildup after World War II of hope and then the letdown. But it denies human
rights, it violates American ideals.

Q. If that's so apparent, why has it taken so long to reach the verge of finally
repealing it?

A. There's no built-in constituency. By definition, the people to whom this law
applies can't vote.

We also have a disinclination on the part of elected officials to get into
controversies needlessly. I think we're going to let into the country some
fairly unattractive people.

[But also] we've become a lot more mature. Not that we have lessened our
opposition to Communism, but we do not think individuals who have Communist
leanings somehow will infect this very vigorous democracy.

Now a constituency has been growing. The intellectual community in this country,
people who are concerned about ideas, are in fact a constituency. But that
wasn't evident until we started moving.

Q. Your bill basically says there should be no such thing as an excludable idea.
Would the Government have to admit everybody, no matter how repulsive their
beliefs?

A. We do have a Supreme Court opinion which says that at some point ideas become
specific incitement to crime, and that can be prevented. You cannot have people
come over here who are going to say,''I think you should take this pistol and
shoot the Mayor.''

Q. Does our society have nothing to fear from imported hatemongers? Is their
presence simply the price we have to pay for keeping a vital First Amendment?

A. I don't think we have to worry about imported hatemongers being able to have
any real influence. Among other things, I cannot think of a hate currently being
mongered outside the country and not inside.

The notion that somehow we are this pristine nation and we will be polluted from
outside is crazy. I mean, keeping out people who believe in polygamy, and
keeping out anarchists. What harm a philosophical anarchist is to the United
States I do not understand. But this law keeps them out.

Q. Your bill permits exclusion for certain ''reasons of foreign policy.'' Can
you give an example?

A. I regard that as a compromise. I would rather not have that. But what people
say is, if we let someone in, it could be misinterpreted as a sign of American
support.

So, a candidate in a contested election in a foreign country two weeks before
the election: d'Aubuisson. A deposed dictator: the Shah of Iran.

Another example: I think we ought to be able to keep Libyans from studying
nuclear power. I'm for that.

Q. Even if all they purport to want to do is use the library?

A. Yes.

DANIEL A. STEIN: Protect the National Interest

Question. Has the McCarran-Walter Act been, on balance, good for the country
these last 36 years? What's all the fuss about?

Answer. The ideological exclusion provision has never inhibited anyone from
hearing ideas that are contrary to the positions of the United States. The way
that the law has been used has been in highly sensitive situations where the
State Department, in its unique position as the administrator of American
foreign policy, has decided that a nonimmigrant visa should not be given to a
particular official.

Barney Frank's bill does more than simply require the United States to admit
visitors to participate at law school seminars. It, in fact, repeals the
ideological exclusion and political affiliation provisions for immigrants as
well. So the question we want to ask is: Do the American people want a say in
whether or not people that they are admitting for citizenship hold ideas that
render them unwilling or unable to swear to uphold the Constitution?

Q. Should there be such a thing as an excludable idea? What national interest is
served?

A. Everybody agrees the law needs to be changed. The Government ought not to be
able to exclude people solely because of their ideas. But every country,
including Canada and Great Britain, retains in its laws the right of their state
departments to exclude people purely because it is contrary to the national
interests. Two years ago, Canada, for example, refused a nonimmigrant visa to
Meir Kahane; that same year, Great Britain excluded the Rev. Louis Farrakhan.

Now, whether or not you agree with the decision, for the Federal Government to
conduct foreign policy, they have to have some discretion. The alternative is
either to give them no discretion whatsoever or to get the courts involved in
trying to second-guess these complex foreign policy judgments.

But realistically, when you hit the the border, these decisions simply have to
be within the power of the state department.

Everybody who's outside the country knows full well that America is very
inner-directed. If it's not happening in America, you're unlikely to hear about
it. So getting into America to talk about your problem is the sine qua non of
effective advocacy.

You have to weigh the potential harm to the American citizen who can't go to a
seminar and hear that person with what may be the State Department's very
legitimate reason for denying a visa.

Perhaps the statute could be drafted this way: When the State Department simply
says we're not letting him in because we don't want him to come in and talk to
our people, just a very generic statement that it's not good for the country
-that's not adequate. They have to have some particularized reason.

Q. How about the First Amendment? Isn't it worth a certain price for keeping
that vital?

A. Yes, but this is not a First Amendment issue. This is an immigration issue.
Nobody's being denied their right to speak whatever they want and to say
whatever they want in this country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Interview

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 7, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Amnesty for Aliens: The Curtain Rings Down to Some Mixed Reviews

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1232 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, May 6


It was born in an uneasy political compromise, a program that was designed to be
generous but not too generous, tough but not oppressive.

And when the nation's landmark program to provide legal status for aliens ended
this week, assessments of its success often had the same mixed point of view.

By offering amnesty to aliens who had lived in the United States illegally for
five years or more, the law was intended to benefit immigrants who had developed
a stake in the United States. By reducing the pool of alien labor, the amnesty
could also bolster the effectiveness of the employer penalties intended to
discourage further illegal immigration.

'A Political Compromise'

But many immigration experts note that, with illegal aliens still far
outnumbering those who achieved legal status, the program might never transcend
the limitations of the political compromise that brought it about.

''Congress said it wanted a law that would be generous and would help future
enforcement, but it wrote statutes that were pretty chintzy in setting up a
pathway to get there,'' said Doris M. Meissner, a senior associate at the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace who is a former Acting Commissioner
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. ''It resulted from a political
compromise, not a real analysis, and we'll have to live with the deficiencies of
that approach.''

Immigration experts say the program, which offered legal status to aliens who
have lived in this country illegally since before Jan. 1, 1982, remains an odd
mix of achievement and disappointment.

The general amnesty and related programs brought out more than two million
applicants, but it left at least two or three times that many still in the
shadows. It was a dramatic success in California and Texas but a disappointment
in the Northeast.

It brought the immigration service praise from many of its harshest critics but
ended on a sour note in a battle over a proposed extension.

The mixed assessments reflect how the law was carried out as well as the
compromise that brought it about.

The turnout neither lived up to the projections of the immigration service nor
bore out the most pessimistic assessments of critics. #1.6 Million Applicants
The immigration service had predicted that two million aliens would apply under
general amnesty provisions, with as many as 3.9 million eligible to apply.
Instead, there were about 1.6 million applicants. About 500,000 more have
applied for program for seasonal agricultural workers that has less stringent
residency requirements. That program will continue until the end of November.

Estimates of the illegal population are notoriously imprecise, and few regard
turnout as the sole way to judge the program.

Even skeptics say the program's undeniable achievement is a poignant, human one:
it gives a vast group of people who lived in fear the chance to live here
lawfully.

''The legalization of 1.5 million people is an incredibly important event in the
lives of those people, and we celebrate with them,'' said Muzaffar Chishti,
director of the legalization project of the International Ladies Garment Workers
Union in New York.

Application Process Praised

The immigration agency's operation of the application process drew widespread
praise. By setting up 107 legalization centers separate from its enforcement
operations, the agency won the trust of many aliens who had feared it in the
past.

''We don't know of any documented case of someone being apprehended or deported
as a result of applying, or of a single breach of confidentiality,'' said
Charles Kamasaki, director of policy analysis for the National Council of La
Raza, a Hispanic advocacy organization. ''For an agency that at one time had a
cowboy image, that's a real accomplishment, and they deserve a lot of credit.''

But Mr. Kamasaki and other observers fault the immigration agency on other
grounds. The publicity about the program, particularly over the first half of
its operation, was widely viewed as inadequate. That is viewed as a major reason
for the disappointing turnout in such ethnically diverse areas as New York, with
its isolated pockets of immigrants.

Similarly, critics say the agency needlessly adopted overly harsh
interpretations of several sections of the law. In several cases, most notably
one affecting students and visitors who overstayed visas, the agency's position
was overturned by the courts. One result is a continuing legal battle on
individual issues that may extend the time various groups can apply.

Extension Plan Opposed

And there is widespread disappointment that the immigration agency opposed a
proposed seven-month extension of the program. Proponents say it could have
brought in 200,000 to 300,000 more applicants.

But the agency and its supporters in Congress said there was no evidence that
that many would apply, and contended that an extension would send a signal to
potential illegal immigrants that the United States lacked the resolve to limit
illegal immigration.

The law was most successful in the Mexican-American barrios of California and
Texas, the two states that contributed almost 70 percent of the applicants.
About 55 percent of the applicants came from California.

Over the long term, the turnout could have profound political and social effects
on those two states and on such cities as Los Angeles and Houston by increasing
the size and influence of the already growing Hispanic population. More than 70
percent of all applicants were from Mexico, and about 80 percent were from
countries that have a Hispanic culture.

Fear of Deportation Cited

The effect on the East Coast, particularly in New York, will be more diffuse.
There were about 100,000 applicants in New York, roughly one-third of the
initial projections. Groups who work with aliens say the immigration agency did
not do the intensive community effort needed to reach ethnic pockets in New
York. And they said fear of deportation was much stronger for Chinese,
Dominicans or Koreans in New York than it was for Mexicans in Texas or
California, who could easily re-enter the United States if they chose to.

''All systems were not go on the part of the I.N.S. when the program started,
and when the outreach really got going it was too late,'' said John Feinblatt,
deputy director of Travelers Aid Services, which operated an immigration hot
line for applicants. ''The result is that we're left with an enormous hidden
population which is easily exploitable and afraid to seek social services, to
call the police, to go to the hospital.''

Senator Alan K. Simpson, a Wyoming Republican who was one of the architects of
the immigration law, urged aliens last week to apply, saying the chance would
never come again.

After a bruising political struggle, few see the possibility of a broad new
amnesty soon. Many feel the program fails to address some questions, however,
and thus consideration of further legalizations could become an issue before
long.

''I think we should give the system at least three or four years before doing
any tinkering,'' said David Simcox, director of the Center for Immigration
Studies in Washington. ''But I would expect very soon, as employer sanctions
begin to bite, we'll hear advocacy groups saying we need to take care of this or
that group and attempts at piecemeal, ad hoc arrangements.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 24, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Quaker Group Sues U.S. Over Requiring Dismissals of Aliens

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 355 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 23


The service arm of the Quakers has filed a suit in Federal District Court here
seeking for itself a religious exemption to new immigration laws that require
employers to dismiss illegal aliens.

Steven G. Cary, chairman of the American Friends Service Committee, said the
group was acting on behalf of ''the dispossessed and the undocumented,'' those
who have been driven from their countries by war and deprivation.

''We find ourselves ordered by the Government to cast out those we have tried
for so long to help,'' Mr. Cary said. ''The effort of a parent to feed his or
her children is criminalized. The demand that we fire those we cannot document
is repugnant to us.''

History of Advocacy

The suit seeks to exempt the committee from a requirement of the Immigration
Reform and Control Act of 1986 that calls for fines up to $10,000 for employers
who fail to verify documents or fail to dismiss employees who do not produce
documentation.

The Friends committee employs about 450 people worldwide.

Mr. Cary noted the group's history of advocacy for the underprivileged, victims
of discrimination and pacifists. It has helped obtain exemptions from the
military for conscientous objectors, was awarded the 1947 Nobel Peace Prize for
helping refugees of war, and sought to end the Vietnam War.

Peter Schey, a lawyer who is executive director of the National Center for
Immigrants Rights, said the immigration law violates the freedom of religion
sections of the First Amendment. He said the suit was filed in Los Angeles
because it has the largest population of refugees who would be affected by the
sanctions.

The suit names as defendants Attorney General Dick Thornburgh, the Immigration
and Naturalization Service and the United States of America.

Hope for Exemption

A spokesman for the I.N.S. said the agency did not immediately have a comment on
the suit.

Mr. Schey raised the hope that the the new Bush administration might choose to
provide an exemption for groups like the Quakers and avoid protracted
litigation. He added that at least 40 other religious groups have sought to join
in the suit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 1, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. AMNESTY ENDS FOR FARM WORKERS

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section A; Page 25, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 533 words


Agricultural workers who are in the United States illegally had until last
midnight to apply for amnesty, and Federal immigration offices around the
country were open until the deadline, braced for a last-minute rush.

The deadline was the second and final one for illegal aliens seeking residency
under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. It applied to farmhands
who could prove they harvested fruits, vegetables or other perishable crops in
the United States for at least 90 days in a one-year period that ended May 1,
1986.

Under the legalization program's major phase, whose deadline was last May 4,
temporary residency was granted to more than 1.7 million illegal aliens. They
had to prove continuous residency in the United States since Jan. 1, 1982.

More than half the applications filed for the Special Agricultural Workers
Program have come from California, followed by Florida, with about 10 percent,
and Texas, with about 8 percent. Significant numbers have also been filed in the
Northwest, Arizona and New York.

Far More Than Expected

The Immigration and Naturalization Service had estimated that 600,000 farm
workers would apply for the agricultural program. The figure topped one million
by the first week of November, said Aaron Bodin, who heads the program.

But in a last, desperate chance to become legal residents, many farmworkers were
using fraudulent documents to prove they worked here.

Many farmhands unable to obtain the needed documents had turned to labor
contractors who hire illegal immigrants. Many contractors write letters to
anyone who asks, for a fee, Mr. Bodin said.

Mary Lopez, the California-based director of the Martin Luther King Jr.
Farmworkers' Fund, said she has heard of people paying up to $800 for a
fraudulent letter.

Papers to Be Reviewed

Donald H. Russell, the I.N.S. district director in Denver, said more than 20
percent of the documents filed in Colorado, Wyoming and Utah were fraudulent.
''But we haven't reviewed a lot yet,'' Mr. Russell said. ''We expect it will go
higher.''

In the Western states in recent weeks, 70 percent of applications filed have
been recommended for denial, officials said.

Although it appears many will ultimately be approved, immigration officials say
the final denial rate may be as high as 50 percent.

In the Northeast, more than 40 percent of the almost 20,000 applications were
fraudulent, said Amy Otten, an agency spokeswoman in Burlington, Vt.

Less Fanfare This Time

''Fraud was high throughout the Eastern region, especially in larger
metropolitan areas,'' Ms. Otten said.

The deadline comes without the fanfare that attended the one in May. But even as
the agricultural program ends quietly, lines outside immigration centers have
lengthened in the past week or so, officials say.

''Today was the longest line we've had since May 4,'' Henry McGehee,
legalization center director in El Paso, said Tuesday. ''But it wasn't nearly as
long as the ones we had then.''

Longer lines have been reported in the Lower Rio Grande Valley, where there are
more farms and farmworkers.

Immigration officials in New Jersey also expected to tally large numbers of
applicants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 21, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

House Passes an Extension of Amnesty Deadline for Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 710 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 20


The House voted narrowly today to extend to Nov. 30 the deadline for illegal
aliens to apply for legal status. The current amnesty deadline is May 4.

House passage, on a vote of 213 to 201, sent the proposal to the Senate, where
opponents could use delaying tactics.

The Reagan Administration opposes the bill, and the chief of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, Alan C. Nelson, has said he will recommend a veto if the
measure reaches the President's desk.

The bill would make the first change in the nation's landmark immigration law
signed by President Reagan in November 1986. That legislation attempts to
balance a legalization program for illegal aliens with penalties for employers
who knowingly hire undocumented workers.

Slowness in Writing Rules Cited

Under the law, those who have lived illegally in the United States since before
Jan. 1, 1982, had one year, until May 4, to apply for temporary residency.

Approval by the immigration service for temporary residency allows the aliens to
live and work in the United States, while they go through a longer process for
permanent residency and citizenship.

Those favoring extension of the deadline till the end of November contended that
the immigration service had been slow in writing rules for the temporary amnesty
program, and said many of those who initially feared the agency were at first
reluctant to come forward and apply.

The fears existed, the supporters said, even though the law prohibits
immigration officials handling amnesty claims from sharing their information on
illegal aliens with enforcement agents of the immigration service.

''I am convinced that hundreds of thousands of potentially eligible applicants
have not applied and may not be able to apply by the current May 4 deadline,''
said the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Peter W. Rodino, Democrat of
New Jersey.

Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, who is the chief sponsor
of the extension, said 1.2 million aliens had applied for amnesty and 729,000
had received temporary residency cards. Another 400,000 have applied for
legalization under a separate program for agricultural workers, but that program
is not affected by the bill.

Additional Costs Are Seen

Mr. Mazzoli said the number of applicants for the general amnesty program was
sizable but ''falls short of the numbers anticipated.''

He said that leaving additional illegal aliens in the country would also mean a
greater potential pool of undocumented workers, which the legislation is trying
to eliminate.

The Congressional Budget Office estimated that the bill would increase
expenditures by $270 million through the 1993 fiscal year to pay for
administrative costs, reimbursements to states and Federal benefit programs.

But supporters of the extension said fees charged applicants would pay for much
of the program, and added that the remaining costs already had been
appropriated.

The chief opponent of the extension, Representative Patrick L. Swindall,
Democrat of Georgia, pointed out that the amnesty provisions of the law passed
the House by only seven votes in 1986. ''If American citizenship is not worth
filling out an application today, what in the world is'' he asked..

Representative Harold Rogers, Republican of Kentucky, said the proposal would
''do violence'' to a ''delicately balanced, finely tuned piece of work.''

He added: ''We begged people to fill out the papers and seek legalization. How
much longer do you want to beg people? Enough is enough.''

Alternative Idea Defeated

Before the final vote, the House approved by voice vote an amendment that
intended to cut down on fraud during the extension period.

Sponsored by Representative Clay E. Shaw Jr., Republican of Florida, the
language would permit the immigration service to use documents found to be
fraudulent in the extension period in deportation proceedings.

The House also defeated an amendment that would have accepted applications after
May 4 only from aliens who could demonstrate ''good cause'' for missing the
deadline.

The proposal by Representative George W. Gekas, Republican of Pennsylvania,
which would have included health or logistical reasons as good cause, was
defeated, 246 to 167.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 30, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Private Groups Are Said to Lag on Alien Amnesty

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 685 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 29


The Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization said today that he was
disappointed that religious groups and other private organizations had not
brought more illegal aliens to the Government to seek amnesty.

The commissioner, Alan C. Nelson, said such groups ''could have been a lot more
aggressive in recruiting'' applicants for the program, which provides legal
status under the new immigration law.

So far, five days before the deadline, 1,736,000 illegal aliens have applied for
legal status but only 20 percent of them came through private organizations, he
said. Eighty percent have filed applications directly with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

This pattern was a surprise, Mr. Nelson said, because earlier estimates
suggested that the vast majority of all applications would be filed initially
with private organizations.

'Generosity and Flexibility'

Under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, the Government designated
more than 800 religious groups, labor unions and community organizations to
accept applications and forward them to the Government. Many members of Congress
said they believed that aliens, fearful of being deported, would trust such
private organizations more than the Government.

Duane Austin, a spokesman for the immigration service, said the agency had won
the trust of aliens ''by demonstrating generosity and flexibility, by showing
that we were not going to deport people when they applied'' for legal status.

Luis R. Torres, director of the legalization program for the United States
Catholic Conference, the social action arm of the Roman Catholic Church in this
country, said 116,000 people had applied for amnesty through the conference and
its affiliates. Initially, he said, church officials estimated that as many as a
million aliens might file applications with the church.

Mr. Torres said he was disappointed with the number of aliens who had applied
through the Catholic Conference and its affiliates. Many aliens received
information and forms from Catholic groups but filed their applications directly
with the Government, he said. #900,000 Applications Approved Immigration
officials said the Government had approved 900,000 applications and turned down
20,000. The others are still under review.

Mr. Nelson praised the Senate for blocking efforts to extend the statutory
deadline for most illegal aliens to apply for legal status. The application
period ends next Wednesday. On Thursday night, by a vote of 56 to 40, the Senate
rejected efforts to shut off debate on a motion to take up the bill extending
the deadline to Nov. 30.

Farm workers have until Nov. 30 to apply for legal status under a separate
program with more liberal eligibility criteria.

Mr. Nelson said that if Congress had passed legislation extending next
Wednesday's deadline it would have encouraged people in other countries to think
that the United States might have another amnesty program for illegal
immigrants.

''The Senate action ends the issue,'' Mr. Nelson said. ''It was exactly the
proper action.'' #1,900 New Employees Planned The commissioner said the
immigration service was hiring employees to enforce provisions of the law that
prohibit employers from hiring illegal aliens. The agency has 900 investigators
and will hire 800 more by next January, he said, adding that the Border Patrol,
a branch of the immigration service, has 3,100 employees and will hire 1,100
more by the end of this year.

However, Mr. Nelson said it was inappropriate to suggest that the agency was
planning a crackdown on employers of illegal aliens. Rather, he said, the
Government is engaged in ''a deliberate, gradual process to convince America's
employers and the public that they should not hire illegal aliens.''

So far, he said, the agency has issued formal warnings to 2,000 employers
suspected of hiring illegal aliens and has imposed fines on 80 to 90 businesses.
An employer is subject to a civil penalty of $250 to $2,000 for each illegal
alien hired. On a second offense, the penalties range from $2,000 to $5,000 for
each alien hired.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 5, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Tentative Amnesty Extension

BYLINE: By MARK A. UHLIG

SECTION: Section B; Page 10, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 365 words


A Federal appeals court ordered immigration officials yesterday to continue
accepting amnesty applications from one group of illegal aliens in New York
State for at least two more weeks while the court considers a lawsuit seeking an
extension of the amnesty deadline.

But state officials, who support the case for the extension, cautioned that late
applications from the aliens covered by the ruling could still be thrown out if
the lawsuit is rejected when it is heard May 18. The general deadline for
amnesty under Federal law was midnight last night.

Attorney General Robert Abrams, noting that the court ruling applies only to
certain aliens in New York State, urged Federal immigration officials to honor
terms of the ruling throughout the country.

But a spokesman for the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service, Charles
Troy, said his agency considered the ruling to have only a narrow application.

''There is no extension to the amnesty program,'' Mr. Troy said late yesterday.
''It ends tonight.''

Police Was Changed

The court ruling, issued in Manhattan, is expected to affect from about 2,000 to
10,000 aliens who may have been misinformed about their eligibility for the
amnesty program because of a change in policy by the immigration service.

In guidelines issued last year, the service said it would reject applications
from aliens with dependents who received welfare payments, even if the
dependents were United States citizens or legal residents, because the amnesty
program forbids granting citizenship to aliens who are likely to need public
assistance.

After legal challenges, immigration officials changed their policy, ruling that
relatives of such dependents were in fact eligible for amnesty. But the lawsuit,
filed April 1 on behalf of three illegal aliens within the affected group,
asserted that the immigration service did not adequately publicize the policy
change and asked for a 60-day extension of the amnesty deadline.

Stephen Loffredo, an assistant professor of law at the City University of New
York who is arguing the case on behalf of the plaintiffs, estimated the ruling
would affect at least 2,000 illegal aliens in the state.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 24, 1988, Friday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION LAW IS FAILING TO CUT FLOW FROM MEXICO

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1734 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico, June 18


The 1986 immigration law is failing to stem the illegal flow of Mexicans into
the United States and may be creating new problems on both sides of the border
by distorting traditional immigration patterns, Mexican and American researchers
say.

Studies by immigration specialists at the College of the Northern Border in
Tijuana and the Center for United States-Mexican Studies at the University of
California, San Diego, indicate that the number of Mexicans illegally seeking
work in the United States has actually increased in recent months.

The data also show that these illegal immigrants are staying in the United
States longer, are increasingly arriving in family groups and are coming in
growing numbers from parts of Mexico that have not sent many migrants in the
past.

No Effect on Flow Seen

''There is no sign the legislation has had any impact on the flows,'' said Jorge
Bustamante, director of the College of the Northern Border, a Mexican research
institute that studies immigration and other social issues. ''The basic,
underlying pattern has not changed in any significant way.''

Wayne Cornelius, director of the Center for United States-Mexican Studies at the
University of California, San Diego, offered a similar picture.

''Clearly, we have reached the end of the period of fear, uncertainty and
confusion about the 1986 law among workers still based in Mexico,'' he said.
''Those who delayed migration to the U.S. during 1987 are now coming, having
observed that work is still available even for new arrivals lacking papers.''

Enforcement Stepped Up

The 1986 immigration law is intended to discourage illegal immigration while
providing amnesty to undocumented foreign workers able to demonstrate they
entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1982, and have lived there continuously
since that date. The application period for the amnesty expired May 4, and the
United States Immigration and Naturalization Service is both stepping up
enforcement along the border and carrying out a program of sanctions against
those who employ illegal immigrants.

The sanctions include fines of $250 to $10,000. Employers who engage in a
''pattern and practice'' of violations also face a prison sentence of up to six
months. In the first phase of enforcement, the authorities familiarized
employers with the law and issued warnings rather than fines in most cases, but
since June 1 immigration officials have been empowered to seek fines for first
offenses under the new law.

That system of employer sanctions was intended to make the law more effective.
But in interviews with 100 California employers, the University of California
study found that employers were resorting to a variety of subterfuges, including
subcontracting work, accepting documents they know to be forged and hiring
workers for fewer than 72 hours, in which case they are exempt from the
paperwork the law requires.

According to statistics compiled by the immigration service, there were 494,144
apprehensions of illegal immigrants along the border during the first five
months of this year. That figure represents a 11.9 percent increase over the
comparable period in 1987, when the immigration legislation was gradually being
put into effect. The law is formally known as the Immigration Reform and Control
Act and popularly known as the Simpson-Rodino bill after its sponsors, Senator
Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, and Representative Peter W. Rodino,
Democrat of New Jersey.

Information gathered by Dr. Bustamante's researchers shows an even larger
increase. According to their observations at Canon Zapata, the busiest illegal
crossing point on the 1,952-mile border, the flow of illegal immigrants from
Mexico to the United States is up 15 percent during the last six months and is
now approaching the record numbers recorded just before the law went into effect
in November 1986.

Apprehensions Are Down

In a panel discussion in San Diego this month, the I.N.S. Commissioner, Alan C.
Nelson, said that though apprehensions were up this year compared with last,
''they are still down from before the Immigration Reform and Control Act, So
there has been a net reduction.'' He said that indicated the law was, in fact,
working as intended.

Research on both the Mexican and American sides of the border suggests, however,
that the pressures generated by Mexico's economic crisis have been stronger than
the sanctions of the law and the new manpower provided to enforce it. Inflation
in Mexico last year hit an all-time high of 160 percent, and although the
Government has a new anti-inflation program, unemployment continues to be high
and real wages are still declining.

Traditionally, Mexicans reluctant to risk their luck at the border have sought a
better future by going to Mexico City, the country's industrial center. But the
research, supplemented by a reporter's interviews with Mexican migrants waiting
to cross into the United States here, indicates that the economic crisis has
increasingly made internal migration less attractive.

''There's thousands and thousands of people in Mexico City looking for jobs that
just don't exist,'' said Emiliano Benitez, a 37-year-old farm worker from the
state of Morelos, just south of Mexico City, who was traveling with his
16-year-old son, Esteban. ''With the dollar worth 2,300 pesos and jobs available
for the asking, look how much you can earn in the United States.''

Facundo Roldan, a 37-year-old farm worker who said he was crossing the border
for the first time, said: ''Even when there is work available back home, you're
only making $2.25 for nine hours of work. You're working six days a week just to
buy a pair of shoes. Compare that to the stupendous money you can make working
in the United States, and you'll know why I am here.''

More From Urban Areas

In fact, more than 20 percent of the newly arrived immigrants interviewed in the
University of California survey were from Mexico City or its neighboring states,
areas that in the past have not sent large numbers of workers to the United
States. Dr. Bustamante, broadening the focus, said migration from large cities
across Mexico was increasing in general.

''We're seeing less people coming from the countryside and more from urban
areas,'' he said. ''That pattern is related to inflation, the rate of
devaluation of the peso versus the dollar, and the fact that Mexico's economic
crisis has made it too expensive for the very poor to consider outmigration.''

The Mexican research group obtains some of its data from photographs taken three
times a day at the staging field at Canon Zapata. Other information comes from
the 75 interviews it has conducted every weekend here since April 1987 and from
weekly interviews with Mexican migrants at five other points on the border.

The University of California survey is based on 670 detailed interviews with
Mexican workers and American employers in Southern California during the last
year. The institute also draws on field research being conducted in three towns
in the Mexican states of Jalisco, Michoacan and Zacatecas.

Dr. Cornelius said that in another striking departure from the norm, nearly
two-thirds of the illegal immigrants his institution had interviewed in
California over the last year were in the United States for the first time.
Workers who whiled away their time jeering the Border Patrol as they waited for
darkness to fall at Canon Zapata said that trend, too, was a consequence of
Mexico's worsening economic situation.

Joined by Eight Friends

Efrain Garcia, a 22-year-old from Acapulco, said that when he announced a few
weeks ago that he was heading north to pick cherries and apples in Washington
State, eight friends who had never before crossed the border suddenly asked to
join him. All eight men, who ranged in age from 19 to 24, said they had decided
to seek their fortunes in the United States after being unable to find jobs at
home. ''You fill out applications, and nothing happens,'' one said.

''We all recognize the immigration push-and-pull factors at work here,'' Mr.
Nelson said when asked to account for the increase in apprehensions along the
border. ''If Mexico's economic problems increase, then the push factor grows.''

While the Simpson-Rodino law does not seem to have deterred immigration from
Mexico, it does appear to have encouraged those Mexicans already in the United
States illegally to relinquish their habit of spending part of the year at home.
That is partly a result of the ''grandfather clause'' that allows migrants
without papers to keep jobs they held before November 1986 and also of their
fears that it will be too difficult and costly to come back and find regular
employment.

As a result, men who in the past came up north alone in the spring and returned
to Mexico for the Christmas and New Year holidays now appear to be sending for
their wives and children. Dr. Cornelius said his researchers had observed that
''housing densities in California neighborhoods where undocumented migrants live
are increasing'' at the same time that some sending areas in Mexico ''are being
turned into ghost towns.'' #47 Percent of Houses Closed ''In one village in
Michoacan I recently visited, 47 percent of the houses were closed, some locked
up with chains, because everybody in the household is in the United States,'' he
said. ''The neighbors who have stayed behind told us that more wives and
children have gone up this year than ever before.''

Mr. Benitez said that in the past he had shuttled back and forth between Mexico
and California. But this time, he said, ''if I get across, I plan to stay at
least three or four years.''

Mr. Benitez and other would-be immigrants interviewed at Canon Zapata said that
they were well aware of the provisions of the law, but that it was possible to
get around it by buying fake qualifying documents in the United States. They
also acknowledged that the American enforcement effort had become more visible
in the last year, but argued that their own persistence and need made the law
meaningless.

''It's harder to cross, but we do get across, if not on the first try, then on
the second, third or fourth,'' said Manuel Mendez Roldan, a 40-year-old who has
been coming to work in the United States every summer since 1970. ''They can't
close the border to us, no matter how hard they try.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of Canon Zapata, an illegal crossing point (NYT/Larry Rohter);
immigration officials (NYT/Larry Rohter) (pg. A6)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 7, 1988, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Education Requirement Seen as Snag to Program for Aliens

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 699 words


Thousands of illegal immigrants who received amnesty under the 1986 immigration
law can start applying for permanent residency today as the second phase of the
Federal Government's amnesty program begins.

Federal officials expect about 1.5 million of the 1.8 million non-agricultural
workers who applied for amnesty under the Immigration Reform and Control Act to
apply for permanent residency.

But that figure may be high, some authorities said, because many applicants
could find themselves shut out of overcrowded English and civics classes they
must take to qualify for residency.

Amnesty recipients who apply for permanent residency must either take a 60-hour
course from a school certified by the the Federal Immigration and Naturalization
Service or pass an oral and written examination similar to the citizenship test
given to permanent residents who entered the country legally. The service
released its guidelines for civics classes two weeks ago.

Classes Round the Clock

In Los Angeles, at least one school, the Evans Community Adult School, has been
holding classes 24 hours a day to handle the crush.

In New York City, classes will be offered by the Board of Education, the City
University of New York and many community organizations.

With applicants from 153 nations, ''we probably have more language groups and
more languages than any other state,'' said Garrett Murphy, director of the
Division of Continuing Education in the New York State Department of Education.

Arthur Helton, a spokesman for the Lawyers' Committee for Human Rights,
predicted that New York State would be ''overwhelmed'' by a late swarm of
applicants because the Federal immigration agency has done little to inform
immigrants about the education program.

''It's starting with remarkably little fanfare,'' he said, adding that many
immigrants are probably unaware of the educational component.

The situation is less critical in Texas, where the public schools in El Paso are
offering day classes and the Roman Catholic Diocese plans day and night classes.
In Dallas, classes for amnesty recipients are free in public schools, but many
attend private programs.

'Green Cards' Are White

Qualified applicants who complete the civics and English requirement receive
cards certifying that they are permanent residents. Called ''green cards,'' they
are actually white.

After five years of permanent residency, immigrants can apply for citizenship.
Spouses of American citizens can apply for citizenship after three years.

Under the 1986 immigration act, people who had lived illegally in the United
States since Jan. 1, 1982, or before were allowed to apply for amnesty from
deportation. The yearlong application period ended May 4.

Amnesty recipients are permitted to work and receive temporary residency for 31
months, said Henry McGehee, legalization officer for the immigration service's
El Paso district. If they fail to apply for permanent residency in that time,
they are subject to deportation. The deadline for applications is Nov. 4, 1990.

Legal immigrants need not know English and American history to become permanent
residents. But amnesty recipients, by taking the classes or oral tests, must
show a ''simple knowledge of government and history of the United States and of
simple English,'' Mr. McGehee said.

Exceptions to Requirement

Those who satisfactorily complete at least 40 hours of the 60-hour English and
civics course are not required to take the test, Mr. McGehee said.

Several categories of illegal immigrants are exempt from the education
requirements: those who applied under the special agricultural workers program,
children under 16 and adults 65 or older, graduates of high schools in the
United States, general equivalency diploma holders and handicapped people who
are unable to take the test and course.

But everyone must pay the application fee of $80 a person or a maximum of $240
for a family.

The immigration agency is mailing three warnings, in English, to amnesty
recipients, telling them when and where they can apply for permanent residency.
About a month before they can apply, amnesty recipients are mailed application
booklets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 17, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Farm Law Abused by Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 887 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Nov. 16


Tens of thousand of ineligible applicants are trying to become United States
residents under a program that was designed to give alien farm workers an easier
way to gain legal status in this country.

More than a million aliens have applied under the program for seasonal
agriculture workers, which was originally expected to accommodate perhaps
350,000 people. Immigration officials say a large portion of those applying now
are not eligible but are using the relatively lax documentation requirements of
the program as a last chance.

Under the law passed in 1986, illegal aliens had until May 4 to apply for legal
status in this country, and most had to prove they lived here continuously since
before Jan. 1, 1982.

An Exception Was Made

But in response to lobbying from agricultural interests, an exception to the law
was made for seasonal farm workers, who have until the end of this month. Those
workers only had to show they were employed in the United States for at least
three months between May 1, 1985, and May 1, 1986, and the burden of proof was
on the Federal Government in turning down applicants.

The flood of aliens seeking legal status under the seasonal farm worker
provision, in addition to the 1.76 million who applied for the general amnesty
program, will mean that close to 3 million will have applied for residency under
the law.

As the program draws to a close, charges of abuse by both immigration officials
and groups representing aliens are again highlighting the fragile compromise
that brought the measure into effect.

The program for seasonal agricultural workers was added to the immigration law
in a last-minute arrangement designed to satisfy growers in California and
Florida. They were concerned that the sanctions in the law aimed at employers
who hired illegal aliens would make it difficult for them to find adequate help.

''This program was a political compromise that by all accounts was essential''
to the enactment of the immigration law, said Rick Swartz, president of the
National Immigration Refugee and Citizenship Forum, a nonprofit advocacy group.
''Accordingly, you have a program created for political purposes fraught with
loopholes, pitfalls and extreme difficulty in implementation.''

Not surprisingly, the program has from the start been rife with charges of fraud
and there have been numerous prosecutions of farmers, contractors and notaries
public for selling phony documentation to illegal aliens. Peter Gordon, chief of
examinations at the Government's western regional processing center in Orange
County, Calif., said that so far 18 people have been convicted there of selling
fraudulent documents and that there are 179 cases pending involving people
accused of selling false documents.

''If all California SAW applicants worked full time in California agriculture,
they would have provided twice as many years of work as California used in 1987,
even if no one except SAW applicants were employed in the role of farmer, unpaid
farm family worker, year-round farmworker and seasonal farmerworker,'' said
David North an immigration consultant with the Washington-based Transcentury
Development Associates, a research organization.

Most Live in California

California has provided 55 percent of the applicants seeking farm worker status,
followed by Florida with 10 percent and Texas with 8 percent. About 84 percent
of the applicants are from Mexico.

So far almost 10 percent of the applications have been denied, as against about
2 percent for the general amnesty program. Immigration officials say that of the
applications coming in now, well over half are probably unacceptable.

In Houston, as many as 300 applicants under the agricultural provision are being
processed each day. Officials say some demonstrate little familiarity with
agriculture, telling of picking grapes from underground or strawberries from
trees.

''The latest group we're encountering appears to be a group that may be trying
to exploit the system,'' said Ronald Parra, district director of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service in Houston. ''It's their last hurrah.''

But the meager documentation requirements reflect the fact that farm workers are
usually paid in cash and are unlikely to have anything other than rudimentary
proof of their living in the United States. Groups that work with aliens say
that the immigration service has begun demanding higher standards of proof now
that the program is coming to an end, thereby discouraging legitimate
applications.

Some immigration experts say that in its effort to cut down on fraud, the
Government is penalizing legitimate applicants. In August, for example, a
Federal district judge in Florida ruled in favor of aliens who said that the
immigration service erred in denying legal status to all applicants from a
contractor suspected of fraud. Relatively few of the applications were later
found to be fraudulent, according to Ira Kurzban, the lawyer who filed the suit.

And even groups opposed to increased immigration say that if there is a problem
with the seasonal farm worker program, much of the blame should go to the
agricultural interests who pushed for it.

''Big agriculture is unappeasable,'' said Patrick Burns, assistant director of
the Federation for American Immigration Reform.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of alien far workers huddling outside the Immigration and
Naturalization Service (NYT/F. Carter Smith)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 27, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Working to Help Irish Immigrants Stay, Legally

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 52, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 943 words


On a recent evening in a basement in Woodside, Queens, half a dozen volunteers
sat under defiant green-and-white posters that read, ''Legalize The Irish.''

The volunteers, working for the Irish Immigration Reform Movement, a lobbying
and advisory group founded in Woodside last year, were answering calls on the
hot line and talking about an amendment signed into law by President Reagan last
week. The legislation, called an Amendment in the Nature of a Substitute for
HR5115 and introduced by Congressmen Peter W. Rodino Jr. of New Jersey and
Romano L. Mazzoli of Kentucky, could mean as many as 30,000 new visas for Irish
immigrants.

Many of these immigrants will wind up in New York City, which already has the
largest Irish community in the country and where about 70,000 Irish immigrants
have recently settled. About 150,000 Irish immigrants came to New York as
students or tourists over the last six years and stayed on as undocumented
aliens.

''The fight isn't over; this is just the first step,'' said Pat Hurley, a
founding member of the Movement. Mr. Hurley said the group would resume lobbying
even before the new Congress convenes, working closely with established
Irish-American organizations like the Ancient Order of Hibernians.

Amnesty Is Sought

The Movement, which addresses day-to-day problems of Irish immigrants through
its hot line, hopes above all to secure amnesty for all illegal aliens who were
not covered by the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act. It also seeks
''corrective legislation'' to provide a large annual quota of immigrant visas on
a nonpreference basis for the 36 countries, including Ireland, adversely
affected by the 1965 Immigration and Nationality Act.

''The new legislation is a small victory but it has raised the hopes of
undocumented Irish,'' said Linda Mc Evatt, a legal secretary and a volunteer in
the organization who received a green card in 1986. ''Being illegal is
nonexistence; you've got no job security, no medical insurance, no right to open
a bank account and are an open target for landlords and employers.''

The Irish feel they have been doubly disfavored by recent United States
immigration laws. The 1965 act raised quotas from countries that had been
previously disadvantaged, namely those in Asia and Latin America, and
established a system under which an immigrant with family in the United States
was given preference.

This proved prejudicial to European countries like Ireland, whose emigration had
slowed. Official statistics showed a drastic reduction in the number of legal
Irish immigrants, with more than 70,000 coming to this country in the decade
1956-65, compared with only 10,000 plus in 1976-85. #36 Countries
'Disadvantaged'

The 1986 reform provided amnesty for illegal aliens who could prove they had
stayed in the United States continuously since 1982, but again the Irish lost
out because the new wave of immigration from Ireland came only after that year,
spurred on largely by an economic crisis in Ireland.

The State Department listed 36 countries ''disadvantaged'' by the 1965
Immigration Act because they could not benefit from family preferences.
Congressman Brian J. Donnelly of Massachusetts introduced a clause into the 1986
Immigration Act providing for a lottery to give these countries more visas.
Under this scheme, 10,000 nonpreferential visas were allocated on a first-come,
first-served basis to applications sent to a Washington post office box on Jan.
21, 1987.

Of a total of 1.5 million pieces of mail received in the lottery, 200,000 of the
earliest applications came from Irish citizens, winning 4,161 of the 10,000
visas. The explanation given for this Irish ''luck'' is that the Irish felt the
most pressing need to emigrate and were better organized, getting more
applications in sooner than the others. #3 Parts to Legislation The new
legislation, which was passed by the Senate on Oct. 5 and by the House of
Representative on Oct 21, and signed by President Reagan on Nov. 15, contains
three parts:

*  A reactivation of the Donnelly project, Now under the new law, the Justice
Department will allocate the first 30,000 visas to applicants remaining from the
1987 lottery. A reserve list of 15,000 names, 10,000 of them Irish, has already
been established, and another reserve list of 15,000 names will come from the
same pool.

*  A new lottery that would allocate another 20,000 visas over a two years,
starting October 1989, randomly rather than on a first-come, first-served basis.
Under this measure, applicants may apply from 140 countries that are considered
''under-represented,'' - those with fewer than 25 percent of the visas that were
available to them last year. Ireland is among this group.

*  An extension to December 1989 of temporary H-1 visas for foreign nurses. Such
visas expire this year. The measure was a short-term way to address the critical
need for nurses in New York and many other cities.

Ireland 'Pleased'

Daragh O' Criodain, a spokesman for the Irish Embassy in Washington, said the
Irish Government was ''very pleased'' about the legislation after it was passed.

Gary Galanis, press secretary for Rep. Donnelly, said Mr. Donnelly would
''pursue his efforts for a more comprehensive reform next year. He called the
Irish Immigration Reform Movement ''one of the better organized lobbying
groups.''

The organization, which has 17 branches in other Irish communities around the
country, has supported its lobbying action through fund-raisers and raffles.
Recently, however, it won a $30,000 grant from the City of New York for its
activities as an immigration advisory group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Linda Mc Evatt, a volunteer and Pat Hurley, a founding member,
in the office of the Irish Immigration Reform Movement in Woodside, Queens
(NYT/G. Paul Burnett)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 26, 1989, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

The Shout From Central America;
Here: Migrants and the Need for Safe Haven

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 629 words


The long lines of undocumented aliens applying for political asylum at an
immigration office on the border in south Texas attest to the reverberating
effect of United States policies in Central America. So many Central American
aliens have applied for asylum in recent months that immigration officials have
finally felt compelled to devise a get-tough policy to deter other migrants,
trying to escape poverty, not persecution.

But in Central America it's often hard to draw a line between politics and
economics, especially when U.S. policies have contributed to destabilization.
That strengthens the case for generosity in granting asylum. Yet immigration
officials fear encouraging a tidal flow that would overwhelm the proper, careful
definitions of ''refugees'' and ''asylees.'' Hence the decision to enlarge a
detention camp on the border.

There's a warmer way to respond - create a new entry status: temporary safe
haven. Giving such status to some number of Central Americans would recognize
America's partial responsibility for their plight without compromising the goals
of U.S. refugee and immigration laws.

Even a generous nation cannot admit everyone. That's why economic migrants are
required to apply for immigration according to criteria that encompass regions
of the world, family relationship to people already here and specially needed
skills. But political migrants, those with a ''well-founded fear of
persecution'' in their homeland, may win sanctuary under the 1980 Refugee Act.
It's the duty of immigration officials to determine, fairly and expeditiously,
who is a refugee.

Too often, however, foreign policy considerations distort the decision-making
process. Officials have been reluctant to recognize political persecution under
the U.S.-supported regime in El Salvador; they granted asylum to only 3 percent
of Salvadoran applicants last year. By contrast, 65 percent of Nicaraguans
fleeing the Sandinistas were granted asylum.

Growing numbers of asylum applicants caused a recent crackdown. Aliens used to
be allowed to work temporarily during the lengthy application process. Last
week, officials announced plans to detain them instead. As many as 6,000 aliens
will be held in a tent city in south Texas. Only those pre-judged to present
valid claims for asylum will be allowed to work and travel in the U.S.

Massive detention camps may effectively discourage economic migrants. A better
remedy would be the certainty of timely and fair asylum decisions. Both
certainty and fairness are now often missing. In Miami, for example, Nicaraguans
rejected for asylum have been granted a de facto safe haven because immigration
officials have proceeded so slowly with deportation hearings.

It would not be hard to formalize the safe haven status and restore integrity to
the asylum process. Representative Joe Moakley of Massachusetts proposes a bill
to do just that for Nicaraguans and Salvadorans. It would authorize the General
Accounting Office to assess the feasibility of repatriating displaced nationals
from Nicaragua and El Salvador. In the meantime, deportations of Nicaraguans and
Salvadorans living here would be suspended for about two years.

The impulse to help aliens from Nicaragua and El Salvador is understandable, but
the focus remains very narrow. Congress would do well to enact a safe-haven law
with general application to aliens from other countries.

All political migrants seeking admission to the U.S. deserve fair, consistent
and timely consideration of their claims. Some economic migrants who would abuse
the process may deserve detention. But for aliens who simply need temporary
resettlement until their homelands conquer the ravages of war, the idea of
temporary safe haven satisfies the head and the heart.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 3, 1989, Monday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Challenged on Immigration Arrest Tactic

BYLINE: By KATHERINE BISHOP, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 645 words

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Calif., April 1


Last August two Border Patrol agents without a search warrant entered Rudolph J.
Ferguson's place of business in Sacramento and grabbed a worker. When Mr.
Ferguson protested, one agent started to draw a gun.

Mr. Ferguson said he called their superior to complain and was told that Federal
agents who apprehend illegal aliens may enter any place they wished if there are
''Mexicans in plain sight.'' Mr. Ferguson, whose business is repairing warehouse
equipment, is an American of Mexican heritage.

He made these statements as a witness in Federal District Court during a civil
trial. He was challenging the immigration officials' tactics used to keep
illegal aliens out of the work force.

Employers and Latins Join in Suit

The lawsuit, filed on behalf of five employers and hundreds of workers of
Hispanic descent in Northern California, charges that the immigration service
and other Government agencies violate constitutional guarantees against unlawful
search and seizure through searches without warrants. In ''factory raids,'' the
plaintiffs said, workers and employers alike might be physically and verbally
abused.

The suit, which began in January, and is expected to last two more months, is
being heard by Judge Robert P. Aguilar without a jury. The plaintiffs want a
permanent injunction to keep immigration officials from entering workplaces
without warrants, seizing workers without reasonable suspicion that they are
undocumented and selecting workers of Hispanic ancestry for arrest.

The suit was filed in 1982 in response to a nationwide roundup of thousands of
illegal aliens for deportation, a Reagan Administration effort to reduce
unemployment.

Reform Measure Is Ignored

Despite recent changes under the Immigration Reform and Control Act, which make
employers responsible for verifying that employees are legal residents, the
raids go on. In cases like Mr. Ferguson's, the repairing is done by independent
contractors rather than employees, but they are checked anyway. The immigration
officials argue that it is necessary because the employer does not have to check
independent contractors.

The plaintiffs are represented by John M. True of the Legal Aid Society of San
Francisco's Employment Law Center, and Francisco Garcia-Rodriguez of the
Mexican-American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, assisted by lawyers from
five civil rights organizations and six law firms.

''We think this raid is important because it is so recent,'' Mr. True said.

In 1985, Judge Aguilar issued a preliminary injunction prohibiting immigration
agents from entering a place of business without a valid warrant or the owner's
consent. The subsequent confrontation at Mr. Ferguson's shop, Mr. True said,
demonstrates that despite the ruling, those conducting such raids have ''no idea
what limit the Constitution puts on their activities.''

False Use of Warrant Seen

The lawsuit charges that in some cases in which immigration officials got
warrants naming those to be arrested, they used the warrants to get into the
place of business and detain other people apparently of Hispanic descent. These
included some citizens of the United States. According to papers filed in the
case, 32 people were named in warrants issued for 25 work sites, but nearly 500
arrests were made.

Joseph P. Russoniello, the United States Attorney for the Northern District of
California, is representing the Government in the case, assisted by lawyers of
the Justice Department's Civil Division in Washington.

In his opening statement, Mr. Russoniello said that the workplace surveys
represented the immigration authorities' attempt to ''secure workplaces for
American citizens and lawful permanent residents.'' As for the factory raids, he
said that any misconduct on the part of agents represented behavior that was not
part of immigration service policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 1, 1988, Friday, Late City Final Edition

House Panel Votes to Extend Time for Aliens to Seek Legal Status

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 598 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 31


The House Judiciary Committee today approved a bill that would extend until Nov.
30 the period for illegal aliens to apply for legal status.

In another decision concerning the amnesty program, Federal District Judge
Stanley Sporkin ruled today that the Reagan Administration must broaden its
standards in determining the eligibility of illegal aliens who overstayed
tourist or student visas. The ruling will make 50,000 additional illegal aliens
eligible for amnesty.

Members of the House committee expressed optimism that the full House would pass
the bill extending the period for seeking legal status before the current
deadline of May 4. A similar bill is before the Senate Judiciary Committee.

Applications Below Prediction

Under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, more than 1.4 million
illegal aliens have applied for legal status, far fewer than the 2 million to 4
million applicants the Immigration and Naturalization Service originally had
estimated.

Members of Congress estimate that 400,000 more illegal aliens would apply if the
application period were extended. To win amnesty, applicants must prove that
they have lived in the United States since before Jan. 1, 1982.

Earlier this month, Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d, seeking to avert a
Congressional extension for legalization, announced that illegal aliens would be
allowed two months beyond the May 4 deadline to document their residence in this
country.

Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, attributed the low
number of applications to the immigration service's reputation as a police
force. Many of the amnesty program's supporters also say the service began
advertising the program too late. It was not until January that signs appeared
at bus stops and radio and television announcements were aired. And until
February, computer problems prevented the agency from expeditiously distributing
temporary resident cards to illegal aliens who had applied for amnesty.

''In this program, the best advertisement is a freshly minted temporary resident
card in the hands of a relative or neighbor,'' said Mr. Schumer.

Significance for Northeast

Mr. Schumer said the extension bill, which the House committee passed 22 to 12,
had particular significance for the Northeast. ''The word is just beginning to
get out now to some isolated groups of immigrants, such as Haitians, Asians and
Europeans,'' he said.

Most of the public education announcements about the amnesty program have been
directed at Spanish-speaking illegal aliens, and more than 70 percent of the
amnesty applicants nationwide are Mexicans, mostly from California and Texas.

Critics of the extension bill claim that it further confuses the complicated
immigration reform law.

''This bill takes a bad idea and makes it worse,'' said Representative Pat
Swindall, a Georgia Republican. ''It rewards and encourages procrastinators who
will just wait until the next deadline.''

Judge Sporkin, who sits in Washington, ruled that the regulations drafted by the
immigration service last May were too restrictive since the agency required that
illegal aliens who had overstayed tourist or student visas be known to
immigration authorities as of Jan. 1, 1982.

The judge said this regulation violated Congress's intention that such illegal
aliens be known to any Federal agency, such as the Internal Revenue Service or
the Social Security Administration.

Judge Sporkin made his ruling on a suit filed on behalf of an estimated 50,000
illegal aliens by four Washington-based legalization advocacy groups.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 24, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Give Illegal Aliens More Time

SECTION: Section 4; Page 24, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 358 words


The 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act provided amnesty for the estimated
1.4 million to 2 million undocumented aliens who have been in the United States
since before 1982. But with the May 4 deadline less than two weeks away, only
1.2 million have applied. Fairness justifies an extension.

The new law deters illegal immigrants by sanctions against employers who hire
them, and offers legal status to aliens who have lived in the shadows for years.
This amnesty got off to a slow start, in part because of administrative problems
that the Immigration and Naturalization Service now admits.

It also took time for aliens to feel comfortable crossing the new welcome mat at
the door of an agency responsible for catching illegals. Now, with the deadline
looming, the process finally has begun to run more smoothly and community
outreach efforts are more effective.

Applications are flooding in at a rate of more than 10,000 a day, up from about
2,000 a day in January. Rather than give these efforts more time to reap
results, the Immigration Service clings to the requirement that aliens must
apply for amnesty by May 4. The I.N.S. makes only a grudging concession - an
additional 60 days to submit supporting documents.

With more time, another 100,000 to 500,000 aliens who deserve a chance at legal
status might come out of the shadows. The House therefore recently voted 213 to
201 to extend the amnesty deadline, without expanding eligibility, to Nov. 30.
The Senate should take up similar legislation this week.

Still, the Immigration Service objects, citing low-ball estimates of those
eligible and suggesting that most of those likely to apply will do so by May 4.
The agency urges a Presidential veto. But given the last-minute surge in
applications, why not extend the deadline to accommodate as many eligible aliens
as possible?

Little harm could come from erring on the side of generosity. That would do
justice to the Immigration Service's own progress in overcoming the aliens'
fears. Congress and the Administration need to unite - in a hurry - to give
aliens seeking amnesty what they need most: a little more time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 29, 1988, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Chance of Amnesty Extension Appears Dead

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 677 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 28


The Senate tonight virtually killed any chance that Congress would vote to
extend next Wednesday's deadline for illegal aliens to apply for amnesty.

The action came on a procedural vote, but it indicated that there was not enough
support to extend amnesty to Nov. 30. The House approved the extension on April
21 by a vote of 213 to 201.

In the Senate, 40 Senators voted to shut off debate on the issue and 60 votes
are needed to do so. Fifty-six senators voted against shutting off debate. The
Senate will be in recess when the deadline arrives, so there is no chance that
proponents of the extension can try again before next Wednesday.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service had recommended a Presidential veto.
If President Reagan followed the advice, his veto would probably be sustained.

A Final Opportunity

Immediately after the vote, Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming,
urged all senators to tell their constituents, ''May 4 at midnight is the final
time for application for amnesty and they must know that.''

''This extraordinary act of grace will end May 4 when we are in recess,'' Mr.
Simpson said. ''This is it.''

The immigration law enacted in 1986 balanced a legalization program for illegal
aliens with penalties for employers who knowingly hire undocumented workers.

The Senate vote and the narrow House margin demonstrated that amnesty for those
who came to this country illegally before Jan. 1, 1982, remains an emotional
issue.

Aliens who came to this country illegally before 1982 and have lived here
continually since then were given one year to apply for temporary residence as
the first step toward permanent status. The one-year period ends Wednesday.

Immigration offices will remain open until midnight on Wednesday. The
immigration service has already begun a program that allows people to sign up
now and produce the necessary documentation later.

Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, speaking for senators opposing the
extension, said that illegal border crossings, which dropped after the law was
passed, have increased greatly in recent months.

Rise in False Papers

''After an initial period when the law was taken seriously, the level of illegal
immigration has risen by 60 percent over the last year,'' he said. ''When people
are asked why they are coming, they say they don't believe the law is going to
be enforced.''

Mr. Gramm added that the Border Patrol was finding a large increase in the use
of false documents by illegal aliens.

He said the extension proposal is ''fueling the fire that is already sending
millions of people across our borders illegally.''

Mr. Gramm said the President would have vetoed the bill and that the veto would
have been sustained. He warned before the vote that the extension bill would
raise false hopes and illegal aliens who waited past the May 4 deadline would
''lose the opportunity to get the best gift America has: to be in the United
States legally.''

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, speaking for the
extension, said, ''It's hard to comprehend the intense opposition that some
senators are bringing to this issue.''

''Of all the people in America,'' he said, illegal aliens ''are the least likely
to know their rights. But they do have rights.''

'We Have Little to Lose'

Senator Alan Cranston, Democrat of California, also backed the extension,
commenting, ''We have little to lose and much to gain by extending the
application period.''

Senator Pete Wilson, Republican of California, said the extension should be
passed because ''this game started late.''

He asserted: ''The effort by the I.N.S., however well intended, has not been
sufficient. There are people who are eligible, but timid.''

Mr. Simpson, the chief sponsor of the 1986 law, told his colleagues that with
1.3 million applications so far, the legalization program was working.
Applications have been approved at a rate of about 95 percent.

''If you want to live your dream, here's your chance,'' he said. ''It will never
come again.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Sen. Alan K. Simpson (NYT)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 6, 1988, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Salvadorans Deserve a Welcome

SECTION: Section A; Page 38, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 365 words


Two faces of United States immigration policy: On Wednesday, the deadline passed
for undocumented aliens who have lived here since 1982 to apply for amnesty
under the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act. But as this warmhearted
program was winding up, the Administration was in court pursuing narrow-minded
efforts to force Salvadorans who seek political asylum here to leave.

A Federal judge in California has now rebuffed these efforts, and rightly so.
The judge understood that the Salvadorans deserve the same generosity expressed
by the amnesty program. It's past time for the Administration to understand as
well.

American laws have tried to strike the proper balance between welcoming
immigrants who face persecution in their homeland and resisting those who merely
seek a better standard of living.

Making such distinctions is the duty of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. But too often, its determinations are clouded by foreign policy
judgments, especially in the case of illegal aliens from El Salvador. As long as
the Reagan Administration supported the political regime there, it insisted that
Salvadorans who came here were fleeing poverty, not persecution. It consistently
granted political asylum to less than 5 percent.

In 1982, Salvadorans in the U.S. filed a lawsuit claiming discrimination.
Federal District Judge David Kenyon has now ruled in favor of the claim. He
cited evidence of political oppression and human rights abuses in El Salvador,
and he found that the I.N.S. routinely refused to notify Salvadorans of their
right to apply for political asylum or otherwise discouraged them from seeking
it.

Judge Kenyon also found that Salvadorans were coerced into signing voluntary
departure forms on a regular basis, thus short-circuiting the deportation
hearing process where political asylum claims might be raised. And I.N.S. agents
denied the Salvadorans access to lawyers, telephones, even writing materials.

The U.S. knows how to be generous in its treatment of illegal aliens, as the
extraordinary amnesty program demonstrates. Judge Kenyon's ruling affirms that
Salvadorans who seek political refuge merit that same welcoming spirit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 12, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Court Panel Says Illegal Aliens May Sue Over Pay

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 632 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, June 11


A Federal appeals court here has ruled that illegal aliens who are not paid
minimum wage or fairly compensated for overtime may sue employers under Federal
labor laws in spite of recent changes in immigration law that prohibit employers
from hiring aliens who enter this country illegally.

The decision Thursday by a three-judge panel of the United States Court of
Appeals for the 11th Circuit said that 1986 changes in the immigration law,
which went into effect in the last month, were not ''a clear and manifest
repeal'' of Federal protections afforded to all employees.

In addition to imposing sanctions on employers who hire illegal alients, the new
immigration law established an amnesty program for the undocumented aliens who
have lived continuously in the United States since January 1982.

A 'Seeming Anomaly'

The court decision noted that it was a ''seeming anomaly'' to at once discourage
illegal immigration by imposing sanctions on employers while at the same time
granting illegal aliens who are employed the protection of Federal labor laws.
But the ruling said the two measures ''go hand in hand'' in that the labor law
protections further reduced any ''economic advantage'' that might remain for the
employer who is willing to risk the new sanctions by hiring illegal aliens and
then underpaying them.

The decision said that this was Congress's intent in the immigration law debate
and pointed to language in the act that called for increased financing to
enforce wage and overtime provisions of the labor law.

''This provision would make little sense if Congress had intended the
Immigration Reform and Control Act to repeal the Federal Labor Standards Act's
coverage of undocumented aliens,'' the court wrote.

Lawyers on both sides of the case called it a ''strong statement'' and noted
that it was the first appellate court ruling since the passage of the new
immigration law to discus in detail Congress's intent and the implications of
the new law for other Federal policies.

Wider Impact Is Seen

Catherine Waelder, an attorney for the International Ladies Garment Workers
Union, which aided the employee in the case, said the ruling was likely to
affect pending cases which seem to pit the immigration law against other such
statutes as Federal anti-discrimination and union organizing protection laws.
The Labor Department filed a brief in the case supporting the employee's right
to seek the remedy. A spokesman for the agency could not be reached to comment
on the ruling.

The decision grew out of suit filed in August 1986 by Rajni Patel, an Indian
national, who worked as a janitor at a motel in Birmingham, Ala. The motel
operators asserted that Mr. Patel's illegal status barred him from seeking to
recover back pay.

Back Pay at Issue

The plaintiff, according to his lawyer, Michael Rubin of San Francisco, came to
the United States on a six-week visitors visa in June 1982 but remained towork
at the motel from 1983 to 1985. Mr. Patel asserts he was not paid the prevailing
wage and was not adequately compensated for overtime as required by Federal law.

President Reagan signed the immigration reform bill in November 1986. It granted
amnesty to those who had lived continuously in the United States since January
1982 and applied for it by the deadline last month. It also imposed sanctions of
from $250 to $10,000 dollars on employers who hired illegal aliens.

Mr. Patel is ineligible for the amnesty and his former employers are not liable
for sanctions which were not enforced until this month. However, Joseph L.
Boohaker, the lawyer for the motel operators, said his clients could be held
liable for back wages of $47,000 if the ruling stands. He said that his client
had not yet decided whether to appeal the decision.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 3, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

2 Are Acquitted In Entry to U.S. By Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 711 words

DATELINE: ALBUQUERQUE, N.M., Aug. 2


A jury today acquitted a Lutheran minister and a freelance writer of all charges
stemming from help they gave two pregnant Salvadoran women in entering the
United States illegally.

The minister, the Rev. Glen Remer-Thamert, and the writer, Demetria Martinez,
were the first people prosecuted in a case involving sanctuary for illegal
aliens since a trial in Tucson, Ariz., that ended in May 1986 with eight
convictions, which are being appealed.

Mr. Remer-Thamert said he hoped the immigration authorities would grant the
women refugee status and allow them to stay in the the country.

Organizers of the sanctuary movement, which has been active since 1980, say the
aliens they care for are fleeing political persecution and thus should be viewed
as refugees and accorded asylum under Federal immigration laws. They reject the
Government's argument that those fleeing Central American nations such as El
Salvador are economic refugees.

Scheme With Attorney Alleged

Mr. Remer-Thamert, 44 years old, was charged with one count of conspiracy to
violate immigration laws and two counts each of transporting, harboring and
inducing the women to enter the United States. He won a directed verdict of
acquittal as the trial opened on two counts of mail fraud. Ms. Martinez, 28
years old, was charged with one count of conspiracy and two counts each of
transporting and inducment.

Prosecutors said Mr. Remer-Thamert, a minister for the Evangelical Lutheran
Church in America, schemed with a Salvadoran attorney to bring the women to the
United States in August 1986 to give their babies up for adoption and then
return them to El Salvador.

They contended that Ms. Martinez, a poet who contributes religious articles to
The Albuquerque Journal and The National Catholic Reporter, helped transport the
women to Albuquerque from Ciudad Juarez, Mexico.

Took Back Roads

Prosecutors said the defendants knew they were acting illegally because Mr.
Remer-Thamert paid a Juarez family to help the women cross the border and
because the defendants took the pregnant women to Albuquerque on back roads to
avoid United States Border Patrol checkpoints.

Mr. Remer-Thamert's defense portrayed him as a religious man who believed he
could legally help two refugees under a proclamation in March 1986 by
then-Governor Toney Anaya declaring New Mexico a state in which aliens would be
given sanctuary.

Ms. Martinez's attorney, Tova Indritz, had contended that her client went along
solely as a journalist on the trip to Albuquerque and was protected by the First
Amendment guarantee of freedom of the press. Ms. Martinez did not write an
article about the pregnant women but has said she planned to include a poem
about them in a volume of poetry to be published later this year.

The women, Ines Campos-Anzora and Cecelia Elias-Alegria, were the chief
prosecution witnesses in the two-week trial. They remain in the United States on
temporary permits from the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service. Both
testified that they were afraid to return to El Salvador, although Ms. Campos
also testified that she was not afraid while living there.

Their babies are American citizens, because they were born in New Mexico. Ms.
Campos kept her baby, while Ms. Elias's baby was given up for adoption.

Jurors indicated that the former Governor's proclamation helped them reach their
verdict. Antoinette Tellez, 23, said ''I think this would have been a different
case without the sanctuary proclamation.'' Another juror, Yvette Carrillo, also
said the jury was swayed by the sanctuary proclamation in the case of Mr.
Remer-Thamert, but she said jurors agreed from the start of deliberations that
Ms. Martinez made the trip solely as a reporter.

United States Attorney William Lutz said the decision would have no effect on
his office's prosecution of future cases involving the smuggling of illegal
aliens.

After the trial, Mr. Remer-Thamert hailed the verdicts as a victory for the
sanctuary movement, which he said was born in the United States because of the
desperation in El Salvador.

Ms. Martinez said she hoped ''the victory will encourage other reporters to get
out and find out what the government has to hide in its role in the situation in
El Salvador.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 11, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

CORRECTION:
Articles on June 7, July 2 and Aug. 3 about a Federal trial involving sanctuary
for illegal aliens incorrectly described a defendant, the Rev. Glen
Remer-Thamert. Mr. Remer-Thamert was removed from the clergy roster of the
Lutheran Church in America several years ago and is not affiliated with its
successor, the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.

Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about the Yonkers
desegregation case misstated the circumstances under which the Emergency
Financial Control Board took over Yonkers' finances in 1984. It acted after the
Yonkers school board, facing a deficit, threatened to close the city's schools.
In addition, the article incorrectly described the judicial panel that will hear
the appeal of a contempt ruling against the city and four councilmen. It will be
a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit.

GRAPHIC: photo of Rev. Glen Remer-Thamert (AP)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 27, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE REGION;
Under the New Law, Illegal Aliens Suffer Much in Silence

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 770 words


IN New York City, a half-million illegal aliens form what amounts to a new
sub-class of the poor, more vulnerable than ever to sweatshop operators,
eviction and criminals.

Congress had hoped that when the 1986 Federal immigration law was enacted,
making it illegal to hire aliens not eligible for amnesty, these people and
hundreds of thousands like them across the country would return to their native
lands. But they have stayed on, and concern is rising that their troubles will
eventually reverberate in the city and the nation.

''We have faced discrimination as an immigrant minority because of how we look
and how we speak, and the new immigration law legitimizes that discrimination,''
said Guillermo Linares, a naturalized citizen and educator who is head of the
Community Association of Progressive Dominicans. Speaking for the tens of
thousands of undocumented Dominicans in the city, he said: ''Now we are forced
to go underground; we have a future that is very dark.''

In the past, undocumented aliens lived under the shadow of discovery and
deportation by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, but there was almost
always a way to make a living. The new law puts employers at the forefront of
enforcement: They must ask job applicants to prove they are authorized to work,
and they can be fined or imprisoned for hiring undocumented workers. So illegal
aliens nationwide are clinging to the employers they have, no matter how they
are treated, out of fear they will be reported and deported if they complain or
look elsewhere.

A hundred thousand aliens in New York applied to an amnesty program and received
papers so they can legally work; nevertheless, some of these have been refused
jobs or even fired for looking or sounding foreign, recent studies have found.
Immigrant advocates tell of others who were denied apartment leases, refused
promotion or forced to take pay cuts. And such problems multiply for the 450,000
to 700,000 New Yorkers who have no valid papers.

New York City cannot help but be affected by these changes, Mr. Linares and
other speakers asserted at a public hearing this month organized by the city
Commission on Human Rights. For example, in 1987 the Federal Government ruled
that all applicants for legal residence, including amnesty applicants, must be
tested for the AIDS virus and deported if it is found. No figures are available
on the results. But aliens in the groups deemed most at risk - intravenous drug
users, homosexuals and, at one time, Haitians - are presumably staying
underground, out of reach of treatment and counseling, said Judy Rabinovitz of
the American Civil Liberties Union's National Immigration Task Force.

A Population of Prey

Another problem is that the city's undocumented aliens are easy victims, people
who are afraid to report crime, consumer fraud or workplace abuse.

Large populations of undocumented immigrants live in rundown and heavily
drug-infested neighborhoods in northern Flatbush, said Hillary Salmons of the
Church Avenue Merchants Association. She said that she has tried to persuade
some immigrants to report drug deals and other crimes in their buildings, but
that they keep silent for fear the police will ask for their papers.

Ms. Salmons said the association, a community organization in Brooklyn, often
receives reports of exploitation of undocumented workers by employers. One
Mexican man, she said, was forced to work in a fruit market seven days a week at
$2.80 an hour. And with winter cutting off odd jobs in construction and yard
work, Ms. Salmons warned, ''undocumented immigrants are finding it so difficult
to work that they are losing their apartments and are soon to be added to the
homeless population.''

Mayor Koch has said that the Federal Government is solely responsible for
enforcement of the immigration law, unless undocumented aliens commit crimes,
and that they are as entitled as anyone else to services like health care and
education.

But immigrant advocates say it doesn't work out that way. For instance, the
children of illegal aliens may attend the public schools, but they cannot sign
up for free breakfast or lunch because their parents don't have Social Security
numbers. Many aliens steer clear of city programs, afraid of any official
contact. Others are unaware that they are entitled to assistance.

''If some New Yorkers are ill, poorly educated or easy victims of crime, all New
Yorkers suffer,'' said Elizabeth Bogen, director of immigrant affairs in the
Department of City Planning. ''We cannot write off our undocumented aliens
without great cost to ourselves.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of undocumented aliens are among the new immigrants learning
English in a class sponsored by the Church Avenue Merchants Association of
Brooklyn (NYT/Chester Higgins Jr.)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 22, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Koch Favors Measure to Protect Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: BY RICHARD LEVINE

SECTION: Section B; Page 5, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 419 words


Seeking to protect what he called ''a very vulnerable population,'' Mayor Koch
said yesterday that he would support a bill amending the city's Human Rights Law
to prohibit discrimination based on ''alienage or citizenship status.''

The bill would enable both documented and undocumented aliens to take to the
Human Rights Comission complaints of bias in housing, in public accommodations
and, with limits for undocumented aliens, in employment.

Officials estimate that there are from 400,000 to 750,000 undocumented aliens in
New York City, about 119,000 of whom have applied for legal status under the
Federal amnesty program.

Mr. Koch also said he would make permanent a 1985 mayoral directive that
requires city agencies to provide services to undocumented immigrants and
prohibits them from turning over information to the Federal Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

The Mayor said he had proposed an amendment to Executive Order 50 that would
require employers doing business with New York City to comply with the
anti-discrimination provisions of the Federal Immigration Control and Reform
Act.

''These initiatives should send a clear message to the immigrant and ethnic
communities in our city that they are New Yorkers, like anyone else, and
entitled to services, like anyone else, and the protection of the law, like
anyone else,'' Mr. Koch said at a City Hall news conference.

The Mayor cited recent hearings by the Human Rights Commission that he said had
shown that thousands of immigrants had become ''easy prey for unscrupulous
employers.''

''Do we want kids hidden?'' he said. ''Do we want people bleeding to death
because they are undocumented?''

Mr. Koch said that Federal officials had agreed with him that the city was under
no legal obligation to report illegal residents.

The Mayor said he would testify in favor of the bill at a hearing today before
the City Council Committee on International Intergroup Relations and Special
Events. The measure is sponsored by Susan Alter of Brooklyn and Stanley E.
Michels of Manhattan. Approval is expected early next year.

The bill generally treats both documented and undocumented aliens the same,
except for employment, according to Peter L. Zimroth, the city's corporation
counsel. Mr. Zimroth noted that the city could not prosecute an employer under
the city's human rights law if it was illegal to employ someone under Federal
law.

But, Mr. Zimroth said, an undocumented alien who had already been hired could
file a complaint.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 25, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Fraud Charged in Program Giving Amnesty to Illegal Farm Workers

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 52, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 448 words

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Dec. 22


Government agents are investigating allegations of widespread fraud in a
national amnesty program for farm workers in central and western New York, an
immigration official said.

Forty percent of western New York amnesty program applications are believed
fraudulent because farmers signed fake work papers for ''vendors'' who charged
illegal immigrants up to $1,500 for the bogus documentation, Benedict J. Ferro,
district director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Buffalo said
Tuesday.

As a result of the suspicions, Government agents are investigating fraud
allegations in the Special Agricultural Worker amnesty program in western New
York, Rochester and Syracuse, Mr. Ferro said.

The program is designed to give illegal alien farm workers a chance at American
citizenship, but immigrants with no connection to farm work - including at least
one doctor - are using papers obtained through the black market to abuse the
process, Mr. Ferro said.

Five Arrests in New York

''We are running into a tremendous fraud problem in the Buffalo area and
nationally,'' he said. ''In some areas of the nation, the percentage of fraud is
believed to be 60 or 70 percent.''

Investigators have arrested five people in New York in connection with fraud
schemes.

The agricultural worker program is part of the amnesty plan made possible by the
Federal Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. It allows illegal immigrants
who have performed at least 90 days of farm work between May 1985 and May 1986
to become legal United States residents and, later, to apply for full
citizenship.

The reform act also established sanctions to punish employers who knowingly hire
illegal aliens.

False Documentation

Many illegal aliens are filing false documents to the agency in hopes of
establishing a legal residence here, Mr. Ferro said. Farmers, in some cases,
have accepted payoffs to provide false documentation that immigrants worked for
them, he added.

''In some cases in the Rochester area, we've learned that farmers received $500
to provide fake information and the vendors received $1,000 for each
application,'' Mr. Ferro said.

''The fraud is so blatant that in one case near Rochester, we had an Indian
doctor who worked at a hospital claiming that he had worked for three months
picking watermelons.''

In a nine-month inquiry conducted by the immigration service and the United
States Attorney's Office, undercover agents posing as migrant workers have
infiltrated rings selling fraudulent applications in Lockport, Buffalo,
Rochester, Oswego and Syracuse, the authorities said.

The last day of filing for the Special Agricultural Worker program was Nov. 30.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 12, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Migrant Farm Workers' Unexpected Worry: New Alien Law

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1579 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 11


Migrant farm workers, still America's most afflicted class of laborers despite
slowly improving working conditions, are now grappling with problems from an
unexpected source: the 1986 immigration law.

Provisions of the law were supposed to free seasonal agricultural workers, most
of whom are aliens, from the fear of deportation and provide fruit and vegetable
farmers with a reliable pool of legal workers.

But both farmers and farm workers say they are worried. Itinerant laborers from
Florida to New England fear that growers plan to replace them with imported
foreign pickers, an option possible under the immigration law if there is an
imminent shortage of farm workers to harvest perishable crops.

Poverty in Common

The unfolding controversy involves workers who share little except poverty and
back-breaking work. Data on itinerant farm labor have historically been elusive
because of their mobility and the desire of both farmers and hired seasonal
hands to keep their relationship off the books.

Major growers of fruit and fresh vegetables say they expect the new law to
greatly shrink the numbers of available workers. They expect migrants and other
farm help who gain legal status to seek less arduous unskilled jobs in the
construction, hotel and food industries, once they are freed of the fear of
deportation.

Those aliens who do not qualify for legal status may not be employable in farm
work if the Federal authorities, as promised, crack down on farmers who use them
after a grace period expires Dec. 1.

In Florida, farmers expect a labor shortage as early as next winter in the
state's $2 billion citrus industry. Growers have contingency agreements between
Mexico and the West Indies nations to open the way to import thousands of
temporary workers if the move is approved by the United States Department of
Labor.

Fewer Hands and More Oranges

The citrus industry this year is reporting its largest harvest since 1980-81.
Unless a big freeze cripples the industry, crop sizes are expected to increase
dramatically over the new few years.

''We have fewer hands to pick more oranges, and the shortages of labor can only
worsen,'' said Ernie Neff, a spokesman for Florida Citrus Mutual, an industry
group.

Florida growers have created a network with farmers in 11 Eastern Seaboard and
Midwestern states to help expedite the use of foreign pickers and share their
travel costs.

Advocates for migrants and locally based field workers suspect the growers are
using the new immigration law as a smoke screen to keep from paying better wages
and benefits as competition for labor heats up.

Weak Bargaining Position Seen

Foreign farm workers, these advocates argue, would be in no position to demand
higher pay and improved working conditions. Since nearly all of the imported
labor would be young men, they argue, growers would not feel pressure to provide
adequate housing, schools and medical care. In fact, farmers do not have to pay
Social Security and unemployment compensation for foreign workers.

''They don't want to compete with other sectors of the American economy for a
work force,'' charged Rob Williams, director of Florida Rural Legal Services, a
state antipoverty agency.

Karen Woodall, executive director of Florida Impact, which lobbies on behalf of
migrant workers, promised a fight against use of foreign workers.

''If the states allow the farmers to bring in thousands of workers, the public
will have to pick up the welfare tab for the workers who are left unemployed and
homeless,'' she said.

Not Greed but Survival

The farmers say they do not welcome the prospect of importing labor but, if they
are forced to do so, the motive will not be greed but simple survival.

The tightest pinch is expected in Florida and other Eastern states where
unemployment is low and where, in recent years, there has been greater
dependence on migrant labor.

The faces of the migrant workers have changed in the last decade as more
Americans, principally Southern blacks, have dropped out of the army of pickers
who follow the sun. Spanish-speaking workers of Mexican heritage now dominate
the ranks of migrants who travel from Florida, their winter base, to farms in
the north, according to agriculture observers.

There are perhaps 150,000 or more itinerant field hands in Florida, but only an
estimated 20,000 head north at this time of the year, not to return until the
fall, according to Dr. Leo Popolopus, professor of food and resource economics
at the University of Florida.

''We think the Haitians and Central American workers will be the first to flee
farm work once they have legal status and a green card that enables them to find
better paying jobs,'' Dr. Popolopus said. ''Farm work is more of a tradition
with the Mexicans, but they may be tempted to flip hamburgers for $5 an hour if
they get the chance.''

The use of foreign farm workers, made possible under a provision of the
immigration law called section H2a, requires special permission from the
Department of Labor, which can be granted only when the department finds that a
critical shortage of available workers exists.

'Secret Agenda' Is Disputed

Farm industry leaders say that the tightening of the labor market is
unmistakable and that suggestions that the growers are devising ''a secret
agenda'' to build profits at the expense of the domestic farmworker are wrong.

''Barring an economic downturn, it's a safe bet to say we will have labor
shortages as early as next winter, and many farmers will have to turn to
imported foreign workers,'' said George Sorn, executive director of the Florida
Fruit and Vegetable Association.

Mr. Sorn said his association has organized a subsidiary to help meet the need
for H2a workers in 11 Northeastern states. He said he recently negotiated a
contract with Mexico to allow United States farmers to tap that labor pool, if
necessary. In addition, he said, some 25,000 workers on the Caribbean islands of
Jamaica, St. Lucia, Dominica, Barbados, St. Vincent and Grenada would be
available.

Imported farm workers were used abundantly until the practice was largely halted
by an outcry that their presence contributed to the poverty of the American farm
worker. The largest number of pickers were brought in under the bracero program,
which from 1951 to 1963 imported as many as 450,000 Mexican men a year to work
in 28 states. Far fewer from the West Indies were used to harvest vegetables,
fruit and sugar cane, chiefly in Florida, under a program called H2, which the
Federal Government phased out by 1971.

From Tobacco to Apples

The new immigration act extended this program, now called H2a, to be used in the
event of farm labor shortages. In the past year, additional H2a workers were
brought in to pick tobacco in Virginia and apples in Massachusetts.

Workers from Mexico, the West Indies and elsewhere in the hemisphere continued
to work on American farms, but without legal sanction. They took a larger role
in migrant labor streams in the Eastern Seaboard, often taking the place of poor
blacks who were able to give up the migrant life as new social programs eased
their plight, say agriculture authorities.

In a recent survey by the Florida Institute of Government, major Florida growers
said the new immigration law was already encouraging those who qualified for
protection to leave farm work for better jobs.

''They are moving into service industry jobs which pay the same wages without
all the hard work,'' said Wayne Clark, a senior fellow with the research
organization.

Organized labor has failed to penetrate Florida agriculture, in part because so
many of the workers have been illegal aliens and because of cultural divisions
among them. There are only 600 members of the California-based United Farm
Workers in Florida agriculture, and organizing has been almost non-existent in
this decade.

Migrant workers receive help from religious and community groups that try to
relieve some of the squalor that is an inseparable condition of their lives.
These groups have also been active in helping workers apply for amnesty if they
can prove they have lived in the United States continuously since before Jan. 1,
1982, or are eligible under the seasonal agricultural worker (S.A.W.) program.
The latter gives legal status to those employed 90 days in seasonal farm work in
the 12-month period ending May 1, 1986.

Immigration officials had counted some 480,000 S.A.W. applications by May 4, and
believe another 60,000 still-unprocessed applications may have come in by that
day. The officials believe many came from people who mistakenly believed they
faced the same deadline as those seeking amnesty, instead of the Nov. 30 for the
S.A.W. program. California, with half the total number, had the most S.A.W.
applications. Florida was second, with some 75,000, and Texas third with 30,000.

Up to now, the migrants have had few options in their lives. Fearing deportation
back to homelands where jobs were few and conditions even meaner, they accepted
a marginal existence to put bread on the table.

Whether a green card will be a passport to a new world of choices will become
clearer over the next few years. At the moment they are packing their cars and
pickup trucks, readying for the ritual of following the sun northward into the
ripening vineyards and farmlands of America. For some of them, at least, it may
be the last summer to ''go up the road.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photos of migrant farm workers from Mexico and Guatemala working in
Fla. (NYT/Penelope Taylor)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             February 22, 1989, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Crackdown on Latin Refugees Has a Shaky Start

BYLINE: By ROBERTO SURO, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 500 words

DATELINE: BAYVIEW, Tex., Feb. 21


The Federal Government's crackdown on Central American refugees began slowly
today as officials working in makeshift facilities were only able to process a
handful of the aliens seeking political asylum.

The new policy initiated today aims at discouraging Central American immigrants
by issuing quick judgments on their claims for asylum and then immediately
detaining those who are rejected.

But by early evening only 13 had a verdict. All their claims were rejected, and
they were put in detention.

Federal officials said that by working into the night they hoped to start
processing about 260 more applications. In recent weeks an average of about 400
people a day filed asylum applications here under procedures that allowed the
aliens to remain at liberty.

First New Workers Arrive

The first of some 500 Federal officials who are being sent here to carry out the
new policy began work this morning at a 315-acre detention center here. The
center is 25 miles from Brownsville, the border city where most Central
Americans enter the United States.

At the same time, workmen erected two big brightly striped tents to house
immigrants after the detention center's 1,100 beds are filled.

About 250 people appeared at the gates of this Immigration and Naturalization
Service center this morning, and few appeared to know anything of the
Government's new attitude toward them.

''When I informed them of the changed procedures, they seemed surprised and
quite a few of them just walked away,'' said Linda Yanez, an immigration lawyer.

The immigration commissioner, Alan C. Nelson, announced Monday that aliens
filing invalid asylum claims would be subject to detention and deportation after
an initial review of their cases.

He said this was the only way to deter thousands of Central Americans, who are
fleeing poverty, from seeking asylum in the United States. Immigration law
reserves asylum for those who can prove they have ''a well-founded fear of
persecution.''

An Awkward Start

Rendering quick verdicts on the asylum applications is important to the new
plan, Mr. Nelson said, and he promised that the processing would take one day.

But the effort here to render quick judgments started awkwardly this morning.
Workmen were still installing equipment in two mobile homes when State
Department and immigration officials moved in to begin examining applications.

Omer Sewell, director of the local immigration service office, said that small
matters like a shortage of extension cords held up the process.

Mr. Sewell said that anyone who appeared at the detention center but was not
fully processed in a day would be asked to come back. They would be given a
document, he said, that would prevent them from being detained by the Border
Patrol as illegal aliens.

The new policy was partly motivated by the complaints of local officials who
said the Federal Government was overburdening their communities by forcing large
numbers of immigrants to stay in south Texas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 3, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

VERBATIM;
On Illegal Aliens

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 5; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 73 words


'The word is just beginning to get out now to some isolated groups of
immigrants, such as Haitians, Asians and Europeans. In this program, the best
advertisement is a freshly minted temporary resident card in the hands of a
relative or neighbor. '  -  Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of
Brooklyn, after a committee vote to give illegal aliens another six months to
apply for legal status. from the library's budget.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 3, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Lacking 'Official' Documents, Aliens Use Alternatives to Gain Citizenship

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 28, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 947 words


George Montoya has been a compulsive pack rat all his life, hanging onto almost
every scrap of paper he got. Now, that collection of paper may help Mr. Montoya,
an illegal alien from Colombia, become a United States citizen.

Mr. Montoya was unable to provide the usual documents - bank statements, pay
stubs or tax records - used to apply for citizenship under the Federal
Immigration and Reform Act. Instead, he was able to submit, among other things,
a receipt for cookware he bought in 1980 and a collection of Spanish-language
editions of Reader's Digest dating back to 1982.

After a period in which illegal aliens and their counselors rarely used anything
but the most official of documents to start the process to apply for
citizenship, more and more applicants, like Mr. Montoya, are showing up with
alternative forms of proof of residency. And, according to the immigration
assistance agencies and spokesmen for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, that proof is being accepted.

The director of the the I.N.S. legalization office for Brooklyn and Queens,
Yvette La Gontherie, said agencies advising aliens were ''concerned that some
people disqualify themselves because they think documentation means official
documents.''

Evidence Establishing Presence

''What is really required,'' she added, ''is any type of evidence establishing
presence in this country: a listing in an old telephone book, a Christmas card
with a name and date on the envelope or a picture in an old newspaper. We tell
them to use their imagination.''

Aldo Belony, a former hotel manager from Haiti, proved his presence in this
country in December 1981 by writing to American Express and obtaining a record
of six travelers checks he had cashed in New York City at that time.

In the last few months, the New York City immigration hot line has been getting
more and more calls from people who believe they qualify for legalization but
who are having trouble finding documents to prove it, according to John
Feinblatt, deputy director of the Travelers Aid Services/Victim Services Agency,
which runs the hot line.

More than 200 calls are being received daily by the immigration hot line
(718-899-4000) in Jackson Heights, Queens. Set up last August with two
counselors, the hot line now has a staff of 15, giving information in 13
languages.

Explaining why people had been reluctant to come forward, Rachel Miller,
immigration coordinator in the Jackson Heights office said, ''Lots of people
have disqualified themselves because they don't think they have the proper
documentation.''

Examples of Documents Used

In an interview, Ms. Miller gave these examples of some of the documents used to
prove eligibility:

* The application of an elderly woman from India, who had no documents and lived
as a recluse with her son in the Bronx, was accepted on the basis of affidavits
from her son, his wife and two occasional visitors who had seen her in the son's
home and her doctor.

* A French general contractor presented a letter from his business partner in
1981 and a 1982 c.o.d. receipt for wall-to-wall carpeting.

* A Korean merchant sailor who jumped ship in 1979 and had worked for 25
different Korean grocers, got affidavits from five of his former employers and a
friend of a former roommate.

* Among other items, a Canadian woman offered a picture, published in Women's
Wear Daily, of her and her brother at a St. Patrick's Day party in a Manhattan
hotel. $500 for Flight From Bahamas Documentation is generally easier for
children, who have such school records as class photographs and report cards,
Ms. Miller said.

Like many other illegal aliens, Mr. Montoya, 28 years old, came to the United
States in September 1980 to join his companion, Nurey, a legal immigrant. They
were married three months after he arrived here. He and a brother-in-law had
paid $500 each to be flown without documents in a small plane from the Bahamas
to the Miami area.

Mr. Montoya, who was a civil engineering student in Colombia, worked at a number
of jobs here: porter, parking lot attendant, deliveryman and used-car salesman.
Because he could not obtain a Social Security number, he was always paid off the
books, he said.

He initially lived with a cousin in Fort Lee, N.J., and later he and his wife
moved to Queens, where they now live with their 5-year-old son.

''I was scared that first year,'' he recalled. ''People would say immigration
was coming to get me. But I was lucky, I never got arrested.''

When he learned about the amnesty program that offers a process for aliens
living here unlawfully since before Jan. 1, 1982, to obtain residency, Mr.
Montoya sought help from Concerned Citizens of Queens, a community group
designated by the Federal Government to help illegal aliens apply for
citizenship.

With a briefcase full of papers, Mr. Montoya appeared in October at the I.N.S.
office in Queensboro Plaza. He presented his marriage license, dated December
1980, from the Queens Civil Court in Forest Hills, receipts from 1980 for
cookware bought on a 24-month credit plan and for an 18-month home English
course from Miami University; a flight log from an aviation course in 1983; his
son's birth and baptism certificates; a letter from a former employer, and
magazines he had subscribed to over the years.

His documentation was accepted by the immigration service, and Mr. Montoya
received a work permit. He is now awaiting temporary resident status, which is
necessary before applying for citizenship.

''We've never seen a case we couldn't document somehow,'' Ms. Miller said.
''There's nobody who doesn't know somebody who can vouch for him or her.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of George Montoya and his son, John Paul, at his apartment in
Queens with magazines and catalogues dating back to 1982 that he used to
document his residency (NYT/Linda M. Baron)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 18, 1988, Monday, Late City Final Edition

211 Illegal Aliens Arrested

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 48 words

DATELINE: DUBLIN, Calif., April 17


Agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service have arrested 211 people
suspected of being illegal aliens in eight cities in northern and central
California. All those apprehended Saturday were men from Mexico, and all but 15
returned voluntarily within hours, an official said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 26, 1988, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Time for Amnesty?;
Congress' Debate on Extending Plan For Aliens Rehashes Original Issues

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 964 words


On the surface, the Congressional debate over extending the nation's amnesty
program for illegal aliens is a simple question of time: whether to give aliens
an extra seven months to apply for legal status.

But nothing has ever been simple in either the passage or the implementation of
the nation's largest program to legalize aliens.

And if the debate in Congress partly reflects assessments of the program's
effectiveness, it also hinges on many of the fundamental tensions that made
amnesty for illegal aliens an explosive issue for almost a decade before it
finally became law in 1986.

''This is largely a struggle about public attitudes about immigration,'' said
Rick Swartz, the head of the National Immigration, Refugee and Citizenship
Forum, a nonprofit advocacy group that supports an extension of the program.
''In many ways it's revisiting the struggle over amnesty in the first place.''

Senate Delays Are Possible

Last week, the House of Representatives voted 213 to 201 to approve an extension
of the program that would push the deadline for filing amnesty applications from
May 4 to Nov. 30. But the measure faces an uncertain future in the Senate, where
some Republicans are considering filibusters. Proposed amendments could also
slow its progress. Even proponents say there may not be time to bring it to the
floor for a vote this week.

Congress is in recess next week, and proponents are leery of prolonging any
uncertainty that could lead some aliens to put off applying before the May 4
deadline. Proponents say if there appears to be no chance of passage, they would
hope to make that clear to potential applicants and counseling groups by the
middle of the week.

''The humane thing to do is to treat this with some finality,'' said Jerry
Tinker, staff director for the Senate Judiciary Subcomittee on Immigration and
Refugee Affairs.

Though the measure may be defeated by a lack of time, it concerns issues that
could mean the difference between legal and illegal status for tens of thousands
of aliens. An anticipated late surge has begun with 50,000 aliens flocking
weekly to legalization centers recently, and proponents say an extension could
bring another 200,000 to 300,000 applicants. Opponents say there is no evidence
that many need an extension to apply.

A Slow Start

The general amnesty, providing legal residence in the United States for aliens
who have lived here illegally since Jan. 1, 1982, has brought out 1.2 million
applicants. Officials had expected 2 million, and possibly more. About 400,000
more aliens have applied under more liberal provisions for seasonal agricultural
workers.

Supporters of an extension say Congress intended a fair and generous amnesty
program and an extension is needed to provide that.

They say that the program began slowly and that publicity about the amnesty did
not pick up until the last few months. Critics have said that, until recently,
the program has been little understood outside the Hispanic barrios of the
Southwest, where turnout has been strongest.

In addition, they note that the amnesty program has been steadily evolving, with
interpretations of the law in several instances quite different now than when it
began.

Of special concern is a Federal court ruling within the last month that said the
amnesty could apply to more than 50,000 students and visitors to the country who
overstayed visas or passports and lived here illegally.

Openness Helps Eligibility

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has interpreted the law to mean that
only those whose illegal status was known to the service by Jan. 1, 1982, were
eligible for amnesty. But the recent court ruling said that if aliens paid taxes
or made their presence known in any way to the Government, they were eligible.

The Government may appeal the case, but groups who work with aliens say the
confusion could keep thousands of applicants from applying.

Before the ruling, ''we told 700 to 1,000 people that they were not qualified,''
said Lavinia Limon, the executive director of the International Institute of Los
Angeles, a private social service agency. ''You're talking about thousands of
people, and getting the word out to these folks is not something you can do on
Spanish-language TV. Cases like these are why an extension is so important.''

But the immigration service and other critics of an extension say one would be
expensive and ineffective and that Congress intended only a one-year program.

They note the agency has tried to accomodate aliens by allowing them to file
skeleton applications by May 4. They are then given an extra two months to come
up with sufficient documentation.

Excuse to Rewrite Rules

The critics say there is no evidence an extension would provide enough in
application fees to make up the $7.6 million-a-month operating costs, as the law
requires. The fees are $185 for an individual and a maximum of $420 for a
family.

And some say the extension is, as much as anything, an attempt to allow
proponents to rewrite the rules so more illegal aliens are eligible to stay.

''Senator Simpson feels an extension is the first step in broadening the program
or going on to a second one,'' said Richard Day, the Republicans' chief counsel
on the Senate immigration subcomittee. Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of
Wyoming, was one of the architects of the immigration law.

''He feels very strongly,'' Mr. Day added, ''that when Congress asked the
general public to go along with this, it was as once-only limited legislation,
and that's what he is trying to keep it.''

His committee colleague, Mr. Tinker, said, ''It seems to me as if we've just run
the clock back in time and debated the underlying premise of the law rather than
a simple extension.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 4, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Aliens' Amnesty Ends Today

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section B; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 302 words


Crowds lined up outside Federal immigration centers in cities around the country
yesterday as thousands of undocumented aliens applied for legal residency status
a day ahead of the deadline for the yearlong program.

To accommodate late applicants, all 107 offices of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service will remain open until midnight tonight, the deadline to
apply. Many district offices extended hours yesterday, too.

''The applications are finally coming in,'' said James Jasey, an immigration
spokesman in New York, where more day outside the office at 26 Federal Plaza in
Manhattan.

In New York City, an immigration hot line will be available until midnight
tonight to handle last-minute questions. The number is 718-899-4000, and advice
will be available in at least 10 languages.

In Baltimore, the line of applicants stretched around the block yesterday
morning, as people waited for the district office to open, Louis D. Crocetti,
the acting deputy district director, said.

Two weeks ago, Mr. Crocetti said, his office was processing 15 to 20
applications a day. Now, he said, there are more than 200 applicants a day.

As of Sunday, 1.33 million applications had been received, according to the
immigration service.

Applicants who file by the deadline also may request up to 60 days for
submitting other documents necessary to prove they have lived in the United
States continuously since before Jan. 1, 1982.

''We've gotten dramatically busier in the last few days,'' said Roger Nye, chief
legalization officer for the immigration office in Boston, which handles
applications from Massachusetts, Rhode Island and New Hampshire.

''Our average throughout the program has been about 28 applications a day, but
last week we had 828, which works out to over 160 a day,'' Mr. Nye said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 5, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Many Aliens Seek Amnesty on Last Day as Legal Questions Persist

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

SECTION: Section B; Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1228 words


The nation's historic program offering illegal immigrants a chance to stay in
the United States came to a frantic finale yesterday as more than 100,000
applicants jammed legalization centers around the country. Meanwhile,
last-minute Federal court rulings extended the application period for some
aliens and added a final element of confusion.

The last day of the amnesty was marked by the conflicting pressures that have
made the program an extraordinarily complex human and legal drama.

On the one hand, thousands of applicants lined up for their last chance to take
part in a process that it is estimated will legalize 1.5 million aliens and
grant protection to 500,000 seasonal agricultural workers. Offices remained open
until midnight to accept applications.

They came from people like Juan Martinez and Rodolfo Torres, who waded across
the Rio Grande together seven years ago and applied together yesterday at the
legalization center in a strip shopping center in Houston. ''Some people were
encouraging us, some were discouraging us,'' said Mr. Torres. ''But when you see
it coming to an end, you might as well make an attempt.''

Legal Questions Abound

But legal questions added to the final day's confusion. A Federal appeals court
in New York gave a small group of aliens, those with children born in the United
States who are receiving welfare benefits, the possiblity of extra time to apply
because of confusion about the eligibility of such applicants.

In a far broader and more significant ruling, Judge Stanley Sporkin of Federal
District Court in Washington gave certain aliens who had overstayed their visas
or failed to comply with Federal reporting requirements until Aug. 31 to apply
under the new law. Some 100,000 aliens could be eligible under the ruling.

The suits are among a number of legal challenges, perhaps eight of them on
significant issues, that are still being adjudicated as the program ends. Many
reflect changes in policy in which groups originally deemed ineligible were
later found to be eligible. Immigration attorneys say the rulings are part of a
welter of unresolved legal issues that could keep the law controversial for
months.

They also mean that aliens subject to court rulings in some states, such as the
one in New York, could have extended filing deadlines not available to those in
similar circumstances in other states.

New York Ruling Cheered

''This will hopefully be the first of a number of cases in which the courts will
have to seriously address the rights of thousands of applicants who have been
wrongfully deemed ineligible by the agency during the application process,''
Peter Schey, executive director of the National Center for Immigrants' Rights in
Los Angeles, said of the New York ruling.

A New York Congressman said the program should be extended while such issues
were sorted out.

''In light of the rulings, it would be a disgrace for the Administration to
allow the deadline to expire in a cloud of confusion,'' Representative Charles
Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat, said in calling for a 60-day extension.

But officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service have been adamantly
opposed to extending the program. They said it would be tragic if any confusion
about possible extensions prevented eligible aliens elsewhere from applying. And
they said the final rush was a sign of the success of a program they said would
legalize more aliens than any legalization programin history.

The law offered amnesty or legal status to aliens who could prove that they
lived in the United States continuously since Jan. 1, 1982.

Most Dramas Personal

For most applicants, the final-day rush had more to do with personal dramas than
legal ones. It brought out thousands who had procrastinated or who had agonized
over their eligibility. Some had just now scraped together the money, $185 for
an individual and up to $420 for a family, and documents to apply.

Almost 75 percent of the applicants nationwide came from Mexico, and the turnout
over all had a distinctly Hispanic flavor in many cities. But the process
brought out a cross-section of the illegal population. Renata Wincencjusz, a
25-year-old Polish dental assistant was one of those who applied in Chicago.

''I'm very nervous,'' she said. ''If you listen to the news, you know it's war
again in Poland. This is the only chance I have to change my life.''

Not all those applying felt anything approaching that desperation.

Andrew Boesch, a 34-year-old Atlanta photographer from Zurich, said he had not
thought much about the program until recently.

''It's strange, but I don't feel like an alien,'' said Mr. Boesch, who
overstayed his visa and has lived here illegally since 1981. ''This just totally
slipped my mind.''

Gratitude and Hope

If there was some degree of fear in the process, there was also a huge amount of
gratitude and hope. Even critics say the Immigration Service deserves praise for
running a fair and open program.

Joseph Olszynski, a 26-year-old Pole in Chicago, said he applied so late because
of his busy work schedule, difficulty in obtaining documents and fear of the
I.N.S. But the fear was long gone, he said through an interpreter, John Wozniak,
of the Polish-American Immigration and Relief Commitee.

''Usually, you come here, you get arrested, deported, something is wrong,'' Mr.
Wozniak said. ''It looks very friendly now, like brothers and sisters.''

''God Bless America,'' said Mr. Olszynski in Polish.

''God Bless America,'' said Mr. Wozniak.

Los Angeles Is Busy

The Chicago office took in about 2,500 applications Tuesday. A normal day's
intake throughout the program has been about 150.

The law will have radically differing effects on different parts of the country.
It has been most successful in California and Texas, which together contributed
almost 70 percent of the total applicants.

The busiest single area was Los Angeles. Immigration officials there took 70,000
applications Tuesday, bringing the total as of yesterday morning to 841,583
applications for general amnesty and a less stringent program for seasonal
agricultural workers. Officials estimated the total would reach 900,000 by
midnight. Initial projections had been for 700,000 applicants.

The turnout there was overwhelmingly Mexican-American. Many had kind words about
the process.

Humberto Haro, a gardener who has lived in Los Angeles since 1979, said he has
had a difficult time obtaining documents but was pleased with regulations that
give him 60 days to gather them after filing an abbreviated application. ''It's
a pretty good deal,'' he said. ''They give us more time to get everything
together.''

The extra time will have a different impact on some applicants. Officials say
many applicants now probably will not apply for the program. Some apparently are
applying only to get temporary work authorization while their petitions are
being evaluated.

''Some of them are just buying time,'' said Richard Rios, director of the
legalization center in Houston. But most believe the law, whatever its
imperfections, remains a ticket to a freer life.

''I didn't want to get stuck on the farm,'' said Gerardo Montoya, who said he
came to the United States in 1981 from his father's ranch in Mexico and hopes to
study veterinary medicine here. ''I want to see the world.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 6, 1989, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Ditch Reflects Deep Border Tensions

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1224 words

DATELINE: OTAY MESA, Calif.


No more ambitious than a local public works project, the Federal Government's
plan to dig a four-mile-long earthen ditch on the dusty flatlands here has sent
diplomatic aftershocks up and down the 2,000-mile Mexican border.

The purpose of the ditch is simple enough: to stop growing numbers of
undocumented aliens who dart across the border in cars and vans, often smuggling
drugs.

But as a symbol, the 14-foot-wide, 5-foot-deep border trench is stirring intense
passions in both the United States and Mexico.

The Mexican Government demanded Feb. 20 that the plan be scrapped ''in the
spirit of cooperation and friendship that characterizes the relation between the
two nations.'' In the United States, immigrant groups have denounced the project
as a mean-spirited attempt to erect a sort of inverted Berlin Wall. And although
some local and state elected officials think the idea is sound, they complain
that they were never consulted by the Federal bureaucrats who helped draw up the
plans. An Annoying Detour?  On a more fundamental level, what Mexican officials
call the ''ditch crisis'' underscores the complexities the United States faces
in dealing with the influx of illegal immigrants that the Immigration Reform and
Control Act of 1986 has not succeeded in keeping out of the country.

The Government has won some recent battles capturing illegal aliens trying to
reach New York aboard late-night airline flights and limiting the aliens
flooding the Texas border. But officials say they are frustrated by border
control efforts that too often seem futile.

Diplomatic and political objections aside, many critics say the ditch would
present illegal immigrants with nothing more than an annoying detour. They say
the immigrants could easily fashion makeshift ramps across the trench, or dodge
past other breaks that would remain along the border.

''The only thing they haven't tried is mining the area,'' said Roberto L.
Martinez, director of the American Friends Service Committee's program on border
issues.

'Big Trash Pit'

Fred B. Sobke, who runs the Baja-Mex Insurance office in the San Ysidro section
of San Diego, said, ''It's going to be a big trash pit - that's what it's going
to be.'' Other critics say facetiously that the Government will fill the ditch
with water and stock it with alligators or piranhas.

The California-Mexico border is the most popular crossing for undocumented
aliens, whether by car or on foot. Here on the barren terrain on either side of
the immigration station at Otay Mesa, there are no canyons, rivers or other
natural barriers - and, in many spots, not even a fence.

Eager for a remedy, United States officials are pushing ahead. Alan C. Nelson,
the immigration commissioner, said at an American-Mexican conference recently
that although the project's effects on the environment were still being studied,
construction would begin by mid-April and that the ditch may be finished by next
fall.

'Security Enhancement'

Yet as Mr. Nelson spoke reassuringly that the project was not ''a hostile act,''
the Mexican consul general in Los Angeles, Romeo Flores Caballero, interrupted
Mr. Nelson and declared: ''You should be building bridges, not ditches.''

American officials never imagined such a fuss in January when they disclosed the
$2 million ''border security enhancement project.''

''There are so many emotional, psychological and ideological factors that get
attached to the ditch,'' said Paul Ganster, director of the Institute for
Regional Studies of the Californias at San Diego State University. ''And you
have so many actors involved at the border that it's difficult to get a
coordinated border policy.''

Actually, coordination between Government agencies led to the ditch in the first
place. The immigration service at first considered erecting 3-foot-tall concrete
barriers between the natural barriers to immigration: the rough canyons to the
west of this mesa and the foothills to the east. But the International Boundary
and Water Commission, a binational agency, responding in part to complaints from
Mexico that storm water was draining into the country, suggested that a ditch
would remedy both drainage and immigration problems.

Litter of Failed Projects

But cracking down on aliens who just drive across the border is clearly the
foremost concern among Government officials in pressing for the ditch. Its site,
largely overgrown farmland that is being replaced by new industrial parks, is
littered with remnants of border efforts that did not work: steel rods, cables,
wood stakes and trampled sections of the ''Tortilla Curtain,'' a chain-link
fence erected a decade ago.

Each month, immigration officials estimate, as many as 400 vehicles, some of
them stolen, veer off a highway in Tijuana and head north under cover of
darkness or brazenly in the daylight.

Although the great majority cross on foot, driving is the more civilized path
for those who can afford to pay guides at least $350 for the ride. Most of the
''drive-throughs'' are Mexican, but Border Patrol agents have caught young and
old immigrants from nations including Colombia, Nicaragua, El Salvador and
Yugoslavia.

Besides the added comfort, there's another benefit to driving: ''You don't get
caught,'' said Gene Carter, a border agent. ''It takes five minutes to drive
through to freedom and two hours to walk through a canyon.''

Hide and Seek

The only obstacles are agents like Mr. Carter who watch the border from lime
green jeeps and, after dark, depend on dispatchers to alert them when a vehicle
has tripped one of many seismic sensors planted along the border.

An elaborate game of hide-and-seek results. Drivers, who travel alone or in
caravans of as many as 10 vehicles, will park just across the border, 50 feet
away, waiting for agents to move on.

''God forbid if you pull off to get a cup of coffee,'' said Mr. Carter, a
transplanted Philadelphian. ''Because when you come back, they won't be there
any more.''

Outnumbered and sometimes outsmarted, the border agents concede that they rarely
apprehend such immigrants, who quickly cross and lose themselves on the busy
California freeways. The agents are satisfied merely to chase them back into
Mexico. Even when they do that, the same vehicles often reappear an hour or two
later trying to get across.

Danger of Chases Cited

The San Diego border patrol sector, which is responsible for 66 miles of the
border here, reported apprehending 431,592 aliens in the fiscal year that ended
Sept. 30, while seizing an estimated $17.4 million worth of drugs. The border
patrol does not keep figures showing the percentage of those cases that involved
drive throughs.

Beyond their concern about aliens and drug trafficking, the Federal authorities
say the ditch would address their concern that the public is endangered by the
frequent high-speed chases between agents and immigrants.

But ditch opponents counter with their own health warning: unsuspecting
immigrants could fall in the ditch and be hurt.

Senator Dennis DeConcini, an Arizona Democrat, said the project had ''some
merits'' but posed dangers as well. ''We don't want cars falling into a ditch,''
he said. ''When you deal with these international areas, you've got to use some
diplomacy, and apparently that got lost in the fray.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Gene Carter at U.S.-Mexico border in Calif. (NYT/Robert
Burroughs); map of U.S.-Mexico border in Calif.

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 17, 1989, Friday, Late City Final Edition

MEXICO ASSISTING IN U.S. PLAN TO CUT ILLEGAL MIGRATION

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1210 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, March 16


In a major but unacknowledged policy shift, Mexico is expanding its cooperation
with American efforts to reduce the flow of illegal immigrants into the United
States, officials here and along the border say.

As a main element of that strategy, Mexico has permitted agents of the United
States Immigration and Naturalization Service to step up their investigative
activities in Mexican territory, the officials said. The Mexican police have
also joined recently with the United States Border Patrol to apprehend Mexicans
and Central Americans along the American border.

Operating from the United States Embassy here and from consulates in Monterrey,
Guadalajara, Tijuana and Ciudad Juarez, the agents, many of whom are
Mexican-Americans, travel frequently around Mexico to monitor international
smuggling rings and the traffic along the routes they use.

High Risk for Salinas

Their presence is not new, but their activities have intensified in recent
months as the flow of Nicaraguans, Salvadorans and other Central Americans
through Mexico has increased dramatically.

''Anything we do is being done openly and with the knowledge and consent of the
Mexican Government,'' said Verne Jervis, an immigration agency spokesman in
Washington. ''We are getting good cooperation from Mexico, and I can state there
are no covert operations on the part of the I.N.S. in Mexico.''

Mexico's apparent willingness to work more closely with the immigration service
and permit it to operate more actively on Mexican soil carries a high degree of
political risk for President Carlos Salinas de Gortari. ''La migra,'' as the
service is known here, is despised by millions of Mexicans who have gone to the
United States in search of jobs or to join other family members already living
there, and any Mexican assistance given the agency is likely to be widely
resented here.

Collection of Corruption Data

But at the same time, the Mexican Government is increasingly concerned about its
inability to prevent illegal Central American immigrants from using Mexico as a
''trampoline'' to the United States. While acknowledging that the information
they are obtaining may also be useful in stopping the entry of undocumented
Mexican workers into the United States, American officials have sought to make
it clear that their primary objective at the moment is to cooperate with Mexico
in controlling Central American immigration.

In a formal statement of policy today, the Mexican Government noted that ''it
does not constitute a crime of any sort'' for Mexican citizens ''to try to enter
another country without immigration documents or to leave national territory
without going through inspection and other established formalities.'' Recent
joint activities by Mexican and American authorities, the statement also said,
''do not seek to contravene the foreign policy of Mexico, nor much less violate
the individual guarantees of those who find themselves in our national
territory.''

The number of American immigration agents active in Mexico is still small -
about a dozen - and neither American or Mexican officials were willing to
discuss the possibility of an increase in that figure. But it is clear that
their role has broadened beyond such routine bureaucratic tasks as the
processing of Cuban refugee requests and the verification of assertions to
American citizenship or resident-alien status.

The activities of American agents focus on ''information gathering and
intelligence sharing,'' Mr. Jervis said. ''A lot of our information comes from
Mexican officials, from talks with immigration and law-enforcement people
there.''

Infiltrating Smuggling Rings

The effort is an ''ongoing program,'' Mr. Jervis said, but activities have been
''enhanced'' in recent months because of the increase in the number of Central
Americans fleeing civil war, political repression and poverty. Officials here
and along the border said that to obtain intelligence on people smuggling
Central Americans and Mexicans across the border, the immigration service has
tried to infiltrate such smuggling rings with informers.

According to internal memos published this week by The Brownsville Herald, the
authencity of which was confirmed by officials, immigration agents have been
working with their Mexican counterparts in the Mexican capital and at least nine
other cities, most of them on the main underground route from Central America to
Texas. Agents are now also involved in similar efforts in Guatemala, El Salvador
and Panama, American officials said.

Officials here said the teams have also been collecting information on corrupt
Mexican police and customs officials involved in the traffic, either by
accepting bribes from smugglers or the outright robbery of Mexican and Central
American migrants. Some of the information has been passed on to Mexican federal
authorities, they added.

In another indication of tacit cooperation between the two Governments, a
reporter who visited the Matamoros-Brownsville sector of the border this month
observed helicopters operated by the American immigration service repeatedly
flying across the Rio Grande into Mexican territory on three consecutive nights.


New Administration's Policy

Mr. Jervis said, ''There are an awful lot of helicopters in the air up there,
not just ours,'' but added, ''I assume that if the Mexican authorities had a
problem with that, they would not hesitate to let us know.''

The regional director for the American immigration service here, E. Michael
Trominski, said: ''At no point in time will the I.N.S. in Mexico City try to
enforce United States immigration laws. The fact we have a mutual illegal alien
and criminality problem does not indicate that we will ever expect Mexico to
enforce our laws.''

In 1988, the service recorded 940,601 apprehensions of people trying to enter
the United States illegally. More than 90 percent of those detained were Mexican
citizens, a percentage that continues to hold true despite the recent rise in
the flow of Central Americans, officials said.

The increased cooperation between the American and Mexican Government agencies
coincides with a major overhaul in Mexico's immigration and customs services and
the federal police. After the inauguration of Mr. Salinas on Dec. 1, a new head
of the immigration service, Susana Torres Hernandez, was installed, and the
directors of many regional offices were replaced, as is common here with any
change of administration.

On Feb. 23, the Border Patrol and the Mexican Federal Police jointly carried out
a ''sandwich'' operation at Tijuana-San Ysidro, the busiest section of the 1,952
mile border. More than 500 people, mostly Mexicans but also including a few
Central Americans, were arrested when the two Government forces moved toward the
border from the north and south and trapped those caught in the middle.

The participation of the Mexican Federal Police in the operation has generated
enormous controversy throughout Mexico. The agency is run by the Office of the
Attorney General. Government officials have responded by saying that the roundup
was aimed not at undocumented Mexican workers seeking entry into the United
States but at protecting them from drug dealers and thieves.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 23, 1989, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Agency Suspends Work in Mexico

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 662 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, March 22


After a strongly adverse public reaction to disclosure of its activities here,
the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service has suspended a program
aimed at obtaining intelligence on the flow of illegal immigrants through Mexico
into the United States.

A dramatic increase in recent months of the flow of refugees from Central
America seeking political asylum in Texas had led the agency to intensify its
efforts to monitor the routes and traffic controlled by ''coyotes,'' or people
smugglers, operating in Mexico. Agency officials said the operation was being
carried out with the knowledge and approval of the Mexican Government.

But news reports last week that American immigration agents have been operating
out of the embassy here and consulates in Monterrey, Guadalajara, Tijuana and
Ciudad Juarez quickly ignited a nationwide political controversy. Mexican
newspapers and political opposition figures described the operation as a
violation of Mexican sovereignty and angrily accused the American agency of
espionage.

Criticism for Both Sides

Criticism has been especially strong along the United States-Mexico border.
Immigration and human rights groups on both sides of the 1,952-mile frontier
have protested both the monitoring operation itself and the willingness of the
Mexican Government to cooperate with the arm of the American Government that is
most widely disliked in Mexico.

Officials said it was too early to say when, or if, the American monitoring
efforts in Mexico might be resumed and they maintained that the suspension was
not a response to Mexican complaints. An American official said that American
immigration agents here ''are not going to be doing any traveling for a while,''
adding that information on Central Americans ''has been updated for the time
being.''

That suspension, which has not been formally announced, is likely to impede
American efforts to deter the flow of Nicaraguans, Salvadorans and other Central
Americans through Mexico into the United States. Earlier this year, as many as
2,000 Central Americans fleeing civil war, political repression and poverty in
their homelands were entering the United States each week.

One month ago, the immigration service beefed up patrols on the Texas side of
the border and announced new regulations aimed at making immigration hearings
for Central American refugees faster and more rigorous. Agency officials in
Washington said that both the number of requests for political asylum and
apprehensions of Central Americans trying to enter the United States illegally
have since declined.

Fears of Salvadoran Tide

Mexican officials, however, said they have noticed no significant decrease in
the number of Central Americans entering their country since the new rules were
announced on Feb. 21. In addition, some have expressed concern that the victory
of Alfredo Cristiani of the right-wing Arena party in Sunday's presidential
election in El Salvador could soon trigger a new wave of immigration from the
south.

One Mexican official said, ''Any hardening of positions or settling of scores,
either by the new Arena government or the rebels, is certain to send more
Salvadorans our way, and yours.''

The monitoring program first became known earlier this month when copies of
memos sent by E. Michael Trominski, the regional director here for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, to his superiors were published in the
press here and in the United States. American officials said an investigation is
under way to find the source of the leaked information.

Publicly, the Mexican Government has made no comment on the reports of
cooperative efforts. But the wisdom of assisting the American agency has been a
subject of considerable debate within the Government.

''I never understood why we got involved in this in the first place,'' a senior
Mexican official said. ''Why should we be engaged in something that can only
work to our detriment?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 12, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

U.S Steps Up Drive On Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By JERRY CHESLOW

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 12, Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 815 words


THE Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service has made what a high-ranking
official calls ''the most important I.N.S. bust ever in New Jersey.''

According to the official, Martin R. Greenfield, assistant district director for
investigations at the agency's Newark office, seven people were arrested last
week for allegedly supplying documents that could have allowed thousands of
illegal aliens to remain in the country fraudulently.

Those arrested in the sweep, which began at 6 A.M. Tuesday, were identified as
Lawrence R. Marval, owner of Royal Crest Meats in Trenton and of a farm in the
Trenton area; Catherine Gervasoni, owner of a five-acre farm in Pemberton;
Michel Attalla and his wife, Fawzia, Egyptian nationals living in Jersey City;
Khalid Bhutta, a Pakistani national living in Astoria, Queens; Dennis Roohr, a
South Jersey farm owner, and a man identified only as Abdul Karim.

In addition, the authorities were seeking William C. Doran, described as a
notary public employed by Mr. Marval, and three women identified only as ''Jane
Does.''

Those arrested were charged with conspiracy to submit false seasonal
agricultural-worker applications. Conviction carries a maximum prison term of
five years. At hearings in Federal District Court in Trenton Tuesday afternoon,
bail was set at up to $200,000.

According to Mr. Greenfield, the three farm owners - Mr. Marval, Ms. Gervasoni
and Mr. Roohr - were selling fraudulent affidavits that said illegal aliens had
worked on their farms for 90 days within the year ended May 1, 1986.

Such affidavits, if accepted by the I.N.S., would have enabled the applicants to
get permanent residency as special agricultural workers under the Immigration
Reform and Control Act of 1986.

Mr. and Mrs. Attalla, Mr. Bhutta and Mr. Karim allegedly had tried to buy such
documents on behalf of aliens from Pakistan, Egypt, Lebanon, Korea and several
Latin-American countries.

The largest of the operations was said to have been at Royal Crest Meats, where
Federal agents reportedly seized evidence that affidavits had been supplied to
1,400 illegal aliens.

Several thousand other applications said to have been filled out on behalf of
aliens were also found on the site, along with a .25-caliber pistol, which Mr.
Greenfield called ''a Saturday night special.''

During that raid, Mr. Greenfield said, dozens of illegal aliens arrived at the
site, attempting to buy documents.

''We took in $10,000 and made a few arrests,'' he said. ''Then we became so
inundated with people that one of our agents got sick of it all, flashed his
badge at a carload of obvious illegals and told them to get lost.''

Agents also allegedly seized 364 affidavits on Mrs. Gervasoni's five-acre farm.

''That's a lot of people to work five acres,'' Mr. Greenfield said.

The arrests were made on the basis of information gathered through attempts by
agents to buy documents from the farm owners and sell them to the middlemen.

In the Bhutta case, the defendant allegedly went from farm to farm in South
Jersey, offering owners money for fraudulent affidavits.

Last December, Mr. Greenfield said, Mr. Bhutta offered an Immigration Service
agent, who posed as a farmer, $950 for each affidavit. Agents also allegedly
bought documents from the Attallas for $3,000.

''If you look at the amounts that were being charged for the documents,'' Mr.
Greenfield said, ''you can see that we are talking about millions of dollars.''

Mr. Greenfield said that the 1,400 aliens who had applied for residency on the
basis of the affidavits supplied by Royal Crest Meats ''would be tracked down.''

He also said that leads uncovered in the case were being followed up in New
York, Florida, Texas and California and that he ''would not be surprised if,
when the evidence is examined more thoroughly, it leads to people in 15 or 20
states.''

The operation is the latest in a series of I.N.S. moves to insure compliance
with the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.

Two weeks ago, the agency fined the Superseal Corporation of South Plainfield
$39,750 for allegedly employing 23 illegal aliens. Early in May, a $12,500 fine
was imposed on the Old Time Tavern in Toms River for employing five undocumented
workers.

Frank Bianchetti, a spokesman for the Middlesex County chapter of Refuse and
Resist, an organization that opposes the new immigration law, said he was
against the use of fraudulent means to obtain documentation.

''We believe that the fight has to be in the open,'' Mr. Bianchetti said. ''By
buying documents, rather than refusing to comply with the law, people are
working within the system.''

Mr. Bianchetti added that since May 5 - the expiration date of an amnesty
granted to many categories of illegal aliens wishing to apply for citizenship
under the 1986 law - he had heard of numerous attempts to sell fraudulent
documents to aliens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 19, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about a court ruling in an amnesty case in California
misidentified the judge. He is Federal District Judge Lawrence K. Karlton.

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 20, 1988, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Mexicans Crowd a Last Opening to U.S.

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1483 words

DATELINE: MEXICALI, Mexico, June 15


They begin lining up at dawn, crowding into the tunnel here that leads to
Mexico's border with the United States and clutching the application forms,
notarized letters and check stubs they hope will gain them legal entry to
California.

Although the amnesty period for illegal immigrants that was established by the
1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act ended May 4, one rather large opening
remains, and the people in line here are rushing to squeeze through it. A
little-known program for ''special agricultural workers'' is the last legal door
to the United States available to people like Eleazar Camacho Hernandez, a
38-year-old peasant from the central Mexican state of Guanajuato.

''I want to continue working, and I want a better future,'' Mr. Camacho said as
his application was being processed. ''I've been coming to the United States to
work in the fields every summer for 10 years, but this is the first time I've
ever come in legally.''

Any foreigner who can show that he has spent 90 days or more in the United
States working in perishable agriculture during the 12 months ended May 1, 1986,
and who pays a $185 processing fee can apply for admittance. The workers, once
approved, are allowed to work in the United States for 90 days on the
understanding they will try to produce the documentation that will qualify them
to remain in the country permanently and eventually obtain a ''green card.''

The provisions of the program are so attractive that thousands of people who
have never in their lives picked up a hoe or planted a seed are now claiming to
be farmers. In the line in the tunnel are women with long lacquered nails and
men who, when questioned about their background, smile and proudly display hands
with no calluses.

Thus far, more than 600,000 people, the vast majority of them Mexicans, have
already applied. But news of the program is being spread throughout Mexico by
the Roman Catholic Church and radio advertisements sponsored by American farm
groups. Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service now estimate the
figure will rise to 850,000 before the application period ends Nov. 30.

In Mexican slang, there is now even a special term used to describe this
privileged class of applicant who is eligible for legalization in spite of
having missed the 1982 cutoff date required by the regular amnesty program. They
are known as ''los rodinos'' because the bill creating this category of
immigrant was co-sponsored by Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of
New Jersey.

''This part of the immigration law, rather than controlling access, has
broadened it,'' said Miguel Antonio Meza, director of the Mexicali office of the
College of the Northern Border, a Mexican research institute that studies
immigration and other social issues. ''As word of that loophole has spread,
people have been quick to take advantage of it.

''This program has been like a vacuum cleaner,'' Dr. Meza added. ''It continues
to sweep people up and draw them to the border.''

Though applications are also being accepted at Laredo, Tex., Otay Mesa, Calif.,
and I.N.S. offices across the United States, the largest concentration of
workers has built up in this sprawling border city at the mouth of California's
Imperial Valley and at the terminus of several Mexican railroads and highways.
More than 62,000 applications have been filed through the I.N.S. office just
across the border in Calexico, Calif.

Backlog of Applications

By last month, in fact, a backlog of about 20,000 applications had developed
here. On some particularly busy days, more than 1,000 people have been
interviewed and approved at the I.N.S. office in Calexico, forcing the agency to
work a double shift and bring in interviewers and processers from other posts.

For the moment, the tide has been reduced to a more manageable 500 applications
a day. But ''the same thing is going to happen all over again'' as the fall
harvest and the Nov. 30 deadline approach, Milton Pins, chief legalization
officer at the I.N.S. branch in Calexico, said in an interview in his office 10
yards from the border.

The program is also being used fraudulently by people who have obviously never
done farm work. American officials tell of applicants who in their qualifying
interviews say they climbed ladders to pick watermelons or strawberries. Other
supposedly veteran farm workers cannot recall the planting or harvesting
schedule for onions or asparagus.

Fake Documents Abound

''We're getting up to 25 percent fraudulent claims right now,'' Mr. Pins said.
Another American official estimated that the majority of the applications at
some processing centers were fake, but said that because that was so difficult
to prove most of the applications went through. ''Suspicion is not enough to
disqualify someone,'' he said. [''We are seeing a fair amount of fraud, and
we're trying to cull it out as we see it,'' I.N.S. Commissioner Alan Nelson said
in an interview in San Diego, where he addressed a conference of immigration
lawyers. ''But our people still have to document it so we can follow up on
it.''] Both here and in Mexico City, where applications are being processed at
the American Embassy, a booming business in fake documents has also developed.
Forged rental receipts or bogus letters from former employers now range in price
from less than $100 to up to more than $1,000.

In addition, some labor contractors in California and elsewhere are said to be
selling affidavits of past employment to migrant workers who never worked for
them. In San Diego, I.N.S. officials say, more than a dozen indictments have
recently been returned for such document fraud.

''This program is uniquely vulnerable to fraud,'' an American official in Mexico
City said. ''Everybody understands that these are people who have taken care not
to leave a paper trail, often working in the past under assumed names.''

Labor Surplus Lowers Wages

The number of ''rodinos'' is growing so rapidly that Juan Guicho of the
Campesino Service Center, which shares an office in Calexico with the United
Farm Workers of America, talks of a labor surplus in the Imperial Valley. As a
result, wages for farm workers are lower this summer than in recent years.

''Last summer I had a contract in which I earned $4.50 an hour picking melons
and tomatoes,'' said Marcial Garcia, a 29-year-old from the Mexican state of
Nayarit. ''This year almost all the work is paid by the hour, and at the minimum
wage or just a few cents above it.''

Others who have qualified for the program are avoiding the fields altogether and
heading for large cities like Los Angeles. There, they work in factories,
restaurants and gas stations - a violation of the spirit of the program,
perhaps, but not of the letter of the law.

''Applicants have to have worked in agriculture during their qualifying period,
but that does not mean they have to work in agriculture now,'' Mr. Pins said.
''They can work anywhere they want, even at a General Motors plant.'' [Asked
about the provision allowing foreigners admitted as agricultural workers to work
elsewhere, Commisioner Nelson said: ''That's the way the law was passed by
Congress, in its wisdom. That's a big question.''] Professions Are Hard Hit Here
on the Mexican side of the border, the program has had ''a destablizing
effect,'' Dr. Meza said. Not only farm workers, ''but educated, urban people who
already have jobs'' are trying to become rodinos, and that is creating acute
labor shortages in some professions, he said.

One recent study by Dr. Meza's group, for example, found that 212 teachers here
resigned before the end of the school year to try their luck in the United
States under the special agricultural program. Engineers and government
bureaucrats also suffered noticeable losses because salaries for menial farm or
factory work in the United States continue to be higher than those for
professionals in Mexico, the study found.

The program has also created a floating population of applicants here, too poor
to return to their homes in the interior of Mexico while they wait for their
cases to be called. At the Our Lady of Guadalupe Church, three blocks from the
border, about 30 men are sleeping on the floor of the church's gymnasium as they
wait to have their files processed in Calexico.

Jose Roman Cruz, a 23-year-old from the southern state of Oaxaca who arrived
here May 1 with three friends, is one of that group. His hearing is scheduled
for June 24, so for the last six weeks he has been performing odd jobs around
town, trying to put together the $185 he will have to pay to the I.N.S.

''We got here not even knowing about this program,'' Mr. Roman said. ''We were
going to go in under the fence, as usual, but when we heard about this, we
decided to take advantage of it. It's going to be a relief not having la migra
on my back.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of Mexicans in line at the U.S. border (NYT/Larry Rohter); an
immigrant being processed at INS office in Calexco (Calif.) (pg. A6) (NYT/Larry
Rohter); map of California showing location of Mexicali (pg. A6) (NYT)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 2, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Aliens' Rail Trips Grow More Perilous

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1054 words

DATELINE: SANTA ANA, Calif., Nov. 1


Just as it is for many Mexicans, the choice seemed clear to Jose Ibarra. ''I
could go north or my family could go without shoes and clothes,'' Mr. Ibarra
said. ''I went north.''

Today the 24-year-old Mexican immigrant wishes he had stayed home. On his way to
what he hoped would be a job in Southern California in September, he fell off a
moving freight train here and the wheels severed his feet. He was released from
the hospital two weeks ago.

Although Mr. Ibarra's injury is uncommon, his plight is not. The Federal
Government's aggressive efforts to keep out illegal immigrants have prompted
aliens to find new and more dangerous ways to travel into and around the United
States.

Hundreds Killed or Injured

One of the most popular, and perilous, routes from the south is the railroad. In
the last several years, hundreds of thousands of aliens have been caught
illegally riding railways from such border cities as Yuma, Ariz., El Paso and
San Diego, railroad officials say. Hundreds have been killed or injured.

Although no precise records are kept on the number of illegal immigrants killed
on trains, the railroad police working the three largest lines operating along
the United States-Mexican border report the same phenomenon: more illegal
immigrant riders, more injuries and more fatalities. The increase in injuries
and fatalities on the three lines, the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe, the Union
Pacific and the Southern Pacific, was first reported by The Orange County
Register.

The worst accident in recent memory occurred in the summer of 1987, when 18 men
suffocated in an airtight boxcar bound for Dallas from El Paso. Two years ago, a
Central American immigrant boarded a freight car in San Diego, thinking it would
stop in Los Angeles. Rail workers sealed the empty boxcar bound for Montana; the
man froze to death and was found several months later.

Immigrants ''lock themselves in boxcars all the time,'' said Silvestre Reyes,
chief of the border patrol in McAllen, Tex. In March, Mr. Reyes found 48 people
on the verge of suffocation in a boxcar about a day away from its destination in
Houston. No one died, he said, ''but sometime during the day, they would have
started to go.''

Railroad police officers along the Santa Fe line in San Diego and El Paso have
seen ''a tremendous increase in the volume'' of illegal immigrants, said Michael
Martin, a spokesman for the Santa Fe. Along with that increase, the police have
noticed a change in the type of people traveling on freights. ''They're
extremely desperate,'' Mr. Martin said, ''pushed to the limit because they're
unable to earn a living in their own country.''

Many Found on Texas Rails

The largest numbers of immigrants are illegally riding trains to Texas, said a
spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Duke Austin, since
natural barriers such as mountain ranges and the Rio Grande River block land
crossings.

Union Pacific Railroad found 32,000 illegal immigrants on its Texas line last
year, said a railroad police officer, Ron Giger, a number consistent with past
years, in spite of the immigration law enacted last year that makes it illegal
to hire illegal aliens.

Southern Pacific noticed a ''tremendous increase'' in illegal riders, deaths and
injuries, said a spokesman, Jim Loveland. He declined to release statistics.

In 1986, border patrol agents in New Mexico and Texas arrested more than 130,000
immigrants illegally riding freight trains.

A Santa Fe Railroad police officer, J. J. Gomez, said, ''It's overwhelming, and
it's only getting worse, with no end to it.''

In the 16 years Mr. Gomez has worked for the Santa Fe, he has seen nearly a
dozen illegal riders die in train accidents and more than two dozen lose limbs;
the majority, he said, were Central American immigrants in the United States
illegally.

Although generally sympathetic to the immigrants' plight, railroad officials
worry about the thousands of dollars in damages to cargo and equipment caused by
illegal riders annually. ''They create dangers,'' Mr. Martin said, ''for
themselves and for other people.''

Guides Get Up to $300

Mexican guides earn from $150 to $300 a person to bring aliens across the border
and get them aboard trains headed to jobs as far away as Chicago and New York.
Illegal riders hide ''in absolutely every place imaginable,'' said Mr. Martin:
in between, underneath and on top of cars, on axles, in locked containers, in
boxcars filled with products ranging from flour to plumbing pipes. Mr. Martin
recalls ''many, many cases'' in which a train jolted, shifting the load and
crushing immigrants hiding in cargo.

Mr. Ibarra, the immigrant who lost his feet, feels lucky to have survived. In
the next three months, doctors said, Mr. Ibarra will receive skin grafts and
prostheses. He wants to stay in California ''so I can find work,'' he said.

A spokesman for the immigration service said Mr. Ibarra would be subject to
deportation when he completes his treatment, At 16, Mr. Ibarra left school in
his small village in the state of Guerrero and headed for Mexico City. There, he
found work at the minimum wage in a Japanese sushi restaurant, earning the
equivalent of $2 a day and sending most of his wages to his parents to help
support his 10 brothers and sisters.

Value of Peso Drops

As the Mexican economy worsened, the value of the peso plummeted: two years ago,
208 pesos bought $1; a dollar now costs 10 times as many pesos.

Last month, Mr. Ibarra left Mexico City for Tijuana and paid a guide to help him
cross the border and board a freight train. Border patrol agents boarded the
train in Oceanside, near San Diego, but Mr. Ibarra and two companions managed to
hop off the train, hide in the bushes and reboard after the inspection.

Immigrants' rights groups feel that the immigration service's efforts are
''futile,'' said Linda Wong, with the Los Angeles-based Coalition for Humane
Immigration Rights. ''What drives people across the border is poverty in their
homeland.''

Coming to the United States ''is a life and death choice,'' she said. ''

No matter how bad it is here,'' Ms. Wong said, ''it cannot be worse than the
country they're coming from. That's why the vast majority take their chances. No
amount of border patrol will change that fact.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 20, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

The New Illegals: The Irish

BYLINE: By Frances X. CLines; Francis X. Clines is a foreign correspondent who
has covered Ireland for The Times.

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 28, Column 1; New York, New York Magazine

LENGTH: 1827 words


''LEGALIZE THE IRISH,'' reads the latest green-and-white poster in the hallowed
old Hibernian precincts centered on Woodside, Queens, and the Bronx and Brooklyn
neighborhoods where a flood of illegal aliens has been quietly arriving from
Ireland for the past six years.

The phenomenon seems surreal, with its image of ambitious Irish men and women
having to skulk in a city where Irish-Americans annually parade their heritage.
But it is a fact, underscored and targeted by the 1986 Immigration Reform and
Control Act, which already has left these undocumented newcomers wary about
Federal identity checks, forsaking visits home to sick parents in Ireland lest
they forfeit their chance to return to the United States.

Routed by Ireland's dismal economic outlook, the new Irish are causing a vivid
regreening of old-line neighborhoods such as Woodside, where dozens of Irish
pubs, stores and social clubs - even an authentic fish-and-chips shop - have
been opening to serve the illegals. They lack the Social Security numbers to
open bank accounts and so cash their paychecks at friendly Irish pubs, joining
the underground economy that is as old as America.

The two-family attached houses of Woodside have long provided blue-collar
sanctuary in the city, and the new Irish are marshaling their strength there.
They are bolstering the old ethnic social patterns, congregating at Gaelic Park
in the Bronx on weekends, where lately the chatter is increasingly about the
possibility of obtaining forged identity papers.

''I had a death in the family but couldn't risk going back home,'' said Rosie
Kiernan, a 26-year-old undocumented alien now taking her chances amid the Irish
camaraderie of Woodside. ''I don't know when I'll see them again, and I know a
lot of young Irish here in my situation,'' said Miss Kiernan, in a jet-age echo
of the old steerage plight of turn-of-the-century immigrants.

The Irish long have had to be artful on the move; in the past century, seven
million - nearly twice the republic's present population - were forced to
emigrate. But their current role seems odd in Woodside after generations of
lawful migration in which an Irish newcomer was rarely lonely or illegal in this
nation of nations. Most of the lat-est Irish have been arriving by the tens of
thousands under limited tourist visas, then seeking far-from-certain havens by
attempting to blend into the old Irish neighborhoods.

''Look at this,'' Sean Minihane shouted over the roar of several hundred young
Irish crowded into the County Cork Benevolent and Protective Association pub on
Greenpoint Avenue in Long Island City, Queens, on a recent Sunday morning. A
Cork man who landed in Queens three years ago, Mr. Minihane was stopping off on
his way to the midday Mass, the unofficial ''Irish Mass'' that follows the
Spanish-language service at busy, polyglot St. Sebastian's Roman Catholic Church
on Roosevelt Avenue and 58th Street.

The Cork club had the feel of the old country's pub life, sociable, raucous and
witty, and Mr. Minihane beamed at its renaissance just across from Calvary
Cemetery, where many of the old Irish immigrants lie. Their successors were
watching a live telecast of the Irish football championships being beamed down
from satellite to the din of competing fans' cheers and groans. Drinking
Budweiser and a low-calorie Guinness import beer - ''for us yuppie Irish,'' one
joked - many of the men were construction workers profiting off the books in the
regentrification of the city's humbler neighborhoods. The young Irishwomen have
been in demand as office workers and nannies, and many are employed, in poignant
irony, as companions for elderly Irish and other immigrants clustered in
old-line neighborhoods.

''The big thing to keep in mind is that 90 percent of them are illegal,'' Mr.
Minihane shouted, eyeing his fellow Irishmen and -women packed happily into the
Queens pub for ''the crack'' -an old Irish expression for social excitement, not
drugs. ''This was to be Ireland's generation of hope,'' he said rather bitterly.
''The first to be so well educated, they were to lead Ireland into the next
century. But they're all leaving, and there's nothing certain for them here.''

The Irish Republic had experienced some prosperity at the beginning of this
decade, when only some 1,000 Irish emigrants a year were leaving. By last year,
hard times and high taxes were driving out more than 30,000 annually, including
many of the better educated.

AT 25 YEARS OF AGE, MR. Minihane, a civil engineer, possesses a precious
guarantee of naturalization. He won it last year in an unusual Federal
Government lottery that offered a total of 10,000 special immigrant visas
leading to citizenship to applicants from the 36 nations considered ''adversely
affected'' by the modern immigration control laws. These laws favor those with
immediate, recent family ties to the United States, and allow little weight to
the relative skills and ambitions of others. A total of 1.5 million applications
were received for the lottery, and the Irish did best of all, garnering 3,112 of
the 10,000 visas in a virtuoso display of the sort of regimented political
organization and timing they helped invent in the city's departed machine
clubhouses. Mr. Minihane sent in 150 applications, precisely timed, from various
points in America and Ireland - with all the strategems of an exotic bettor at
the race track - and came out a winner.

Not content with his own hurrah, Mr. Minihane now is fighting from a basement
office at 67-05 Roosevelt Avenue, under the Woodside el trains, for an amnesty
to extend citizenship to the estimated 135,000 to 200,000 undocumented Irish
immigrants who have arrived in the United States in recent years - too late to
get in under the new immigration law's deadline of Jan. 1, 1982, for
undocumented aliens to obtain amnesty.

WITH PERHAPS A THIRD OF the undocumented Irish living in the New York region -
as many as 70,000 of them, by the estimate of The Irish Echo newspaper - Mr.
Minihane and a group of other Irish newcomers have formed the first new major
Irish alien organization in decades, the Irish Immigration Reform Movement. It
is unusual because it can deliver nary a vote from its most concerned
constituents, but is designed to prod the amorphous giant of Irish-American
voters now sprawled across middle-class suburbia and beyond.

The I.I.R.M. has carefully decided it cannot afford to get involved in the
heated issue of Britain's continuing control of Northern Ireland. Individual
members can and do have varying views and passions on that subject, but the
first priority of the organization must be the care and feeding of a continuing
Irish heritage here, said one member of the group, Pat Hurley, a 26-year-old
undocumented alien who has been here for two years.

''This is the first noncontroversial issue to aim for the Irish-American vote,''
he added. ''We are trying to tell them the Irish-American community itself will
cease to exist if they don't see that something is done.''

The 15-month-old group has taken on a tall order, since Congress apparently
exhausted its attention to the knotty immigration laws when it crafted the many
compromises of the 1986 reform. But, operating from Woodside, the I.I.R.M. has
opened 15 branches from Boston to San Francisco and hired a Washington lobbyist
to drum up interest in new proposals in Congress to amend the current laws. They
would ease the monopoly of family links as the main immigration standard and
begin introducing such criteria as literacy, work experience and the needs of
American business. A Senate version, the Kennedy-Simpson bill, has been passed,
but House action is an open question.

The 1986 laws were designed to end the old third-world restrictions and quota
advantage enjoyed by Western Europe - notably the Irish - through most of the
United States' history. The policy now favors immediate family ties of the most
recent immigrants. This family-chain immigration accounts for more than 90
percent of the annual inflow of 600,000 non-refugee immigrants, and the greatest
share (Continued on Page 32) lately has gone to the relatives of Asian, Latin
American and Caribbean immigrants who came in great numbers once the
restrictions were eased in the 1960's.

Immigrants from Mexico totaled more than 66,000 in 1986, while the Irish could
manage fewer than 2,000 spots because their family ties, for all the green beer
and clay pipes flourished here on St. Patrick's Day, have aged and become less
proximate. Mr. Hurley had a grandfather who earned citizenship by fighting in
the United States Army in World War I, but who then went home to Ireland,
breaking the family chain, to his grandson's current dismay.

The cause of the young Irish illegals has been taken up by John Cardinal
O'Connor, who has urged a special Presidential amnesty for them. But the
I.I.R.M. finds more promising the new series of Congressional proposals.

City Councilman Walter L. McCaffrey, a fifth-generation Irish-American who had
become a specialist in the problems of his large Korean, Caribbean and Indian
constituencies, has been dusting off his old ties recently and helping the young
Irish battle against landlords and employers who try to exploit their fears of
being deported. He also has worked to see the Koch Administration guarantee care
at city hospitals, regardless of alien status.

The councilman's political rounds now take him to such Irish pubs as Sally
O'Brien's in Woodside and Gibbon's Potcheen Still in Jackson Heights. There,
scores of different hometown papers from Skibbereen to Sligo are flown in from
Ireland each weekend to be sold to the new Irish, who also can watch converted
videocassettes of Irish television news broadcasts and even the Irish soap opera
''Glenroe.''

The other Sunday night the line of waiting Irish was out the door of Gibbon's
and around the corner toward Roosevelt Avenue, hungry for the papers to arrive
from Dublin. Pale-skinned and cocky, the new Irish walked from the rattling el
trains through a routine Woodside melting-pot tableau, past a restaurant crowded
with Sikh families, a Korean church and a Greek pediatrician's office
advertising in Spanish.

Lately these streets are paved with anxiety as the Irish exchange local news
about their employers' increasing requests for the green cards aliens need for
legal employment. The new immigration law levies fines and the burden of
enforcement on the employer.

''Did you hear Seamus was asked for his papers last night?'' one young
Irishwoman asked another outside the Cork association pub, referring to an
immigration check.

''Take care, lads,'' said Chris Dillon, a naturalized Irishman here over 20
years who quietly tries to get jobs for the new generation.

''I truly feel sorry for them,'' he said. ''When I came here, I was free to go
back and forth to Ireland, but these lads are always looking over their
shoulder.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of young and old Irish immigrants (Geoffrey Biddle)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 27, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Rise Seen in Haitians Flying Illegally to U.S.

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 8, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 682 words

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti


In the uncertain aftermath of a coup here in mid-September, scores of Haitians
have been using fake travel documents to board airliners bound for the United
States, American officials say.

Before the coup, the officials said, immigration officials at airports in Miami
and New York were intercepting 20 or 30 Haitians with fake passports and visas
every month.

But in late September and October, they said, the number rose to from 60 to 90 a
day. The officials said they assumed that many more Haitians were successfully
making their way past immigration inspectors and illegally entering the United
States. Those who are caught in the United States are sent back to Haiti on the
next available flight.

It is not clear that the surge in illegal travel is related to worry about
personal safety, but Western diplomats speculate that it may have grown out of a
general breakdown in order and administration after the army upheaval that
brought Lieut. Gen. Prosper Avril to power in September.

For years Haitians have been fleeing their impoverished country in flimsy boats,
but until now the international airport has not been a major exit point. The
authorities said that the cost for a place on a boat heading for the United
States is about $2,000, and that a false passport and visa sell for up to
$3,000.

The Haitians caught trying to get to the United States illegally by air appear
to be better off economically than those who go by boat, officials said. All the
illegal immigrants say their main goal in the United States is to find a job;
more than half of Haiti's work force is unemployed, and the average annual
income is about $300.

Of the more than 71,000 Haitians who applied for visas to visit the United
States last year, more than 50 percent were rejected, mainly because consular
officers suspected they would try to stay in the United States.

Diplomats say it appears that airline employees, immigration officials, soldiers
and the police have been assisting in the illegal departures. Many of the
illegal travelers have been using expertly modified passports that are difficult
to detect, diplomats say. But in one scheme, soldiers and policemen have
reportedly been helping illegal travelers hide in toilets near boarding gates
before immigration officers come to work and later providing them with documents
and boarding passes.

After the coup in September, three armed soldiers forced their way onto an
American Airlines flight to New York, apparently trying to escape enemies here.
The soldiers were given the entire first class section, then arrested when they
landed in New York. There have been no similar incidents.

Attention was drawn to the airport this month when gunmen chased a 33-year-old
Haitian immigration inspector and shot him on a busy Port-au-Prince street. The
inspector, Louis Bonnet, was a brother-in-law of President Avril.

Illegal Boat Travelers Rise

Mr. Bonnet had reportedly rejected as false the documents of a dozen or so
Haitians shortly before his death and had been threatened for doing so by a
Haitian army officer. A day after the killing, a local radio station reported
the arrest of an army officer in connection with the crime.

The flood of illegal immigrants through the airports has slowed in November,
United States officials said. ''It's still at a high level,'' one official said,
''but lower than at the peak in September and October.''

United States Coast Guard officials said the number of Haitians leaving the
country by boat has also risen dramatically in the last year.

Coast Guard cutters patrolling between Haiti and Florida caught 4,320 Haitians
heading for the United States in boats in fiscal 1988, compared with 2,807 in
the previous fiscal year.

In fiscal 1985, the year immediately before the fall of the Duvalier
dictatorship, 3,971 Haitians were intercepted on the seas. In fiscal 1986 and
1987, as Haitians were looking forward to their first free elections,
interceptions annually declined, to 3,247 and 2,807. The interceptions rose
again after the elections were halted by a massacre.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 12, 1988, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Why We Shouldn't Reject Alien Farm Workers

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 302 words


To the Editor:

''Farm Law Abused by Illegal Aliens'' (news story, Nov. 17) relies on an
erroneous calculation in trying to explain charges of excessive and fraudulent
applications under a special provision of the 1986 Immigration Control Act. This
provision offered legal residency status to aliens who were ''seasonal
agricultural workers,'' called SAW for short, employed on United States farms
for at least a minimum period in 1985-86.

David North, a well-known specialist on immigration matters, is quoted as saying
of farm work: ''If all California SAW applicants worked full time in California
agriculture, they would have provided twice as many years of work as California
used in 1987.'' However, the actual provision requires only a minimum of three
months of farm work to qualify for residency.

If all the applicants, being temporary seasonal workers, averaged four months of
work (one-third of a year), instead of the full time attributed to Mr. North's
calculation, they would have provided only two-thirds, not twice, the total
man-years of work in California farming. That figure would be plausible, and no
proof of gross excess and fraud by applicants.

Why do we want to reject roughly one million unskilled workers from Mexico and
other poverty-stricken areas? They are present and eager to do our
low-productivity work for wages that are low relative to United States median
pay, but very high relative to their home-country pay scales, if they can find
any job there. Meanwhile, we should be helping American workers to transfer from
menial labor to higher-yielding, higher-paying jobs.

EDWIN P. REUBENS
  New York, Nov. 28, 1988

The writer was a consultant to the Select Commission on Immigration and to the
Congressional committees that drew up the 1986 Immigration Act.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 23, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1593 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 22


Forced by a tight labor market to rely increasingly on immigrant workers, a
growing number of employers across the country are taking on the additional role
of English teacher.

Many of these employees do not speak or read English well enough to operate
machinery, communicate with co-workers and customers or understand safety
procedures.

As a result, productivity and product quality sometimes suffer, employers say,
and in the long run they worry about having enough English-speaking workers to
promote into jobs that demand more communications skills.

Repairing a Broken Machine

One case in point is A. Raul Guillen, a packing-machine operator at the Price
Pfister Inc. faucet factory in nearby Pacoima. Whenever his machine broke down,
Mr. Guillen, an immigrant from Mexico, often knew why but was unable to tell the
English-speaking mechanics who came to fix it what was wrong.

For Price Pfister, his inability to speak English meant that an important piece
of equipment was out of operation longer than necessary. For Mr. Guillen, it
meant frustration.

Many other Price Pfister employees are also immigrants with the same language
problem, so the company began a program to teach workers English -a step also
taken by many other employers ranging from nursing homes and resort hotels to
insurance companies and manufacturers.

The trend is expected to accelerate in coming years as the composition of the
nation's work force keeps changing. The immigrant population is continuing to
expand rapidly, and the growth of the native-born work force is slowing.

A study published this year by the United States Education and Labor Departments
concluded that immigrants would account for 22 percent of all new workers from
1985 to 2000. That would increase the immigrant portion of the work force to
nearly 10 percent, from 7 percent in 1985.

''More companies are going to be doing more of this because the labor market is
going to be dictating that they use more people who do not speak English as
their native language,'' said Karl Haigler, director of the Education
Department's adult education division.

Company programs to teach English as a second language are part of a broader
effort by employers and unions to provide training in literacy and skills to all
workers. Many companies that are sponsoring programs for immigrant workers also
offer courses for native English speakers whose reading and writing abilities
are limited.

But over the last few years, according to company executives and educational
experts, the demand for English-language instruction has grown particularly
fast. Demand is strongest in California, Texas, Florida and New York, where
there are large immigrant populations, and in such regions as New England, where
the unemployment rate is especially low. Interest in the programs, however, is
coming from employers all over the country, experts said.

A Look at Hiring Patterns

''The employer has to go further down into the labor pool to fill jobs,'' said
Lloyd David, director of the Continuing Education Institute of Needham, Mass.,
which has run English classes for such companies as Wang Laboratories and Blue
Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts. ''They're hiring people they wouldn't have
hired 10 years ago.''

Even companies that have always relied on low-wage immigrant labor have found
that new, more complicated machinery and a trend toward shorter, more customized
production runs require workers to be able to read buttons and gauges and follow
detailed instructions that assume English proficiency.

''It's not like the old days when you could just work silently at a sewing
machine in a garment factory,'' said William Bliss, who runs Language and
Communications Associates, an educational-consulting firm in Washington, D.C.
''Even entry-level jobs now require communications skills.''

At ITT Cannon, an ITT Corporation subsidiary that makes electronic military
products in Santa Ana, Calif., more responsibility for manufacturing procedures
and product quality has been pushed down to individual machine operators. At the
same time, production orders have become less standardized, requiring employees
to perform more sophisticated tasks.

For members of the company's largely Hispanic and Asian work force with limited
English skills, the changes have been troublesome. ''We have good employees who
are unable to benefit from training and who get themselves and us into a problem
as an entry-level job changes,'' said Boyd McCullough, the company's employee
development manager.

A Class for Every Shift

ITT Cannon is now offering two English classes - one for the day shift and one
for the evening shift. There are 42 employees enrolled in the classes, which are
held twice a week for an hour just before work or just after work.

Like many companies, ITT Cannon has designed its course to teach vocational
English, emphasizing vocabulary that is specifically needed to perform jobs at
its plant. ''It's nice if they can say, 'My uncle's pencil is on the table,' but
that doesn't help me,'' Mr. McCullough said. ''If they can say, 'Get a drill
from the tool bed,' that helps me.''

Mr. McCullough said the training also helped assure that workers understood
safety procedures and could follow instructions in a crisis.

Most employers that have run English classes believe they have paid off, both
for the company and its workers. ''It's a fair assessment that quality, employee
safety and, most significantly, employee career advancement are improved,'' said
Eugene Jones, a training specialist for Price Pfister.

Mr. Guillen, who is 40 years old, came to the United States 12 years ago. He has
already benefited from the English classes he attends at the Price Pfister plant
two afternoons a week after finishing his shift. Now, when his machine breaks
down, ''most of the time I can go to the foreman or the engineer and explain
what the problem is so that we can get a solution faster,'' Mr. Guillen said. He
said he hoped that improving his English would eventually help him get a better
job at the company.

Amnesty Status Bolstered

Job-related English classes appear to be particularly popular among workers who
are in the process of becoming legalized under the amnesty provision of the new
immigration law. Outside the workplace, there are not enough English-language
classes to meet the demand. Board of Eduction officials in Los Angeles have
estimated that they will turn away 40,000 adults this year.

The Transamerica Occidental Life Insurance Company in Los Angeles offered
English classes last year to its employees. Many of them are clerical workers
who have to speak on the telephone to agents and customers. Maria Pena, a
secretary in the medical department, said she was much more confident now about
being able to answer questions clearly when a call came in. ''I'm not afraid as
much as I was when I answer the phone,'' she said.

In Massachusetts, a number of nursing homes with staffs who have trouble
speaking English are participating in a pilot program. ''It's scary because
nurse's aides and people who handle the patients do not speak English very
well,'' said Mr. David of the Continuing Education Institute, which is running
the program.

Employers in various industries have developed similar programs.

Biocraft Laboratories, a pharmaceutical company in Elmwood Park, N.J., has
several hundred workers of Hispanic or other ethnic background. It started
offering free classes on company time two years ago.

''It's made for all-around better relationships between workers and it's helped
our goals of improving quality and productivity,'' said Ethyl Andersen, a
Biocraft spokeswoman.

Training Helps Save Time

Keystone Valve U.S.A. Inc., a valve manufacturer in Houston, started an English
program last year. About half of its 176 employees are from Laos, Cambodia and
Vietnam. ''It's really tough if the English isn't there,'' said Jane Bloem, the
company's personnel director. ''We lost time trying to explain each situation or
to use an interpreter. We can no longer afford to take people right off the
boat.''

A number of unions, including the United Automobile Workers and the
International Ladies Garment Workers Union, have developed programs.

At a foundry in Waukesha, Wis., the United Steelworkers and the Navistar
International Corporation are developing a skills-enhancement program, including
English-language training. In Orlando, Fla., the Buena Vista Palace Hotel
recently ran English classes with the help of the Orange County School District.

Most companies develop programs with the help of community colleges, local
school districts or outside consultants. The companies usually foot most of the
bill, although some charge small amounts to students to help pay for hiring a
teacher. ITT Cannon, for example, charges each student $2 a week - partly
reimbursed if the student completes the course.

Not every program works well. Language consultants say that dropout rates are
high at some companies and that many employees who could benefit from the
training never sign up, either because of apathy or because they lack enough
time.

Some companies, feeling that training the work force to speak English is a
hopeless task, are trying a different strategy. At some of the plants operated
by Fleetwood Enterprises, a producer of mobile homes in Riverside, Calif., the
work force is 90 percent Hispanic. Instead of the workers being taught English,
the management and supervisory people are being taught Spanish.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph showing the increase of immigrant workers (source: Hudson
Institute, Dept. of Labor; Dept. of Education) (pg. D6) InstiDL>Employers
Teaching English To Their Immigrant Workers

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 4, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Refugees Deserve Better From Us

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26, Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 598 words


To the Editor:

''Salvadorans Deserve a Welcome'' (editorial, May 6), in which you applaud the
Federal judge who has ruled that Salvadoran refugees have been discriminated
against by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, was on target.

We recently returned from a fact-finding mission studying the condition of
Salvadoran and other Central American refugees along the Rio Grande border in
South Texas. Our trip, sponsored by the Rabbinical Assembly of America, with the
Women's League for Conservative Judaism, included meetings with Central American
refugees, church and community workers, officials of the I.N.S. and a Federal
immigration judge. We also toured refugee centers and the Port Isabelle Service
Processing Center, a Federal detention facility near Bayview.

We have come back deeply disturbed by the way Central American refugees are
mistreated in our country. A few specifics:

*  Decisions about bail and detention appear extremely arbitrary. For example,
one Federal official told us that refugees who turn themselves in to the I.N.S.
requesting asylum are just as likely to be incarcerated as those who are caught
attempting to evade the service.

*  Refugees who are not detained are confined to the border area of South Texas
pending disposition of their cases. Many are denied the right to work while
awaiting deportation hearings. This means the burden of caring for these
refugees, many of whom have sold or abandoned all their possessions fleeing
their countries, falls upon church and other agencies, overburdened in
attempting to deal with the social needs of one of our country's poorest areas.

*  Refugee families are routinely broken up by the I.N.S. Husbands and wives are
housed in separate dormitories, and a new facility is being made ready for
detention of children several miles from the adult center in Bayview. There is
even evidence that refugee children are being rounded up and detained to force
their parents to surrender to the I.N.S.

*  Many of the Central Americans we met seem unclear about their rights and
terrified about being sent back. In one court proceeding we witnessed, a
Salvadoran was repeatedly lectured by an immigration judge about the importance
of obtaining legal representation in seeking asylum. He was then provided by the
court with what was described as a list of organizations offering legal services
to indigent aliens in deportation proceedings. The list was inaccurate and
incomplete. Moreover it was irrelevant because it was apparent to everyone,
including the judge, that the refugee was illiterate and could make no use of
it.

When we asked this same judge in his chambers whether he felt there was adequate
legal representation available to Salvadorans seeking asylum, he said, ''That's
a very, very good question, but I am not going to answer it.''

Salvadorans and other Central American refugees deserve better treatment than
this. Our asylum laws were designed to offer humanitarian protection to people
who have reason to believe they will be persecuted if forced to return home.
They were not meant to be an extension of our foreign policy.

We have an obligation to insure that the back of the Statue of Liberty faces
Central America merely as an accident of history, not a matter of policy.

(Rabbi) ANDREW C. WARMFLASH
(Rabbi) CHARLES FEINBERG
BERNICE BALTER
  North Brunswick, N.J., May 12, 1988

The writers are, respectively, members of the Rabbinical Assembly's social
justice committee and executive director of the Women's League for Conservative
Judaism.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 7, 1989, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Detention of Refugees Is an Unlawful Policy

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 170 words


To the Editor:

The new Immigration and Naturalization Service policy to deter the arrival of
Central American refugees by detaining them in South Texas (front page, Feb. 21)
is not only inhumane but also unlawful.

Article 31 of the United Nations Protocol relating to the Status of Refugees, a
treaty to which the United States is a party, prohibits imposition of
unnecessary penalties or restrictions on refugees in flight, irrespective of the
manner of their arrival. The executive committee of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees, which includes the United States, formally concluded
in 1986 that the detention of refugees should not be automatic.

A new detention policy is unwarranted. The proper course is to devote sufficient
resources and sophistication to insure that asylum claims are fairly and
expeditiously adjudicated in the United States.

ARTHUR C. HELTON
  New York, Feb. 24, 1989

The writer is director of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights political
asylum project.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 8, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Memory Is Last Shackle As Salvadoran Is Freed

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1245 words

DATELINE: EL CENTRO, Calif., May 3


After years of assaults and intimidation in her native El Salvador, then months
in a detention center fearing deportation, Telba Dora Erazo was granted
political asylum this week in a cinder block courtroom in this sun-baked border
town.

When she walked through the steel fences topped with concertina wire that would
no longer confine her, Mrs. Erazo had no idea she was the first Salvadoran set
free here since a Federal court ruling a week ago that rebuked the Reagan
Administration for its treatment of refugees fleeing El Salvador's civil war.

Mrs. Erazo's concerns were more parochial. Penniless and headed for Los Angeles,
home of more than half the 500,000 Salvadorans in the United States, she needed
to borrow $27.55 for bus fare, either from her fellow detainees or from her
lawyer, Leslie Johnson, who runs a one-woman legal clinic for refugees seeking
asylum.

Mrs. Erazo was ignorant of the ruling won on behalf of all Salvadorans in
detention in this country, but her hearing echoed testimony from the two-year
trial in Federal District Court in Los Angeles. The 48-year-old woman, with
tears coursing down her cheeks, told Judge Jeffrey Zlatow in Federal immigration
court hearing of the insults and injuries she had borne at the hands of a man
who described himself as a member of a government death squad in her home
village of Metapan.

She told of being apprehended by the United States Border Patrol once before,
but accepting voluntary deportation because she could not read the
English-language applications for asylum or locate a lawyer.

She told of leaving her homeland again after getting a threatening letter and
crossing the border near Yuma, Ariz. She told of being unable to meet a $1,000
bond and being confined since January in a detention center where refugees pass
the time kicking a soccer ball under the desert sun.

No Decision on Appeal

These are the sorts of issues addressed in the Federal ruling, which has been
hailed by Central American refugees and their advocates as a great victory. The
Justice Department has not yet decided whether to appeal.

The ruling called the Government insensitive and ignorant for arguing that
Salvadorans were economic immigrants, not political refugees. The Immigration
and Naturalization Service was ordered to inform the Salvadorans of their right
to seek asylum and provide them easy access to lawyers, telephones and bilingual
documents.

''We have come a long way from the days when a Salvadoran carved his attorney's
name in a bar of soap because he had nothing else to write on or with,'' said
Sandra Pettit, director of the Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles and one of
the lead lawyers in the Federal case. Ms. Pettit, speaking at a Tuesday news
conference in Los Angeles, said the ruling will benefit other immigrant groups
because the conditions at Border Patrol stations and in detention centers will
improve.

An Intimidating Place

That improvement began in El Centro before the Federal ruling, according to
lawyers representing the refugees, judges and immigration officials. The changes
came, they say, because of a preliminary injunction issued by Judge David V.
Kenyon of Federal District at an earlier stage in the litigation, and because of
the attitudes of new immigration judges and a new supervisor at the detention
center here.

But El Centro is sill an intimidating place where about 500 men, women and
children are detained in three centers and many others pass through, posting
bond for friends or relatives, bringing documents or tending to other daunting
bureaucratic errands. For the most part, these men and women are frightened by
the sight of an armed I.N.S. official in an olive-drab uniform.

''These are helpless, humble and passive people,'' said Ms. Johnson, who has
represented 230 clients since August, when she joined the El Centro Asylum
Project, which is part of the California Rural Legal Assistance Foundation. ''I
cannot tell you how intimidated they are.''

Gun on the Hip

That feeling of intimidation can be subtle, but nevertheless oppressive, at the
main I.N.S. center here, where 450 men are detained within 12-foot-high fences.
There is no waiting room for relatives coming to post bond or bring documents
for detainees. A knock at the locked door brings a uniformed I.N.S. agent, gun
at his hip. ''Wait,'' he says, cracking the door briefly and then often leaving
visitors for hours.

Sometimes the delays seem pointless, said Ms. Johnson, who described relatives
traveling all night to post a bond only to be told they had brought a money
order from the wrong bank.

Among the supplicants outside the door one recent day was Angela Amaya
Rodriguez, a Salvadoran woman who had paid her bond and been released from
detention here, then returned for an asylum hearing. Dressed up in a black satin
skirt and a sheer blouse with metallic threads, she had ridden a bus 10 hours
south from Stockton, at a cost of $52. Upon arriving, apprehensive and weary,
she discovered the hearing had been rescheduled for a later date in San
Francisco.

Within the fences, the detained men live in four barracks, furnished only with
tight files of double-decker beds. Except for meal time, and afternoon showings
of adventure films like ''Rambo,'' the men pass their days in the recreation
yard, an expanse of dust and gravel where they compete for limited shade.

''Except in mitigating circumstances, we leave them out till the evening meal,''
said Elton Cox, a supervisor at the detention center. ''We keep it like this for
better control.''

Telephones and Newspapers

There is general agreement that things are better here than they were when Nora
Antunez was appointed director last January. There are more pay telephones, as
well as daily delivery of two newspapers, The Imperial Valley Press and El
Mexicano, published in Spanish, and a few more recreational activities,
including weight-lifting equipment and monthly barbecues. Ms. Johnson said the
list of free lawyers is readily available to detainees, which is not the case at
some of the other border stations, and that the judges give reasonble
consideration to asylum petitions, which can lead to citizenship.

Ms. Antunez said she was confident her center met all the criteria of last
week's Federal ruling, but that she intended further improvements, first among
them some landscaping.

Mrs. Erazo, who is divorced and whose eight children remain in Central America,
had been held in an annex for 36 women and children three miles north, at the
edge of a corn field cut by irrigation ditches fed by the Colorado River. It was
here that she returned after the successful asylum hearing to claim her few
possessions and try to piece together the bus fare.

Low Approval Rate

As Mrs. Erazo readied herself for freedom, Judge Zlatow sat in his office,
adjacent to the two courtrooms where Leslie Johnson has argued 20 asylum cases,
winning nine. Nationally, according to a General Accounting Office study in
1986, the approval rate for Salvadorans is 2 percent, lowest of any nationality.

Judge Zlatow said Mrs. Erazo's reaction was typical upon hearing his verdict - a
smile, a hug for her attorney and a quick exit from the courtroom. ''They're
inundated, numb would be the best way to describe it,'' the judge said. ''They
need time to let it sink in, and that doesn't happen until they're outside, not
in detention anymore, and can send for their children.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of Leslie Johnson, who runs a one-woman legal clinic for
refugees seeking asylum, talking with Angela Amaya Rodriguez, a Salvadoran
client, in the parking lot outside her office in El Centro (NYT/Terrence
McCarthy); aliens in the recreation area of one of the detention centers in El
Centro, Calif (NYT)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 10, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

REDEFINING THE BOUNDARIES: Who May Come In;
Immigration Bill: Looking for Skills And Good English

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1144 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


THE public obsession with closing the borders to unwanted immigration has
obscured a growing and in some ways more profound debate over what kind of
immigrants we do want. More than half a million people enter the United States
each year as legal immigrants, taking the first step toward citizenship under a
system that has not been changed substantially in 23 years.

But the country has changed and, even more dramatically, so have the immigrants
themselves. While almost half were European as recently as the mid-1960's, today
nearly 90 percent come from Asia and Latin America under a system that favors,
to the exclusion of almost all other factors, immigrants who already have close
relatives in the United States.

In a country that feels itself beset by foreign competition, with the birth rate
so low that the native population is barely reproducing itself, immigrant visas
are increasingly being seen not as humanitarian instruments but as tools for
economic planning, precious resources to be allocated on the basis of the
nation's needs rather than the accident of a would-be immigrant's family ties.
''Family reunification,'' the stated goal of the 1965 immigration law that
replaced the ''national origin'' quotas of the 1920's, is now derided as
''nepotism'' by some economists and immigration specialists who have joined the
chorus for change.

Congress has already begun to respond: Last month, with surprisingly little
debate, the Senate passed a bill that would begin the process of moving
immigration policy away from family preference and toward a system that rewards
job skills and English-language ability. But the impressive 88-to-4 vote was
seen more as a sign of deference to the sponsors, Senators Edward M. Kennedy,
the Massachusetts Democrat, and Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming, the Republican whip,
than as proof that Congress has arrived at a considered consensus. A similar
bill pending in the House of Representatives is likely to undergo much more
searching scrutiny, and the outlook for final passage this year is chancy at
best.

'Deep Feelings'

Although the debate can be framed in the cool language of economics and
demographics, immigration remains a highly emotional subject, with immigration
policy a window into the national psyche. ''Immigration gets at people's deep
feelings about what kind of country we are,'' said Representative Charles E.
Schumer, the Brooklyn Democrat who is sponsoring the House measure. ''We're
making choices, either by design or by neglect.''

His bill, which he describes as ''pro-immigrant,'' would put a higher annual
ceiling on immigration, 670,000 compared with 590,000 in the Senate version. As
of January, there were 2.2 million pending petitions from people wishing to
emigrate to the United States, 6 percent more than the year before.

Immigration policy also embodies a collective vision of the country's past and
future, and some are alarmed at what they see as a nativist impulse in the
current legislative drive. Representative Robert T. Matsui, a California
Democrat who spent his early childhood in a Federal detention camp for
Japanese-Americans, said that he had a ''major concern'' that the impulse behind
revising the family preference system ''really is a bias against the Pacific Rim
and Latin America.''

''Ireland, for example, is a very small country that continues to have a big
impact here because of the history of Irish immigration,'' Mr. Matsui continued.
''To most legislators from the East Coast, people from the Pacific Rim countries
are not familiar. They don't count as much.''

It is far from certain that the proposed change would significantly increase
immigration from Ireland. But it is clear that one reason for the bill's
momentum in the Senate is the belief of Irish-American politicians, most notably
Senator Kennedy, that the current law is unfair to people from the European
countries that supplied the great early immigration waves. Would-be immigrants
from Ireland and Italy may have American cousins in abundance, but not the
siblings, parents, children or spouses necessary to benefit from the family
preference system.

Statistics tell the story: There were 1,757 legal immigrants from Ireland in
1986, the most recent year for which the numbers are available, and 5,711 from
Italy, compared with 66,753 from Mexico and 61,492 from the Philippines.

A New Category

The Kennedy-Simpson bill would establish an additional ''independent'' category
of immigrant visas. Fifty-five thousand visas would be awarded on the basis of
points earned for various attributes. For example, an applicant might earn 10
points for a high school diploma, another 10 for a bachelor's degree, 20 points
for an occupation certified as ''in demand'' by the Labor Department, 20 points
for proficiency in English.

The Irish would benefit from the English-language requirement, but Irish
immigrants are not, by and large, highly educated. The new category might prove
more beneficial to residents of Commonwealth countries like India, which sends
the most highly educated immigrants, and Nigeria, which like other African
countries does not benefit from the family preference system, the bulk of
African ''immigrants'' having arrived centuries ago as slaves.

The bill would also tighten eligibility for family preference status, limiting
the preference now awarded to any brother or sister of an American citizen to
those brothers and sisters who have never been married. That sounds like
tinkering, but it is actually a change that would shut off an avenue for what is
known as ''chain immigration,'' under which an in-law can sponsor an in-law who
can sponsor an in-law, ad infinitum.

Some critics of current immigration policy, such as Barry R. Chiswick, an
economist at the University of Illinois, blame chain immigration for what they
call a decline in immigrant ''quality,'' as measured by education and
occupation. While some immigrant groups, including those from Korea and the
Philippines as well as India, are better educated than the United States
population as a whole, there is some statistical evidence that the attainments
of the extended-family members do not match those of the earlier arrivals who
were propelled here by their own drive and ambition rather than kinship. ''The
question should be not 'who are you related to?' but 'what can you contribute?'
'' Mr. Chiswick said.

The complexities of the current debate reflect, in part, the ambivalence that
this immigrant society has always felt toward immigration. There is a reservoir
of good will, ''but the well is easily poisoned,'' said Jerry M. Tinker, Senator
Kennedy's chief immigration aide. ''When you define immigration as a problem to
be solved, then it's a problem. But there's another way to see it, as a
phenomenon to be coped with.'' In other words, a challenge.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 1, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

As Amnesty Ends, Aliens Crowd New York Offices

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 32, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 844 words


With the amnesty program of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 due
to expire Wednesday, large numbers of aliens are now coming forward to apply in
the New York region.

The crush of aliens filling the three offices of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's New York district has convinced officials that the
number of immigrants applying under the program will far exceed recent
expectations. The offices are in Manhattan, Queens and Hempstead, L.I.

When the program began last year, immigration officials in New York expected
300,000 applications for legal residence, but were repeatedly forced to lower
their estimate because of a disappointingly low turnout.

As a result of the low turnout, an immigration spokesman, Charles Troy, said
last year that the service had to reduce its work force of agents assigned to
process applications and interview immigrants.

Increase in Recent Daily Totals

The latest figures for the New York district, compiled by immigration officials
last Wednesday, showed that while only 89,000 people had applied for permanent
residence under the amnesty law, in recent days the daily total of applications
at the three local centers had approached 2,000.

For the first time in months, those officials now say, they are confident that
with the increased turnout, and with recently increased working hours at the
centers, they will well exceed their revised target of 100,000 applications.

At several of the more than 40 private agencies approved by the immigration
service to counsel aliens on the provisions of the amnesty program, the number
of people seeking assistance has picked up dramatically.

At one of the largest such agencies, the Catholic Migration Services of the
Brooklyn Diocese, which has helped about 4,000 people under the amnesty program,
the demand for services had been like ''a slow, steady stream since February,''
but had suddenly become like ''a snowball picking up steam,'' said Frank Gamba,
operations coordinator.

Concern Over Possible Extension

Mr. Gamba said participation in the program had been hindered by widespread
ignorance of its provisions and uncertainty for some over whether the amnesty
would be extended.

''Most people who come in here are still not familiar with the details of the
amnesty,'' he said, adding that those who have come have done so out of a
realization that whatever the conditions, the program would soon expire.

The realization of the impending deadline was reinforced Thursday, when the
Senate failed to entend the program.

Immigration officials said they were puzzled at why New York had lagged behind
other regions, particularly the Southwest.

Extraordinary Diversity

Many officials said the extraordinary diversity of the immigrant population in
New York made it especially difficult to disseminate information about the
amnesty program.

''We have taken in legalized people here from 150 nations,'' Mr. Troy said. ''I
believe the U.N. only recognizes 159 nationalities in the world, so we are
pretty close to maxing out there.''

The diversity of New York's immigrant population is best indicated, Mr. Troy
said, by the fact that no one country has accounted for more than 10 percent of
the area's legal residence applications.

According to immigration data, the top 10 immigrant nations in the New York area
- Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Mexico, Columbia, El Salvador, China, Pakistan,
Ecuador, Jamaica and India - are nearly evenly split in the numbers of
applicants for amnesty here, with Haitians narrowly edging out immigrants of the
other nationalities.

Many Suspect a Ruse

At the Queens immigration headquarters in Long Island City, immigrants gave a
wide range of reasons to explain why they waited until nearly the last minute to
apply for legal residence, but one factor was nearly universal: a suspicion that
immigration officials were using the program as a ruse to trap illegal aliens.

A 29-year-old Nigerian woman, Doris Bombil, who said she had been living in
Brooklyn since 1981, explained her own reticence, saying, ''People are afraid of
being deported - who wouldn't be?''

Like others, Ms. Bombil, a communications student at a local university, said
she had watched others go through the application process, apparently without
negative consequence, before deciding to come forward herself.

''Finally, I was convinced that nothing you say here can be used against you
later,'' she said. ''That's when I decided to apply.''

'I'm Just Watching'

In another corner of the large waiting area, a 38-year-old Indian immigrant, who
identified himself only as Ramesh, sat passively observing the lines of people
getting information and submitting applications.

''I'm just watching,'' said Mr. Ramesh, adding that he had not yet decided to
submit his application. ''I wanted to see how many people would be here today
and what they are going through.''

After noting that the process he was witnessing appeared to be orderly, he said
he would likely apply sometime before the deadline.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 2, 1988, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Why Fear the Speech of Foreigners?

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 410 words


Americans treasure the right to speak freely -for everyone except foreigners
whose views the Government considers offensive. That's because of the
McCarran-Walter Immigration Act of 1952, a vestige of the McCarthy era that
blights the nation's willingness to be a marketplace of ideas. Congressional
efforts to overhaul this objectionable law at last should get a lift from a
recent ruling by a United States Court of Appeals.

The McCarran-Walter law lists 33 grounds for excluding alien visitors. Some are
sensible, like a dangerous contagious disease. Some are outmoded, like ''sexual
deviation.'' Among the most harmful is a broad provision that allows the
Government to exclude any alien who might ''engage in activities which would be
prejudicial to the public interest, or endanger the welfare, safety or security
of the United States.''

In 1983, this provision was used to deny a visa to the widow of the slain
Chilean President, Salvador Allende Gossens, thus preventing her from fulfilling
several speaking engagements in the U.S. Eventually, she was granted a visa, but
not before some of the religious and educational sponsors who sought to hear her
views had filed a lawsuit. The United States Court of Appeals for the First
Circuit has now ruled that the Government exceeded its authority, refusing to
accept its argument that her mere presence in the U.S. was a harmful
''activity'' within the meaning of the 1952 law.

Her principal intended activity was speechmaking. Even if McCarran-Walter
allowed the Government to bar entry to controversial visitors on the basis of
what they might say here, the court said that another law passed by Congress
last year takes precedence. It prohibits exclusion or deportation of alien
visitors ''because of any past, current or expected beliefs, statements or
associations'' that, if engaged in by a citizen, would be protected by the
Constitution.

This new law, however, expires next March, giving Congress less than a year to
overhaul McCarran-Walter. Legislation sponsored by Representative Barney Frank
of Massachusetts would reform the law's exclusion and deportation rules,
narrowing national security restrictions to focus on persons who might engage in
espionage, subversion, terrorism or crime.

Mr. Frank and the appeals court have the right idea. Protections against a
visitor's harmful actions make sense. Those based on fear of offensive views are
themselves offensive to American values.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 12, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Judge Finds for Aliens on Absences From U.S.

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 23, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 632 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 11


Maria de Jesus Gonzalez crossed over into Mexico to buy groceries, Ignacio
Andrade to see a friend, Sofia Baez Huerta to visit her mother on Mother's Day.

All were refused amnesty under the new immigration law because of those brief
absences from United States, and now a Federal District Judge in Sacramento,
Lawrence K. Altman, has ordered the Immigration and Naturalization Service to
rescind the denials for them and an estimated 25,000 others who left the country
briefly. He also ordered the agency to extend the amnesty application period,
which expired May 5, to Nov. 30 for those who may have thought they were
ineligible because of the way the service interpreted the law on brief absences.


Strict Interpretation Cited

The judge's order, handed down late Friday, was to enforce his ruling on May 3
that the immigration service had imposed an overly strict interpretation on the
law when it required that illegal aliens applying for amnesty obtain the
agency's permission before leaving the country while awaiting approval of their
amnesty applications.

Peter A. Schey, executive director of the National Center for Immigrants' Rights
in Los Angeles, which served as lawyers in the suit filed on behalf of an
estimated 25,000 people who he said had otherwise qualifed for amnesty but were
denied for this reason. The law offered legalization to those who had lived in
this country continuously since before Jan. 1, 1982, except for ''brief, casual
and innocent'' absences.

Mr. Schey estimated that 125,000 more people had been discouraged from applying
because of the immigration service's procedure. Judge Karlton ordered the agency
to draw up a plan to publicize his order.

The immigration service, which had no comment on the judge's order, is expected
to appeal to the United States Court of Appeal for the Ninth Circuit, in San
Francisco. The suit was brought by Catholic Social Services Inc., the United
Farm Workers and other groups.

Judge Blocks Deportation

The judge denied the plaintiffs' request that he order the readmission to the
United States of those already deported under the rule, saying ''with great
reluctance'' that he lacked authority to do that.

Judge Karlton ordered that those still in the country with a claim for
legalization be granted a stay of deportation and given temporary work permits
until their cases are decided.

The suit flowed from a common practice along the porous Mexican-American border
whereby illegal aliens from Mexico frequently return home for shopping or
tending to family matters.

For example, the suit described the case of Mrs. Gonzalez, who has been living
in Laredo, Tex., since 1980, and who is the mother of two children who are
American citizens. She regularly crossed over to Nuevo Laredo in Mexico to buy
groceries, and was caught as she returned across the Rio Grande, bypassing
immigration checks. She said she did not know this would disqualify her from
amnesty.

Returns After 90-Minute Visit

Similarly, Mr. Andrade, a 34-year-old welder living with his two American-born
children for 13 years in Los Angeles, drove to Tijuana to see a friend and
returned through a hole in the fence at San Ysidro, Calif., after an hour and a
half. And Ms. Baez, living in Brownsville, Tex., spent five hours last year
visiting her mother in Matamoros, Mexico, and was apprehended on the way home.
In other cases, a 12-year-old boy living in Arizona was caught after getting a
haircut across the border and a 38-year-old woman living in San Francisco was
caught after returning from bringing her brother's body back to Mexico.

''Instead of interpreting the legalization as written by Congress in a generous
fashion, the immigration service read it in an extremely restrictive fashion,''
Mr. Schey said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 22, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Court Bars Deportation of Aliens Until Amnesty Cases Are Settled

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 633 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 21


A Federal appeals court has authorized work permits and has temporarily banned
deportation of thousands of aliens nationwide whose right to amnesty under the
new immigration law is in dispute because they left the United States briefly.

The Government, which is appealing a Federal district judge's ruling that it
interpreted the grounds for amnesty too narrowly, had asked the United States
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit to lift restrictions on taking action
against the aliens during the appeal.

That request was denied by a panel consisting of Judges James Browning and
Edward Leavy. The court's order was made public today.

Arguments Set for November

The court also said it would hear arguments in November on whether the
Immigration and Naturalization Service exceeded its authority in restricting
amnesty from deportation, and whether the applications for amnesty should be
reopened. The deadline for the applications was in May.

''This is a great day for our system of justice,'' said Ralph Abascal, a
California legal assistance lawyer who is participating in the case. He said
four other Federal judges around the nation had restricted the immigration
service's enforcement of related provisions of the amnesty law, but that this
was the first order from an appellate court.

Mr. Abascal estimated the number of aliens who might be affected by the order at
50,000 to 100,000 nationwide. Scott McIntosh, a Justice Department lawyer who
represented the Immigration and Naturalization Service, declined to comment.

The new immigration law allows aliens who have been in the United States
continuously since Jan. 1, 1982, to seek amnesty, the first step toward legal
residence.

Disputed Interpretation

A trip outside the country that is ''brief, casual and innocent'' does not
disqualify an alien from amnesty. But Under an immigration service
interpretation, any departure after amnesty applications began on May 1, 1987,
that lacked advance approval from the service could not be ''innocent'' and made
the alien ineligible for amnesty.

Mr. Abascal said the immigration service had used its reading of the law to bar
amnesty to several aliens who had made brief trips to Mexico to see a dying
relative, and to one who fell asleep in a car shortly before his friends went to
Tijuana for a two-hour frolic.

District Judge Lawrence Karlton of Sacramento ruled in April that the agency's
interpretation was not authorized by the law. Finding that numerous aliens had
been denied amnesty improperly or had been discouraged from applying, he issued
a nationwide order in June reopening the application period through Nov. 30.

Temporary Protections

After the Government appealed, lawyers for the aliens proposed a modified order,
which the Court of Appeals adopted: The question of whether to reopen the
application period would be deferred until the court decided the merits of the
case, but in the meantime, the rights of aliens potentially covered by the case
would be protected in several ways.

Aliens who are arrested under the immigration law must be questioned to see
whether they would be eligible for amnesty had they not engaged in foreign
travel of the kind that is covered by the suit. They cannot be deported while
the case is pending, must be released without bond and must be given permits
making them eligible to work. The same rights must be provided to aliens who
approach the immigration service with questions about their status and are
covered by the case, and information they provide cannot be used against them in
a later enforcement action.

Mr. Abascal said the immigration service was also required to contact aliens who
hadbeen denied amnesty because of brief trips out of the country and tell them
their cases would be reopened.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 20, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Immigration Law Said to Harm U.S. Citizens

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 53, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 674 words


Many United States citizens and aliens eligible for residence are experiencing
discrimination in employment, housing and other services in New York City
because of widespread concern about Federal sanctions, representatives of
community organizations, immigration experts, public officials and immigrants
themselves say.

More than 60 witnesses, some with emotional personal appeals, others with
carefully documented cases, testified before the city's Commission on Human
Rights last week, and most of them said that incidents of discrimination have
increased as a result of the new Federal immigration law, which provides
sanctions against employers who hire people who are not authorized to work in
the United States.

Their testimony generally confirmed findings by the Governor's Task Force on
Immigration Affairs that New York City employers were engaging in widespread
discrimination. But they strongly contradicted the conclusion of the Federal
General Accounting Office's annual report on the employer sanctions, which said
its data ''did not establish a pattern of discrimination'' caused by the 1986
Immigration and Reform Act. Representing the accounting office, the
investigative arm of Congress, Jim Blume said the number of discrimination
charges ''is not sufficient to determine if a pattern of discrimination
exists.'' He said the survey showed that about one of every six employers who
were aware of the law ''may have begun or increased unfair hiring practices.''

Review of City Law

''Based on what we have heard so far, the G.A.O. report is wrong,'' the chairman
of the Human Rights Commission, the Rev. Dr. John E. Brandon, said after a
two-day public hearing held in the Health Department building on Worth Street.
''While it is hard to document, testimony we have heard shows that there seems
to be widespread discrimination resulting from employer sanctions.''

Dr. Brandon said the commission would meet to evaluate the evidence and to
decide whether the city's Human Rights Law should be amended to ''prevent
discrimination based on alien and citizen status.''

''Yes, aliens should be protected by the city's Human Rights Law,'' asserted
Elizabeth Bogen, director of the Office of Immigrant Affairs in the Department
of City Planning.

City Councilman Stanley E. Michels, Democrat of Manhattan, said he and
Councilwoman Susan D. Alter, Democrat of Brooklyn, were co-sponsoring bills to
amend the city's administrative code ''so that discrimination against
individuals because of their alien status would be considered illegal.''

In recent months, the New York immigration hot line has received 60 calls a
month about discrimination, testified Helene Lauffer, director of immigration
services for Travelers Aid, which runs the telephone service.

Problems Reported

Many calls came from applicants for legal status reporting loss of jobs because
of administrative problems with the Immigration and Naturalization Service or
the Social Security Administration and some employers' confusion over the
immigration law.

''The I.N.S. doesn't want discriminatory practices at work places,'' John R.
Schroeder, the Assistant Commissioner for Employer-Labor Relations in service's
headquarters in Washington, said Friday. Noting that he had worked with the
General Accounting Office auditors for two years, he agreed with their
conclusions.

Emphasizing, however, that the New York State task force report and the city's
hearing ''have not fallen on deaf ears,'' he said, ''We're going to take a
special look at New York.''

Gloria Giraldo-Aquirre, counselor to the immigration hot line, said experience
shows discrimination against immigrants is ''a pervasive problem'' in New York
City, aggravated by the imposition of sanctions against employers for hiring
undocumented workers. Ruth Noemi Colon of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico's
Migration Division spoke emotionally about employers who she said treat Puerto
Ricans as foreigners. ''They even ask for green cards when we are citizens,''
she said angrily.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 2, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

METRO DATELINE;
Suit Challenges Immigration Rules

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 156 words

DATELINE: MANHATTAN


The State and City of New York as well as individual plaintiffs filed a class
action suit against the Immigration and Naturalization Service yesterday,
challenging ''unlawfully restrictive regulations'' that may deny legal status to
aliens with children receiving public assistance.

The state's Social Services Commissioner, Cesar A. Perales, stressed that at
present, the I.N.S. may deny legalization to low-income, working parents of
American-born children who receive public aid.

The lawsuit was filed in the Federal District Court for the Southern District.

Earlier this month, New York City and the Legal Aid Society brought legal action
against the I.N.S for disqualifying foster-care children from legalization
because of public cash assistance paid to foster parents. Before the court
reached a decision, the I.N.S. stated that aid to foster parents would no longer
be considered as public assistance to the children.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 9, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

First New Citizen Under Amnesty Law

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 70 words


Clara Escobedo de Martinez, 98 years old, waving flag yesterday in Brownsvile,
Tex., after she became, according to immigration officials, the first alien
granted citzenship under the new amnesty law. She lived in the United States
from 1927 to 1964, when a bureaucratic mixup stripped her of legal status.
Officials waived the five-year wait for citizenship because she satisfied that
requirement 56 years ago. (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 21, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Truman Favored Generous Immigration Policy

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 249 words


To the Editor:

It may be possible to sing the anti-immigration song outlined in Dan Stein's
letter (''Large-Scale Immigration Also Hurts Cities,'' March 30), but it is
unacceptable to do it with Harry Truman's words.

Mr. Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
quotes President Truman out of context and argues for some of the same
restrictionist views that Truman opposed and that prompted him to veto the 1952
McCarran-Walter immigration bill.

Mr. Stein quotes from Truman's veto message: ''In no other realm of our national
life are we so hampered and stultified by the dead hand of the past as we are in
this field of immigration.'' And he ends there.

But here's the rest of the paragraph: ''We do not limit our cities to their 1920
boundaries - we do not hold our corporations to their 1920 capitalizations - we
welcome progress and change to meet changing conditions in every sphere of life
except in the field of immigration.''

Mr. Stein's arguments are the economic equivalent of the anti-immigration
arguments of the 1952 law that Truman objected to because it carried forward the
racist arguments of the 1920's. Mr. Stein may disagree with Truman, but he
shouldn't distort what the President said or what he believed, which was in
favor of a progressive and generous immigration policy.

JERRY M. TINKER
Staff Director, Subcommittee on Immigration and Refugee Affairs
Senate Judiciary Committee
  Washington, March 31, 1988

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 5, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

At Immigration Offices, Lines Around Block

BYLINE: By DON TERRY

SECTION: Section B; Page 10, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 541 words


The security guard took a deep breath and sighed before opening the door
yesterday at the Immigration and Naturalization Service office in Queens on the
last, hectic day of the Federal amnesty program for most aliens.

''Don't push, don't push,'' the guard pleaded, as the first of hundreds gathered
since early morning began moving forward, determination etched on their faces.
''Relax. Everyone is going to get in.''

The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 expired yesterday. Illegal
aliens, clutching their applications for amnesty and legal residence, poured
into the three offices operated by the New York district of the immigration
service, trying to beat the midnight deadline.

The line outside the gray office building in Queens began forming Tuesday night.
By 8:30 A.M. yesterday, it snaked down the block.

'I Can Be Liberated'

Wilson Espin, 25, who is from Ecuador, said he arrived at 5:30 A.M. after
finally overcoming his fear that he would be deported.

''If you don't have your papers,'' he said, ''it's the same thing as being in
jail. When I have my papers, I can be liberated.''

Only applications were accepted yesterday. Interviews are to be held later this
summer.

Officials in Queens and Manhattan -the two largest immigration offices in the
country - said the number of applications yesterday would probably exceed the
records set Tuesday, when about 3,000 were filed in Queens and 4,000 in
Manhattan.

At the office in Hempstead, L.I., officials said they expected 800.

Charles Troy, a spokesman for the district, said it would easily reach its
recently revised estimate of 100,000 applications. When the program began last
year, officials had expected 300,000, but low turnout repeatedly forced them to
cut their estimates.

''To me it has been a success,'' Mr. Troy said. ''That is not an insignificant
number.''

In New Jersey, the totals were smaller, but the result was the same: last minute
applications flooded immigration offices in Camden and Paterson.

An spokesman for the service in Camden, James M. Gray, said he expected between
300 to 500 yesterday. On Tuesday, 151 were filed. For the first 11 months of the
program, the Camden office averaged about 10 a day, he said.

Human Nature Blamed

Immigration officials blamed the last-minute rush on human nature.

''It's only natural,'' said the director of the Queens office, Yvette
LaGonterie. ''People like to put things off.''

But many waiting for the doors to open at 9 A.M. in Queens said it was fear that
had kept them away so long.

''We thought maybe it was a fake,'' said a 30-year-old man from Ghana. ''I had
to see someone get the papers to be convinced.''

Inside the office, more lines developed as people waited to file their
applications and pay the $185 fee.

Khalid Mehmud, 29, who is from Pakistan, was smiling broadly after filing. Since
coming to the United States in 1981, he said, he had worked ''all kinds of odd
jobs, from dishwasher to gas station attendant.''

''I feel very good now,'' he said as he left the office. ''Once I am legalized I
can get a good job. Maybe open a store or drive a cab.''

Then an immigration official shouted ''Next,'' and another applicant moved a
step closer to the dream.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of aliens filling out amnesty application at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service office in Queens (NYT/Jim Wilson)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 6, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Aliens Who Are Still Illegal Find Life Is Getting Tougher

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1428 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Since immigration officials began full enforcement of the 1986 immigration law
on June 1, many aliens who did not qualify for amnesty are finding themselves
pushed deeper into an illegal subclass as they seek employment in the United
States.

Despite a continuing flood of illegal immigration into the country, aliens and
churches and social service groups that work with them say the enforcement stage
of the landmark immigration law is having a clear effect toward achieving its
goal of making it difficult for aliens to find and keep jobs.

Tens of thousands of aliens have lost jobs or been forced to settle for the most
marginal, low-paying work: they are less likely to be hired by large companies
with benefits and safety programs and more likely to be hired for short-term
jobs with independent contractors. Some entire ethnic communities are being
shaken by the new economic pressures.

Immigration officials have insisted from the start that those in the United
States illegally should simply return home because they will not be able to find
work. But there are few signs of an exodus. Instead, aliens seem to be willing
to endure increased hardship to remain here.

No figures are available on how many aliens are being affected. Many aliens are
finding work, and the law's full effect will not be clear for years. But the
problems are a reminder that the immigration law's biggest effects will be felt
not by the more than two million aliens who applied for legal status but by
perhaps as many others who were not eligible or did not apply.

''The law is now creating tremendous hardship throughout the total community,''
said Antonio Rodriguez, executive director of the East Los Angeles Immigration
Project, which serves an overwhelmingly Mexican clientele in this city's
Hispanic barrio. ''And what we're seeing now is a few strands of hair on its
ugly head. The body hasn't even begun to surface.''

The immigration law is a three-part program designed to deter illegal
immigration while offering legal status or amnesty to aliens who have lived here
continuously since before Jan. 1, 1982. The amnesty program for non-farm workers
ended May 4. Now the focus is on the law's main thrust: penalizing employers who
hire illegal aliens and stepping up border enforcement.

'I Don't Think I Can Survive'

A typical story is that of Rene Ovidio, a 30-year-old Salvadoran who came here
in 1986.

Mr. Ovidio, who supports a wife and two children, first found work doing
gardening and construction jobs. Last December, he was hired at an apparel
factory at $4 an hour.

But in early June his employer, fearing sanctions, dismissed him because he had
no work authorization. Mr. Ovidio has been unable to find work since.

''I came here to survive,'' said Mr. Ovidio, who fled the violence in El
Salvador. ''Now, I don't think I can survive here.''

Hardship for Some Businesses

Even businesses that cater to the illegal immigrants are beginning to feel the
effects.

Two years ago business was so good for Oscar Vega, owner of a Salvadoran
restaurant, El Izalqueno, that he sank his life's savings into a second
restaurant, called Anaya's. Now El Izalqueno is struggling to break even, and
Anaya's is barely covering its rent.

''Many people have lost their jobs, and they don't have money to spend,'' he
said. A few blocks away at El Turco, the grocery owned by his friend Mauricio
Zedan, the story is much the same.

The Salvadorans have been most affected because so few have lived here long
enough to qualify for amnesty, but officials who work with Asians, Mexicans and
other aliens here and elsewhere report similar problems.

A Need for Shelter and Aid

In Los Angeles, more than 100 aliens unable to find work have been sleeping on
the pews of a downtown church. Churches and organizations that serve immigrants
say they are seeing a dramatic increase in people seeking aid with employment,
shelter or other problems.

Aliens and aid groups call this the early stages of a situation that is certain
to worsen as people exhaust meager savings, can no longer pay rent, outstay
their welcome with relatives and face other problems brought on by financial
strains.

For many illegal immigrants, there is still work to be found. Employers do not
face penalties for undocumented workers who were hired before the law was passed
in November 1986. Small employers, who have less to fear from the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, are more likely to hire workers not covered by the
amnesty.

The widespread availability of false documents is also allowing many aliens to
get work. The law requires only that the employers make a good-faith effort to
determine if a worker is here legally.

The I.N.S. says its surveys show that 70 to 80 percent of employers are
complying with the law. Other studies, however, indicate that since employers
need not ascertain whether documents are legal, businesses can often comply with
the letter of the law while continuing to hire illegal aliens.

The Work Is Marginal

But the work that aliens find is often the most marginal, low-paying work to be
found - the larger employers are more likely to be careful in following the law.
The overall effect on many aliens has been to push those at the bottom rung of
the ladder one step lower.

''People who once worked in a factory and had the protection of a union or a
state agency that visited the site now are setting up a sewing machine in
someone's yard and doing piecework,'' said Peter Schey of the National Center
for Immigrants Rights. ''Others are standing on corners to get day work. They're
moving into more marginal, more tenuous, more dangerous kinds of jobs.''

In Houston, Francisco Arroyo recently sat from 6:30 to 11 in the morning outside
a convenience store with 60 other Mexicans, waiting for contractors to drive up
offering day work ranging from landscaping to laying pipe.

Finally he got up and headed home.

''Since the amnesty law, there has been very little work out there,'' said Mr.
Arroyo, who has been working illegally in the United States for several years.
''The workers still show up, but there's just no work.''

Permanent Underclass Is Seen

A recent study by Wayne A. Cornelius of the University of California at San
Diego said the new law is likely to create a permanent underclass of aliens with
limited prospects to help their children, even those born in the United States,
to achieve upward mobility.

If the amnesty program provided dramatic glimpses of hope and pride, the current
phase has a distinctly darker tinge.

There are people like Encarnacion Avila, a former educational supervisor from El
Salvador with a graduate degree in philosophy, who began working here in 1983 as
a dishwasher in a Chinese restaurant and is now trying to hold on to his job as
a forklift driver in Los Angeles. His employer says he will be dismissed unless
he produces work authorization, so he has the choice between losing his job or
filing a petition for political asylum - which would get him temporary work
papers but would probably be denied and lead to eventual deportation.

There is Maria Lorenza Guardado, who said she left El Salvador in 1983 after
being kidnapped and tortured. She has severe physical problems that make it
impossible for her to do manual labor, but does not qualify under the amnesty
program.

There are some small signs that if times get tough enough, aliens will indeed
leave the country. When the law was first passed many aliens indeed left the
country, and crossings into the United States fell precipitously. Last year the
Los Angeles school district saw school enrollment fall well below projections,
which school officials attribute to the departure of aliens.

Immigration officials say most aliens are now coming for agricultural work,
which is the last area where some employers are still exempt from sanctions.
Once that exemption is ended in December, border crossings will fall, they say.

But most signs still point to a continuing flow of new aliens and the
determination of those here to stay.

Lizbeth Barrera and her husband came to Los Angeles from Mexico a year ago. He
is now working seven days a week in an accountant's office. She is pregnant with
their third child. When asked what will happen if there is no work here, she
smiled and shook her head.

''There will always be some work, and you can't make a living in Mexico now,''
she said. ''There will always be houses that need cleaning. People will always
be afraid, but they will always keep coming.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of Oscar Vage (pg. A12) (NYT); Encarnacion Avila and Maria
Lorenza Guardado (pg. A12) (NYT/Bart Bartholomew)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 17, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Aliens Rush to Farmhands' Amnesty

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1022 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 14


With more than four months to run, the Federal program to bestow legal status on
alien farm workers in the United States has already drawn 675,000 applicants,
nearly double the number officials originally estimated would be eligible.

The swelling number of applications has deeply troubled those who said the
program would invite fraud by aliens who could not qualify for amnesty under
other provisions of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.

At the same time, advocates representing some farm workers who are illegal
aliens say the Immigration and Naturalization Service is arbitrarily rejecting
applications from qualified aliens, defying the intent of Congress to make it
relatively easy to prove eligibility.

Aaron Bodin, Deputy Assistant Commissioner of the service, who heads the
program, said: ''When I first saw the proposal for this program, I said to
myself, my God, how are we ever going to administer it? How are persons who are
eligible, given the nature of the farm labor market, going to produce the
records to prove their eligibility unless we have very loose evidentiary
requirements, and in doing so how are we going to keep from throwing the gates
open to people who will take unfair advantage of it?

''In fact, these are the same questions we are still asking today.''

Proving 90 Days of Work

The program is distinct from the general amnesty program, whose application
period ended this spring. The larger program is giving legal status to aliens
who prove they have lived in the United States since 1981. Seasonal farm
workers, whose deadline is Nov. 30, have much less to prove: they have to show
that they worked on American farms for at least 90 days in the 12 months ended
May 1, 1986.

But because seasonal farm workers are routinely paid in cash, and growers and
illegal aliens alike have been happy to mask their relationship, tax and payroll
records are often not available. In recognition of these obstacles, Congress
directed the immigration service to employ ''just and reasonable inference'' in
reviewing applications.

Immigration examiners, in fact, have accepted as proof a grower's affidavit that
an individual was employed in the qualifying period.

Hearing in Miami

The floodtide of applications and the widespread sale of fraudulent affidavits,
however, tightened up the process, in ways that have led to some complaints that
the immigration service is no longer following the Congressional directive to be
lenient.

In a Federal District Court hearing in Miami that ended Monday, lawyers
representing applicants in Florida, Georgia and Alabama charged that the
immigration service ''has blatantly violated'' the spirit of the immigration law
and its own regulations by turning down applicants who were unable to produce
work records.

Immigration officials denied on the stand last week that the rejections were
arbitrary but agreed that the discovery of vast fraud last fall prompted the
service's examiners to start looking at the evidence submitted more closely and
weighing it more carefully.

Lawyers for the farm workers, many of whom are Haitians who would face
deportation if they are not provided temporary residency under the program, have
asked Federal District Judge Clyde Atkins to find that the service has ''applied
an improper burden of proof'' on the applicants. Judge Atkins is expected to
issue a ruling next week.

Fraud Case Falls Apart

Of the 675,000 applications filed so far, nearly 187,000 had been acted on as of
July 1, according to the immigration service. Of these, 160,000 were approved
and 27,000 denied, the service said. According to William Chambers, director of
the service's regional processing office in Dallas, the denial rate in the
Southern region has been 29 percent in recent months, significantly higher than
it had been.

Jack Bass, Assistant Commissioner for Investigations, said in a telephone
interview from Washington that the program was ''giving us problems'' and that
fraud in some trouble spots was ''rampant if not totally out of control.''

Immigration investigators moved vigorously against a ring selling fraudulent
affidavits in the West Palm Beach area earlier this year. They won indictments
against 56 migrant workers, mostly poor and uneducated Haitians, and against
several farm labor contractors who supplied the phony documents for a price. But
the cases fell apart when a Federal judge criticized the Government's standard
of evidence in bringing the charges.

Now, Mr. Bass observed, cases are brought against ''the profiteers,'' not the
applicants themselves. He said 173 cases are now being pursued nationwide by
immigration investigators, whose ranks have almost doubled since extra money was
set aside for the program a year ago.

Meanwhile, estimates of the number of aliens who will ultimately seek legal
status vary widely. Some say it will probably top a million. Department of
Agriculture experts estimated two years ago, when the immigration law was being
debated, that 300,000 to 500,000 illegal aliens did 90 days of seasonal
agricultural work in a year.

Standard Is Called 'Thin'

''We predicted there would be enormous fraud, because the SAW qualification
standard was so thin and was so difficult for the I.N.S. to verify,'' said Roger
Conner, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a
Washington group that opposes legalizing alien workers on the basis of
affidavits alone. ''It was absurd in the first place to require only 90 days of
work.''

''It's understood by the aliens that the program is a free lunch,'' he said in a
telephone interview. He said people who have surveyed applicants ''say they are
guys with no knowledge of the kind of work they claim to have done or of the
crops.''

He asserted that the number of applicants in California, 362,000, already
exceeded the total number of farm jobs that have been filled by illegal workers.

But Representative Howard L. Berman, a California Democrat on the House
Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Refugees and International Law, said this
did not mean widespread fraud.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Haitians waiting outside Federal District Court in Miami as
attorneys representing applicants for legal alien status in Florida, Georgia and
Alabama argued a lawsuit against the immigration service (NYT/Susan Greenwood)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 20, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

No Green Card, No Day Care

BYLINE: By Priscilla Labovitz; Priscilla Labovitz, an immigration attorney who
practices in Washington, is the mother of two children.

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 667 words


There are three women in Arlington, Va. - a teacher, an artist, a secretary -
all married, each with a young child. They are able to work because they share a
baby sitter. Maria, the sitter, comes from Latin America, has two children of
her own, a year of paid experience, great warmth and no visa. The three mothers,
eager to do right by Maria and relieved to have found a fine person in whose
hands to leave their children, have begun Maria's labor certification process,
the prerequisite to a permanent resident visa, or green card.

If all goes well, Maria will get a green card by pursuing one of the few
occupations open to women who have children and little education, her children
will get a shot at the American dream and three day care crises (four, counting
Maria's) will be resolved - unless Edward M. Kennedy's and Alan Simpson's
proposed Immigration Act of 1988 passes the House as swiftly as it has the
Senate.

The Kennedy-Simpson bill, a compromise between the Senate's Democratic and
Republican experts on immigration reform, would, like the Immigration Reform and
Control Act of 1986, give a great deal to some of the thousands who seek to
enter the United States legally.

It would, for example, clear up the backlog of immigrants who have been on
waiting lists for up to 17 years. It would double the number of visas given
professionals and other skilled workers.

At the same time, however, Kennedy-Simpson would take away the green card
possibilities of thousands now eligible. The bill redefines skilled workers as
those who perform labor requiring at least two years of training or experience.
It thereby excludes baby sitters, housekeepers, home attendants for the elderly
and infirm, many secretaries and ethnic specialty cooks.

Simply put, Kennedy-Simpson would open the way for young alien professionals
(yappies?) but slam the door in the face of the immigrant working class. This
might make sense if the United States enjoyed a surplus of such workers, but as
the newspapers tell us daily this is hardly the case.

The Kennedy-Simpson bill discriminates against nonprofessionals but particularly
against immigrant women who are less likely to be educated than immigrant men.
The sole legal route open to most independent immigrant women is skilled paid
work in someone else's house. Moreover, as a practical matter, for immigrant
women who need a job to which they can bring their children, there are few
occupations to pursue.

If Kennedy-Simpson becomes law, Maria, and those like her, will have no prospect
but deportation. The elegant symmetry of the Arlington solution, in which three
working mothers trade a green card for quality child care will end. Some
families will continue to hire illegal aliens as housekeepers and nannies. But
these immigrant women will have no hope of legalization and no place to go if
their employers fail to pay them fairly or otherwise mistreat them.

Should Kennedy-Simpson become law, not only will the hundreds, or perhaps
thousands, of foreign-born housekeepers and baby sitters now working here be
unable to legalize their immigration status, an equal or greater number of
employed American women will join the thousands already looking for decent child
care. The day care crisis will only get worse.

Home day care, once provided for the rich by immigrant governesses and for the
working class by nearby grandmothers, is simply not being provided by enough
American babysitters. The wages, hours and benefits are not that attractive. Day
care centers and group care at a provider's home, even where available, are not
every parent's cup of tea, particularly for children under 3.

Both Presidential candidates have joined in the search for an answer to the day
care conundrum. But no one expects an early solution. Until we come up with one,
Congress ought not to take visas away from such workers as baby sitters whose
jobs require less than two years' experience. Why dump a small-scale private
sector solution that works?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              August 24, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Alien Farm Workers Win Fight Against I.N.S.

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 644 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 23


A Federal judge here has ruled that the Immigration and Naturalization Service
has been too restrictive in handling applications for legal status by alien farm
workers. Government lawyers said the decision might make it more difficult to
keep those who are ineligible from being permanently admitted to the United
States.

Federal District Judge C. Clyde Atkins ordered the agency to reinstate the
applications of thousands of aliens, chiefly Haitians and Mexicans, who had been
denied legal status under the provisions of the Immigration Reform and Control
Act of 1986 that affect seasonal agricultural workers.

In addition, the judge ruled that the applicants should be given temporary
authorization to work until the agency can review their cases. He also said the
Government was responsible for notifying the applicants about evidence that
contributed to the original rejections and give them a chance to rebut it.

The immigration service has for some time expressed worry that the program to
enable alien farm workers to gain legal status was being compromised by massive
numbers of applications by those misrepresenting their work experience in the
United States.

A 'Tremendous' Burden

In Washington, Judge Atkins's temporary restraining order was being studied by
lawyers at the immigration service and the Justice Department. ''Taken at first
reading it creates a tremendous administrative burden on us to reopen all those
cases,'' said an agency spokesman, Duke Austin, ''and we feel additional
clarification is needed from the judge to state the limits of what he is telling
us to do.''

With more than three months remaining before an application deadline, more than
775,000 aliens have applied for legal status under the program for seasonal
agricultural workers, which is distinct from the general amnesty for illegal
aliens that ended last spring. Under the program, legal resident status is open
to anyone who can offer some documentation or affidavit confirming that he
worked in seasonal agriculture for a minimum of 90 days in the 12 months ending
May 1, 1986.

Unlike the general amnesty program, in which the burden of proof was on the
applicant, the program for agricultural workers was framed by Congress to make
it relatively easy to prove eligibility. The burden of proof was shifted to the
Government to show that an application was frivolous or fraudulent.

Lawyers for 14,000 agricultural workers who had been denied work permits in
Florida, Georgia and Alabama argued in a suit before Judge Atkins that the
immigration service was arbitrarily rejecting applicants from qualified aliens
without offering them grounds.

Right to Be Informed

Judge Atkins ruled that the plaintiffs had the right to be informed of the
adverse evidence and to rebut it and call any witnesses they desired to support
their claims. He also ordered the agency to provide interpreters for the
procedures to keep applicants informed on their cases.

There was concern that the ruling could greatly impair the Government's effort
to stop fraud in the agricultural worker program, which some officials have told
Congressional staff members may be running at 40 percent of the applications
received.

Roger Conner, executive director of the Washington-based Federation for American
Immigration Reform, which has been critical of the program, called Judge
Atkins's ruling ''an invitation to more fraud in a program already rife with
it.''

''It's an example of the way the courts and the immigration lawyers
systematically dismantle every limitation Congress passes in the immigration
field,'' Mr. Conner said.

Ira Kurzban, a lawyer representing the plaintiffs, said, ''Our position is that
if there is fraud the Government must investigate it and not take the easy and
cheap way to clear cases by denying an application without a sound reason.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 15, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Don't Let the Sun Set on Free Speech

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 364 words


For more than three decades, the McCarran-Walter Immigration Act allowed
Washington to bar controversial foreign visitors. It was an outmoded limit on
freedom of speech and inquiry. Then last year Congress passed a new law to
redress this abuse of public intellect, but the law expires at the end of this
year. It deserves an extension.

McCarran-Walter was passed amid anti-Communist hysteria of the McCarthy era.
Among the law's 33 grounds for excluding foreign visitors is a broad provision
allowing the Government to keep out any alien who might ''engage in activities
which would be prejudicial to the public interest, or endanger the welfare,
safety or security of the United States.'' Over the years, Federal bureaucrats
have used the law to prevent visits by Gabriel Garcia Marquez, the Colombian
Nobel Laureate, and Hortensia de Allende, the widow of the slain Chilean
President Salvador Allende Gossens.

The law Congress passed last year prohibits the exclusion or deportation of
foreign visitors ''because of any past, current or expected beliefs, statements
or associations'' that an American citizen would find protected by the
Constitution. The law, however, only applies to visitors seeking visas in 1988.
Congress hoped to accomplish a more comprehensive overhaul of McCarran-Walter
this year. With the press of other business, however, that effort has
languished.

Now, at the urging of Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, the Senate
Foreign Relations committee has passed an amendment for a permanent ban on visa
denials based on political beliefs. But some senators, still anticipating
greater changes in McCarran-Walter, balk at making the legislation permanent. A
compromise would extend this year's law for another year or two.

Some extension by the Senate is critical, since no comparable amendment now
exists in the House. Senate passage would at least allow House consideration in
conference.

To deny foreign visitors entry to the U.S. solely because of their political
beliefs undermines American ideals and insults the intelligence of the American
people. Having taken an important step toward enlightenment, Congress needs to
take another.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 6, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Haitians' Suit Alleges Bias In U.S. Immigration Policy

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1014 words


A suit filed last week in Federal court asserts that thousands of Haitian
refugees seeking asylum here have been denied residency because of
discrimination by the Immigration and Naturalization Service in the last decade.

The class-action suit, in District Court in Manhattan, says the I.N.S. flouted a
provision of the 1986 immigration law that was intended, in part, to make up for
the poor reception many Haitians received. The provision exempted them from some
requirements, but the agency blocked the applications, the suit conteds.

As a result, several thousand Haitians are in legal limbo. Some whose
applications were denied are facing deportation, and others await long-overdue
decisions.

''They took Congress at its word, and are now the subject of improper delay and
denial,'' said Arthur C. Helton, a lawyer for the plaintiffs and director of the
political asylum project of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights. ''At some
point, that means deportation.''

The committee, based in New York, promotes human rights worldwide. The asylum
project fights for the rights of refugees seeking haven here.

Call for Immediate Decisions

Mr. Helton said Haitians, more than other Caribbean immigrants, were
discriminated against by immigration officials because so many were poor, black,
uneducated and did not speak English. The suit singles out New York immigration
officials for being particularly discriminatory against Haitians.

The suit names Attorney General Richard L. Thornburgh, Immigration and
Naturalization Commissioner Alan C. Nelson and local officials as defendants. It
calls for immediate decisions on all unresolved applications for residency and
the reopening of some cases in which Haitian applicants had been rejected. The
suit also calls for an extension of a deadline of Nov. 6 for applications.

A spokesman for the immigration service said last week that the agency was
confident it had lawfully carried out its duties lawfully. A special assistant
United States attorney handling the case, Ping C. Moy, asserted Tuesday that
most of the contentions had ''no legal basis'' and that he would move to dismiss
the case.

The plaintiffs are four Haitian refugees and four Haitian advocacy groups. Most
of those covered by the class action are here legally, covered by an
indeterminant status since their releases from detention in the early 80's.

One of them is Herbert Lozier, 37 years old, a cabinetmaker in the Bronx. He
arrived in Miami in 1980, leaving behind his mother, father and sister. He was a
student and part-time surveyor pursued by the Tontons Macoute, the gangs from
the Duvalier regime, and did not have a valid visa.

Mr. Lozier was detained in Miami more than three weeks. On his release, he moved
to Brooklyn and found work in a bag factory in New Jersey.

'You Cannot Trust the I.N.S.'

Even though documents dating from October 1980 classify Mr. Lozier as an
applicant for political asylum, his case was never decided. Last year, he
reapplied for residency under the new provision, but was refused, even though he
had married an American.

''I came here knowing I would have a quiet life,'' Mr. Lozier said last weekend
through a translator. ''I ended up going to jail. You cannot trust the I.N.S.''

There are many Haitians here, and the Census Bureau and immigration service do
not generally share files. The New York City Planning Department estimates that
there are 100,000 to 200,000 in the city, mostly in Brooklyn. Many of them have
legally been here for years.

Haitian advocacy groups say the number is at least twice as large.

It is generally agreed that the number has doubled since 1980, when tens of
thousands of Haitians began fleeing persecution under the rule of Jean-Claude
(Baby Doc) Duvalier. They were mostly poor and uneducated, spoke no English, and
had neither families nor the promise of a job.

In 1981, the Government classified Haitians as economic migrants rather than
refugees. When they sought residency, their applications were often denied
without hearings, the suit contends. Others found that their cases were delayed
pending the transfer of documents, a process that often did not occur, the suit
adds. Many of the Haitians want residency so they can seek citizenship.

Thousands Could Be Reconsidered

The Cuban-Haitian adjustment provision of the Immigration Control and Reform Act
of 1986, intended by Congress to compensate for the poor treatment many Haitians
received on arrival, offered exemptions from many requirements.

Almost 13,000 Haitians became residents. Few Cubans applied.

Most of those who became residents had close relatives here or a promise of
employment, Mr. Helton said.

About 5,000 more applications that had been rejected or shelved might be
reconsidered, if the suit is successful, with at least 2,000 in New York,
according to Johnny McCalla, associate director of the National Coalition of
Haitian Refugees, a plaintiff in the suit.

Because it is unclear what rights aliens have under the law, the suit does not
address deprivation of due process and other constitutional protections as much
as the extent immigration officials charged with carrying out the 1986 provision
stymied the progress of individual applications.

'Tradition of Hostility'

In the last decade, several courts have found that the immigration agency
routinely violated a broad range of rights for many refugees such as Salvadorans
and others, as well as Haitians.

''There is a tradition of hostility, prejudice, discrimination and abuse against
Haitians by the I.N.S.,'' said Mr. Helton, a professor of immigration law at the
New York University Law School and chairman of the New York State Task Force on
Immigration Affairs. He added that although the suit pointed out local
officials, prejudicial behavior against Haitians amounted to a Federal policy.

''You would not have seen a Haitian detention program if it did not involve
people of color,'' Mr. Helton said. ''For Haiti, it's less a question of foreign
policy than this concern with immigration control.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 5, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Study Says Immigration Law Is Leading to Discrimination

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1297 words


Employers in New York City and several nearby counties, fearful of penalties
under the new Federal immigration law, are engaging in widespread discrimination
against legalized aliens and American citizens who appear foreign, a Cuomo
administration task force has found.

In the first such study in the nation, the Governor's Task Force on Immigration
Affairs reports finding much of the discrimination that experts feared would
arise from the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.

The act offered amnesty to eligible aliens until May 4 of this year and,
starting in June, called for stiff fines and other sanctions against employers
who hire illegal aliens.

The 10-member panel found employers discriminating in three basic ways: by
refusing to accept legally valid proof of residency, by denying employment to
those who experience minor delays in gathering documentation and by screening
out those applicants who look or sound foreign. #400 Employers Are Studied The
panel studied 400 private employers in the five boroughs of New York City and in
Westchester, Nassau, Suffolk and Putnam Counties. All had at least four
employees, and all were interviewed by phone last month. The employers were
selected at random from more than 130,000 private employers who have more than
four million people working for them.

A report by the Federal General Accounting Office, which is required by Congress
to investigate evidence of employer discrimination stemming from the immigration
law, is expected to come out on Monday. .

By extrapolating from figures given by the 400 employers, the New York State
panel found that more than 22,000 American citizens or aliens who were
authorized to work had been temporarily denied work or not hired. The employers,
in their responses, indicated confusion about the legislation or fear of
sanctions.

Seven percent of the employers surveyed admitted they had engaged in ''selective
screening,'' placing more stringent requirements on job applicants whom they
deemed ''risky'' under the new sanctions.

''I'm absolutely shocked by the numbers,'' said Cesar A. Perales, the New York
State Commissioner of Social Services and chairman of the panel. ''I didn't
think we'd have such a large number of employers saying they rejected applicants
because they are foreign born.''

Law Requires Documentation

The Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service has not seen the report and
''therefore cannot comment on it,'' Richard Kenney, a spokesman for the service
in Washington, said yesterday.

The new law requires all employees, upon being hired, to present for employer
review documentation establishing their identity and eligibility for employment.
Basic documents thatcover both requirements include a U.S. passport, a
certificate of naturalization or an alien registration card with a photograph.
Alternative documents may be presented to establish a person's identity, such as
a state-issued driver's license or a voter registration card, with additional
documents showing employment eligibility, such as an original Social Security
number card or an unexpired I.N.S. employment authorization.

Fearing new discriminatory pressures, Congress included in the Immigration Act a
prohibition against discrimination in the ''hiring, or recruitment, or referral
for a fee, or the discharging'' of anyone because of national origin or
citizenship.

Under the law, employers are subject to fines of $250 to $10,000 for each
illegal alien hired, depending on prior violations. Twenty-one notices to pay
fines have been sent out to companies in the state since June; four have paid,
and the others are contesting the penalties, I.N.S. officials in New York said.

Many Uncertain About Forms

The task force, which was created to help solve problems expected because of the
legalization of thousands of aliens, initiated the study after hearing reports
of discrimination from community organizations.

The panel's survey found that nearly one-fourth of the employers sampled were
unaware of the Federal I-9 employment eligibility verification form. From that,
they extrapolated that 31,683 employers in the region were unaware of the form.
Under the immigration law, all employers must fill out the form with information
from every employee indicating that the person is authorized to work.

The survey also found that 15 percent of those surveyed, or 19,802 employers
total, were aware they could be fined for hiring illegal aliens but did not know
what to do to avoid the fines.

The study determined that ''prescreening,'' or deciding not to hire any job
seeker who appears to be foreign, was not prevalent, but that ''selective
screening,'' or requiring additional documentation from candidates seen as
''risky,'' was followed by 7 percent of all employers, responsible for 160,092
jobs.

Early Deadline on Papers

More than 20 percent of the employers using the I-9 forms, who were
statistically determined to represent 942,313 jobs, reported difficulty
determining the appropriate documents.

Although the law says employers have three weeks in which to collect
documentation authorizing work from an employee, nearly 59,000 employers, or 73
percent of those using the I-9 form, said they required the documents before the
first day of work. Furthermore, more than 10,000 employers familiar with the I-9
procedure said they had at one time or another decided not to hire someone
because they could not get documents fast enough.

The task force's 31-page report, in addition to its statistical breakdowns,
includes a survey of 46 community-based organizations that have documented cases
of immigrants and refugees who have suffered discrimination or abuse in seeking
employment.

Among the specific cases of discrimination presented by the community
organizations were 73 involving immigrants with temporary residence and work
permits and Haitians with legal status. One example cited was a Colombian woman
who had the proper documents but was refused the opportunity to apply for an
advertised job in a garment factory.

An additional 95 cases involved refugees who were authorized to work but had
been denied employment because they lacked ''official-looking'' documents. In
one example, a Cuban refugee who had been looking for work for a long time found
that employers would not accept his identification document, issued by the
I.N.S. and stamped ''work authorized.''

'Lack of Confidence'

The case studies ''consistently present the dilemma of authorized workers unable
to acquire or maintain employment due to lack of confidence by employers in the
work authorization documents presented,'' the report says.

''It is clear that thousands of workers in the metropolitan area have been hurt
by employers erroneously implementing the new immigration law,'' says Arthur
Helton, a director of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights and head of a
19-member advisory council to the task force. He said much of the problem could
be eliminated ''with adequate education and training of employers on the new
rules of the game.''

In addition to Mr. Perales, the members of the task force were Thomas Harnett,
Commissioner of the Department of Labor; Vincent Tese, Commissioner of the
Department of Economic Development; Donald G. Butcher, Commissioner of the
Department of Agriculture and Markets; Roderick G. Chu, Commissioner of the
Department of Taxation and Finance; Douglas H. White, Commissioner of the State
Division of Human Rights; Thomas Sobol, Commissioner of Education; Shirley
Remeneski, Executive Director of the Governor's Office for Hispanic Affairs;
Rose Marie Gallina, Special Assistant to the Governor, and Ruth C. Brown,
Associate Director of Research, Governor's Advisory Committee for Black Affairs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 8, 1988, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

In Philippines, Corruption Torrent Has Slowed;
Expulsion for Marcoses

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 248 words


To the Editor:

While Ferdinand E. Marcos and his wife, Imelda, cannot be extradited from the
United States for lack of an extradition treaty (''Marcos and Wife, 8 Others
Charged by U.S. With Fraud,'' front page, Oct. 22), that does not mean they
cannot be expelled from this country.

Assuming the accuracy of your report that the Marcoses entered the United States
in a ''refugee parole'' status, and that this status has not changed, they stand
in the anomalous position of legally not having been ''admitted'' and are still
potentially subject to ''exclusion and deportation'' under the Immigration and
Nationality Act.

Even if their immigration status has changed, since they are not naturalized
citizens they might well still be subject to deportation, assuming in both cases
that they are eventually found guilty of the charges levied against them.

While the Marcoses, once in exclusion or deportation proceedings, have certain
substantive avenues of relief open to them, like any other aliens, it is by no
means certain that such relief would be granted, depending on the facts that
develop during the criminal trial, as well as other extrinsic factors, and they
could find themselves forced to leave the United States, if not perhaps to the
Philippines, then to any other country that would accept them.

PETER HIRSCH
  New York, Oct. 23, 1988

The writer is chairman of the committee on immigration and naturalization of the
New York County Lawyers' Association.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             November 23, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

WASHINGTON TALK: BRIEFING;
Randall Case (Cont.)

BYLINE: By Linda Greenhouse and Andrew Rosenthal

SECTION: Section B; Page 5, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 325 words


Margaret Randall, the feminist writer whose published work in praise of leftist
revolutions led her afoul of the immigration authorities, once again faces the
possibility of deportation, largely as a result of Congressional action.

Ms. Randall is a native New Yorker whose fight with the Government dates from
1984. It was then that she settled in Albuquerque on her return from Mexico,
where she had lived more than two decades and where she became a citizen in
1967, a move that resulted in loss of her United States citizenship.

The El Paso office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service held in 1985
that she should not be permitted to reacquire that citizenship, and ordered her
deported. The next year an immigration judge agreed, ruling that her writing
fell under the provisions of the McCarran-Walter Act, a 35-year-old law that
permits exclusion of foreigners on several grounds, including advocacy of ''the
doctrines of world communism.''

The case brightened for Ms. Randall last December, when, for a one-year period,
Congress amended the act by removing ideology as a ground for excluding aliens.
As a result, the Justice Department, the immigration service's parent, announced
two months later that it would no longer oppose her appeal of the deportation
order to the Board of Immigration Appeals.

But this fall the case has turned again. On Oct. 1, Congress not only extended
the amendment for two years but also limited its protection to non-immigrant
aliens; that is, those aliens who were seeking to become permanent residents
could once again be deported for ideological reasons. The Justice Department is
now opposing Ms. Randall's appeal anew, and her attorney, David Cole of the
Center for Constitutional Rights, in New York, contends that the case should be
argued not under this year's amendment but under last year's, the version that
was in effect when she resubmitted an application for permanent residence.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             December 14, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Tightening Rules on Asylum For Nicaraguans

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1112 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 12


Immigration officials said today that they were planning an aggressive new
program to identify and deport citizens of Nicaragua and other Central American
countries who had entered the United States illegally and could not demonstrate
''a well-founded fear of persecution'' in their homelands.

The plans come amid a dramatic increase in the number of newly arrived aliens
seeking asylum at the office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Harlingen, Tex., near the Mexican border.

Rebels Would Be Accepted

The new plans would not affect the rebels who have been fighting the Sandinista
Government of Nicaragua. American officials say that thousands of those contras
may migrate to the United States next year, but that they would probably qualify
for asylum because they could show a well-founded fear of persecution in
Nicaragua.

Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for the immigration service in Harlingen, said
2,000 aliens a week were now seeking asylum there, compared with 400 to 500 a
week in June. From May 30 through Dec. 8, she said, ''27,122 aliens have come
into our office and indicated they will apply for asylum.''

About half of the applicants are from Nicaragua. They cross the Rio Grande and
check in with the immigration office in Harlingen, where they indicate their
intention to apply for asylum. Many then go to Florida to join relatives and
seek jobs. They usually obtain work permits while their applications are
reviewed.

Perry A. Rivkind, director of the Miami office of the immigration service, said
there was a backlog of 50,000 asylum applications in Florida, including 35,000
from Nicaraguans.

Miss Kice said the deterioration of economic conditions in Central America,
especially Nicaragua, was the main reason for the increased flow of migrants.
Secretary of State George P. Shultz said recently that Nicaragua's ''economy is
a bust,'' with lower per capita income and higher inflation than other countries
in the region.

Under the Refugee Act of 1980, aliens may be granted asylum if they can
demonstrate ''a well-founded fear of persecution.'' Miss Kice said that very few
of the aliens seeking asylum in Texas expressed fear of persecution. Rather, she
said, asylum applicants ''tell us they are here because they want to improve
their lives, their standard of living.''

Reagan 'Accepts Responsibility'

American officials expect thousands of Nicaraguan rebels, now stranded in
Honduras, to migrate to the United States next year.

President Reagan has assured Honduras that the United States ''accepts
responsibility'' for the Nicaraguan contras living in camps in Honduras.

Most of the Nicaraguans streaming into the United States are not connected to
the contras. Reagan Administration officials said that the United States would
keep its commitments to the contras and to Honduras, but would not open its
doors to all Nicaraguans simply because there was a conflict in Nicaragua.

Omer G. Sewell, director of the immigration service office in Harlingen, said he
had ''one trained examiner'' to review asylum applications. He said that the
Harlingen office would need 20 to 25 examiners to rule on the applications for
asylum being filed by people from Central America. Most of those claims are now
decided in Florida or California.

Plans for dealing with the problem are outlined in confidential immigration
service documents and were confirmed by officials from the I.N.S. and its parent
agency, the Justice Department.

More Examiners for Harlingen

In an interview today, Alan C. Nelson, the Commissioner of Immigration and
Naturalization, said he was sending 6 or 7 additional examiners to Harlingen
this week and would dispatch another 20 to 30 in January.

Mr. Nelson said he was also ordering the deployment of more Border Patrol
officers in Texas and sending additional examiners to Miami and Los Angeles, the
two favorite destinations of Central Americans leaving Texas.

''Aliens are abusing the asylum system,'' Mr. Nelson said. ''They are buying
preprinted packages of asylum applications already filled out for them by
smugglers in south Texas.''

Mr. Nelson said that he and State Department officials would also try to gain
the cooperation of Mexican officials in curbing ''the flow of Central Americans
through Mexico.''

Mr. Sewell said most of the people from Central America ''come up relatively
unimpeded through Mexico.''

''We wouldn't have such a big problem if we could convince Mexico to deal with
immigration more effectively,'' he said.

Deputy Associate Attorney General Cary H. Copeland said many of the contras
would probably qualify for asylum because they had a ''pretty well-founded fear
of persecution'' by the Sandinista Government.

U.S. Aid to Rebels Unlikely

The guerrillas are unlikely to return to the battlefield because there is no
immediate prospect that Congress will provide them with additional military aid.

Greg J. Leo, a spokesman for the immigration service, said the plans to
''streamline and expedite the process for adjudicating asylum claims'' were not
directed exclusively at Nicaraguans. But immigration service documents say the
program was designed to deal with the ''Nicaraguan asylum - Harlingen
situation.''

Mr. Leo said the influx of illegal aliens generally slowed in the Christmas
season. But, he said, ''It picks up after Jan. 1.''

In July 1987, Edwin Meese 3d, who was then Attorney General, took several steps
that made it easier for Nicaraguans to remain in the United States. He declared
that Nicaraguans with a well-founded fear of persecution should not be deported.
He also ruled that Nicaraguans seeking work permits were entitled to them, and
he directed the immigration service to ''encourage and expedite Nicaraguan
applications for work authorization.''

Revision Is Considered

Justice Department officials, including Associate Attorney General Francis A.
Keating 2d, are considering whether to revise or rescind Mr. Meese's directive
on Nicaraguans.

Of the 27,122 aliens seeking asylum in Harlingen from May 30 through Dec. 8,
more than 95 percent came from Central America. About 49 percent came from
Nicaragua, with 23 percent from El Salvador, 12 percent came from Guatemala and
11 percent from Honduras.

Mr. Sewell, the director of the immigration service office in Harlingen, said
that at least 100 people from Central America were lined up outside his office
with completed applications for asylum on Monday.

''Most of the people filing applications don't have the slightest idea of what
asylum is all about,'' he said. ''They just want jobs. And many of them want to
join relatives in Florida.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 7, 1989, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Suit Attacks Policy That Keeps Aliens in Texas

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 948 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, Tex., Jan. 6


Attorneys representing aliens from Central America filed suit here today in an
attempt to overturn a new Government immigration policy that has left hundreds
of aliens stranded and homeless in one of the nation's poorest areas.

The policy, announced Dec. 15 and put into effect the next day, was intended to
reduce what the Government considered spurious claims for political asylum by
limiting the ability of aliens to work and travel within the United States. But
the result has aggravated an already serious problem that has left thousands of
aliens, many of them destitute, scattered throughout the Rio Grand Valley.

About 300 aliens, including small children, are camped in a makeshift tent city
outside a church-sponsored refugee center that is operating at capacity. About
150 aliens, including several pregnant women, are living without electricity or
running water in the shell of the gutted Amber Motel here and bathing at a
nearby car wash. Others are scattered throughout thevalley, some having enough
money to stay in hotels and motels.

Officials say the policy is posing growing health and safety hazards in an area
ill-suited to deal with them.

''I've been in this business a long time, and I've never been this frustrated,''
said Paula Gomez, executive director of the Brownsville Community Health Center,
which has cared for some of the aliens. ''I feel like I'm in Vietnam. Somebody's
making the rules somewhere else, and we're having to live with them.''

Immigration officials acknowledge some problems with the policy but say it is
needed because of a dramatic increase in spurious applications for political
asylum by aliens from Nicaragua, El Salvador, Guatemala and other Central
American nations. The Government contends the overwhelming majority are coming
here for economic reasons, not political.

In December, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said aliens would no
longer be able to to travel within the United States once they crossed the
border and checked in with immigration authorities, and they would no longer be
allowed to apply for asylum at other sites. The agency also said it would no
longer grant preliminary work permits to applicants for asylum. Many aliens had
been going directly to Miami or Los Angeles where they would obtain work permits
and apply for asylum.

New Agents Added

The immigration service office at Harlingen added 16 additional agents to to
handle the requests for asylum. Those who are turned down for political ayslum
they can seek a hearing with a Federal immigration judge.

The immigration service is not empowered to provide food or shelter to aliens
affected by the new guidelines.

The suit filed in Federal Court here today, before Judge Filemon Vela, seeks a
temporary restraining order to stop the immigration service from enforcing its
new policy. Lawyers for the aliens argue in the court papers that the policy was
improperly implemented because it failed to comply with Federal requirements
mandating 30-day notice of such major policy changes.

The suit seeks to overturn the policy on the grounds that it is in violation of
refugee provisions enacted by Congress in 1980 to assure aliens a fair hearing
on their applications for asylum. The suit charges the policy has caused severe
hardship to aliens by undermining their ability to receive a fair hearing and to
receive adequate legal representation.

A hearing is scheduled Monday on the suit.

''Our policy should be to find out who is deserving of refugee status rather
than to round up everyone and expose them to these kinds of unconscionable
conditions,'' said Robert Rubin of the San Francisco Lawyer's Committee, who
filed the suit. ''It's a disaster now, and the worst is waiting to happen''.

The Rio Grande Valley across the border from Mexico is the most convenient entry
point for Central American aliens. But the overwhelming majority who enter here
had planned to meet up with friends or relatives in larger metropolitan areas,
particularly Miami and Los Angeles.

Bond requirements and travel restrictions had led to a steady buildup of Central
Americans here before the new policy. But the new guidelines threaten to bring
the problem to a level far beyond the ability of the local community to deal
with. Late last year, about 500 aliens daily were applying for travel
authorization that would allow them to submit asylum applications elsewhere.

Ms. Gomez said there were virtually no housing health or sanitary facilities
available for aliens detained here. She said her clinic has had to help with two
pregnancies, two serious cases of asthma, infants with severe ear infections and
other health problems in recent weeks.

''We don't have housing, jobs, we don't have the base to sustain these people,''
she said. ''Literally, they're everywhere.''

Some Sleeping in Line

Immigration service officials said today that they had reached a full compliment
of 16 asylum adjudicators, who they said would be able to process 300 applicants
daily. Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for the agency in Harlingen, said the agents
would ease the wait for the aliens, some of whom have been sleeping in the
streets as they waited to file asylum petitions.

Verne Jervis, an agency spokesman in Washington, said other communities, such as
Miami, had already suffered problems from the flood of aliens. He said the
agency did not have the ability to mitigate the new effects of the policy.

''Our responsibility is to try to enforce the law and adjudicate the
applications that come before us,'' he said. ''We don't have the funding, the
personnel or the jurisdiction to provide housing and other resources to these
people.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of a Central American alien in his makeshift shelter at a camp
outside Brownsville, Tex. (NYT/Brad Doherty) (pg. 1); refugees from Central
America camped out across the street from Casa Oscar Romero in Brownsville, Tex.
(NYT/Joe Hermosa) (pg. 9)

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 1, 1989, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Judge Leans to Allowing Rule That Trapped Aliens in Texas

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 569 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, Tex., Jan. 31


A Federal judge said today that he would probably allow the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to reinstate a policy that requires immigrants seeking
political asylum to remain at the point where they entered the country until
their application is processed.

The policy, which was put into effect Dec. 16, trapped thousands of aliens in
the Rio Grande Valley with only trees and makeshift tents for shelter. A
temporary restraining order issued on Jan. 9 halted that policy, allowing the
aliens to travel to other cities.

At the hearing today on the order, the Federal district judge, Filamon Vela,
said he was disposed to lift the restraining order on the ground that the
immigration agency had not violated administrative procedure when it issued the
policy. But he said he would wait until Feb. 20 before making a final decision.

He strongly advised the agency to spend the next three weeks re-evaluating the
policy in an attempt to prevent the ''kind of distress and kind of problems that
were created'' when the policy was put into effect.

Ruling Is Called 'Victory'

William Joyce, associate general counsel for the agency, called the judge's
statement a ''victory for the enforcement of immigration law.'' The agency has
said the policy was necessary to stem a rising flood of illegal aliens from
Central America who are filing what the agency says are frivolous claims for
political asylum. The agency contends they are coming to this country for
economic reasons.

Robert Rubin, a San Francisco attorney who brought the suit against the policy
on behalf of a group of immigrants, said that he remained ''quite hopeful that
upon reviewing the extensive arguments we put before him'' the judge would
change his mind about lifting the order.

The hearing in the Federal District Court here was technically confined to the
issue of whether the immigration agency had made a procedural change or a
substantive policy change in issuing the new rules. If the change was
substantive, as Mr. Rubin charged, then the agency was negligent in not allowing
time for public comment on the policy.

Judge Vela said that ''I appear to be persuaded'' that the change was a
procedural one.

But the debate spilled over into more emotional areas, with Mr. Rubin
questioning the wisdom of the policy and the counsel for the immigration
service, Allen W. Hausman, defending it.

''The policy was designed to starve persons out of the asylum process,'' Mr.
Rubin said. ''They were being forced to complete an application while sleeping
out in the rain and cold.''

Mr. Hausman said that drastic action was necessary because ''we no longer have a
flow'' of refugees, adding, ''We have a tidal wave.''

In June of last year, he said, the agency processed 2,000 applications for
political asylum from immigrants throughout the United States. He said that in
November it processed 7,000. Most of these were from alients from Central
America who entered the country along the Texas-Mexican border. The immigration
agency office is at Harlingen, about 22 miles north of here.

Mr. Hausman said the policy helped reduce that number, and its effectiveness was
particularly evident once it was lifted. In the 15 days the rules were in
effect, he said, the Harlingen office processed 1,607 applications for asylum.
In the 14 days since the restraining order rescinded the rules, there were 6,718
applications, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             February 15, 1989, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Crude Camp Arises in Texas Brush After Immigration Center Is Moved

BYLINE: By ROBERTO SURO, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 752 words

DATELINE: BAYVIEW, Tex., Feb. 14


The Government announced today that Central Americans seeking political asylum
would be processed at a remote detention center near here, and within hours
dozens of aliens began setting up a primitive camp in the brush outside the
gates.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service acted after local officials in
Harlingen, Tex., 25 miles west of here, took court action to close down a
processing center in their town, citing sanitation and fire code violations.

''They have just moved the problem, they have not solved it,'' Mayor Bill Card
of Harlingen said today.

As many as 600 people a day had been crowding around a former furniture store on
a major shopping street in Harlingen where the immigration service was accepting
applications for political asylum. Many residents grew irate over the crowds,
which often spent the night, left refuse from their fast-food meals and
overstretched sanitation capabilities.

An Isolated Site

Now, that same flow of humanity has been directed to an isolated stretch of
countryside some three miles from this little crossroads town.

''In a couple of days we are going to have hundreds of people camping out there
with no shelter, no food, no water and no sanitation facilities,'' predicted
Linda Yanez, an immigration attorney.

''From a humanitarian point of view,'' she added, ''it is going to be much worse
than when the processing was done in Harlingen.''

On Monday, the immigration service obtained a Federal court order authorizing it
to reopen the Harlingen center. The service could have resumed full use of that
office but chose not to.

''We want to be good citizens of this community,'' said Omer Sewell, director of
the service's Harlingen district office.

The Harlingen center reopened today for other business, but as of Wednesday, the
thousands of Central Americans seeking political asylum will have to go to the
immigration service's 300-acre site near here.

A Terse Announcement

Immigration officials tersely announced their decision to the crowd of Central
Americans waiting in Harlingen this morning, and handed out a map showing the
twisted route across farm roads to Bayview.

Many of the aliens seemed perplexed, but they were given no other information.
Nonetheless, some of them took map in hand, put their thumbs to the air, and
started hitchhiking, the method of transportation that had carried them
thousands of miles from their homes to Texas.

The Bayview site is about 25 miles from Brownsville, the border city where most
of the aliens have been staying at shelters and cheap hotels. That is about the
same distance between Brownsville and Harlingen. But Ms. Yanez and others
expressed concern today that the aliens would find it difficult to get back and
forth to Bayview and would just camp out there for days at a time.

Five hours after the immigration service decision was announced, more than 80
aliens were already waiting outside the gates of the Bayview center, anxious to
be the first inside on Wednesday. A former army base, now used by the
immigration service primarily as a detention camp, the Bayview center is
surrounded by rough scrub forest, farm fields and citrus groves. As their
numbers swelled continuously this evening, the Central Americans prepared for a
night in the open. For most this meant simply spreading their extra clothes on
the damp dirt and lying down.

'All I Want Is My Papers'

Many said that when they set off for Bayview, they did not know the place was so
rough and remote. A gray-haired woman who said she had begun her journey from
Nicaragua two months ago said, ''Day or night, rain or shine, food or no food,
until they give me my papers, I am just going to stay here with my daughter, the
ants and probably a few snakes.''

The younger woman sitting next to her said, ''We did not bring any food or water
because we thought there would be stores like in Harlingen, but if they brought
me a barrel of food now it would not matter, because all I want is my papers so
that we can get to our relatives in Miami.''

Last Dec. 16 the immigration service instituted a policy requiring applicants
for asylum to remain in the Rio Grande Valley until their claims were settled,
but that policy was halted by a court order on Jan. 9. Since then, most Central
Americans have been free to travel to other cities in the United States after
filing an initial application for asylum with the Harlingen office. The order
halting the travel restrictions is due to expire next week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: map of Texas highlighting Bayview

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 1, 1989, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRANTS TO GET VISAS BY LOTTERY

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 594 words


Hundreds of thousands of foreigners are expected to participate this month in a
lottery with highly coveted prizes: 20,000 visas for permanent residence in the
United States.

Natives of 162 countries, including aliens living illegally in this country, are
eligible to take part in the first random visa lottery by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, in which the winners will be selected by computer from
among people who apply in March.

The author of the lottery plan, Representative Howard L. Berman, Democrat of
California, said it was a ''stopgap measure'' designed to balance inequities in
immigration law that favor people from Asia and Latin America. More
comprehensive immigration reform legislation has been introduced in Congress
recently by Representative Berman and Senators Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of
Massachusetts, and Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, but passage this year
is unlikely.

Warren Leiden, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, described the lottery as ''an experiment in nonsponsored
immigration,'' and supported its aim of enhancing geographic diversity. But he
expressed concern over the short notice and low level of publicity, which he
said would help those nationals with strong support groups like the Irish, Poles
and Italians.

Lawyers Favor Reform

The American Immigration Lawyers Association favors major immigration reform and
has drafted half a dozen amendments to the two new bills, Mr. Leiden said by
telephone from Washington. Specifically, the group proposes a significant
increase in the annual number of permanent residence visas issued to
professionals, executives and skilled workers.

Calling the lottery ''totally irrational,'' Theodore Ruthizer, immigration
expert at the New York City law firm of Cole & Dietz, emphasized that it
''doesn't begin to deal with the serious problems of reunifying families and
meeting the needs of the U.S. labor market.''

An earlier visa selection program, sponsored by Representative Brian Donnelly,
Democrat of of Massachusetts, as part of the 1986 immigration reform law, took
place in 1987 and was extended last year to award 40,000 residence visas to
applicants from 36 countries that were considered ''disadvantaged.''

Unlike the new lottery, the visas were awarded on a first-come, first-served
basis. The Irish, who were well organized, submitted 200,000 of the earliest
applications, winning 40 percent of the first 10,000 visas, and were expected to
do well for the rest. Representative Berman said the new lottery law was
intended to help people from Africa, South America, Southern Asia as well as
Europe. #12 Countries Excluded The lottery, officially called the OP-1 Immigrant
Visa Program, is open to any person born in a country that used fewer than 5,000
United States immigrant visas last year.

This means the lottery excludes people from the 12 countries that currently
provide the largest number of immigrants: China (mainland and Taiwan), Colombia,
Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guyana, Haiti, India, Jamaica, Korea, Mexico,
Philippines and the United Kingdom.

Applications, limited to one for each person, must be received between March 1
and 31 at this address:

OP-1
P.O. Box 20199
Washington, D.C. 20199-9998.

A computer will select 20,000 applications at random and those people will be
required to file a formal immigrant visa application to insure they are legally
qualified. The first 10,000 visas will be available for the 1990 fiscal year and
the rest the following year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 5, 1989, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

ABROAD AT HOME;
The Trial

BYLINE: By Anthony Lewis

SECTION: Section 4; Page 23, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 749 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


It could be a story by Kafka.

A man looks for freedom in a new country. He is educated there, goes to work,
marries. Then the authorities declare him an enemy of the state. He asks why,
but they will not say. He hires lawyers, he goes to court, but he can never find
out what he is supposed to have done. In the end he and his wife have to leave
the country.

But the story did not happen in the grim fantasy world of Franz Kafka, or in the
reality of some Stalinist state in our time. It happened in the United States.

The names of the characters are Emil and Judy Suciu. He came to the United
States from Rumania 20 years ago, as a student. He studied aeronautical
engineering at M.I.T., graduated and went on to get master's and doctor's
degrees at Boston University.

Starting in 1972, Mr. Suciu sought permission from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to stay in the United States after his student status
ended. He ran into one of the ideological barriers of the McCarran-Walter
Immigration Act: the ban on people who have belonged to foreign Communist
parties.

Mr. Suciu had indeed joined the party in Rumania. He had to in order to become a
university student.

In 1973 the I.N.S. denied his application for permanent residence because of his
past party membership. But it allowed him to stay in the country temporarily.

In 1977 Emil Suciu and Judy were married. A lawyer advised him to try again, on
the basis of his marriage to an American citizen, for adjustment of his
immigration status to that of a permanent resident. Again the I.N.S. said no.

In 1979 Mr. Suciu had a deportation hearing before an immigration judge. Four
years passed without a decision. Then the judge called another hearing. He
ordered an investigative report on Mr. Suciu's record in this country, and the
investigators found no derogatory information. Mr. Suciu explained how he had
been forced to join the party in Rumania.

The judge finally decided the case in the summer of 1983. He found that Mr.
Suciu's party membership had been involuntary, so the McCarran-Walter bar did
not apply. He noted that there were no blotches on Mr. Suciu's record in 14
years of living in America.

But the judge nevertheless turned down the application for permanent residence.
Why? He said he had been shown classified material that indicated Mr. Suciu
might be a threat to national security.

What was the charge? Who made it? The judge would not say. He invoked another
provision of the McCarran-Walter Act, which allows the use of secret material in
proceedings to exclude aliens from the United States. (Because Mr. Suciu had
never been admitted as a permanent resident, he was technically in the status of
an alien seeking entry.) To label someone a threat to national security without
giving him a chance to cross-examine his accusers, or even to know what the
charge is about, sounds unconstitutional. But a closely divided Supreme Court
held in 1956 that the guarantee of due process of law in the Constitution does
not apply to entering aliens.

His lawyer did raise the claim that Mr. Suciu had been denied due process. The
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit said the argument had
''considerable appeal as a matter of fairness and logic,'' but it was foreclosed
by the 1956 Supreme Court decision.

Mr. Suciu was ordered deported to Rumania. That would have put his life at risk
because he had publicly condemned the tyranny of the Rumanian Government. He
testified in Congress that most-favored-nation trading status should be denied
to Rumania because of its human rights violations.

Judy and Emil Suciu asked Canada to take them as refugees. In October 1985 they
were admitted to Canada, and there they live. Mr. Suciu cannot come back to the
United States with his wife. And he still does not have the faintest notion of
what it is that has branded him in official American eyes.

Of course it is not just Emil Suciu who has lost. All Americans lose when our
country acts, out of fear, like the tyrannies we oppose.

The United States should long since have outgrown the fear that gave rise to the
McCarran-Walter Act. Congress should amend the law to let someone in Mr. Suciu's
position have a chance of meeting the charge.

But the Attorney General, Dick Thornburgh, does not have to wait for Congress.
The statute allows but does not require him to rely on secret charges in such a
case. He should establish a fair procedure to test charges that can so deeply
wound a life.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 5, 1989, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Web of Laws Ensnares An Immigrant Investor

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 976 words

DATELINE: SNYDER, Tex., March 2


When Jack Pointeau came from his native France eight years ago and eventually
settled in this small west Texas town, he did everything by the book. He applied
for an investor's visa, which is granted to people who intend to invest in the
local economy. He renewed that visa every year. He opened a business and paid
his taxes.

Now the Immigration and Naturalization Service has told Mr. Pointeau that his
investments are not substantial enough and that he, his wife and four children
will be deported at the end of April.

If he had come to the country illegally, immigration officials agree, he would
be eligible for amnesty. But since he entered legally, he has to leave.

Immigration lawyers say his problem is increasingly common. ''We've seen
hundreds of investors caught in the changing definition of what is a substantial
enough investment,'' said Charles C. Foster, a lawyer in Houston who is past
president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

''The public tends to focus on the large numbers of people - the undocumented
workers from Mexico, the Central American refugees, the boat people from
Vietnam,'' Mr. Foster said. ''But the I.N.S. is squeezing down everywhere, even
on Frenchmen in west Texas.''

Sold Hotel in Paris

The family came to the United States in the winter of 1981 on a tourist visa.
They had just sold a small hotel in Paris and planned to travel around the
United States for several months before returning home.

But Mr. Pointeau's wife, Francoise, said that they ''fell in love with the San
Francisco area,'' and that they were attracted by the freedom to make business
decisions that they would have in the United States. Though they spoke no
English, they bought a motel in Oakland, north of San Francisco, in the spring
of 1982 and applied for an investor's visa, which they got the following
September. The Pointeaus soon discovered, though, that the motel was in a high
crime area.

In November 1982, a friend said he knew of another hotel in a quieter town:
Snyder, Tex. The Pointeaus sold the California property, and bought the Texas
motel in March 1983. They bought a half interest for $212,000 in downpayment and
loans. Travelodge Motels and Motor Hotels owned the other half.

Problems in Texas

''I thought 'it's a nice little town, very quiet,' '' Mr. Pointeau recalled. ''I
thought, 'These people live on oil so it will last forever.' ''

He was half right. Snyder is a nice little town of about 12,000 people about 70
miles from Abilene. But the oil boom did not last forever, and the fall in oil
prices began just as the Pointeaus moved to Texas in the spring of 1983.

The motel has not been more than 30 percent occupied since the family arrived.
Instead of buying a house, the Pointeaus live in the vacant rooms and cook in
the kitchen behind the registration desk.

For the past six years, Mr. Pointeau has juggled a variety of side jobs. He sold
frozen food and business cards with photgraphs on them. He designed a postcard
of Snyder's mascot, the White Buffalo.

His children went through the local schools, accumulating honors along with
their French-tinged Texas drawls. Mrs. Pointeau has been working toward a
master's degree in French literature, which she said she will receive this
summer, ''if we are still here.''

Each September, the Pointeaus' attorney, Eva Voisin, filed for an extension of
the investor's visa. Last year the Dallas regional office of the immigration
service denied that application, and gave this explanation: The investor's visa
hinged on a ''substantial investment,'' which theirs was not. They must own at
least 51 percent of their business to qualify for such a visa and they only
owned 50 percent. And their investment must not be their only source of income,
and the motel apparently was.

The letter gave them three weeks, until Sept. 30, to sell their motel and leave
the country. ''How could I sell in three weeks?'' Mr. Pointeau said. ''How can I
sell in three years in this economy? They say it is not a substantial
investment. How much is enough?''

At the moment, no one seems to know. ''The term 'substantial' is not defined by
numbers,'' said Adam Green, manager of the immigration law department for the
Boston law firm of Sullivan & Worcester. ''You have to go by feel. We can never
tell our clients exactly how much is the right amount.''

Six-Month Extention

''Once $10,000 was deemed to be substantial,'' Mr. Foster said. ''One hundred
thousand dollars has been deemed to be substantial. One might reasonably
conclude that $1 million might be substantial.''

In fact, legislation pending before Congress puts a $1 million minimum on
investor's visas. That provision has met with strong objection by Congressmen
who want to eliminate investor's visas entirely so that the United States would
not appear to be selling entrance to those with sufficient funds.

In this changing political climate, Mrs. Voisin won a six-month extension of the
Pointeaus' deportation order, allowing them to stay until April 26. She has
asked the immigration service to reconsider the case, and Mr. Pointeau is doing
what he can to strengthen his status. He purchased the other 50 percent of the
motel from Travelodge for $25,000 and he began a second business, a franchise of
a company that wraps packages for mailing.

He said he is angry that he is in this position because he entered the country
legally. When amnesty was granted to illegal aliens who could prove residency
before Jan. 1, 1982, he went to the immigration office in Abilene and attempted
to apply. He was told that having a visa made him ineligible.

''There were 300 people in that room,'' he said, ''and I was the only one who
knew English. I was the only one who bothered to learn English and I'm the only
one who obeyed the rules. So I'm the one who can't stay.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Francoise and Jack Pointeau outside their motel in Snyder,
Tex. (NYT/Barbara Lang)

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 5, 1989, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Latin Refugees Fleeing Texas for Mexican Haven

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1070 words

DATELINE: MATAMOROS, Mexico, March 3


To their utter astonishment and consternation, Mexican immigration officials
have in recent days apprehended Nicaraguans, Salvadorans and other Central
Americans swimming across the Rio Grande from Texas.

The refugees fear that the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service
will deport them to their homelands in keeping with new tighter regulations on
political asylum. So they prefer to take their chances in Mexico, in the hope
that the American refugee policy will change again soon.

Under procedures introduced Feb. 21, the I.N.S. can deny asylum petitions in
one-day hearings and deny the applicant pending deportation. Previously, Central
Americans seeking political asylum were permitted to submit initial paperwork in
South Texas and then travel to other destinations in the United States to pursue
their claims.

Growing Burden for Mexico

The revised policy is creating a rapid buildup of Latin refugees in this border
city, estimated by officials here at hundreds of newcomers a day. The Mexican
authorities are alarmed both by the influx and growing social burden it has
spawned.

''For the I.N.S., the problem is simply to keep these people out of the Rio
Grande Valley of Texas,'' said Vicente Sanchez, director of the Matamoros branch
of the College of the Northern Border, a Mexican research institute specializing
border issues. ''One solution is to force the Central Americans to remain in
Mexico, even though this creates problems for Mexico that are not of our own
making.''

In this tough and gritty town just across the Rio Grande from Brownsville, Tex.,
Central Americans continue to arrive daily, roaming the streets for food,
shelter and work. Many fall prey, they say, to Mexican police, smugglers and bus
and taxi drivers, who rob, beat and even rape them.

At the Casa Juan Diego, a refugee shelter here run by the Roman Catholic Church,
a group of 10 Salvadorans arrived March 1. They had left their homes in La Union
province on Feb. 20, and they were distressed to learn, after selling land and
other possessions and undertaking an arduous journey across El Salvador,
Guatemala, Belize and Mexico, that they were no longer welcome in the United
States.

''It seems like we were robbed and searched at every police inspection point
once we entered Mexico, and for three days in a row we had no money to buy
food,'' said Jose Santos Manzanares, a 46-year-old Salvadoran farm worker. ''I
have a brother on Long Island, and my hope has been that I would be able to join
him.''

''What is there to go back to?'' asked Mr. Santos's nephew, Roberto Manzanares,
28. ''There are mines in our fields, and the cotton processing plant, the coffee
plantings and the sugar cane fields have all been destroyed by the war. No, we
are better off waiting here until there is a chance to go to the United
States.''

A Burden on Mexico

That is precisely what the Mexican authorities fear. With an estimated 200,000
Salvadorans already living in metropolitan Mexico City and an austerity budget
in place, the Mexican Government can ill afford to spend its resources on a
problem it views as an American creation and responsibility.

With no official aid programs in place, ordinary Mexicans here are taking
Central Americans into their homes and feeding and housing them, sometimes in
groups up to 15 people. The Central Americans, in turn, have begun to look for
jobs as construction workers, auto mechanics and maids in order to raise money
for food, lodging and the $50 to $150 fee they know they eventually must pay
smugglers to be guided across the Rio Grande.

Last month, I.N.S. officials estimated that 2,000 Central Americans were
crossing from Mexico into southern Texas each week. The agency reported
apprehending 1,964 non-Mexicans, the majority of whom were Nicaraguans or
Salvadorans, in January, and 2,350 more in February.

In the first week after the new policy went into effect, the I.N.S. approved
only 10 of 352 asylum requests from Central Americans in southern Texas. But
word of the new attitude has yet to filter down to Central America, and several
thousand refugees fleeing war, political repression and hunger are believed to
already be on their way here.

Coming From War Zones

According to Mr. Sanchez, about 25 percent of those crossing the border are
Central Americans, nearly double the percentage a few months ago. He said the
majority come from war zones like the Esteli, Jinotega and Nueva Segovia
departments of Nicaragua and the Chalatenango and Usulutan areas of El Salvador.

''Central Americans have now lost the hope of gaining political asylum in the
United States,'' said the Rev. Oscar Lozano, director of the refugee shelter
program at Our Lady of Lourdes Church here. ''But it doesn't mean they have
stopped. It just means they are returning to a practice of crossing over
clandestinely as illegal immigrants.''

When apprehended by I.N.S. agents, many of these Central Americans, according to
Mexican Government officials, are claiming to be Mexicans, so as to be deported
just across the river and avoid having to return to Nicaragua or El Salvador.

But the I.N.S. says it is ''checking to the extent we can'' to distinguish
Mexicans from Central Americans and denies this phenomenon is occurring on a
large scale. ''There may have been one or two such instances,'' said Verne
Jervis, an agency spokesman, ''but our people have enough experience to know the
difference between a Mexican and a Central American.''

Abandoning Shelters

In other cases, Central Americans already in the United States are abandoning
shelters or detention centers in Brownsville or Bayview to return to Matamoros,
where they plan to stay until the controversy in the United States dies down.
From the Mexican point of view, the result is the same.

''The practice of dumping Central Americans into Mexico is creating problems
that are going to translate quickly into resentment,'' a senior Mexican official
in Mexico City warned earlier this week. ''And the Guatemalans are not going to
like it when we deport Salvadorans to them.''

The refugees themselves angrily deny I.N.S. contentions that most of their
asylum claims are ''frivolous.'' A random check of eight Nicaraguans here found
them complaining of the kind of political persecution by the Sandinista
Government that echoed Reagan Administration accusations of the last eight
years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Angela Pena Saavedra, a Nicaraguan at the Casa Juan Diego
refugee shelter run by the Roman Catholic Church in Matamoros, Mexico
(NYT/Michael Shavel) (pg. 1); map of Mexico indicating Matamoros (NYT) (pg. 20)

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 12, 1989, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Fewer Refugees in Texas but Not Elsewhere

BYLINE: By ROBERTO SURO, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 31, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 672 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, March 11


Large numbers of Central American refugees continue to apply for political
asylum in cities around the country, although on the Rio Grande at Brownsville,
Tex., the Government has largely succeeded in stopping them.

Interviews with officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in six
major cities outside the Rio Grande Valley showed that as many 2,000 Central
Americans are seeking asylum there every week.

Virtually all the officials in those cities said there had been no significant
change in the number of applications since the immigration service began
cracking down on the flow of refugees into South Texas three weeks ago.

But at Brownsville, the border crossing closest to Central America, applications
have sharply declined since Feb. 21, when the Immigration and Naturalization
Service took several steps to impede those it contends are not political
refugees but immigrants fleeing poverty.

The agency reinforced its cordon of Border Patrol agents, added personnel to
quickly review asylum claims and began detaining those whose claims are ruled
invalid or who are picked up by the Border Patrol. Before, when claims were not
quickly reviewed, aliens were free to work and to live in other parts of the
country.

Alan C. Nelson, the immigration commissioner, proclaimed the crackdown a success
this week, stating that it had had ''a dramatic impact'' on the number of
applications for asylum at Brownsville.

Addressing the House Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Immigration, Refugees
and International Law on Thursday, Mr. Nelson said the Brownsville measures were
working as a ''deterrent'' that ''sends the message loud and clear'' to Central
America that seeking asylum is no longer an easy way to circumvent limits on
legitimate immigration.

But immigration experts, both proponents and opponents of the new measures, said
in interviews that the detention policy has had a limited impact because it has
been enforced only around Brownsville.

These experts say many Central Americans continue to seek asylum in cities like
Miami and Los Angeles, a sign that the crackdown has yet to produce the broad
impact sought by the immigration service.

''They may have drastically reduced the flow through Brownsville but not the
flow over all,'' said Leonel J. Castillo, who was immigration commissioner in
the Carter Administration. ''It is as if they put a big rock in a creek that
slowed things down, but the water gets around the rock.''

Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
a group advocating tougher enforcement of immigration laws, said, ''A detention
policy can send a message, but until the I.N.S. is given the facilities to
detain people consistently, all over the country, it will not have a full
deterrent effect.''

Signs that the refugee flow continued were evident in various parts of the
country. In Los Angeles, the number of new asylum claims filed has remained
steady, between 100 and 120 persons a day, according to Rosemary Melville of the
I.N.S. asylum office.

In Miami, George Waldroup, a Federal spokesman, said that after the detention
policy was imposed there was ''a slight but insignificant decrease in the number
of new cases.'' Immigration officials in Chicago, New York and San Francisco
offered similar observations. Those in Houston said the number of new applicants
rose steadily at first but was leveling off.

Meanwhile, in the Brownsville area, the daily average of asylum applications
fell from 454 before the crackdown to about a dozen last week.

Although some Central Americans are remaining in Mexico, Michael McMahon, deputy
district director in Houston, said, ''Central Americans have been crossing the
border at places aside from Brownsville for a long time, and now we are seeing a
big increase of smuggling activity into a variety of cities and between
different parts of the country.'' Mr. McMahon said some of those applying in
major cities have lived illegally in the United States for several years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 3, 1989, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Officials Debate Asylum for Chinese Fleeing Abortion Policy

BYLINE: By KATHERINE BISHOP, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1031 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, April 2


An immigration judge here has brought to light a conflict inside the Justice
Department by granting political asylum to a man who asserted that he fled China
after his wife was forced to have an abortion.

A branch of the department, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, is
appealing the ruling, even though the department has declared that asylum may be
given to Chinese refugees who refuse to cooperate with the Chinese Government's
policy that each family should have no more than one child.

Immigration officials here say that resisting the Chinese family planning
policies does not amount to ''political dissent'' and therefore is not legal
ground for asylum.

But in a memorandum last August to the immigration commissioner, Alan C. Nelson,
former Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d said that the defiance of Chinese policy
might be considered an act of political resistance ''sufficient to establish
refugee status.''

Fear of Persecution

Mr. Meese's memorandum said a finding of ''a well-founded fear of persecution,''
as required for political asylum status under the 1980 Refugee Act, was
''reasonable'' when considering petitions of Chinese nationals who have refused
to end a pregnancy or undergo sterilization.

At the same time, Mr. Meese personally granted asylum to three Chinese couples
who had been temporarily living legally in the United States and were afraid of
returning to China because of the one-child policy.

Steven W. Mosher, a China scholar on a fellowship at the Heritage Foundation,
the conservative Washington research group where Mr. Meese is now a fellow, said
immigration officials in Washington ''never liked the former Attorney General's
decision'' and thus never told immigration department staff members about it.

''It has become known only through immigration attorneys' circulation of it,''
Mr. Mosher said. A senior Justice Department official confirmed that the
immigration service never put the policy into effect.

Duke Austin, a spokesman for the Immigration Service, said that all the
service's district directors were made aware of Mr. Meese's memorandum at a
conference held in San Diego last September, but that ''no corresponding
additional instructions were put out.'' He said the district directors'
understanding of the guidelines ''may not be complete.''

Jules E. Coven, an immigration lawyer in New York City, said his office was
representing at least a dozen Chinese seeking asylum as resisters of the birth
control policy. He said eight of the applicants had already been denied,
including a man who said that he fled China the day before he was to have been
sterilized against his will and a woman who contended that she had been forced
to undergo an abortion near the end of her pregnancy.

Position of Immigration Agency

''Immigration is taking the position that this is a social policy that does not
persecute any particular individual,'' Mr. Coven said. ''We think it's wrong.''
In a March 21 memorandum opposing the appeal in the sterilization case, a lawyer
in the New York office of the immigration service argued that China had
established the family-planning policy to control population growth and had
applied it to the nation as a whole. ''Those persons subjected to the
sterilization operations are not being singled out,'' the memorandum said.
''Every family which has more than one child is being sought by the Chinese
officials to submit to a sterilization operation.''

Dan P. Danilov, a Seattle immigration lawyer, said he had three similar cases in
which Chinese women entered the United States illegally and were all denied
asylum before the issuance of Mr. Meese's memorandum last August. He is now
appealing those cases on the basis of the memorandum.

Mr. Danilov said the experience of immigration lawyers working on such cases was
that local immigration judges would not grant asylum unless the petitioner could
show that if they returned to China, ''a guard is waiting for you with a gun or
a rope.''

Mr. Mosher has been writing and working in favor of people seeking asylum
because of the one-child policy, which he called a ''human rights issue.'' He
became nationally known when he was expelled from the anthropology department at
Stanford University just before earning a doctorate after the Chinese Government
accused him of trying to smuggle out ancient gold coins and trying to bribe
Chinese officials. He has denied the charges and has filed a lawsuit against
Stanford. He is also working on his third book on China while on a one-year
fellowship at the Heritage Foundation.

In the San Francisco case, the first in which an immigration judge granted
asylum to a resister of the Chinese family-planning rules, Lee Yuan Pan, a
native of Fuzhou, was arrested at the San Francisco airport last October
traveling on a forged passport. The ruling, which was issued Feb. 2 by the
immigration judge, Bernard Hornbach, came after Mr. Lee testified that he and
his wife had been subjected to a heavy tax and had their electricity cut off
after the birth of their second child. Mr. Lee said that he had also lost his
work assignment as a carpenter.

'A Human Rights Case'

Jon Wu, the San Francisco lawyer who represents Mr. Lee as a volunteer for the
American Immigration Lawyers Association, said he was baffled by the decision to
appeal the case. ''This is a human rights case,'' Mr. Wu said.

Philip L. Waters, the deputy district director for the immigration service here,
said there was no evidence that Mr. Lee's case involved political dissent. ''Our
feeling is that in a situation where this law supposedly applies to everybody
equally, he doesn't have a real basis'' for claiming a fear of persecution, Mr.
Waters said.

Wu Zurong, a spokesman for the Chinese Embassy in Washington, said that
allegations of forced abortions and sterilizations were ''groundless.'' He said
his Government hoped that no further asylum cases would be granted on that
basis.

Asked whether it was possible that Mr. Lee lost his work assignment for failure
to follow the policy, Mr. Wu said, ''He should cooperate with the Government to
put the interests of the whole nation first.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 7, 1989, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Victim of AIDS Gains Waiver

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 32, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 370 words

DATELINE: ST. PAUL, April 6


A Dutch traveler suffering from AIDS should be released from prison and allowed
to attend a conference on the disease in San Francisco, regional officials of
the Federal immigration service recommended today.

But the traveler, Hans Paul Verhoef, will remain in prison until the
recommendation is certified by immigration officials in Washington, said Tom
Schiltgen, district director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

''The I.N.S. has established that Mr. Verhoef is an excludable as a person who
is afflicted with a dangerous communicable disease,'' Mr. Schiltgen said in a
statement.

But he said Mr. Verhoef also met the conditions for a waiver and could be free
Friday morning.

Mr. Verhoef, a policy maker for minority groups in the Delft, the Netherlands,
said tonight that he was frustrated that he had missed several days of the
conference, which ends Sunday. He was questioned for two hours today by
immigration officials who were concerned that he is a health risk.

''They wanted to know where I was aiming to spread the virus and I said I had no
aim in spreading it,' Mr. Verhoef said in a telephone interview from prison. ''I
told them I would not have any contacts that might spread the virus.''

Mr. Verhoef, 31 years old, was detained Sunday at the Minneapolis-St. Paul
International Airport after Customs officials learned that he has acquired
immune deficiency syndrome.

They said his visit violated a 1951 Federal law that prohibits people with
''dangerous and contagious'' diseases from entering the country without a
waiver. Congress added AIDS to the list of diseases in 1987. Immigration
officials said that about a dozen people with AIDS had been stopped at air and
seaports but that Mr. Verhoef was the first to challenge the law and seek a
waiver.

Mr. Verhoef said he was aware of the policy on contagious diseases before he
arrived but took a chance because American Embassy officials in the Netherlands
had told his physician that the policy was not being enforced.

Mr. Verhoef's detention has drawn criticism from gay rights advocates, several
members of Congress and Dutch officials.

The Mayor of Delft, who employs Mr. Verhoef, has worked actively for his
release.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 8, 1989, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

ALIEN WITH AIDS IS ORDERED FREED

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 355 words

DATELINE: ST. PAUL, April 7


A Federal judge, overriding action taken by immigration officials hours earlier,
ordered today that a Dutch visitor suffering from AIDS be released from custody
so that he could attend a conference on the disease.

The immigration judge said the Netherlander, Hans Paul Verhoef, had met
standards allowing him to be excluded from laws barring foreigners with
dangerous and communicable diseases.

''I believe he has shown a waiver of exclusion should be granted,'' said the
judge, Robert Vinikoor. ''While I don't want to minimize the risk of AIDS, the
applicant has shown there is a minimal risk to the United States if he is
admitted on a temporary basis.''

The Immigration and Naturalization Service immediately asked the Federal Board
of Immigration Appeals in Falls Church, Va., to stay the judge's order. But the
board refused to consider the request, said Thomas Schiltgen, the immigration
service's district director in St. Paul.

Tonight, Mr. Verhoef boarded a flight for San Francisco, where the five-day AIDS
conference ends Sunday.

Judge Vinikoor required Mr. Verhoef to post a $10,000 bond to enforce the terms
of the waiver, which is in effect until April 28. The money was provided by
supporters of the Minnesota AIDS Project within a few hours of the judge's
ruling, said Helene Haapala, one of Mr. Verhoef's lawyers.

'The Risk of Harm'

The judge's decision overrode action earlier in the day by the headquarters of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which denied Mr. Verhoef's request
for a waiver to attend the conference.

Mr. Verhoef had been held at the state prison in Oak Park Heights, Minn., since
Sunday, when immigration officials detained him at the Minneapolis-St. Paul
International Airport as he was traveling to the conference.

Judge Vinikoor said that immigration officials had acted properly in
apprehending Mr. Verhoef, but that Congress had allowed discretion in
interpreting the law.

At today's hearing before Judge Vinikoor, Mr. Verhoef stopped short of saying he
would not engage in any sexual act while in the United States. He promised only
to practice ''safe sex.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 2, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Trade Chief Replaced In Canadian Shuffle

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 254 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, April 1


Prime Minister Brian Mulroney has shuffled his Cabinet with major changes in the
trade and immigration portfolios.

More than a quarter of the 38-member Cabinet was changed in the shake-up,
announced Thursday.

International Trade Minister Pat Carney was replaced by Transport Minister John
Crosbie, who will take over responsibility for carrying out the free-trade
agreement negotiated last year with the United States.

The agreement, which would dismantle tariffs and other trade barriers in the
next decade, faces a ratification battle in Parliament later this year and
opposition from 2 of the 10 provinces.

Ms. Carney takes over as president of the Treasury Board from Deputy Prime
Minister Don Mazankowski.

Mr. Mulroney replaced both the Employment and Immigration Minister, Benoit
Bouchard, and the deputy, Minister of State Gerry Weiner. Canada has been trying
to curb an influx of 2,000 illegal aliens a month.

Mr. Bouchard takes over as Transport Minister while Mr. Weiner becomes Minister
of State for Multiculturalism.

Barbara McDougall, who was in charge of women's affairs and privatization,
becomes Immigration Minister.

Mr. Mulroney appointed Lucien Bouchard, the former Ambassador to France, as his
Secretary of State. He replaces David Crombie, who resigned Wednesday to head a
Government commission on the development of the Lake Ontario waterfront in
Toronto.

The other new Cabinet member is Gerry St. Germain, a Vancouver-area member of
Parliament who becomes Minister of State for Transport.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 14, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

ABROAD AT HOME;
Without Any Rights?

BYLINE: By Anthony Lewis

SECTION: Section A; Page 35, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 748 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Thirty-five years ago the Supreme Court held that an alien legally resident in
this country cannot be made to leave without a fair hearing. ''His status as a
person within the meaning and protection of the Fifth Amendment,'' Justice
Harold H. Burton said, ''cannot be capriciously taken from him.''

The Reagan Administration is now challenging that long-accepted principle. A man
who has lived in the United States since 1975 took a two-week trip abroad in
1986. On the basis of that trip, the Justice Department is trying to throw him
out of this country summarily: without disclosing all the evidence to him,
without a hearing before an immigration judge.

Fouad Rafeedie, 31 years old, comes originally from the West Bank town of El
Bireh. He lives near Cleveland, went to Youngstown State University in Ohio and
is married to an American. Four of his brothers and two sisters are American
citizens.

Mr. Rafeedie also applied for citizenship years ago, but the Immigration and
Naturalization Service has delayed acting on his petition. The apparent reason
is his activity on behalf of Palestinian causes. He has written and spoken
publicly in the Cleveland area on the Middle East, criticizing U.S. policy as
unfair to the Palestinians.

In 1986 Mr. Rafeedie told the I.N.S. that he was going to Cyprus and got a
re-entry permit. In fact, it appears that he went to Syria. On his return he was
questioned by immigration officers and gave what the service believes were false
answers, designed to conceal his connections with the radical Popular Front for
the Liberation of Palestine.

At that time he was paroled into the country and went home to Cleveland. Nearly
a year later, in March 1987, the I.N.S. charged him with being ''excludable'' as
a subversive person or one whose admission would be prejudicial to the public
interest.

The case was scheduled to go before an immigration judge in the usual way. But
at the last minute, the I.N.S. brought a new proceeding under a section of the
McCarran-Walter Immigration Act that allows entering aliens to be excluded
summarily, without evidence or hearing. The I.N.S. said it was acting on the
basis of ''confidential information.''

That section of the McCarran-Walter Act has never before been invoked against a
resident alien, according to immigration law experts. Its use would make an
enormous difference, constitutional and psychological, in the status of legal
aliens.

The Fifth Amendment says that ''no person'' in this country may be ''deprived of
life, liberty or property without due process of law.'' As the Supreme Court has
said, the amendment makes no distinction between citizens and aliens.

But the argument pressed by the Reagan Administration in the Rafeedie case would
allow the Government to take an alien from his home and family in this country
without anything that we would recognize as due process. The I.N.S. would bring
the charges and judge them. In effect, a resident alien would no longer be a
''person'' under the Fifth Amendment.

The Reagan Administration's lawyers try to get around the constitutional point
by saying that Mr. Rafeedie is being treated not as a resident alien but as one
seeking admission, who has no rights. He lost his status during his trip abroad,
they say, because the trip was for a bad purpose.

But that begs the question, which is how the nature of Mr. Rafeedie's trip - or
of his life - is to be judged. Maybe he has done something wrong. But under our
constitutional system, people are not convicted on secret evidence, with the
prosecutor as judge. Not so far anyway.  There is a profound free speech issue
in the case, too. The Justice Department argues that it should be able to act
against Mr. Rafeedie for advocating Palestinian causes in ways far short of the
First Amendment requirement of inciting imminent lawlessness. Again, if that is
the law, aliens would live under a different constitution.

All this and more is at stake in a suit, brought for Mr. Rafeedie by the Center
for Constitutional Rights, to stop the summary proceeding against him. The case
was argued in the U.S. District Court in Washington this week before Judge Joyce
Hens Green.

The Justice Department brief invokes national security and says that that
interest permits the downgrading of the Bill of Rights. Justice Robert H.
Jackson commented on that argument in an immigration case 38 years ago:
''Security is like liberty in that many are the crimes committed in its name.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 30, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Refugee Finds Home With Georgia Family

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 685 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, April 29


Since being released from detention by the immigration authorities on Feb. 29,
Felix Brena-Toledo has lived with sponsors in a suburb barely 20 miles from the
Atlanta Federal Penitentiary, where he had remained off and on for five of his
eight years in the United States.

At the age of 32, the wiry Cuban with a spiky haircut and no American relatives
has a new family, he said. And it is that family, of Chuck and Nancy Elensky,
along with luck, that helps him keep his distance from the penitentiary. But he
has had enough samples of bureaucracy and arbitrariness outside of prison to
remind him of what life was like behind bars.

Since being released, Mr. Brena-Toledo said he had not been able to obtain a
driver's license or a Social Security card because all the computers into which
his name has been entered responded that there are two outstanding warrants
against him for violation of probation. He said they date back to his first
arrest since arriving in the United States in the 1980 boatlift from Cuba. In
that case he was charged with burglary in San Jose, Calif., and he pleaded
guilty, serving a total of 14 months.

According to documents tracked down by the Elenskys, Mr. Brena-Toledo was
granted probation upon his release, but he was handed over to the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, which detained him as an alien who was subject to
deporation. Mr. Brena-Toledo said the warrants still in the computer records are
for failure to report to the probation authorities in California while he was in
custody of the immigration service in the Atlanta penitentiary.

A Different Account

However, a spokesman for the immigration service, Duke Austin, said the agency's
records indicated that Mr. Brena-Toledo had been arrested on a drug possession
charge and another burglary charge at times when Mr. Brena-Toledo said he was in
the agency's custody. He was not convicted of either charge. In each case he
used an alias, Mr. Austin said.

Mr. Austin speculated that the outstanding warrants may have something to do
with those incidents and that Mr. Brena-Toledo would have to straighten that out
with the California authorities. But he said that as far as the immigration
service was concerned, ''He is clear with us and could be released.''

When confronted about the two additional arrests and the use of aliases, Mr.
Brena-Toledo, admitted them but insisted that the charges were dropped. Mrs.
Elensky, who said it was the first she had heard about these charges, said that
she and other family members still trusted Mr. Brena-Toledo and will try to
clear up his status with California authorities. The warrants they have indicate
that his probation violation did, in fact, occur well after he was in custody.

A chance meeting two years ago which brought Mr. Brena-Toledo and the Elenskys
together. Mr. Elensky, who operates a small family-owned door company, had a
contract to install doors at the Atlanta Penitentiary in 1986; Mr. Brena-Toledo
was one of two inmates detailed to him for laborers chores.

Promise of a Job

''He was one of the best workers I ever had,'' Mr. Elensky said. The two became
friends and when Mr. Brena-Toledo asked if he could have a job with the door
company if he ever left prison, Mr. Elensky agreed. He wrote a letter to the
immigration service promising such a job.

But Mr. Brena-Toledo, who had held by the authorities as subject to deportation,
was transferred to Oakdale, La., and the Elenskys lost track of him. Two days
before rioting broke out at the Oakdale detention center last November, Mr.
Brena-Toledo learned that he had been approved for release. After the rioting,
he was sent to a prison in Petersburg, Va. The immigration service officials saw
he had a job offer and called the Elenskys.

''We didn't even know where Felix was,'' said Pam Ashley, the Elenskys'
daughter. ''They said they couldn't release for the job in Atlanta without a
sponsor and asked if we would be interested in sponsoring him. We thought about
it for a while and said 'yes.' We sent him a plane ticket and two days later he
was here.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Felix Brena-Toledo, a former detainee, at his home near
Atlanta (NYT/Alan S. Weiner)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 20, 1988, Friday, Late City Final Edition

McCarran-Walter and the Ghosts of Fear

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 300 words


For 36 years, the McCarran-Walter Immigration Act has allowed the United States
to bar foreign visitors whose ideas the Government finds offensive. The law
itself offends the spirit of free speech and inquiry, and in recent months
Congress and the courts have shown a welcome willingness to re-examine it. Yet
the Reagan Administration insists on using the act in ways that perpetuate its
paranoia and pettiness.

The most recent case is the threat to deny a visa to a Vietnamese economist,
Nguyen Xuan Oanh. The visit ought to provoke little controversy. Mr. Oanh, known
in this country as Jack Owen, is a Harvard-trained economist who heads Vietnam's
Bureau of Economic Research. He espouses economic liberalization and development
to make Vietnam competitive with its neighbors. He is a principal author of a
code that encourages foreign investment in Vietnam. But present U.S. policy,
which includes a trade embargo, seeks to isolate Vietnam. Apparently for that
reason, some State Department officials think that granting a visa to Mr. Oanh
would be ''prejudicial to the public interest.'' That's a basis, under
McCarran-Walter, for denying a visa.

Americans have a public interest in hearing foreign views, even those, like Mr.
Oanh's, that might run counter to present U.S. policy. At least one appellate
court has cited with approval a law passed by Congress last year to mitigate
McCarran-Walter. The new law prohibits the exclusion of alien visitors solely
because of ''any past, current or expected beliefs, statements or associations''
that the Constitution protects for American citizens.

Progressive efforts like the court decision and the new law help exorcise
McCarran-Walter's fearful ghosts. By denying a visa to Mr. Oanh, the Reagan
Administration would only revive them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 24, 1988, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Union Says Many Were Exposed To Asbestos at Kennedy Airport

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1024 words


A Federal employees union has charged that thousands of travelers and about two
dozen immigration officials were exposed to dangerous levels of asbestos in 1986
during a three-month renovation of the International Arrivals Building at
Kennedy International Airport.

Michael Mihalakelis, health and safety steward for the American Federation of
Government Employees Local 1917, said plumbers and other workers had disturbed
asbestos insulation when they gutted the west wing of the building.

The asbestos-laden dust drifted into the cavernous hall, where travelers wait to
be interviewed by inspectors from the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service, Mr. Mihalakelis said. At one point during the
renovation, an immigration worker swept some dust from the worksite floor that
contained five percent asbestos fibers, five times what is considered hazardous
by industrial safety experts.

The E.P.A. investigated the problem in January 1987 but did not stop the
renovation, John Logigian, an environmental engineer, said, because even though
it found some asbestos insulation improperly removed, it was not enough to lead
to Federal intervention.

'Loads of Dust'

The E.P.A. turned over the case in March 1987 to the Occupational Safety and
Health Administration, which waited two months to investigate. Officials of the
agency said they arrived too late to find any asbestos in the air, although they
found asbestos insulation and dust where workers were finishing the renovation.
Federal safety regulations apply only to airborne asbestos.

Nevertheless, dust that Mr. Mihalakelis removed from air vents as recently as
April proved to be 10 percent asbestos fibers, suggesting that the
cancer-causing material was still circulating through the building's ventilation
system, Mr. Mihalakelis said.

When inhaled, asbestos fibers are among the deadliest of industrial materials,
having been linked to lung cancer, a lung disease called asbestosis and
mesothelmioma, a cancer attacking the visceral lining of the body. While there
is no safe level of exposure to asbestos, the risk of disease increases the
longer a person breathes the fibers, industrial hygienists said.

''They had us working in there throughout the whole demolition and destruction
of the building,'' said Mr. Mihalakelis, who is also an inspector for the
immigration agency. ''We were exposed to loads and loads of dust during the
renovation.''

'A Very Dangerous Situation'

Dennis Burke, a asbestos investigator with the White Lung Association, an
asbestos victims organization, said asbestos-laden dust near air vents
''indicates a very dangerous situation because to get that amount of dust in a
vent you have to think the entire area was contaminated.''

The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which oversaw the renovation, did
not hire specially trained and outfitted workers to remove asbestos during the
renovation until after the E.P.A. inspection, said Salvador Samperi, director of
the Port Authority asbestos control program.

Mr. Samperi said the authority's engineers believed the west wing did not
contain asbestos. The original blueprints of the building, however, show that
pipes in the ceiling and walls that were demolished had asbestos insulation
around valves and joints, said Richard Klenk, a Port Authority engineer.

Mr. Mihalakelis said plumbers who worked on the ceiling pipes said they had
stripped insulation from some pipes and that dust had fallen on the immigration
inspectors' desks.

After the E.P.A. inspection, Mr. Samperi said Port Authority officials
investigated and found asbestos in a crawl space beneath the hall and around
seven valves in the first floor plumbing but none in dust on the floor or around
ceiling pipes. He said the Port Authority also tested the air and found nothing.


'Virtually No Protection'

The Federal agencies' handling of the case demonstrates how they sometimes
arrive too late and do too little in asbestos cases, said Joel Shufro, executive
director of the New York Committee for Occupational Safety and Health.

''To have OSHA come in months after exposure and then test for asbestos offers
virtually no protection,'' Mr. Shufro said. ''The whole process is rigged
against workers being protected.''

In January 1987, Virginia Gorman, an immigration agency inspector, took samples
of dust from the worksite to the E.P.A., which later were proved to be five
percent asbestos.

Mr. Burke, of the White Lung Society, said asbestos-laden dust on the floor
indicates a significant amount had been released into the air earlier.

A week after Ms. Gorman's complaint, the E.P.A. sent a team of four
investigators to examine the site. The demolition was finished and workers were
already putting in new walls and fixtures, said Mr. Logigian.

Mr. Logigian said 10 feet of asbestos insulation had been stripped from pipes in
the six-foot high crawl space beneath the main hall, where plumbers had been
working without protective gear. Two samples of insulation from overhead pipes
in the hall and one from a vertical I-beam were found to contain no asbestos.

Under the Clean Air Act. which regulates asbestos pollution, more than 260 feet
of insulation must be removed before the E.P.A. can take action against a
landlord or contractor.

The investigators did not test the dust laying on the floor, nor did they sample
the air, but in hindsight, Mr Logigian said, the dust should have been tested.
He attributed the oversight to inexperience.

''We just didn't find any,'' he said. ''That's not to say its not there now or
that it wasn't there then.''

OSHA did not send inspectors to the airport until May 29, two months after the
E.P.A. referred the case to it, said James Stanley, Region II director of the
agency.

Edward, J. Scott, director of the Queens branch of the safety agency attributed
the delay to a lack of manpower. In that office, he said, two hygienists have
been attempting to carry a workload normally done by six.

''That's the thing that breaks our hearts,'' Mr. Scott said. ''We know we can't
get there in time because we don't have the staff.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 25, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Deportation Possible For Polish Defector Released From Jail

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 25, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 330 words

DATELINE: EVERETT, Wash., May 24


A Polish seaman who jumped ship in a bid for political asylum has been released
from jail after two months, still facing possible deportation but flooded with
offers of money and shelter.

''It's wonderful - finally free,'' the 27-year-old seaman, Andrzej Piotr
Prajzner, said after paying bail and leaving the Snohomish County jail on
Monday.

Mr. Prajzner, who jumped ship in British Columbia on March 15, was arrested on
charges of entering the United States illegally on March 23, when he crossed the
Canadian border in Blaine and requested asylum. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service said he did not have permission to be in the United
States.

Offers of aid, including donations to meet Mr. Prajzner's $1,500 bail, began
arriving when news reports described his plight after he was jailed by a United
States immigration judge.

Fear of Imprisonent

Mr. Prajzner had been a cook aboard a fishing vessel. If he is forced to return
to Poland, he said, he will be ''imprisoned for jumping ship and applying for
asylum.''

At his immigration hearing on May 13, the State Department supported his plea,
saying he had a ''well-grounded fear of persecution'' if he were returned to
Poland.

The immigration judge, Daniel Kuhn, denied asylum and ordered Mr. Prajzner
deported. He had no legal representation at the hearing and was held in jail
until his story became known.

Mr. Prajzner has since received offers totaling more than $3,000 to pay his
$1,500 bail. Fifteen families, mostly from the Seattle area, volunteered to take
him in. Others have offered him jobs, said Daniel P. Danilov, a lawyer who is
now representing Mr. Prajzner.

Mr. Danilov said he filed an appeal in behalf of Mr. Prajzner on Monday and was
waiting for a court date.

Mr. Prajzner, speaking through an interpreter, said he was a little nervous
about the future but was happy about the prospect of staying in the United
States and thankful for the efforts of those who had helped him.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 29, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IDEAS & TRENDS;
ROOTS OF THE NURSING GAP ARE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL

BYLINE: By DAVID C. ANDERSON

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 984 words


Even as the United States opened the golden door to millions of unregistered
aliens this month in a historic amnesty program, Federal immigration officials
threatened to slam it shut on thousands of foreign nurses working in this
country's hospitals. A deal negotiated last week in Washington will keep the
door open for another year. But it was a short-term solution at best to the
critical need for nurses in New York and many other cities, a shortage that some
economists blamed on efforts in the early 1980's to cut health-care costs.

With expiring visas threatening to force the departure of more than 800 foreign
nurses from New York City, the Greater New York Hospital Association campaigned
this spring for more leniency from the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The city's hospitals, the association argued, were already struggling with a
nursing vacancy rate between 10 percent and 15 percent - and facing additional
demand created by the AIDS epidemic.

Hospitals throughout the country complain of severe shortages, with 300,000
nursing jobs unfilled and vacancies at individual hospitals approaching 20
percent. Forty-three Congressmen, led by Representative Charles E. Schumer,
Democrat of New York, joined the campaign two weeks ago. After a meeting
Thursday between the I.N.S. and national hospital and nursing groups, the agency
announced that it would allow the foreign nurses to remain for one more year. It
also urged hospitals to redouble their recruiting efforts.

Hailing the immigration decision, Ken Raske, head of the Greater New York
Hospital Association, said that New York hospitals look favorably on
recommendations of a state panel that recently called for more aggressive
recruiting of nurses, along with better wages and working conditions. But behind
the nationwide shortage are some daunting complexities.

Economists blame the problem on cost-containment regulations instituted by the
Federal Government, and similar efforts by private insurers, that began in the
early 1980's. Facing unprecedented pressures to economize, ''The hospitals got
scared,'' asserts Linda Aiken, a professor of nursing and sociology at the
University of Pennsylvania School of Nursing. They held back on salary increases
for nurses and laid off other medical workers, she said. In many places, nurses
took over some work of physical therapists, social workers, pharmacists and
clerks.

Demand for nurses shot up, even as salaries stayed down. The new Federal
regulations also mean that patients are in and out of the hospital faster, and
those who remain tend to be sicker and require more hours of nursing care.

In a recent article in The

New England Journal of Medicine, Ms. Aiken and a colleague, Connie Flynt
Mullinix, contended that economizing by extracting more work for less pay from
nurses was shortsighted. Artificially depressing wages at a time of high demand
for labor, they suggest, amounts to a powerful prescription for a labor
shortage. ''In the short term,'' they wrote, ''depressed wages will increase the
demand for nurses because they can substitute for other personnel and result in
acute spot shortages and high vacancy rates. Over the long term, recruitment to
nursing will be seriously eroded by the absence of an adequate salary range that
rewards skill and experience.''

Declining Enrollments

In the meantime, Ms. Aiken and others worry about another trend: a sharp decline
in nursing school enrollments. It results from shrinking high school
enrollments, expanded opportunities for women in other fields and the view that
nursing offers little chance for career advancement. A chart in a recent issue
of the American Journal of Nursing shows that the starting salary for a
registered nurse, which averages $20,340 nationally and is about $30,000 in New
York City, is likely to increase only 36.4 percent during a career. That
compares with 71.8 percent for a secretary, 106.1 percent for a computer
programmer and 192.7 percent for an accountant.

While hospital administrators acknowledge the problem, they complain that
Federal and state laws regulating insurance reimbursements complicate the
prospects for any quick jump in nurses' pay. The administrators say they have
little choice but to hire foreign nurses, who come to the United States to
improve their economic lot, to broaden their professional experience or simply
to see the world. Today about 10,000 of them are at work in American hospitals,
about 4,000 in New York City, many of them glad to serve at inner-city
institutions that American nurses look upon as hardship posts.

Typically, a foreign nurse gains entry to the United States on an ''H-1'' visa,
which permits a five-year stay. But the Immigration and Naturalization Service
found local immigration offices routinely ignoring the limit and allowing
extensions for many additional years, especially where hospitals insisted they
could not afford to lose the nurses.

Three years ago, the immigration service sought to gain control with a demand
for strict enforcement of the visa limits. Hospitals should do more to recruit
American nurses, the agency asserted, or if unable to do without foreign nurses,
at least help them seek status as permanent residents.

Some hospitals may resist the latter course, immigration officials suggest,
because a nurse with a five-year visa remains tied to the institution that hired
her, while one with permanent residency is free to seek work anywhere. Hospital
officials respond, however, that the length of immigration waiting lists for
many of the nurses' home countries, such as the Philippines, makes seeking
permanent status a pointless exercise.

Representative Schumer, meanwhile, talks of legislation to grant foreign nurses
further extensions of their visas. The demand for the nurses, whatever their
immigration status, is likely to continue for years to come.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of foreign nurses practicing resuscitation procedures in a class
at St. Barnabas Hospital in the Bronx; Edith Enage, a nurse from the
Philippines, at St. Barnabas Hospital (NYT/Jim Estrin)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 6, 1988, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Which Armenians Are Refugees?

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 345 words


Under increasing pressure from the U.S., the Soviet Union is allowing more
citizens, particularly Armenians, to emigrate. But should they, when they seek
entry to the U.S., be treated as political refugees or immigrants? U.S.
immigration officials must guard against blurring the distinction, lest
America's will to provide refuge be eroded.

Immigration guidelines give extensive preferences to foreigners with job skills
or with relatives here. But aliens who can demonstrate a ''well-founded fear of
persecution'' in their homeland may seek political asylum under the Refugee Act
of 1980.

Under its emergency provisions, the Reagan Administration consulted with
Congress before last week's Moscow summit meeting to increase the authorization
for refugees from Eastern Europe. An additional 15,000 slots were slated for
Soviet emigres, most of whom are Armenian. It was a reasonable determination: In
the last eight months, nearly 9,000 Soviet citizens have applied to the U.S.
Embassy in Moscow for political asylum and 5,300 have already gained entry. But
some members of Congress and State Department officials now complain that not
all the Armenians being admitted qualify as victims of persecution. An
Immigration and Naturalization Service official admits that approval of refugee
applications from Soviet Armenians has been ''virtually automatic.''

It is only fair to require that each Armenian applicant demonstrate fear of
persecution. Other potential refugees, like those from El Salvador or Indochina,
are carefully scrutinized, often after waiting months to be processed.

Many Armenians now leaving the Soviet Union may perfectly well qualify for
refugee status and political asylum in the U.S. But those who merely seek a
better standard of living should be made to qualify under existing immigration
standards.

As a general rule, America's attitude toward refugees and immigrants is generous
and humane. But to allow Armenians to enter as refugees when they are not will
only hurt the next wave of people in need that washes against our shores.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 24, 1988, Friday, Late City Final Edition

NEWS SUMMARY

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 881 words




International    A2-9


The 1986 immigration law is falling to curb the illegal flow of Mexicans into
the United States and may be creating new problems by distorting traditional
immigration patterns, Mexican and American researchers say.    Page A1


The East is ready to make greater cuts than NATO in conventional forces in
Europe to remove imbalances and enhance the prospects for an arms-reduction
agreement, a senior Soviet weapons control official said.    A1


300 Turks were feared dead after half a million tons of mud and rock cascaded
down a rain-soaked mountain and crashed into the village of Catak near the Black
Sea.    A8


Iran sought to revive ties with the West by appointing an Ambassador to France
and welcoming a group of British legislators for talks in Teheran this week.
A3


A fossil specimen of the primordial bird Archeopteryx has been discovered in
West Germany. Paleontologists believe the finding should dispel any lingering
notion that fossils found earlier were an elaborate 19th-century hoax.    A12


Canada expels another Soviet official    A7


Berlin airlift remembered    A7



National    A10-14


The earth has been warmer this year than in any comparable time in the last 130
years, and the heat has been generated by the ''greenhouse effect'' caused by
atmospheric pollutants, a space agency scientist reported.    A1


The drought is raising the prices of some food items and will accelerate,
officials say. But they predict that the crop shortages will not have a major
impact on inflation, expected to be about 4.5 percent this year.    A1


With farmers and utilities pressed by the low water level in the Mississippi
River, the Governor of Illinois proposed that the level be raised by diverting
water from Lake Michigan.    A14


A major 1976 civil rights precedent is backed by 60 senators, 119
representatives, 47 state attorneys general, the American Bar Association and
more than 100 civil rights, religious and civic groups.    A1


The inquiry into Pentagon fraud has entered a new phase in which the
investigators will begin sifting through reams of documents to confirm or
elaborate on statements overheard on wiretaps.    A11


The F.B.I. searched the offices of a Long Island paper company and the homes or
offices of three people as part of a bribery inquiry involving Pentagon
officials and major military contractors.    A11


The Navy's procurement apparatus changed under the Reagan Administration, with
key shifts in the structure of the bureaucracy, the way sup-pliers were chosen
and the terms on which contracts were written.    A11


10 million military medical records that duplicate some lost in a 1973 fire have
been found, the Veterans Administration announced, adding it would review
disability claims that were rejected because of lost files.    A10


Bayport journal: Newsroom behind bars    A10



Politics    A12


Democrats avoided battles over national convention credentials while the Rev.
Jesse Jackson again offered cryptic comments about his attitude toward the Vice
Presidency.    A12


Dukakis backs two measures to raise Massachusetts taxes    A12


Aide says Jackson seeks to avoid clash over Mideast    A12



Washington Talk    A13


Election-year ritual snags Reagan appointments

Regional    B1-6


Crack has overwhelmed the police in New York City. Officials say the problem is
so intractable that the police are trying only to keep some neighborhoods from
descending into outlaw rule by drug dealers and gangs.    A1


Paul T. Gentile will not seek election this fall to remain the Bronx District
Attorney. Mr. Gentile acknowledged he was ''a terrible politician.''    A1


Robert T. Johnson, who resigned as a Criminal Court judge to join the race for
District Attorney of the Bronx, is described by friends and colleagues as a hard
worker, a ''straight-shooter'' and a ''decent human being.''    B3


Major events in the Bronx District Attorney race    B3


Pupils did slightly better this year on reading and mathematics tests in New
York City than last year, but officials expect the reading scores to continue to
lag far behind the statewide average.    B1
A view that children learn differently because of differences in cultural
backgrounds has set off a bitter political and intellectual debate among New
York State officials and educators.    B1


Prosecutors have cleared the way for the testimony of Samuel M. McClease, who
says he made secret tape recordings of Tawana Brawley's lawyers voicing doubts
about her case, law-enforcement officials said.    B2


As one black victim of the Howard Beach racial attack testified in a Queens
court, another was sought by officials in Virginia on charges that he seriously
wounded his brother in a dispute over money.    B3


Comptroller Harrison J. Goldin took the initiative from Mayor Koch, saying that
he will accept no corporate campaign contributions at all for the 1989 election.

    B1


Memos detail ex-Meese lawyer's efforts for Wedtech    B1


Bus workers' idleness is still a problem    B2


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 17, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Nazi Propagandist Missing at Hearing; May Have Fled U.S.

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 24, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 286 words

DATELINE: HARTFORD, July 16


A former Yale University lecturer who was stripped of his United States
citizenship for his role as a propagandist for the Nazis in World War II, has
failed to attend a deportation hearing, and members of his family said today
that they believe he has fled the country.

The former lecturer, Vladimir Sokolov, 75 years old, did not show up at the
deportation hearing in Hartford Friday. His stepdaughter, Irene Moroz, said he
may be in Europe. She said she last saw Mr. Sokolov in March.

Mr. Sokolov's son-in-law, George Moroz, said he last spoke to Mr. Sokolov was
about three months ago. He said Mr. Sokolov avoided the hearing because he
feared being deported to his native Soviet Union.

He said his father-in-law has friends in Europe, Australia and Canada.

Joseph F. Lynch, trial attorney for the Justice Department's Office of Special
Investigation, said that he was not surprised by Mr. Sokolov's absence and that
Mr. Sokolov's friends and neighbors had said he was no longer in the country.

Judge Thomas L. Pullen of the Immigration and Naturalization Service gave Mr.
Lynch 30 days to provide a brief supporting the deportation.

Judge Pullen said he will also allow Mr. Sokolov 30 days to respond.

Judge Thomas F. Murphy of Federal District Court in Hartford stripped Mr.
Sokolov of his citizenship in June 1986, saying he had concealed his Nazi
background from immigration officials.

Mr. Sokolov was a writer and editor for Rech, a Nazi-controlled,
Russian-language newspaper, during 1942 and 1943. He had testified that his
articles were altered without his knowledge, but the Federal Government had
portrayed him as a Nazi who wrote ''vicious attacks against the Jews'' during
World War II.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 8, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Immigration Law and the Hispanic Dropout Rate

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 294 words


To the Editor:

I would like to suggest a reason for the lack of effective communication between
parents of Hispanic children and the schools their children attend, thereby
contributing to the high drop-out rate of those children, as reported in
''Hispanic Dropout Rates Puzzling'' (Education pages, Aug. 17).

All children born in the United States are, by operation of the Constitution,
United States citizens. However, since 1977, their citizenship has not affected
the status of their parents, who may well be undocumented (''illegal'' in
popular parlance). The parents of these schoolchildren are potentially
deportable.

Since the public schools are run by the government, it is not surprising that
such parents avoid contact with even this relatively benign governmental entity.
Although New York City, for instance, has a policy of not making inquiries about
the immigration status of students or their parents, such policies could change
and, in any case, are difficult to communicate to a justifiably apprehensive
population.

While the recent amnesty program has brought many of these individuals, both
children and parents, out of the shadows, great numbers were ineligible because
they came to the United States after Dec. 31, 1981, the cutoff date. In any
event, even for those legalized, old customs and suspicions die hard.

This suggests that if we truly want to reverse the unexpectedly high Hispanic
dropout rate, we should consider modifying our immigration laws to protect the
parents of these at-risk children, so that they may more effectively interact
with school programs.

PETER HIRSCH
New York, Aug. 27, 1988
  The writer is chairman of the New York County Lawyers' Association committee
on immigration and naturalization.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 1, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

COURT ORDERS FIVE DEPORTED TO CUBA

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 684 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Nov. 30


A Federal appeals court here refused today to block the deportation of five
Cubans being held in a Federal prison. The expulsions, set for Thursday, would
be the first since the 1984 immigration treaty between the United States and
Cuba was suspended three years ago.

The decision by the three-judge panel was immediately appealed to the Supreme
Court by attorneys for the detainees. But a Justice Department spokeswoman said
the Government was confident that the decision would be upheld.

''They will be the first five to go back,'' said Deborah Burstion-Wade, the
Justice Department spokeswoman. ''We expect that there will be others before the
end of the year.''

The agreement under which they will be returned to Cuba was first negotiated and
signed by the United States and Cuba in 1984. It was suspended the following
year, then reinstated in 1987.

All Convicted of Crimes

It named 2,746 Cubans among the 125,000 who came to the United States in the
1980 Mariel boatlift whom United States officials deemed dangerous criminals,
mental patients or undesirable and sought to repatriate.

All five of those whom the United States wants to deport Thursday were convicted
of crimes in the United States. Ms. Burstion-Wade said the five are to leave
from the Air National Guard field in Birmingham, Ala., aboard a United States
Marshal Service airplane.

The five are among the 116 Cubans being held at a Federal prison in Talladega,
Ala., where the Justice Department is hearing appeals of deportation orders
handed down by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Fifteen Cubans have exhausted their appeals and were ordered on Nov. 17 to be
returned to Cuba. But their attorneys charged that the Government had violated
the procedure laid down for such appeals after riots by Cuban detainees last
year, and that it had also failed to adequately consider their requests for
political asylum.

More Hearings Scheduled

Attorneys for the 15 appealed the Nov. 17 decisions to a Federal Court in
Birmingham, where on Tuesday they were denied an injunction halting the
deportations. They then appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the
11th Circuit, which ruled today.

The cases of the other 10 who have exhausted their appeals through hearings
before the I.N.S. and Justice Department are scheduled to be heard in Federal
Court in Birmingham on Monday, said Gary LeShaw, an attorney with the Atlanta
Legal Aid Society.

He said that an unfavorable ruling by the Supreme Court in the appeal of those
slated to be flown to Cuba on Thursday could mean the return of the remaining 10
as early as next week.

Among the five men who are scheduled to be returned to Cuba on Thursday and who
had appealed their deportation orders are Onel Calzado Garlobo, 43 years old,
convicted of attempted sexual molestation; Rene Maurin Oliva, 25, convicted of
theft and battery, and Miguel Beitia Socarraz, 28, convicted of burglary. Two
others, Hector Hernandez Quesada and Angel Meneses Hernandez, did not appeal
their deportations to the Federal courts.

Suspended in 1985

In the first year of the agreement, 201 of those named were returned to Cuba,
but the agreement was suspended in 1985 by the Government of Fidel Castro in
retaliation for American support of Radio Marti, a news and information program
broadcast from Miami, financed by the United States Government and staffed by
Anti-Castro Cuban Americans.

Since then, many of the Cubans, classified as excludable aliens because they had
committed crimes since arriving in the United States, were held in Federal
prisons, even after serving their sentences for their crimes, while Government
officials sought to re-establish the agreement with Cuba.

Last November, the agreement was re-established. Detainees who did not want to
go back to Cuba immediately rioted in the Federal penitentiaries in Oakdale,
La., and Atlanta.

Those riots ended with an agreement to establish new procedures for paroling
detainees into American society and an appeal to the Justice Department by those
detainees recommended for deportation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 3, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Bars Some Soviet Jews And Armenians as Refugees

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 758 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 2


In a major change, the United States has begun rejecting applications from some
Soviet Jews and other Soviet citizens who want to come to this country as
refugees.

State Department and immigration officials said today that over the last few
months at least 175 Soviet Jews were denied refugee status because they could
not demonstrate ''a well-founded fear of persecution'' in the Soviet Union. In
addition, they said, 99 Soviet Armenians have been denied refugee status for the
same reason.

The Union of Councils for Soviet Jews, a private group, said ''hundreds of
Soviet Jews'' had been denied refugee status in the United States in the last
few months. The Jews have left with visas good for Italy, the main transit point
for Jews coming to the United States from the Soviet Union. But the Armenians
cannot leave the Soviet Union until they receive American visas, and the visas
are not issued until the Armenians receive permission to enter the United
States.

Until now, the United States gave virtually automatic approval to refugee
applications from Soviet Jews and Soviet Armenians. The Hebrew Immigrant Aid
Society, which arranges for the migration of Soviet Jews to this country, said
the recent denials were ''outrageous and likely to have tragic consequences.''

Yet most Soviet applicants are still getting refugee status. Ralph B. Thomas,
Deputy Assistant Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
said Soviet citizens denied refugee status could come to the United States under
the Attorney General's ''parole power'' if they could get an affidavit from an
American pledging financial support.

The purpose of such affidavits is to guarantee that emigres would not require
public assistance in this country. Parole is supposed to be reserved for
emergencies. Aliens who enter the United States on parole are not eligible for
permanent resident status, citizenship, medical assistance, welfare or other
benefits available to refugees.

Phillip A. Saperia, assistant executive vice president of the Hebrew Immigrant
Aid Society, said, ''The policy is causing panic in the Soviet Jewish community
in the United States and the Soviet Union.'' He asserted that the change was
made by the United States Government to save money.

''We don't know how long the Soviet Union will have a liberal emigration policy
for Soviet Jews,'' Mr. Saperia said in an interview. ''It could change at any
time. This is a window of opportunity. We have to get them out while we have the
chance.''

Data compiled by the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society show that the number of Soviet
Jews coming to United States shot up from 641 in 1986 to 5,708 in 1987 and
totals 12,794 so far this year.

Soviet Armenian immigration has risen from about 200 a year in the mid-1980's to
1,200 a month since September 1987, United States Government records show. The
Armenian immigration has coincided with increased violence between Armenians and
Azerbaijanis in southern Soviet republics.

State Dept. Confirmation

The United States never announced its decision to give more rigorous scrutiny to
Soviet citizens applying for refugee status. ''We were not given any notice of a
change in policy,'' Mr. Saperia said. ''We heard about the first denials from
our office in Rome in mid-September.''

Phyllis E. Oakley, deputy to the State Department spokesman, confirmed that some
Soviet Jews had been denied refugee status. Confidential State Department
documents show that the agency's lawyers became concerned in May when they
discovered that Soviet Armenians were being admitted to the United States as
refugees ''without regard to whether they met the refugee standard.''

The lawyers said this practice appeared to violate the Refugee Act of 1980,
which defines a refugee as a person with ''a well-founded fear of persecution on
account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group,
or political opinion.''

Mrs. Oakley asserted that ''there has been no change in U.S. policy'' because
''the United States continues to call for freedom of emigration for all.'' But
Mr. Thomas of the immigration service acknowledged that ''in terms of outcome,
there has been a change.''

State Department lawyers said the denial of refugee status to some Soviet Jews
resulted from uniform application of the standard prescribed by the 1980 law.
Members of Congress have called for even-handed application of the law,
sometimes asserting that people from Indochina were subjected to a stricter
standard than would-be Soviet refugees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 5, 1988, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Washington Talk: Briefing;
The Fugitive (Cont'd)

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE & DAVID BINDER

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 272 words


The roller coaster ride through the judicial system goes on and on for Joseph
Patrick Thomas Doherty, an Irish Republican Army fugitive. Months ago, he was
ordered deported to Britain, where he is wanted for the killing of a soldier.

The Board of Immigration Appeals recently ruled that Mr. Doherty's deportation
proceedings could be reopened.

The immigration board's action, in effect, stalls the June order by Edwin Meese
3d, then the Attorney General, that Mr. Doherty be deported on the ground that
he entered this country illegally.

Charlie Troy, a spokesman for the New York District of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, declined to say how or when the service would act in the
case.

''We're considering all our options,'' he said.

Mr. Doherty is seeking ''political asylum'' here, said his lawyer, Mary Boresz
Pike, of the New York firm of Somerstein & Pike.

In 1981 Mr. Doherty escaped from a Belfast prison two days before he was
convicted of killing a British Army captain in an ambush of a British convoy in
Belfast. In 1983, he was arrested in the United States and charged with illegal
entry.

He has been held in a Federal jail in Manhattan for almost six years without
being charged with or convicted of a crime, Mrs. Pike said, while the Government
and the courts have tried to decide what to do with him.

In 1984, a Federal district judge refused to order Mr. Doherty extradited to
Britain, where he faces life in prison. The judge ruled that the slaying was a
political act, which, under a treaty then in effect between the United States
and Britain, could not be a ground for extradition.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 23, 1988, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Federal Judge Bars Expulsion of Aliens For Political Views

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1026 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 22


A Federal district judge ruled today that key parts of the 1952 immigration law
are unconstitutional because they deprive immigrants of rights to free speech by
making them subject to deportation for advocating communism or totalitarianism.

Civil liberties lawyers said the ruling, by Judge Stephen V. Wilson, was the
first successful challenge of the deportation provisions of the 36-year-old
McCarran-Walter Act, which was passed at a time of great public concern over
communism, nurtured by Senator Joseph R. McCarthy. Over the years the law has
been used to bar several prominent Marxist authors and intellectuals from
visiting the United States.

Today's ruling arose from the case of seven Palestinians who were arrested at
gunpoint in Southern California and ordered deported last year by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. The service based the decision on the
ground that the seven supported the Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine, a radical group that has claimed responsibility for airline
hijackings and other terrorism. The Palestinians denied the assertion.

Citing the Fifth Amendment's guarantee of equal protection under the law, the
judge also voided an exception to a law passed by Congress last year that barred
ideological tests for foreigners seeking American visas. The section he threw
out allowed the ideological tests for members of the Palestine Liberation
Organization.

Although the ruling applies only to the Central District of California, the
Justice Department said today that it planned to appeal, setting the stage for a
possible test in the United States Supreme Court.

In his ruling, Judge Wilson declared four provisions of the McCarran-Walter Act
''unconstitutional on their face.'' Among other things, an alien could be
deported if he advocated world communism, totalitarian dictatorship or the
unlawful destruction of property or was affiliated with groups that advocate
such doctrines.

Need for 'Free Flow of Ideas'

''In this case the Government is trying to stifle certain ideas from entering
our society from certain aliens through its immigration power,'' Judge Wilson
said. ''Our society, however, was built on the premise that only through the
free flow of ideas can our nation grow and prosper.''

The judge said the Government had numerous other laws to combat terrorism. He
stressed also that it can still deport aliens who were retarded, sexually
deviant, psychopathic, addicted to drugs, alcoholic, destitute, afflicted with
contagious diseases or convicted of moral crimes such as prostitution.

The case was brought by the Center for Constitutional Rights in New York and the
American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California on behalf of the
American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee. Last year the immigration service
dropped the ideological charges against five of the Palestinians, but is still
trying to deport them on technical grounds.

The service also dropped the ideological charges against the other two, who are
resident aliens, and instead charged them under another McCarran-Walter section
for associating with a group that advocates ''unlawful damage, injury, or
destruction of property.''

David Cole of the Center for Constitutional Rights and Paul L. Hoffman of the
A.C.L.U. said that, although the charges had been changed, the Palestinians
pressed their challenge because the threat of McCarran-Walter action had a
chilling effect on the political activities of all Palestinians in the United
States. Extent of Immigrants' Rights?  The judge said a key question was whether
immigrants have full First Amendment rights or were limited by Congress's
authority to control immigration. He concluded that immigrants had full rights
once admitted into the United States.

''Logically, to say that resident aliens have First Amendment rights in the
domestic context but not in the deportation context is to deny them First
Amendment rights at all,'' he said. ''In other words, resident aliens would be
chilled from exercising their First Amendment rights in the domestic field for
fear that what they say could get them deported; consequently, they will not say
anything at all.''

He then addressed the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, passed last December,
which was meant to end ideological tests for foreign visitors by saying no alien
could be denied admission or deported because of ''any past, current or expected
beliefs'' and associations that would normally be protected under the
Constitution for American citizens. But an exception was made for members of the
P.L.O.

Judge Wilson concluded that this exception was ''not rationally related to a
legitimate government end and violates the Fifth Amendment's due process equal
protection component.''

He added that since aliens have rights, the McCarran-Walter provisions were
''substantially overbroad,'' covering both permissible and impermissible
behavior.

Appeal Is Planned

A Justice Department lawyer, Michael P. Lindemann, had argued that the Supreme
Court had repeatedly ruled that aliens facing deportation did not have the same
rights as American citizens.

''The Government will appeal,'' he said today. ''We disagree with the
decision.''

The Government has said it has evidence that the Palestinians were engaged in
raising money for terrorist groups.

One of the Palestinians, Khader Musa Hamide, said: ''We feel we can speak our
minds on the Palestinian issue without fear of being deported or put in jail. A
cloud of fear has been taken out of our community.''

In Washington, Abdeen Jabara, president of the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination
Committee, which says it has 23,000 members, said the ruling ''expands the
opportunity for a full and open debate'' on the issue of Palestinian rights.

It was not clear how the ruling would affect the deportation proceedings against
the seven Palestinians and Mr. Hamide's Kenyan-born wife. Except for Mr. Hamide
and another immigrant, Michel Shehahdeh, the others are charged with other,
technical immigration violations. The case of the two charged under
McCarran-Walter is still pending before the immigration service.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 24, 1988, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Count of Illegal Aliens For Census Is Debated

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 161 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 23


Lawmakers clashed today over the question of counting illegal aliens in the 1990
census, which will be used to determine how many seats each state gets in the
House of Representatives.

The forum was a hearing by the House census subcommittee on bills that would
require the Census Bureau to determine whether people are in the country legally
and, if not, to delete them from the counts used in reapportioning seats in the
House.

''This is a fairness issue,'' said Representative Tom J. Ridge, Republican of
Pennsylvania, who said states with large numbers of illegal aliens benefit
unfairly when their population totals give them extra House seats.

But others disagreed. ''Every census since the Constitution was adopted has
counted all residents of the states, including both legal and illegal aliens,''
said Representative Don Edwards, Democrat of California.

The Census Bureau also opposes the bills, contending they could delay and
complicate the count.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 27, 1989, Monday, Late City Final Edition

U.S.-Mexican Ditch Is Safe, Humane Deterrent

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 333 words


To the Editor:

Some misconceptions are evident in your March 6 article about the plan for a
ditch to deter some of the illegal border crossings from Mexico into the United
States. There should not be danger of either illegal immigrants or cars
''falling into a ditch,'' as Senator Dennis DeConcini suggests.

The ditch is clearly inside the United States border. It starts at ground level,
where illegals on foot or in cars approach from the Mexican border. There is a
gradual downhill slope until the person or vehicle reaches a 5-foot vertical
wall. In addition, a 3-foot metal-link fence runs along the top of the wall,
which is ground level from the United States side. The person or car approaching
would have to ''fall'' 8 feet up to proceed illegally into the United States. If
a citizen should approach from the United States side, he would have to ''fall''
3 feet up to get over the fence to the bottom of the ditch.

Preventing traffic accidents, drug smuggling and illegal crossings in this
manner when the deterrent is mainly below eye level and safe is much more
acceptable than an 8-foot, above-ground fence. Besides, fences are being cut. It
would be hard to cut through or scale the wall of a ditch.

No one will prevent people who have a legal right from entering the United
States at regular border crossings. We should support our Border Patrol officers
in keeping entries into the United States safe and legal. I have driven along
the Mexico-United States border, and I believe this ditch is a humane, justified
and superior way to deter illegal crossings in areas where roads and houses on
the United States side help illegals quickly to disappear. Crossing is easier
where there is open desert or scrub land on the United States side, but
disappearing before detection and apprehension is much more difficult in open
country.

SARAH G. EPSTEIN
  Washington, March 8, 1989

The writer is a member of the board of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 2, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

Minister Gains in Aliens Case

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 46, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 237 words

DATELINE: ALBUQUERQUE, N.M., July 1


An Albuquerque minister charged with transporting illegal aliens will be allowed
to introduce evidence regarding his intentions, evidence the prosecution sought
to exclude, a Federal district judge has ruled.

The Rev. Glen Remer-Thamert had planned to base his defense on issues of
religious conviction, international law and the argument that it is not a crime
to take an action that violates the law in order to avert a greater evil, a
legal concept known as ''necessity.''

The judge, John E. Conway, ruled Thursday that Mr. Remer-Thamert could not
introduce such evidence directly but could introduce it if the prosecution
suggested that he was motivated by profit as part of a baby-selling arrangement.

Mr. Remer-Thamert, a member of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, and
Demetria Martinez, a freelance reporter, are to go on trial July 13 on charges
that they conspired to aid two pregnant Salvadoran women enter the United States
illegally.

Gustav H. Schultz, chairman of the National Sanctuary Defense Fund, hailed the
judge's decision. ''This will be the first opportunity for the sanctuary
movement's arguments to be heard in the courts,'' he said.

In May 1985, after a highly publicized trial in Tucson, Ariz., that ended with
the convictions of eight members of the movement to provide sanctuary to Central
Americans, the defense was barred from introducing evidence of religious
conviction.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 11, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

CORRECTION:
Articles on June 7, July 2 and Aug. 3 about a Federal trial involving sanctuary
for illegal aliens incorrectly described a defendant, the Rev. Glen
Remer-Thamert. Mr. Remer-Thamert was removed from the clergy roster of the
Lutheran Church in America several years ago and is not affiliated with its
successor, the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.

Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about the Yonkers
desegregation case misstated the circumstances under which the Emergency
Financial Control Board took over Yonkers' finances in 1984. It acted after the
Yonkers school board, facing a deficit, threatened to close the city's schools.
In addition, the article incorrectly described the judicial panel that will hear
the appeal of a contempt ruling against the city and four councilmen. It will be
a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit.

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 31, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Housing Violations Pressed

BYLINE: By TESSA MELVIN

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 12, Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1206 words


MOUNT KISCO

When Fire Inspector Austin F. Cassidy pushed open the basement door of a small
house on Spring Street here one night this month, he found amid the leaking
pipes 17 men asleep on mattresses on the floor.

''It was literally wall-to-wall people,'' Mr. Cassidy said last week. ''So many,
that we couldn't step into the rooms to take measurements or we would have been
stepping on shoulders or heads.''

His eight-man search team - made up of Building Department employees and
policemen - found 34 people living in the two-family house, including four men
asleep under the attic eaves. The tenants were very cooperative, Mr. Cassidy
said, even helping to pass the tape measure to determine the size of each of the
two one-room apartments - which were renting for $1,000 a month apiece.

''They recognized,'' Mr. Cassidy said, ''that we were not a threat to them, that
we were after the landlord.''

Not Eager to Displace Aliens

Mr. Cassidy's raid was the latest skirmish between municipal leaders in the
county who are determined to enforce health and fire codes and curb some
landlords whose buildings house new waves of illegal immigrants caught in the
county's housing crunch.

Municipal officials say they are not eager to displace illegal aliens who have
few housing options, but they are determined to prevent what they call slum
landlords from endangering the public safety and exploiting tenants.

On Tuesday evening, Mayor Janet A. Gandolfo of North Tarrytown said she would
urge the Village Board of Trustees to pass a resolution urging stricter state
penalties for building-code violations. The resolution seeks amendments to the
state penal code that would classify major code violations as a criminal
offense. Only some extreme episodes involving slum conditions are now treated as
criminal cases.

''It should be a criminal offense to let buildings deteriorate until they become
a health and safety hazard,'' Mayor Gandolfo said. ''Now, there is really no
penalty except a civil one, and by the time the case is through the court,
municipalities are grateful if a building has been repaired.''

Prosecution Is Planned

Meanwhile, the Mount Kisco Village Prosecutor, Daniel A. Seymour, plans to
prosecute Joseph and Maria Valvano, owners of the Spring Street home that was
raided. Each of the 23 building-code violations with which the Valvanos are
charged carry a maximum penalty of $250 a day.

But Mr. Seymour, a member of the White Plains firm of Wilson, Bave, Conboy &
Bave, said: ''Frankly, the sanctions are nominal throughout Westchester.
Although the courts have the power to impose substantial fines, they rarely
do.''

Saying that the building owners, the Valvanoses, were cited in l986 and again
last year for illegally renting basement apartments in a house zoned for only
two families, Mr. Seymour said he would seek the maximum penalties, which could
be as high as $85,000. ''We must take the profit out of warehousing these
people,'' Mr. Seymour said.

When Mrs. Valvanos, who speaks Italian, was called by a reporter, she said that
she did not understand the questions; and Mr. Seymour said the Valvanoses did
not have a lawyer.

A similar raid last month in Mount Kisco found 23 people crowded into three
small apartments on Lexington Avenue. Village officials said last week that they
also planned to prosecute that case, against the building's owners, Patrick and
Carmela Cambareri.

'Conditions Are Staggering'

Several other housing investigations are in progress in the village, Mr. Cassidy
said, and could result in legal action. ''The number of buildings involved is
not staggering,'' he said, ''but the conditions are staggering.''

Westchester, with an unemployment rate of only 2.7 percent, is believed to be
attracting thousands of legal and illegal aliens from South and Central America.

''There are more job opportunities in Westchester than in almost any other place
in the country,'' the director of the Hispanic Advancement Program in White
Plains,Ilse Velez, said last week. ''In Texas, Florida and California, the work
is seasonal. But in Westchester there are unlimited jobs cleaning offices,
washing dishes in restaurants and gardening.'' (The program is supported by the
Grace Episcopal Church in White Plains and the county.) Mrs. Velez said she was
reluctant to provide estimates of the number of illegal aliens in the county,
because she did not want to encourage closer inspection by the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Deportation 'Put on Hold'

Efforts by the Federal agency to track and deport illegal aliens have ''been put
on hold,'' according to members of the county's Hispanic community who counsel
immigrants , while immigration officials await the results of the new policies
designed to legalize the status of residents who illegally entered the United
States before l982.

The Rev. Diego Delgado, who is affiliated with Grace Episcopal Church , serves
as an immigration counselor in the Hispanic program. He stated that although
recent immigration policy had reduced professional job opportunities for
undocumented aliens, worsening economic situations in many Latin American
countries were causing increasing numbers of immigrants to come to the
Westchester area. Although the Federal Immigration Service ''is not chasing
anyone at the moment,'' he said, ''it has a job to do and it will do it.''

Illegal workers in the county are finding low-level jobs easy to get butare paid
the minimum wage, Mrs. Velez said. She added that some employers, particularly
restaurant owners, pay as little as $2 an hour. Although the wages are higher
than those paid for comparable jobs in their home countries, Mrs. Velez said,
the money is not sufficient to pay Westchester rents.

One-room apartments in Westchester typically rent for $1,000 per month, Mrs.
Velez said, and may be shared by five or six people. Reports of greater
overcrowding are becoming common, she added.

Available Help Is Refused

In addition to Mount Kisco and North Tarrytown, problems of overcrowding have
also been reported in in White Plains, Port Chester and Mount Vernon. Officials
say that the illegal tenants are unwilling to report unscrupulous landlords or
to seek health or social services.

In a recent incident in North Tarrytown, Mayor Gandolfo alerted the Salvation
Army and Red Cross before a raid on an apartment where severe overcrowding was
suspected, so that they could provide temporary shelter for any residents
displaced.

''When we arrived, all the residents scattered and none took advantage of the
waiting help,'' she said.

Many illegal aliens are so afraid of authority, said Mayor Richard A. Flynn of
Mount Kisco, that after a fire in his village recently two injured tenants
refused hospital care.

''The situation can't go on,'' Mayor Flynn said. ''Someone is going to get
killed.''

As he awaits the results of the housing investigations in progress, Mayor Flynn
said that ''we don't want a lawsuit on our hands for allowing illegal housing,
but from a humanitarian point of view, where are these people going to live?
Whatever the conditions, they are better than where they came from.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 1, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

San Diego Freeways Termed Deathtraps for Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 493 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Nov. 30


Freeways in southern San Diego County are increasingly becoming deathtraps for
illegal aliens who try to cross them at night on their journey north, the
California Highway Patrol says.

In four years, 56 illegal aliens have been killed by moving traffic on
Interstate 805 and Interstate 5 within four miles of the border with Mexico. Ten
have died in the last month.

More people have been killed on those small stretches of freeway than any
comparable road elsewhere in the country, said Capt. Lee Denno of the highway
patrol's San Diego office.

''Let's say these were all American motorists that were struck and killed,''
Captain Denno said in an interview published Monday in The Tribune of San Diego.
''I think the media in the U.S. and San Diego in particular would jump right on
this and through the use of tremendous media exposure this would become an issue
everyone would jump on.Groups would be formed and things would happen. Something
would be done.''

Captain Angered at Plight

But because the victims are not United States citizens, he said, no one has
taken the lead in seeking a solution.

''They don't have any real spokesperson,'' he continued. ''That's probably why
there is no hue and cry to do something about this problem.''

Captain Denno said he started keeping track of alien pedestrian fatalities on
the freeways after becoming commander of the highway patrol in the San Diego
area in February 1986. He said the toll had increased over the years.

He explained that smugglers hired to guide illegal aliens often lead a group of
12 or so at a time across a highway. They usually try to cross in single file.
''The first people to cross will look and see that it is reasonably safe for
them to cross and they will start running,'' he said. ''Usually it is the people
at the end of the line that get struck and killed.''

Many illegal aliens are unfamilar with the speed of American traffic because
they come from remote or undeveloped regions in Mexico, officials said, adding
that the drivers involved are almost never cited because the accidents are
considered unavoidable.

Informal Talks on Problem

Officials from various agencies, including the California Highway Patrol, the
California Department of Transportation, the United States Border Patrol and the
San Diego Police Department have met informally to discuss the situation.

Options that have been discussed include putting up signs to alert drivers that
people may be crossing the freeway, reducing the speed limit near the border and
installing lights for better roadway illumination.

Enforcement of a reduced speed limit would be difficult at best, officials said.

Of the warning signs, Captain Denno said: ''That's something that's never been
done before, but it is something that will probably be considered down the road.
You don't usually put signs on a freeway to warn motorists of things that aren't
supposed to be there in the first place.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 14, 1988, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

DELAYED HARVEST STARTS IN OREGON

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 25, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 512 words

DATELINE: SALEM, Ore., June 13


Thousands of migrant workers have begun picking strawberries after weeks of
waiting for crops to ripen, a delay that strained the resources of social
service agencies who provided the migrants with food and shelter.

Cool weather slowed the ripening of the strawberry crop, which normally is ready
for harvest by June 1. Officials said an unusually heavy influx of 20,000
migrant workers, many from Mexico and Central America, had been waiting for the
work to begin. Some, confused over immigration law requirements, have been here
since as early as April.

Warm weather over the weekend ripened many fields in the northwestern part of
the state, and others are expected to be ready for picking soon. Oregon is the
nation's second-largest nia.producer of strawberries, after Califorthe weekend
because of the good weather,'' Tom Graven, a division field supervisor for the
State Employment Division, said today.

Too Early to Assess

Roy Malensky, owner of Oregon Berry Processing Company in Hillsboro, west of
Portland, said it was too early to say how many of the migrants would be put to
work.

''Last year it started with a bang and kept on going,'' he said. ''This year
it's starting slowly and won't get into full flow till this weekend.''

Social service agencies have made repeated appeals for food and blankets for the
migrants, who have been living as many as 50 to a room.

The Salvation Army, one of several charitable organizations helping to feed and
clothe the migrants, has distributed more than 277 tons of food and more than
$100,000 worth of clothing, blankets and items such as soap, detergent and
cooking utensils.

Once the harvest is in full swing, ''it will considerably decrease the demands
upon us,'' said Titus Herman, a spokesman for the Salvation Army in Portland.

Fewer Workers Last Year

''I know that many of them still have obligations to contractors and, in some
cases, to farmers for food,'' Mr. Titus said of the pickers. ''Maybe for the
next couple of weeks they still will be technically without any money, but
beyond that they will have money and chances are the social services will be
able to step out of the situation, maybe not completely but considerably. We're
already seeing a decrease in demand.''

The 1987 strawberry crop ripened early, and 20 percent of it was left in the
fields because of a shortage of workers. Growers complained that the pickers
were confused over the new immigration law that granted amnesty for many aliens
and, as a result, many workers refused to cross the border.

The state still produced a bumper crop of 94 million pounds of strawberries that
sold for a record $31.5 million.

This year, migrants began arriving as early as April. Some say they mistakenly
were told they had to file immigration legalization documents by May 4, the
deadline for aliens not involved in agricultural work.

Agricultural workers have until Nov. 30 to file the documents required to be
accorded legal alien status. After that, employers who hire illegal migrant
workers will face stiff penalties.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 14, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Minnesota Journal;
Bilingual Police to Say, 'Aqui Se Habla Espanol'

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 735 words

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS, Sept. 9


In a lot of small towns in Minnesota, bilingualism means understanding the
occasional Norwegian or Swedish oath, usually muttered at safe distance from the
Lutheran pastor.

But next week most of the 26 police officers in Willmar, a farming center of
18,000 people in west-central Minnestoa, will gather with local sheriff's
deptuies and begin a 20-week course in Spanish.

In the last three years the number of Hispanic residents of this small prairie
town, settled in 1869 by Scandinavian immigrants, has tripled to nearly 1,500
people, including many who do not speak English. Over the same period the number
of Hispanic children enrolled in the Willmar schools has grown to 285 from fewer
than 30.

Many of the new Hispanic residents are former migrant workers and their families
who used to spend their summers working in the farm fields of Minnesota,
returning home to Texas after the harvest.

Now, as a result of a sagging economy in the Southwest, a growing number have
decided to put down stakes in Willmar and a handful of other rural towns in
Minnesota, where they are looking for new jobs and a permanent home, said Jose
Trejo, executive director of the Spanish Speaking Affairs Council, a state
agency that deals with Hispanic issues.

Hispanic people make up barely 1 percent of Minnesota's 4.2 million residents.
With its strong heritage of Scandinavian and German settlement, Minnesota's
population is more homogenous than most states; members of all minority groups
combined constitute only about 4 perent of the population.

Mr. Trejo says the influx of Hispanic families into towns like Willmar has
caused some disruption of schools and social service agencies, putting pressure
on public assistance programs, housing and job markets.

For Todd Miller, the chief of police, the growing population of Spanish-speaking
residents has been a special burden. ''We have had trouble making arrests,
talking to witnesses and even taking down complaints,'' said Chief Miller, who
initiated the Spanish language course for his men.

Does he have any bilingual officers now? ''I think I've got a couple of guys who
know some Norwegian,'' the chief said.

Stalking the Wild Ginseng

Of all the seasonal rituals, few are as eagerly anticipated as the opening of
hunting season in Minnesota, where one of every six residents hunts. The first
wave took to the fields here this week, ears straining for the telltale sounds
of quarry: the growl of the bear, the honk of the goose, the trill of the
woodcock.

But the rustle of the wild ginseng? For a special breed of some 1,000 hunters,
September marks the opening of Minnesota's only wild plant season, when
enthusiasts wielding spades take to the fields and ravines to stalk the wild
ginseng.

Dried and powdered, the aromatic ginseng root can sell for as much as $220 a
pound among those who value it for its storied curative qualities.

The small leafy plant once flourished throughout Minnesota, but ginseng was
nearly wiped out in the 19th century by traders who found a market for its
aromatic root in China.

What remains now grows wild in the southeastern part of the state, and the
harvest is strictly controlled: ginseng can be dug out only in a four-week
period, and hunters must have a license. Last year they harvested about 1,200
pounds.

What's in a Name?

The School of Physical Education and Recreation at the University of Minnesota
made a formal proposal this month to the Board of Regents: it asked to change
its name to the School of Human Movement and Leisure Studies.

School officials said the new name would better reflect what they described as
''an overall scholarly focus on the science of human movement.'' Besides, they
added, faculty competing with other sciences for research funds often has
problems getting grant money from national foundations.

''This is a recognition that, for many, the term 'physical education' does not
associate itself with scientific activity,'' the school's proposal noted.

The regents will vote on the name change next month, but the editorial board of
The Minneapolis Star Tribune, the state's largest newspaper, has already
rendered its verdict.

''Will art history be renamed retrospective aesthetics? Would chemistry fare
better as test-tube technology?'' the newspaper asked in an editorial.
''Enough,'' the editorial concluded. ''Fight the temptation to title
inflation.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 29, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Headliners;
Heavy Heart

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 138 words


Andrzej Piotr Prajzner, a Polish seaman, jumped ship in Canada two months ago
only to land in jail. Mr. Prajzner, who wound up behind bars in Everett, Wash.,
after crossing the border and seeking political asylum in the United States, was
released on bail pending appeal last week. The 27-year-old fishing boat cook
said it was ''wonderful'' to be ''finally free.'' But he may yet wind up not
only back in Poland, but in a Polish jail. His release from jail came amid a
wave of sympathy from Seattle-area residents who contributed to his bail money
after learning that Mr. Prajzner had been denied political asylum and jailed as
an illegal immigrant. Mr. Prazjner, who is now awaiting a court date to appeal
the asylum denial, said that if returned to Poland, he would be ''imprisoned for
jumping ship and seeking asylum.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Andrzej Piotr Prajzner

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 24, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THRONGS OF ALIENS SEEKING AMNESTY AS DEADLINE NEARS

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1046 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, April 23


In an atmosphere of hope, confusion and fear, tens of thousands of aliens are
scrambling to apply for legal status before the nation's landmark amnesty
program is to end in less than two weeks.

Applications, which were running just over 10,000 a week earlier in the year,
are now nearing 50,000. Once-sleepy legalization centers and counseling groups
that had cut staff are now working overtime to handle the load.

The final rush was expected, and it is unlikely to bring applications close to
the original estimate of two million applicants for general amnesty. But the
late rush, coming amid Congressional debate about extending the deadline, may be
an appropriately dramatic close to the largest program of its kind in history.

'The Feeling Is Panic'

The late surge is bringing out many aliens who are afraid because their cases
may be the weakest, people who have had to scrape to raise the hundreds of
dollars needed to apply. In some cases, aliens are waiting all night at
legalization centers.

''At this point, the feeling is panic,'' said Jan Pena, administrator of
Catholic Charities' immigration ministry here. ''People are ready and willing to
go wherever they can, to any part of the city, because they want somebody who's
going to handle their case and do it quickly.''

The late rush for the program is bringing a dramatic increase in applicants
across the nation, both in areas such as the Southwest, where the program has
been strongest, and the Northeast, where turnout has been disappointing.

Under the one-year amnesty program established under the Immigration Reform and
Control Act of 1986, illegal aliens have until May 4 to apply for amnesty or
legal status. To be eligible, they must be able to prove they have resided in
the United States continuously since before Jan. 1, 1982.

Employers on Notice

The amnesty is part of a three-pronged approach that also includes stepped-up
enforcement of immigration laws and sanctions against employers who hire illegal
aliens.

The final two weeks are likely to test a system that was scaled down earlier
because of low turnout and has had to cope with the built-in uncertainties of
uniting historic foes - aliens and the authorities they have always avoided.

Officials originally estimated that two million aliens would apply and put the
most optimistic estimate at 3.9 million. Thus far, there have been 1.2 million
general-amnesty applicants. Another 400,000 have applied under more liberal
provisions for seasonal agricultural workers, who must show only that they did
at least 90 days of specified agricultural work between May 1, 1985, and May 1,
1986.

Confusion about the program, fears that families would be split up, and lack of
information have been cited as reasons for the low turnout in the past. But as
the deadline nears, it is clear that meeting the application fee is a major
problem for many aliens. The fee is $185 for individuals, and a maximum of $420
per family. With medical, counseling and documentation fees the program can
easily cost double or triple the application fee.

''I'd say 20 to 25 percent of those we're seeing now are coming in and saying,
'I think I'm eligible, but I don't have the money,' '' said Lavinia Limon,
executive director of the International Institute of Los Angeles.

In places like Los Angeles and Houston, two of the strongest cities for the
program, aliens are camping out overnight to stand in line to apply.

Music and Anxiety

By 6:30 A.M. Friday, a line of more than 300 people stretched along the outside
of a legalization center in a strip shopping center north of downtown as the
ranchero music from a street vendor blared through the early-morning air.

There was Julio Sanchez, a muscular roofer from El Salvador, who has spent
months trying to get documents to prove his residency, and Rafael Roman from
Mexico, who has spent the same time trying to scrape together the $185
application fee and other costs from his job at a carwash.

For many, the application follows months of soul-searching.

''It took everyone a long time to decide if they were going to apply,'' said
Elva Luz Vasquez, who applied with several other co-workers at a Mexican
restaurant. ''Many people are still afraid. They think they will be deported.''

Also compounding the problems now is the nature of the applicants. The earliest
applicants were generally those with the strongest documentation and best cases.
The ones now are often the weakest.

''The more educated came forward in the first few months of the program,'' said
Muzaffar Chisti, with the International Ladies Garment Workers Union in New
York. ''The ones applying now are the most exploited, the less educated. The
applications we see now are from the classic undocumented worker that Congress
had in mind when it began the program.''

Extension Not Certain

Stewart Kwoh, director of the Asian Pacific American Legal Center in Los
Angeles, said his office was flooded with applicants after a notice appeared in
a Spanish-language newspaper that his counseling center was one of the few in
the city able to lend the filing fee.

Also affecting the process is uncertainty about a proposed extension of the
program. The House of Representatives voted 213-201 Wednesday to extend the
amnesty deadline until Nov. 30.

The measure faces an uncertain future in the Senate and a possible Presidential
veto. It is opposed by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Indications
are that most applicants are still acting as if the cutoff date is May 4, but
the proposed extension is causing some confusion.

''The complexity of passing a law is not widely understood,'' said Muriel
Heiberger, director of the Massaschusetts Immigrant and Refugee Advocacy
Coalition in Boston. ''People hear the House passed an extension, and they think
it's law.''

Unless there is an extension, the rush seems likely to accelerate as the May 4
deadline nears. The I.N.S. plans to keep offices open until midnight on the
final day.

Immigration officials say streamlined procedures that allow aliens to file
skeleton applications now and allow another 60 days to furnish complete
documentation are helping them handle the late crush. But some counseling groups
are turning away applicants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of aliens waiting at the Houston office of Immigration and
Naturalization Service to apply for amnesty (NYT/F. Carter Smith)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 21, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Aliens File Abuse Suit on Detention

BYLINE: By LEONARD BUDER

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 532 words


A class-action lawsuit was filed yesterday charging that aliens seeking asylum
in the United States were mistreated while being detained last year at a hotel
near Kennedy International Airport.

The suit, seeking $25 million in damages, was brought in Federal District Court
in Brooklyn against three officials of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service and a private security agency employed by the Government. The agency's
president was also named in the suit.

Arthur C. Helton, director of the political asylum project of the Lawyers
Committee for Human Rights, which is representing the plaintiffs, said that more
than 100 aliens, while being held at the Viscount International Hotel from April
13 to Oct. 23, 1987, were subjected to ''prolonged imprisonment'' under
conditions that were ''brutal and a gross violation'' of their human rights.

The district counsel for the immigration agency, Steven Abrams, said yesterday
that he had just received the legal papers and could not yet comment on them.
The president of the security company flatly denied that anyone was mistreated.

Charge of Physical Abuse

Among the specific allegations in the suit were that detainees were forced to
share beds with strangers, denied such articles of personal hygiene as
toothpaste and razors, and arbitrarily denied the use of telephones to reach
lawyers and relatives. It was also charged that garbage and food were left to
rot in the aliens' rooms, and that guards physically and verbally abused them.

The suit was brought by four aliens - an Afghan national, two Ghanaian nationals
and a Libyan national - in behalf of themselves and ''all others similarly
situated.'' Of the four, only the Afghan has been granted asylum.

The suit specifically named three Immigration and Naturalization Service
officials - Charles C. Sava, the New York district director, and Christine
Petersen and J. Scott Blackman, assistant district directors - asserting that
they were aware that the detainees' human and legal rights were being violated
and did nothing to correct them.

Also accused in the suit were the Tri-Way Security and Escort Services Inc. and
its president, Cramman A. Parker. According to the suit, the agency had been
hired by the immigration service to guard and supervise aliens being held at the
Viscount.

Mr. Parker, who first said he was unaware of the suit, said after being told of
the allegations: ''Immigration has been very cooperative with Tri-Way, and vice
versa, in providing the best care possible. These people were not denied
anything at anytime. These things never happened.''

Last November, the Viscount International Hotel said it had severed its
arrangement with the Federal Government to provide accommodations for detainees.
The hotel said it had based its decision on negative publicity from reports of
inhumane conditions by the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights. At the time, the
hotel said the complaints were unfounded.

Aliens are now being held at other hotels near the airport and at an immigration
service detention center at 201 Varick Street in Manhattan.

The law firm of O'Melveny & Myers is serving as pro bono co-counsel for the
plaintiffs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 5, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Amnesty Program Comes to a Close

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 38 words


Last-minute applicants waiting in line at the Immigration and Naturalization
Service center in Houston yesterday as thousands filed for amnesty on the last
day of the nation's historic program. Page B11. (NYT/F. Carter Smith)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 24, 1988, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Deports 226 Aliens From Jails in New York

BYLINE: By MICHEL MARRIOTT

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 426 words


More than 200 aliens serving sentences at Rikers Island and other New York City
jails have been deported in the last year under a Federal and city program,
officials said yesterday.

A total of 226 have been deported to their countries since last May, Mayor Koch
said at a City Hall news conference. The Criminal Alien Removal Program of the
City Correction Department and the Immigration and Naturalization Service is the
first in the nation, he said.

''This program underscores how well the Federal and city Governments can work
together,'' Mr. Koch said. He added that it illustrated ''what can be done in
marshaling innovative effective programs to combat drug offenses.''

The district immigration director, Charles C. Sava, said the expelled aliens
accounted for 80 to 85 percent of all deportations last year in New York City.
The aliens, documented and undocumented, have primarily come from Caribbean and
Latin American countries, he said.

Assailed as Discriminatory

He said only Cuba had refused to accept repatriations. Sixty-three Cuban inmates
have been taken to Federal detention centers under the program, said J. Scott
Blackman of the Justice Department.

Mr. Koch praised the program, which costs the Federal Government $300,000 a year
and the city virtually nothing.

Advocates of immigration called the program unfair and discriminatory.

''It's double jeopardy, because it makes people serve their time and then
deports them,'' said Denise Hylton, immigration project coordinator for the
Center for Law and Social Justice. Ms. Hylton said that many alien inmates
should not necessarily be barred from living here and that many were victims of
prejudice, poor language skills and ignorance of the legal system.

Mr. Koch disagreed, saying the United States should consider all constitutional
weapons for the drug crisis.

'They Sought to Destroy Us'

''We opened the doors, they came in, and they sought to destroy us,'' Mr. Koch
said of the criminals. ''Why shouldn't we send them back to their own country?''

Under the program, the Correction Department identifies inmates believed to be
foreigners sentenced for drug-related crimes, and then the immigration service
screens the lists, Mr. Blackman said.

If deportation is ordered after a hearing, the inmate is sent to the home
country. There were 434 orders last year to begin proceedings, which run one or
two months, Mr. Blackman said.

The inmates cannot reapply for entry. If they try to return, a computer system
has been instituted to stop them, Mr. Sava said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 25, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

9 Accused of Arranging Marriages So Aliens Could Gain Citizenship

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 337 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, May 23


Nine people were arrested today and charged in two separate schemes that
provided mates - and the promise of United States citizenship - to foreign
nationals in exchange for money, the United States Attorney said.

Two indictments returned in Trenton and unsealed today accused the defendants of
violating immigration laws. Many of the foreigners seeking residency status were
from Haiti, Guinea and Liberia, the authorities said.

One defendant, Charles B. Brinson, is a bishop in the Brinson Memorial Showers
of Blessing Churches World Wide, a church he founded, United States Attorney
Samuel A. Alito Jr. said.

Mr. Brinson and Deborah Priester, both of Trenton, were accused of helping the
aliens obtain blood tests and marriage licenses, coaching them how to answer
questions by immigration officials and arranging the marriages.

Charge of Performing Marriage

Mr. Brinson was also charged with performing a marriage between an illegal alien
and a United States citizen as part of the scheme.

Mr. Alito said the authorities do not know how many marriages were arranged or
how much money the defendants charged.

In the other case, which involved Liberians, the defendants would offer money to
United States citizens to induce them to enter into the marriages, the
indictment said. They would also help in arranging blood tests, marriage
licenses and marriage ceremonies for their clients, the indictment said.

The leaders in that scheme were Tucker Tarr and Jebeh Socree, both of Trenton,
said William Flanagan, an assistant United States Attorney. #6 More Are Wanted
Mr. Alito said two people in the Brinson case and four in the Tucker case have
yet to be served with arrest warrants.

Those arrested were released on their own recognizance at a hearing in Trenton
before United States Magistrate Freda Wolfson, said John Hughes, an attorney who
represented the defendants in the proceeding.

Mr. Hughes said he would have no comment on the charges.

The four suspects could not be reached for comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 27, 1988, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Visas Extended to Help Keep Foreign Nurses

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 534 words


Bowing to appeals for help amid a critical nationwide nursing shortage, the
Federal immigration agency yesterday granted a one-year extension to foreign
nurses facing deportation at the end of their temporary work visas.

The impending loss of foreign nurses would have hit New York City especially
hard. Hospitals in the city, with record patient overcrowding and severe staff
shortages, have about 4,000 nurses who could have been forced out over the next
few years. The first group that faced expulsion this year included at least 800
nurses.

Alan C. Nelson, the Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
said the agency ''will act to relieve their short-term problem.''

''This decision is a major plus for the health care system in New York City;
without this, we would be in deep trouble,'' said Kenneth E. Raske, president of
the Greater New York Hospital Association, which first brought the issue to
public attention. About 10,000 foreign nurses are working in the United States
under the temporary H-1 visas. Many of them expressed alarm when the immigration
service, as part of a general tightening of time limits on temporary visas,
recently announced it would not allow such workers to stay beyond five years.

Citing estimates of 300,000 nursing vacancies nationally, hospitals and nursing
homes appealed to the immigration agency to reconsider that decision. The
Federal policy reversal, announced in Washington, was praised by hospital and
nursing groups as an interim relief measure.

''This action certainly won't solve the nursing shortage, but it will allow us
to keep our heads above water,'' said Louis P. Cibetta, the president of the New
Jersey Hospital Association.

Mr. Nelson announced the immigration service's new policy at a meeting yesterday
with Congressional aides and representatives of the American Hospital
Association, a nurses union and other interested groups.

'Breathing Space'

''This gives us breathing space to develop a legislative remedy,'' said
Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat, who organized the
Congressional effort. He said he was drafting a bill for extensions up to five
years. Mr. Nelson encouraged Congress to modify the law to accommodate
employers' needs in all industries.

While granting the visa extensions, the Commissioner admonished hospitals and
nursing homes to ''do more to recruit and retain U.S. nurses.'' He said
employers should improve wages and working conditions and provide loans and
scholarships for those desiring to become nurses.

Under the revised Federal policy, extensions will be given automatically to any
nurse whose H-1 visa expires during the next 12 months, except for those few who
have already been granted a sixth year, immigration officials said.

Hospitals and other employers of nurses are considered likely to seek a similar
waiver a year from now when the current policy runs out.

Programs to recruit and train more nurses will take three to four years to
produce results, Mr. Raske estimated.

''Unless something radical happens to our economy, we'll be in an era of
shortages for nurses and other health care professions for several years to
come,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 7, 1988, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

Sanctuary Movement Gains a Court Hearing on Its Principles

BYLINE: By Catherine C. Robbins, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1152 words

DATELINE: ALBUQUERQUE, N.M., June 6


Legal arguments that are the foundation of the movement to provide sanctuary to
Central Americans will be the focus of a hearing here Tuesday on charges against
a writer and a minister who arranged for two Salvadoran women to enter the
United States illegally.

The prosecutions are the Government's first against the sanctuary movement since
a highly publicized trial in Tucson, Ariz., that ended in May 1986 with eight
convictions.

Tuesday's hearing is to determine what arguments will be allowed at the trial of
Demetria Martinez, a poet who contributes religion articles to The National
Catholic Reporter and The Albuquerque Journal, and the Rev. Glen Remer-Thamert.

Mr. Remer-Thamert, a member of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America,
intends to base his defense on issues of religion, selective prosecution and
international law that were barred from arguments in the Tucson trial. He also
will argue an expanded definition of the right of political asylum.

In the past, organizers of the sanctuary movement have said that the aliens they
care for are fleeing political persecution and thus should be viewed as refugees
and accorded asylum under Federal immigration laws. They say their actions are
proper because the Government has not been fairly enforcing those laws, favoring
applicants from leftist countries at the expense of those from nations friendly
to Washington.

Ms. Martinez, the first reporter charged in a sanctuary case, said she would use
the First Amendment as a defense, emphasizing what she said were her rights to
gather news while keeping her sources confidential.

Meeting in Mexico

The facts are not in dispute. In August 1986 Ms. Martinez and Mr. Remer-Thamert
traveled from Albuquerque to El Paso, where they walked across an international
bridge to Ciudad Juarez, Mexico. There they met with two pregnant Salvadorans
who had planned to deliver their babies in the United States and give them up
for adoption. After arranging for the women to illegally enter the United
States, Ms. Martinez and Mr. Remer-Thamert returned to El Paso, where they
picked up the Salvadorans and drove them to Albuquerque.

Ms. Martinez faces five counts and Mr. Remer-Thamert faces nine counts,
including conspiracy, harboring, transporting illegal aliens and inducing then
to enter the country, violating immigration law and mail fraud in connection
with expenses relating to the adoptions. The trial is expected in mid-July.

William Lutz, the United States Attorney for New Mexico, is treating the case as
a criminal proceeding, but defense attorneys will call expert witnesses in civil
liberties and international law. The hearing has become a rallying point for
critics of United States policy in Central America, and leaders of the sanctuary
movement are gathering here to show their support for the defendants.

Conviction and Probation

Some sanctuary leaders are surprised at the indictments. In Tucson, eight
defendants were found guilty of similar charges, but the Federal district judge,
Earl H. Carroll, suspended sentences and placed the sanctuary workers on three
to five years probation. The verdict is currently on appeal.

Since the Tucson trial, the Government has avoided indictments of people in the
sanctuary movement, said Michael McConnell, director of The Chicago Religious
Task Force, an organization working on Central America issues.

''The Government really lost in Tucson,'' Mr. McConnell said. ''While they got
convictions, sanctuary was never on trial, because the concept of sanctuary
could not be brought up. The Government doesn't want the concept to be brought
before a jury, doesn't want it argued in a court of law.''

Sanctuary leaders believe that the Albuquerque case could have far-reaching
consequences for the principles on which the movement is bounded.

''Under international law, the protected parties are the civilians,'' said Janet
Bergquist, a member of the steering committee of the New Mexico Sanctuary
Defense Committee. ''The civilian has the right to flee from a war. These women
were fleeing El Salvador because of the war. They felt they could not raise
their children in El Salvador because of the war.''

''They have the right to be here because they are refugees. When the sanctuary
movement started, they were protecting people fleeing for fear of their lives,
and that seemed directly related to death squad activity. Now it seems more
directly related to the war.''

On Friday Federal District Judge John E. Conway ruled he would hear arguments
that were denied to the defense in Tucson.Sanctuary leaders believe that he has
opened up the hearing for arguments that include international law, conditions
in El Salvador and religious intent, according to Penny Deleray, administrator
of the San Francisco-based National Sanctuary Defense Fund.

Article Was Not Written

Ms. Martinez contends that she accompanied Mr. Remer-Thamert because she was
gathering information for an article she hoped to publish around the time the
Salvadoran women were due to deliver. Kent Walz, associate editor of The
Albuquerque Journal, said she was not on assignment for the paper and he did not
know of the proposal until Ms. Martinez was indicted.

Ms. Martinez said she had decided not to write the article about the women
''because their anonymity would be endangered and they could end up with
deportation.'' She wrote a poem about the women that will be published in a
collection of poetry later this year.

''At one level,'' she said of her case, ''it's a concern to reporters who are
attempting to gather information about a topic which the current Administration
would deem politically incorrect. At another level, there's the whole issue of
the relationship between the reporter and the source.''

Mr. Lutz says that Ms. Martinez was an active participant in criminal activity.
In an interview with The Dallas Morning News, he compared her actions to those
of a drug dealer who asks to be allowed to break the law because he writes about
it.

Judge Conway ruled Friday that the defense could not enter evidence on Ms.
Martinez's First Amendment argument in the hearing but that it could be an issue
for the trial.

An Anonymous Tip

In a brief, Mr. Lutz said that his investigation of Mr. Remer-Thamert began
after an anonymous caller to the Albuquerque Police Department reported that the
minister was selling children of Central American refugees. ''The sole purpose
of this whole scheme was to sell these women's babies to Americans desiring to
adopt babies,'' the brief said.

Mr. Lutz said Friday that sanctuary leaders have been ill-advised in bringing
the sanctuary issue into the case, because Mr. Remer-Thamert, a minister of the
Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, has said that the women were to be sent
back after they delivered their babies. They have, however, remained in the
United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 8, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition; August 11,
1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

CORRECTION:

An article yesterday about charges against a writer and a minister involved in
the illegal entry of two Salvadoran women into the United States misstated the
role of the writer, Demetria Martinez. Ms. Martinez knew about the entry and
wrote about it; she did not arrange the trip.

Articles on June 7, July 2 and Aug. 3 about a Federal trial involving sanctuary
for illegal aliens incorrectly described a defendant, the Rev. Glen
Remer-Thamert. Mr. Remer-Thamert was removed from the clergy roster of the
Lutheran Church in America several years ago and is not affiliated with its
successor, the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.

Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about the Yonkers
desegregation case misstated the circumstances under which the Emergency
Financial Control Board took over Yonkers' finances in 1984. It acted after the
Yonkers school board, facing a deficit, threatened to close the city's schools.
In addition, the article incorrectly described the judicial panel that will hear
the appeal of a contempt ruling against the city and four councilmen. It will be
a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit.

GRAPHIC: photo of Demetria Martinez and Rev. Glen Remer-Thamert (NYT/Cary Herz)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 9, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

At Ellis I., Tracking 17 Million Names

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 995 words


The estimated 100 million Americans whose relatives arrived in the United States
at Ellis Island will be able to instantly trace their history at a new
computerized geneological center planned for the restored immigration site.

The new computer project, being organized by a private group, will contain
information on the 17 million immigrants who landed at Ellis Island, including
the date they arrived, the ship they came on, their country of origin, their
physical characteristics and even the amount of money they brought to the New
World. All a user would need to know is the relative's name.

A special program now being developed would automatically help visitors whose
relatives' names had been changed or spelled phonetically by American
immigration officials.

Fund-Raising Campaign

Plans to raise funds for the $25 million family history center are to be
announced today by the nonprofit group, the Ellis Island Restoration Center,
which has worked with the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Preservation Foundation
to restore Ellis Island and turn it into a museum. The initial stages of the
museum, including the renovated Great Hall, are scheduled to open in the fall of
1989, with the geneological computer to be ready for use in 1992, the centennial
of Ellis Island. At the same time, Navy divers have begun efforts to refloat a
ferry that carried most of the immigrants from Ellis Island to the shores of New
York and New Jersey.

The ferry, named the Ellis Island, sank at the ferry slip on the island in 1968,
14 years after she was decommissioned and operations at the island were ended.
From 1904, when the 144-foot double-decked ferry was put into service, she
carried 12 million immigrants from Ellis Island to the Battery in lower
Manhattan or a railroad terminal in Jersey City.

Edie Shean-Hammond, a spokeswoman for the National Park Service, which will
operate the Ellis Island museum, said the sunken ferry had to be removed because
she represented a navigational hazard to efforts to build a new ferry slip on
the island in preparation for the reopening of Ellis Island next year. When the
project was first proposed, Mrs. Shean-Hammond said, private contractors said
raising the ferry would be too costly or would lead to her breaking up under
water. Then the Navy volunteered its services free as part of a training
program.

''This is a really significant development, because this was the boat that
carried all those immigrants from the Isle of Tears to America,'' Mrs.
Shean-Hammond said, using a common term among the immigrants for Ellis Island.
During the heyday of unrestricted immigration before World War I, 5,000
prospective Americans a day rode on the ferry's broad decks.

The diving team - 13 naval reservists from Chicago, 7 regular Navy personnel and
2 women who are midshipmen at the Naval Academy - began their dives yesterday
from a gray barge moored above the sunken ferry. She is resting in 15 feet of
water, tilted at a 15-degree angle and covered with an estimated 500 tons of
mud, according to Lieut. Comdr. Joel F. Steadley, the head of the diving team.

Holes to Patch

The divers will remove the silt through large suction hoses and patch holes in
the ferry's hull for the next two weeks. Another naval reserve unit from Miami
will then continue the work for several more weeks, with a unit from
Jacksonville, Fla., scheduled to pump water out of the hull and try to refloat
the vessel in August. If they are successful, the ferry is to be berthed nearby
and put on display.

''We are cautiously optimistic we can float it,'' Commander Steadley said as he
watched his crew enter the murky water beside the island's main red brick
Victorian structure.

The planned center will allow people like Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of
Massachusetts, the probable Democratic Presidential nominee, to look up the
details of their relatives' arrival. His father arrived from Asia Minor in 1912,
and his mother in 1913 from northern Greece.

The great majority of Ellis Island immigrants arrived between 1892 and 1924,
when the immigration laws were made much more restrictive.

The planned family history center is to be next to the Great Hall in the main
building. The materials for it have already been assembled and come from the
National Archives, the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Temple
Balsch Center for Immigration Research at Temple University in Philadelphia,
according to Philip Lax, the president of the Ellis Island Restoration
Commission. Much of the material comes from the manifests of ships that brought
the immigrants.

Until now, Mr. Lax said, a person could try to trace immigrant forebearers only
by going to the National Archives in Washington and looking through individual
ships' manifests. If the person did not know the name of the ship or the date of
its arrival, the search could take days or be fruitless.

'A Dream for Years'

''There are people who said it couldn't be done, but we now have a complete
record of every immigrant,'' said Mr. Lax, who heads a real-estate management
and investment company in Short Hills, N.J.

''This has been a dream of mine for years,'' Mr. Lax said. ''My family came
through Ellis Island.''

Both his father and mother came from Austria, he related, his father on the ship
St. Louis at the turn of the century. As for his mother, Mr. Lax said, ''I'll
have to use the computer.''

The computer will be designed for easy use, like those found in banks, with a
visitor having only to touch the screen. The computer will display 15 types of
information, including the name of the immigrant, the name of the ship, the date
of arrival, country of origin, port of embarkation, occupation, level of
literacy, intended destination in the United States, race, physical
characteristics and data on any relatives listed as already living in America.

Visitors will be able to get a printout, if desired, for an extra charge, Mr.
Lax said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of the ferry Ellis Island (pg. B7) (NYT/Neal Boenzi)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 18, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Israel Feels Growing Anguish As Immigration Flow Falters

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1746 words

DATELINE: MIVASERET ZION, Israel, June 17


Hanna Mandelgeim's Jewish friends in Leningrad tried their best to talk her out
of moving to Israel earlier this year.

The Palestinian uprising was at its height, and Soviet television seemed to
glory in showing footage of Israeli soldiers beating up Arabs.

''They said we should go to America,'' Mrs. Mandelgeim recalled, sitting with
her 14-year-old son in one of the bare but functional apartments that Israel
makes available to new immigrants for six months, rent-free.

''They said there are Arabs in Israel, and everybody in America is rich. But we
think the place for Jews is Israel, not America. Here we feel in our own
house.'' Mrs. Mandelgeim is an exception. Last month, Israel issued 1,169 visas
to Soviet Jews who were given permission to emigrate to Israel. But that was not
the number who came.

Many Go Elsewhere

When the Soviet Jews stopped to switch planes in Vienna, 1,059 of them, or 91
percent, changed their reservations and flew on to the United States,
infuriating Israeli officials and contributing to what the Government is
beginning to call the immigration crisis.

It is ''a disgrace'' and ''a national tragedy,'' said Yaacov Tsur, Israel's
Minister of Immigrant Absorption. His ministry is the Government agency in
charge of immigration matters.

Hardly another country in the world complains that it takes in too few
immigrants. Most try to keep them out. But the principal tenet of Zionism is
that Israel should be home to the world's Jews, who lived without a nation of
their own for 2,000 years. Few issues stir more passion in Israel.

From 1980 through 1987, about 117,000 Jews immigrated to Israel, according to
figures from the Ministry of Immigrant Absorption. But during the same period,
about 94,000 Jews emigrated from Israel to other countries, primarily the United
States, The population of Israel is about 4.5 million, and about 84 percent of
Israelis are Jews.

The Jews 'Don't Come'

''This is the only Jewish state, we are the pioneers and we created it for the
Jewish people,'' said Uri Gordon, the head of the Immigration and Absorption
Department of the Jewish Agency, which acts as an intermediary betweem Israel
and the world's Jews.

''We built it for them, but nothing happens,'' he said, anguish is his voice.
''The Jewish people don't come.'' So far this year, immigration to Israel is
about as high as it was last year. This is primarily because even with the high
''dropout rate'' of Soviet Jews, those with Israeli visas who wind up elsewhere,
the number of arriving Soviet Jews has been three times greater than it was last
year.

Nonetheless, the Soviet dropout rate has never been higher. Last year, about 30
percent of the Jews leaving the Soviet Union came to Israel, and officials are
worried that soon, no departing Soviet Jews will move to Israel.

At the same time, 25 percent fewer Americans moved to Israel in the first three
months of 1988 than moved here in the first three months of 1987, according to
Government figures. And twice as many Israelis left for the United States last
year as American Jews moved to Israel in the same year.

Government figures show that even when American Jews do move here, within two or
three years about half of them move back to the United States.

'Very Worried'

Since the United States and Soviet Union offer the largest pools of potential
immigrants, ''this sudden decline causes us to be very worried about the
trend,'' said Gad Ben-Ari, the spokesman for the Absorption Ministry.

Many Israelis see immigration as a reflection of their success, or failure, in
creating an attractive, livable nation.

The bulk of Israel's immigrants have come in waves, based largely on events in
the countries of origin of the refugees. Pogroms in the Soviet Union late in the
last century and early in this one sent thousands of Russians to Palestine.
Germans and Eastern Europeans arrived before and after World War II. North
African and Middle Eastern Jews came in large numbers in the 1960's after
meeting with persecution in their homelands. And large numbers of Americans
moved here after the Arab-Israeli war in 1967.

With immigration levels apparently ready to fall off even more, many Israelis
and supporters of Israel attribute the trend to a host of issues other than the
country's troubled image in the world today, six months into the Palestinian
uprising.

U.S. Is Faulted

Some angrily blame the United States for the Soviet dropout phenomenon, pointing
to the United States policy of giving refugee status to Soviet Jews,
automatically entitling them to a visa and other benefits. Washington's approach
amounts to ''bribing Soviet Jewish emigrants,'' said Mikhail Agursky, a
specialist in Soviet and East European Affairs at Hebrew University. Mr. Agursky
set forth his thoughts in a recent newspaper column.

''Could Israel stand idly by if U.S. Jewry were to try enticing Israelis to
emigrate to the U.S.?'' Mr. Tsur, the Absorption Minister, asked in the Israeli
Parliament last week.

A senior United States Embassy official calls that idea ridiculous. People
immigrating to Israel get far more attention and benefits than those entering
the United States, he said, even with the advantages of refugee status.

Permits, Not Demands

Besides, the Israeli visas given to Soviet Jews are ''permits, not one-way
tickets or demands,'' the United States official said. ''Whether or not to use
it, that's an individual's right.''

To solve the problem, the Government said Israel is planning to fly Soviet Jews
directly here, denying them the chance to change planes en route. The Government
has also said it may channel Soviet Jews through Bucharest, Rumania, where it is
much more difficult to change travel plans. But it is unclear whether or when
that will become official policy.

''If we find a way to make a straight flight from the Soviet Union, not stop in
Vienna, then the Jews would come,'' Mr. Gordon of the Jewish Agency said. Asked
if they would come then only because they had no choice, he said: ''That's
right. We built a Jewish state for the Jewish people to come here!''

Bureaucracy as Bane

Some Israelis say their country's immigration bureaucracy is so thick and
daunting that it alone discourages people from moving here.

New immigrants ''are being grinded into the ground by the bureacracy,'' said
Zeev Bielski, a former Government immigration official and the chairman of the
Israeli Forum, a private group that maintains contacts with young American Jews,
in part to encourage them to move to Israel.

''When they come here and see the absorption process'' he said, new immigrants
''run for their lives because it's hopeless, useless.'' Immigration officials
quickly offer those and other explanations for the immigration ''crisis.'' But
on reflection, after talking for a while, almost all of them settle on one core
issue, as Mr. Bielski did.

The Uprising as Deterrent

''People don't want to come here when they see us beating Palestinians,'' he
said. ''It's a sad, bad situation, and there's only one solution. We have to
give immigrants a better place to live.''

Mr. Gordon said: ''It's very difficult here. We have a crisis of leadership. Or
leaders stop to dream. They are tired. We need new leaders. For the ones that
come to Israel now, life is very hard. Every day in the morning we have a new
drama. Why go to a place with a lot of problems?''

''Rather than move to Israel and fight wars,'' said Simcha Dinitz, the head of
the Jewish Agency, a Soviet Jew might think, ''I can go to Brighton Beach and
pick the money off of trees.''

Mrs. Mandelgeim, the Soviet emigre, said many of her friends chose to move to
the United States ''because they want the good things in life.''

''Their motivation is financial, money, their own car,'' she said. ''Everyone
knows that the style of life is better in America. And there's lots of Soviet
propaganda about Israelis hitting people.''

The Orthodox Predominate

''A normal person from a developed country just doesn't pick up and move here,''
Mr. Dinitz said. That is why so many newcomers are the Orthodox, who come for
religious reasons, he said.

At the absorption center in this village west of Jerusalem, 33-year-old Yitzhak
Miskin, formerly of Harrisburg, Pa., said the reason that he and his family
moved to Israel nine months ago ''was my Jewish identity, and to improve my
knowledge of the Torah.''

Twelve families from the United States are living in the Mivaseret center today,
and ''only two of them are not religious,'' Mr. Miskin said.

Mr. Bielski said that when he approaches American Jews about emigrating to
Israel, he tells them: ''Israel is hard place. Help us fix it. We need new
leadership. Come help us lead and fix the problems.'' And Mr. Gordon says he
tells American Jews: ''Come. Bring your ideas. Work with us.'' 'Have a Voice'

''With all the problems I saw here, I couldn't just keep sitting in my easy
chair, criticizing,'' Mr. Miskin said. ''I decided to come here and have a voice
in how it's done.''

Asked if he has a favored political party, he said: ''I certainly do. Kach.
Rabbi Meir Kahane.'' He was referring to the nationalist party of Rabbi Kahane,
the extreme rightist who advocates forcing all the Arabs out of Israel and the
occupied territories.

Even with the disappointing immigration results, dozens of full-time Jewish
Agency officials travel across the United States year-round, trying to persuade
Jews to move to Israel.

But Mr. Ben-Ari said the immigration authorities have grown ''so disillusioned
and discouraged'' about the level and type of Jewish immigrants from the United
States ''that there are talks going on now about stopping the efforts
altogether.''

''They will not come, so let's forget it. It's an illusion,'' he said.  Mr.
Gordon does not agree. ''The United States is just the Diaspora,'' he said.
''The Diaspora is a journey. Maybe it will take much work and 1,000 years, but
Israel is the destination.''

IN AND OUT OF ISRAEL

Number of Jews immigrating to Israel and Israelis emigrating to other countries,
primarily the U.S.

                To            From
              Israel         Israel

1980              20,122         10,700
1981              11,665         22,000
1982              13,176          8,600
1983              16,401          4,100
1984              19,230         10,400
1985              12,298         15,300
1986              10,142         13,900
1987*             14,000          9,000


* Preliminary

(Source: Israeli Ministry of Absorption)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Hanna and Valery Mandelgeim with their daughter, Rachel, at
the Absorption Center in Mivaseret Zion, Israel (NYT/Micha Bar-Am) (pg. 5)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 28, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Acquitted in 'Pizza Connection' Trial, Man Remains in Prison

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 913 words


More than four years after he was arrested in the ''pizza connection'' drug case
and more than a year after he became the only defendant acquitted in the record
trial that followed, the son of a Sicilian Mafia boss remains in jail in a
convoluted immigration case.

The prisoner, 31-year-old Vito Badalamenti, is being held in the Metropolitan
Correctional Center in Chicago while his lawyers and the Government joust over a
seemingly arcane point regarding his status in the United States.

Mr. Badalamenti's 65-year-old father, Gaetano Badalamenti, one-time boss of the
Sicilian Mafia's ruling commission in Palermo, was convicted with 17 others of
running a huge heroin trafficking conspiracy and is serving up to 45 years in
the Federal penitentiary in Marion, Ill. The case was nicknamed for the
pizzerias and other fronts used to smuggle heroin valued at $1.6 billion into
the country between 1979 and 1984.

'Something Very Wrong'

Vito Badalamenti's peculiar case has produced its own morass of litigation,
puzzling to those who wonder how someone found not guilty after three years in
jail could end up spending 17 more months behind bars.

''I think there's something very wrong with that,'' said Robert Koppelman, Mr.
Badalamenti's lawyer in the pizza trial, who ceased representing him upon his
acquittal in March 1987.

''The whole case is amazing,'' said Michael Patrick, another New York lawyer who
briefly represented Mr. Badalamenti in the immigration proceedings. ''He's
acquitted, and he's in jail.''

Through his current lawyer, Donald Kempster of Chicago, Mr. Badalamenti said he
did not wish to comment while appeals were pending, for fear of damaging his
case.

A spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington, Verne
Jervis, said Mr. Badalamenti, an Italian national, could have freely departed
the country after his acquittal but chose not to, thereby subjecting himself to
deportation proceedings. That assertion is disputed by the defense.

Arrested in 1984

After extensive surveillance, Vito and Gaetano Badalamenti were arrested by the
Spanish police in Madrid on April 8, 1984, capping a four-year undercover
investigation on both sides of the Atlantic and setting off a series of raids by
the Federal Bureau of Investigation throughout the United States. Extradited to
the United States and unable to post multimillion-dollar bails, they remained in
jail throughout the trial.

In the pizza-connection trial in Federal Court in Manhattan - a case that became
the longest criminal jury trial on record in the district - the Government
played some of 100,000 wiretapped telephone conversations in an effort to prove
that Gaetano Badalamenti, at times assisted by Vito, had conspired from exile in
Brazil to send heroin and cocaine to Mafia cohorts in the Bonanno family in the
United States.

There was testimony that Vito had welcomed one of the drug middlemen, Pietro
Alfano - later shot in New York - to Madrid. But the jury found the younger
Badalamenti not guilty.

He was given a week to leave the country, according to Mr. Jervis of the
immigration service. At one point, the spokesman said, Mr. Badalamenti was about
to board a plane at Kennedy International Airport for Paraguay, but changed his
mind after learning that the flight would make a stop in Brazil.

Case Called Complicated

''He made no serious effort to leave,'' Mr. Jervis said. But two of Mr.
Badalamenti's lawyers, Mr. Kempster and Lowell Gettman, said it was more
complicated than that.

Mr. Kempster said Mr. Badalamenti had sought to return to Madrid immediately
after his acquittal but was told by Spanish authorities that he would be refused
entry. Both lawyers said that the Government had then offered to put Mr.
Badalamenti aboard the plane to Paraguay and that he was set to go until he
learned that the flight would remain in Brazil for several hours.

At that point, Mr. Gettman said, ''everyone involved with the case thought
something was up.'' Their fear, he said, was that a trap was being laid to
rearrest Mr. Badalementi in Brazil.

No charges were pending there, he said, but Italy might have been preparing a
case.

Several days later, according to both Mr. Gettman and Mr. Kempster, Government
agents were taking Mr. Badalamenti back to the airport for another flight to
Paraguay when they unaccountably turned around and took him into custody.

''The Government reneged,'' Mr. Kempster contended, after Italy ''expressed
interest'' in him.

Deportation Proceedings Begin

Because of a shortage of jail space in New York, Mr. Badalamenti was later moved
to the Federal correctional center in Chicago.

An immigration judge subsequently held that Mr. Badalamenti, by not leaving the
country when he could have after his acquittal, was in effect seeking admission
to the United States and could therefore be excluded and deported.

Mr. Badalamenti appealed to the Board of Immigration Appeals, which ordered the
case reheard by the immigration judge, Anthony M. DeGaeto in New York. The judge
again ruled that he could be excluded, and again the case is on appeal.

Meanwhile Mr. Kempster has filed a separate court challenge, saying the
Government erred by subjecting Mr. Badalamenti to new proceedings within 45 days
of his acquittal, a violation of the extradition treaty with Spain, the lawyer
contended.

He said he was expecting a decision on the immigration appeal in perhaps three
to four weeks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 19, 1988, Friday, Late City Final Edition

THE LAW;
Helping Immigrants Obey the Law

BYLINE: By DAVID S. WILSON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 5, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 471 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 18


The Southern California melting pot has cracks in it and immigrants who do not
understand American laws are falling through.

That is the view of Arthur Gross Schaeffer, a former lawyer. Now a rabbi and
business ethics instructor, he hopes to seal some of the cracks with a slim
pamphlet he has written. It is ''The Law and You,'' something of a guidebook for
legal living in the United States.

The pamphlet, printed in six languages, summarizes arrest and trial procedures.
It also contains telephone numbers of social service agencies and stern
descriptions of illegal behavior.

''Be Warned!'' the pamplet begins. ''These things are against the law.'' Among
the illegalites listed are ''striking, burning, sexually abusing or locking your
child in a room,'' using ''streets as toilets'' and ''possessing or selling
illegal drugs - even marijuana.''

A Vital Document

Social workers here say the pamphlet is a vital document for Southern
California, where, by the year 2000, foreign-born residents are expected to make
up 30 percent of the population.

Police officers tell stories of immigrants accustomed to other cultures who
abuse their spouses or children, drive without licenses or strew litter. Then
they become confused when the authorities step in.

''In one case,'' Rabbi Schaefer recalled, ''an immigrant child was almost hit by
a car. His father immediately burned his neck with a cigarette to release the
devils that come with avoiding a dangerous situation. He did not know he could
be arrested for child abuse.''

The rabbi, who is 36 years old, splits his time between work as an associate
professor of law and ethics at Loyola Marymount University and as a rabbi at
Temple Israel in Hollywood.

A year ago, he brought the idea of the pamphlet to a Hollywood committee of the
National Council of Christians and Jews. With help from the committee and local
public defenders and police officers, he wrote a draft that was assessed by
lawyers and immigrants.

Pamphlets in English and Spanish were soon followed by versions in Russian,
Vietnamese, Cambodian, Chinese and Armenian. Translations and sometimes printing
were provided by ethnic newspapers in the area.

The pamphlet is financed by donations and earnings from weddings and funerals
that Rabbi Schaefer conducts. More than 25,000 copies have been distributed,
some to ethnic community groups in Texas, Hawaii and Montana. Plans call for
translation into Korean and other languages.

The pamphlet is passed out by various groups that deal with immigrants,
including the Los Angeles police. Angie Roman, a police department secretary,
gave a copy to her mother. ''My mother has been here from Mexico for 42 years,
but she still mainly speaks Spanish,'' Ms. Roman said. ''She loved the Spanish
version. 'It's all good to know,' she says.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 22, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Senator Aids Son of Ex-Wife

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 32, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 246 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21


The Senate has passed a bill introduced by Elizabeth Taylor's sixth husband on
behalf of her second husband's son, who was facing possible deportation because
of a drug conviction.

The bill, introduced by Senator John W. Warner, Republican of Virginia, and
approved Tuesday, would exempt Michael Wilding, the 34-year-old son of Miss
Taylor and the British actor Michael Wilding, who died in 1979, from a law
prohibiting permanent resident visas for people convicted of drug violations.

The bill, which now goes to the House, was approved by the Senate on a unanimous
vote.

Mr. Wilding, now living in New York City and working as an actor on the
television soap opera ''The Guiding Light,'' was convicted in Wales in 1974 of
possessing marijuana and cultivating marijuana plants in a house that he and six
others shared. Three years earlier he renounced his United States citizenship.

Mr. Wilding returned to the United States in 1981, but because of the conviction
the Immigration and Naturalization Service has refused to grant him a permanent
resident visa. Senator Warner said the actor's lawyers expected the Government
to begin deportation proceedings soon.

''So far as I know, and his mother knows, Mr. Wilding has lived a drug-free,
law-abiding existence since the occurrence of the offenses during his very early
life,'' Mr. Warner said in a letter to the Senate Judiciary Committee.

Mr. Warner and Miss Taylor, who married in 1976, were divorced in 1982.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 6, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION AIDE ACCUSED OF FRAUD

BYLINE: By JERRY SCHWARTZ, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 23, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 649 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Nov. 5


A former district director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Atlanta has been indicted here on charges that he conspired to submit false
documents in an effort to get favorable treatment for aliens in this country.

In an indictment unsealed here Wednesday, Louis M. Richard, who held a series of
positions with the I.N.S. before serving as the district director in Atlanta
from 1985 to 1987, was charged with one count of conspiring with a South
Carolina lawyer, James V. Dunbar Jr., to make false statements on behalf of
seven aliens. Mr. Richard retired this year. None of the aliens were charged.

Mr. Richard and Mr. Dunbar are charged with trying to have the status of aliens
changed by submitting false documents to the immigration service over at least
two years, beginning in 1983. According to the indictment, Mr. Dunbar would
submit fraudulent applications that Mr. Richard, in his capacity as an
immigration official, would then approve even though he knew the applications
contained false statements.

Not-Guilty Pleas

Both men face up to 115 years in prison and more than $3.6 million in fines if
convicted on all counts.

Neither Mr. Richard nor his Atlanta attorney could be reached for comment. Gary
G. Grindler, attorney for Mr. Dunbar, said, ''Mr. Dunbar has pleaded not guilty
in this matter, and while he is not pleased with the fact that an indictment has
been returned, he welcomes the opportunity to meet these charges and he expects
to be found not guilty by the jury.'' A not-guilty plea has also been entered by
Mr. Richard, whose name is pronounced rih-SHARD.

Robert L. Barr Jr., United States Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia,
said Mr. Dunbar is charged in the indictment with submitting documents to the
United States, in at least seven instances, that overstated the financial and
professional positions of at least seven aliens in the United States.

The indictment charged that Mr. Dunbar stated that one alien, the owner of a
candy company, ''was a world renowned chocolatier with an international
reputation as a leading expert in the field of exquisite chocolates and a top
level executive'' in a Belgian chocolate company. None of that was true, the
indictment charges.

Other aliens were represented, according to the indictment, as a business
executive, property developer, jeweler and architect - all with substantial
United States business interests. According to the indictment, the
characterizations were misrepresentations.

Mr. Richard is charged with approving changes of status based on documents
submitted by Mr. Dunbar that Mr. Richard knew to be false.

No Bribery Charges

The indictment does not charge that either man accepted or solicited bribes. ''A
payoff or something of value is not an essential element of this charge,'' Mr.
Barr said. ''However, we can realistically anticipate that the question will
come up during the trial and there will be evidence on that subject.''

A Federal official familiar with the case said evidence of money changing hands
''is not as clear cut as we would like.''

As district director of I.N.S. in Atlanta, Mr. Richard was in charge of I.N.S.
operations in Alabama, Georgia, North Carolina and South Carolina when Cuban
detainees, who arrived in the United States during the Mariel boatlifts in the
early 1980's, were transferred from various federal prisons to the United States
Penitentiary in Atlanta.

Mr. Barr had announced several months ago that immigration and prison officials
were under investigation by a federal grand jury. Families of some of the Cuban
detainees had alleged that immigration and prison officials were attempting to
extort money from the detainees in exchange for favorable immigration rulings.

The indictment against Mr. Richard and Mr. Dunbar has no connection with the
investigation of Cuban detainee charges, Mr. Barr said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 28, 1988, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Free Speech Takes Step Backward in Ideological Exclusion Law

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 459 words


To the Editor:

''A Half Step Toward Free Speech,'' your editorial praising Congress and the
President for extending a new law that limits ideological exclusion of aliens
under the McCarran-Walter Act (Oct. 29) is well intentioned, but misinformed.
Largely because of the efforts of Senator Alan Simpson, the extension is a
significant step backward.

Under the extension, permanent resident aliens are no longer protected from
ideological exclusion and deportation. Last year's law - Section 901 of the
Foreign Relations Authorization Act - provided that no alien could be denied a
visa or deported because of any beliefs, statements or associations that would
be constitutionally protected if engaged in by citizens. When Section 901 was
extended this year, Senator Simpson insisted that its protection be limited to
''nonimmigrant'' aliens.

This means that permanent residents can once again be deported for advocating
such proscribed doctrines as ''world communism'' or for associating with
organizations that support those ideas. Short-term foreign visitors are as free
to speak and associate as citizens, but permanent residents, and those who think
they might like to become permanent residents, are not.

The revised Section 901 turns on its head the principle that an alien is granted
more, not fewer, rights as he becomes a permanent part of our community. It
exacts a harsh ideological price at the very point when an alien becomes
entitled - typically because of close family members who are citizens - to be a
part of a community that prides itself on guaranteeing the freedom to speak of
all within it. The change is far from academic. The State Department has refused
to admit the Yugoslav wife of a United States citizen who would have qualified
before Section 901 was revised. Those who became permanent residents under the
original section must now fear traveling abroad because they can be barred from
returning.

The revised section has also caused the Immigration and Naturalization Service
to reverse itself in the deportation case against Margaret Randall. Since 1984,
the I.N.S. has been seeking to deport Ms. Randall, a feminist author, whose
books the Government interprets as advocating the ''doctrines of world
communism.'' When Section 901 was passed last year, the I.N.S. agreed it meant
that Ms. Randall could not be denied permanent resident status and deported for
her writings. Citing the new law, I.N.S. has resurrected its position that Ms.
Randall should be deported for her ideas.

DAVID COLE
LUCAS GUTTENTAG
  New York, Nov. 8, 1988

The writers are, respectively, a lawyer with the Center for Constitutional
Rights and the director of the American Civil Liberties Union's immigrants'
rights project.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 12, 1988, Monday, Late City Final Edition

185 More Cuban Exiles Arrive

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section B; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 167 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 11


One hundred and eighty-five Cuban exiles arrived here from Spain Saturday under
a special arrangement under which they have been given private sponsors and are
declared ineligible for aid from the United States Government.

The Cubans, some of whom waited for decades to join relatives in the United
States, were loaded into buses at Miami airport and taken to a private residence
for a reunion with friends and family members.

Cubans who come directly from Cuba to the United States are granted almost
immediate asylum, while those who enter through third countries have normally
been classified as illegal immigrants subject to deportation.

But the 185 from Madrid have been granted asylum under a new agreement between
Washington and the Cuban American National Foundation. The agreement allows the
lobbying group to bring in 1,500 refugees a year from third countries.

It was the second large group to arrive under the accord. On Sept. 11, 687
Cubans came here from Panama and Costa Rica.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 16, 1988, Friday, Late City Final Edition

South Texans Fear an Influx of Aliens

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1115 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, Tex, Dec. 15


A new immigration service policy threatens to burden South Texas with thousands
of new Central American aliens, overwhelming public services in an impoverished
area that can not care for the aliens already there.

The policy, announced today by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, would
all but eliminate the ability of aliens to travel beyond the area where they
entered the United States to seek political asylum.

Since nearly all aliens crossing from Mexico hope to settle elsewhere, the
policy could mean an influx of thousands of aliens who would be trapped in South
Texas for months or longer with no means of support.

An Explosive Political Issue

Immigration officials here say they are receiving almost 2,000 requests for
political asylum a week.

Even before the new policy, which went into effect immediately, the growing
population of Central American aliens was becoming an explosive political issue
here. It was a highly visible issue as well as more and more aliens have taken
to living in abandoned buildings and resorted to camping out under mesquite
trees at an overcrowded church-run shelter that has no room for them. Their
presence is raising widespread fears about public health, crime and the effects
on already overburdened public services.

''No one in his right mind would put this burden on the Valley,'' said Mike
Seifert, associate pastor of Our Lady of Assumption Church, which works
regularly with aliens. ''In the past, we've been trying to provide minimal
resources and not meeting the demand. If this goes through, I think we're
heading for a human disaster.''

Aim Is to Stop the Aliens

Under the policy, the immigration service will no longer allow aliens to travel
within the United States to apply for asylum and will not grant preliminary work
permits to those who apply for asylum. The aim is to act more quickly on what
the agency considers a flood of frivolous claims for political asylum and to
restrict the ability of aliens to move to their ultimate destinations, often
Miami or Los Angeles.

The new policy is also designed to deter immigration from Nicaragua, El
Salvador, Guatemala and other Central American countries. Immigration officials
have long held that most aliens fleeing Central America are coming here for
economic, not political reasons, and they contend that is the case with the
overwhelming majority of those coming now, including the Nicaraguans.

''We hope the word will get back to Central America that this is no longer a
free ride,'' said Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for the immigration service in
nearby Harlingen. ''We're not closing the door, we're just plugging some of the
loopholes.''

But critics of the immigration service say the ravages of war are so widespread
that it is not so simple to separate the economic refugees from the political
ones fleeing war.

About 5,000 Already Stranded

The brunt of the new policy is likely to fall on poor, largely Mexican-American
South Texas towns like Brownsville, Harlingen, and San Benito. Because of its
location, the area affords the closest crossing point for aliens from Central
America. About 5,000 are already stranded here, nearly all without work or
shelter, immigration service officials said.

Since the end of May more than 27,000 Central Americans have checked in with the
immigration service office in Harlingen, indicating they would apply for asylum.
Most of them have gone on to Florida or California, where their applications for
asylum have been processed. But under the new policy, they would have to have
their petitions for asylum reviwed where they first contacted the immigration
service.

''An increasing number of people who have been traditionally sympathetic are
beginning to become concerned, some irate,'' said a Brownsville City
Commissioner, Tony Zavaleta. ''We don't have problems with the refugees
themselves, but with the mounting number of people massing in our county, our
city, with no support, no availability of basic services. If we're not careful,
we'll have Latin American-style squatter settlements spring up.''

Groups who work with aliens say there is no likelihood aliens will be deterred
from coming. And while the aliens will be restricted to South Texas, no
provisions have been made for shelter or other public services. The largest
shelter for aliens, Casa Oscar Romero in Brownsville, always meets or exceeds
its 200-person capacity.

Petitions for asylum will be acted on in 30 days, the immigration service said.
But if a petition is denied, the process of a hearing before a judge can last
for months.

Duke Austin, an immigration service spokesman in Washington, said the agency had
no role in providing shelter or other services for aliens. He said other
communities, most notably Miami, have already felt the impact of the aliens.

Under the Refugee Act of 1980, aliens may be granted asylum if they can
demonstrate ''a well-founded fear of prosecution.'' In July 1987, Attorney
General Edwin Meese 3d took several steps that made it easier for Nicaraguans to
remain in the United States legally.

In recent years, the number of applications for asylum have risen dramatically.
In the fiscal year 1988, which ended Sept. 30, the immigration service received
60,736 petitions for political asylum, with about 90 percent of them from
Central Americans aliens, and almost half of that number being Nicaraguans. The
agency estimated that an average of 2.3 people were covered under each petition.

In 1987, the number of appliations was 26,107. In 1986, it 18,889.

Many residents here believe that the new policy will create a booming business
for smugglers who are willing to transport aliens around the country.

'A Detention Center'

''They have turned the whole Valley into a detention center,'' said Lisa
Brodyaga, a Brownsville immigration lawyer. ''They have made this public
detention at private expense. They're detaining them, but not paying for that
detention. It's going to become an explosion waiting to happen.''

Officials worry about massive public health problems, particularly for pregnant
women and their childen. Others worry about increased crime, although
Brownsville Police Chief Andres Vega, Jr. said the aliens were more likely to be
victims of crimes than perpetrators.

Officials say that not all the immigrants are poor and that the policy could
help South Texas in the long run if it keeps Central Americans with spurious
claims from coming.

But Linda Yanez, an immigration lawyer, said: ''They've been saying immigration
reform was going to stop illegal immigration. It hasn't, and it especially did
not have any effect on the refugee question.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of a Nicaraguan alien in Texas

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 6, 1989, Friday, Late City Final Edition

4 Illegal Asian Immigrants Are Believed to Have Drowned in River

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 565 words


As many as four illegal Asian immigrants, including a 7-year-old child, are
believed to have drowned in the turbulent Niagara River this week while being
smuggled into the United States on a flimsy inflatable raft.

Investigators said the victims appeared to have died while on the final leg of a
complex journey, run by a smuggling ring, that typically begins in Hong Kong,
spans Canada with ''safe houses'' and involves forged travel documents. Those
who make the trip are charged as much as $5,000 a person.

The body of a woman, described as Asian, possibly Chinese, and about 35 years
old, was found Tuesday on a riverbank near Youngstown, N.Y., about 10 miles
north of Niagara Falls. Two duffle bags full of clothes, as well as a purse,
were found in the water near the body, said Senior Investigator John W. Cole of
the Niagara County Sheriff's Department in Lockport, N.Y.

The woman, found by a passer-by, died wearing black-and-white flannel slacks,
with a multicolored scarf wrapped around her head and ''a lot of jewelry,''
including gold chains and a watch, said a spokesman for the United States Coast
Guard in Youngstown, Seaman Doug Layman.

Among the articles in the purse was a receipt from a Dec. 12-13 stay in a
Toronto Holiday Inn, registered under a Chinese man's name, Mr. Cole said. There
was also an identification card for a 26-year-old Malaysian woman, but the
fingerprints on the card did not match those of the body, he said.

On Wednesday, Coast Guard searchers found a vinyl raft, described by Mr. Cole as
four or five feet long ''a really cheap piece of work, something you might try
to use in your backyard swimming pool,'' near the spot where the woman's body
was found.

Based on that evidence, as well as information from someone in New York City who
told immigration officials that a 7-year-old was expected to make the crossing
with a Malaysian woman and two other adults this week, investigators believe
that four people were aboard the raft when it entered the water. The launching
point was probably Niagara-on-the-Lake, a small town in Ontario across the from
Youngstown.

''It hasn't been confirmed that she was smuggled in,'' said Benedict J. Ferro,
the Buffalo district director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
''But you've got a raft and her suitcases and her documents, so we're treating
it as a smuggling.''

Smuggling people aboard small craft is a recent phenomenon in the area, he
added. ''Most of our smuggling uses counterfeit documents, or puts people in the
trunks of cars or in trucks because they're coming across bridges,'' he said.
''Last summer, we started investigating small-boat smuggling in this area. We
apprehended 11 Chinese people who had succeeded in making the entry on several
different efforts, all by boat.''

Sue Lee, the executive director of Chinatown Manpower Inc., a
vocational-training center in Manhattan, called such smuggling unusual. ''We are
certainly aware that people are being smuggled from Canada into the United
States in more civilized ways, in the trunk of a car or in back seats,'' she
said.

The river near Youngstown is a treacherous stretch of whirlpools and heavy
currents that empties into Lake Ontario, Mr. Cole said.

''People take that kind of risk,'' Ms. Lee said, ''because they still believe
the United States is the mountain of gold and the land of opportunity.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 15, 1989, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

HEADLINERS;
Four on the Outside

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 154 words


Carlos and Bermaida Fajardo, who struggled for years to get to the United States
from Cuba - he arrived in 1984, she in 1986 - find themselves outside the land
of opportunity again. Mr. and Mrs. Fajardo, who live in Miami, wanted their two
children to have a white Christmas, so they drove north to see snow - all the
way to Niagara Falls. But after a brief stop on the Canadian side, they found
they could not get back into the United States.

They could not prove they were resident aliens, and immigration officials said
they had entered the United States illegally. Mr. Fajardo denied it, saying he
had an application for political asylum pending, but immigration officials said
it had been nullified by his departure. Since Dec. 23 the family has been living
at a motel in Canada on a temporary pass that expires today. ''We just came for
20 minutes,'' Mr. Fajardo said. ''No one told us we could not go back.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Carlos and Bermaida Fajardo

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 29, 1989, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Wave of Immigrant Children Strains Schools and Housing

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1415 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Jan. 27


The latest wave of Latin American immigrants now flooding Texas, California and
Florida includes an increasing proportion of women and children, a phenomenon
that is already beginning to strain housing, education and social services in
some cities.

''Mothers with children have different needs than young single men,'' said
Nestor Rodriguez, a professor of sociology at the University of Houston who is
working on a study on the effects of immigration for the Ford Foundation.

While a few cities have developed programs in recent months to address the needs
of these new immigrants, most are just beginning to realize they have a problem.

''They are at the point where they might see the need for action but not yet at
the point where they know the best way to act,'' Dr. Rodriguez said.

'Become a 50-50 Split'

He and others stress that women and young children have been crossing into the
United States in large numbers since the 1970's, most of them illegally. But
there have always been more men than women, and it was common for women who did
immigrate to leave their children behind and send for them later.

But in the last year or so, ''it has become a 50-50 split,'' said Ray Rodriguez,
director of legalization for Centro Atzlan, a social service agency established
in 1975 to help Hispanic immigrants. ''In the late 70's, early 80's you had a
mass migration of young single males. Now it's pretty even, and in the next year
we expect more females than males.''

Those who work with the immigrants say the reasons women are coming in greater
numbers have to do with the recent overhaul of United States immigration law and
changes in the immigrants' native lands.

There are no clear statistics to illustrate the new trend. Because most
immigrants enter the United States illegally, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service does not have data comparing the numbers of men and women, said Mario
Ortiz, a spokesman for the immigration service in Dallas.

'A Lot More Families'

The agency does keep track of the number of aliens who are caught and detained
by the border patrol, he said. But those numbers have been divided by sex only
for the last 18 months and do not reflect the entire picture.

Even without formal data, though, many who encounter the refugees daily have
come to the same conclusion as Ray Rodriguez.

''You just look and it stands out,'' said Paula Gomez, executive director of the
Brownsville Community Health Center. Brownsville is the city through which many
Central Americans are entering the United States.

''There are a lot more families,'' she said, ''a lot more children traveling and
a lot more family units walking along the road. There are a lot more kids who
are alone, and more and more are being found abandoned. Someone will have to
take care of them.''

Beginning to See Effects

Perhaps the most commonly cited cause for this demographic shift is ''chain
migration,'' in which one family member leaves for another country, spends
several years getting settled, then sends for the rest of the family. ''This is
to be expected in any migration,'' said Aurora Camacho de Schmidt, a spokeswoman
for the American Friends Service Committee in Philadelphia, who has studied the
effects of immigration laws on women. ''We're just beginning to see the effects
here.''

That process was accelerated by the 1986 law that granted amnesty to illegal
aliens who could prove they had lived in the United States since before 1982.
The law turned many illegal residents into legal residents with the right to
apply to have their family members join them.

''Amnesty has exacerbated the flow of nonworking dependents,'' said Patrick
Burns, assistant director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
which lobbied against the amnesty provision. ''Now that we've given them legal
residence, families want to come here legally. The hubby has gotten amnesty, and
he sends for the wife and kids.''

The same immigration legislation made it illegal for employers to hire illegal
aliens, with sanctions applied for violations. Those provisions have been
strictly enforced against organized businesses, like manufacturing and
agriculture, where male immigrants are more likely to work. They are less
thoroughly enforced in areas like child care and housekeeping, which employ more
women.

''What is happening is it is easier for women to find jobs because of employer
sanctions,'' said Ms. Camacho de Schmidt. ''They come here to work because the
men can't.''

Native Country a Factor

Carmen Santos, who came from her native Honduras last month to join her father
in New York City, is an example of that trend. Her father, who has been living
in the United States since 1983, lost his job as a restaurant dishwasher, she
said. Back home ''I was a maid,'' she said in an interview in front of the
immigration service office in Harlingen, near Brownsville, where she came
earlier this month to apply for political asylum. ''My father said I can find a
job here.''

A separate factor is the country from which the immigrants come. Jonathan Moore,
human rights coordinator for Proyecto Libertad, an alien assistance program in
Brownsville, said the early 1980's brought a wave of poor young men from El
Salvador who were fleeing poverty and army conscription. They were too poor, he
said, to bring their families with them.

More recently, he said, there has been an increase in the number of refugees
from Nicaragua who are fleeing war. They are comparatively better off than the
Salvadorans who preceded them, he said, and entire families can afford to come
at the same time.

War and immigration have also taken the men from many Central American towns,
and some of the women who are immigrating feel they must come north to find a
normal life.

''The war has been such that the men have been killed, or are in the armed
services or guerilla movement,'' said Maria Jimenez, director of the Immigration
Law Enforcement Monitoring Project of the American Friends Service Committee.
''The women are left as heads of households. The women have to migrate to
support whoever is left.''

Whatever the reasons for the immigration changes, experts believe it will strain
the nation's health care system because of the large number of women of
child-bearing age. It is also expected to put extra pressure on housing. ''If
you have 16 single males, they might all be willing to live in one apartment,''
Mr. Burns said. ''But once their families come over, you need 16 apartments.''

Impact on Schools

The changes in immigration will probably also tax the educational system,
because courts have ruled that all children, documented or not, are entitled to
public education.

The Dade County School District in Florida began keeping track of the problem in
last two years, said Dr. Jim Fleming, an associate Superintendent. In January
1988, he said, the district counted 7,127 undocumented Central American
children. A year later there were 8,727, a 22 percent increase. Each child costs
$2,500 per year to educate, he said, and every addition of 800 students requires
a new elementary school. Putting the number in perspective, he said, ''You're
looking at the equivalent of eight new elementary schools.''

In most places these results are still more feared than felt, but several cities
have already seen a need for action. In Brownsville, for instance, the rise in
the number of unaccompanied children, many of whom were sent north because they
risked being drafted at age 13, led the immigration service to establish the
International Emergency Shelter.

Financed by a $867,000 grant from the Justice Department, the shelter was opened
last summer and has beds for 25 boys and 10 girls, and on most nights more beds
are needed. The children receive medical and dental care and they attend classes
daily while shelter officials try to place them with relatives or in foster
care.

In Los Angeles, 35 city schools agreed in September to work together to address
the special needs of immigrant children. Of the 1,600 students who have entered
the program so far, 80 percent were from south of the border and nearly all of
those were recent arrivals, said Michael Bujazan, coordinator of the Student
Guidance Assessment and Placement Center.

The program provides medical care and immunizations for the children, who are
given psychological and academic tests in their native language. Counseling is
available for the entire family.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 10, 1989, Friday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Planning to Issue Extra Immigrant Visas

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 217 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 9


The State Department announced today that 10,000 extra visas a year would be
issued randomly in 1990 and 1991 to immigrants from 162 countries.

In contrast to the last such opportunity in 1986, when 1.4 million people
applied for 10,000 extra places, the visas will not be issued first-come,
first-served. Instead, computers will make random selections from the
applications.

Applications will be accepted all next month for the 1990 and 1991 visas.

Unlike refugees, who are generally given haven for political reasons, immigrants
are ordinarily required to have close relatives in the United States or to have
a scarce profession. The 20,000 to be admitted under the special program will
not have to meet those requirements.

Only screening for mental or criminal liabilities will be conducted, officials
said.

The lottery is open to citizens of countries from which there were fewer than
5,000 immigrants in the 1988 fiscal year. The countries excluded are Britain,
China, Colombia, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guyana, Haiti, India, Jamaica,
South Korea, Mexico and the Philippines. Natives of several British territories
and Taiwan are also ineligible.

Information on the application process may be obtained from the Bureau of
Consular Affairs, State Department, Washington, D.C. 20520.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 21, 1989, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. SET TO DETAIN REFUGEES IN TENTS BEGINNING TODAY

BYLINE: By ROBERTO SURO, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1453 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, Tex., Feb. 20


The Federal Government announced plans today to detain Central Americans who
file invalid claims for political asylum and hold them in a tent city it will
erect near here with space for 5,000 people.

The new policy goes into effect Tuesday and seeks to cut the flow of these
immigrants into South Texas. It will be the first mass detention of an immigrant
group since 1981, when thousands of Haitians were held after they tried to enter
Florida illegally.

The announcement at a news conference here by Commissioner Alan C. Nelson of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service reverses a Reagan Administration policy
that encouraged immigration by opponents of Nicaragua's Sandinista Government.

New Procedures, More Staff

Under the old policy, people who crossed the border illegally and requested
political asylum remained free and could travel anywhere in the United States
while their applications were processed, which often took weeks.

Streamlined procedures and more staff here will reduce the processing time to a
day, Mr. Nelson said.

Applicants for asylum will be detained immediately if their claims are rejected
in this initial screening. These people previously remained free while they
appealed.

And under the new rules, refugees taken into custody by the Border Patrol before
they have a chance to present an asylum application will also be served with a
deportation order and detained. In the past, most were released on their own
recognizance.

Court Action Considered

Lawyers who have previously challenged immigration service policies on behalf of
refugees said today that they were considering court action against the new
plan.

Preparations are being made to erect the tent city at a 315-acre immigration
service detention center in a desolate stretch of scrub land near the hamlet of
Bayview, 25 miles from here. The center currently has a capacity of 1,100
people. The tents would increase that to more than 6,000. And other centers have
been expanded to handle 1,000 more detainees, Mr. Nelson said.

Describing the goal of the new policy toward Central Americans, Mr. Nelson said,
''We intend to send a strong signal to those people who have the mistaken idea
that by merely filing a frivolous asylum claim, they may stay in the United
States.''

He added, ''This willful manipulation of America's generosity must and will
stop.''

Rules Apply to Texas Only

The measures announced today apply only to the southern Rio Grande Valley of
Texas, and people who apply for asylum elsewhere will not be subject to
detention even if they entered the country illegally.

But Brownsville is the border crossing geographically closest to Central
America, and it is here that the vast majority of these refugees have entered
the United States recently. Almost all have then moved elsewhere, primarily to
Florida and California.

More than 500 Federal officials have been mobilized to carry out the ''firm but
fair policy,'' Mr. Nelson said.

More than half of those additional people, 269, will be assigned to the Border
Patrol, he said. With an increase in agents, the patrol will substantially
increase its surveillance of the Rio Grande in the area.

'A Level Playing Field'

''What we are doing now is bringing us back to a level playing field,'' Mr.
Nelson said.

Large numbers of Nicaraguans began arriving here in the summer of 1987 after
Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d relaxed asylum procedures for them.

Initially, as many as 87 percent of asylum claims by Nicaraguans were approved.

The number of refugees from Nicaragua, El Salvador, Guatemala and other Central
American countries has rapidly grown, from more than 50,000 last year to more
than 100,000 this year, if the current rate continues, immigration service
figures show. In January, 37 percent of the refugees were from Nicaragua.

At the same time, the number of asylum claims being approved has decreased to
less than 5 percent, said an immigration service spokeswoman, Virginia Kice.

Although the law requires applicants for asylum to show they have reason to fear
persecution, Mr. Nelson said, ''We are getting many people from down there who
have had no contact with the Government and many of them even admit they are
Sandinistas.

The new enforcement measures are necessary to discourage those who are seeking
entry only to escape poverty, he said.

Local Officials' Complaints

In recent weeks local elected officials have repeatedly complained that the
Federal Government was doing little to help their communities meet the burden of
caring for the refugees.

The mayors of Brownsville and two neighboring cities as well as a county judge
appeared at the immigration service news conference today to applaud the new
program as a way to get the immigrants off the streets.

But Mayor Ygnazio Garza of Brownsville did express reservations about an aspect
of the plan under which unaccompanied minors and families will be housed in
federally funded shelters in Brownsville. The fenced-in detention area will be
reserved for single men and women.

Subject to what the immigration service calls ''soft detention,'' children and
families will have to appear at a daily roll call or be subject to a deportation
order issued in their absence.

If too many people are kept under these conditions for too long, Mayor Garza
said, ''We'll have to ask the Government to look for other solutions.''

New Policy in December

The immigration service began to try to deter the flood of applicants for
political asylum on Dec. 16, when it confined applicants to the Rio Grande
Valley while their claims were being studied.

A Federal judge, acting on a suit brought on behalf of a group of refugees,
temporarily suspended the travel restriction on Jan. 9. But last Friday, the
judge rejected the charge that the immigration service had violated its own
procedures in the way it adopted the policy and allowed the restriction to go
into effect again at 12:01 A.M. Tuesday.

Robert Rubin, a San Francisco lawyer who is the lead counsel for the refugees in
the suit, said today that forcing the immigrants to pursue their asylum claims
in South Texas violates their right to be represented by counsel because so few
lawyers in the area practice immigration law.

Mr. Rubin also noted that all appeals will be heard while the refugees are in
detention and cut off from ready access to lawyers.

He said a similar complaint forced the immigration service to reverse a similar
program in 1981 that involved taking Haitians out of South Florida and detaining
them in remote areas.

'Prejudged All These Cases'

Mark Schneider, a lawyer with Proyecto Libertad, a nonprofit group in Harlingen,
Tex., that advocates immigrants' rights, raised another objection.

''By stating that the goal is to deter frivolous claims the immigration service
has, in effect, prejudged all these cases, and we have serious doubts as to
whether its wide discretionary powers will be used fairly,'' he said.

Mr. Schneider also complained that the current policy will favor unscrupulous
smugglers who offer their services to aliens.

''Instead of encouraging immigrants to file asylum claims at the I.N.S. office
nearest the border, this policy will encourage them to try to move underground
deeper into the country where they can apply at any other I.N.S. office and
avoid detention,'' he said. ''And that is a gift to the smugglers who will offer
to take them there.''

Mr. Nelson insisted that each case would be judged individually, and he said the
immigration service would shift Border Patrol agents elsewhere if it detected an
increase in illegal entries in other areas.

Process to Be Faster

To speed the process of determining which applicants are legitimate, Mr. Nelson
said, State Department officials will now be stationed at the Bayview detention
center. Mailing applications to Washington for review by the State Department
had been the most time-consuming part of the process.

Aliens who have filed an asylum application but have not received a response
will not be detained but will not be allowed to leave the area.

If the claim is approved, the refugee will be free to go anywhere in the United
States and will be given authorization to work.

The major procedural change applies to those whose claims are initially denied.

They will be immediately subject to a deportation order and detention at least
until they can come before a judge and ask to post bond. Without bond and unless
they leave the country voluntarily, they will be in detention for weeks, perhaps
months, while they await hearings and pursue appeals, if they so choose.

Previously, these people were not routinely detained.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Immigration Commissioner Alan C. Nelson (AP) (pg. A21)

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 26, 1989, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Policy Cuts Asylum Applications

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 295 words

DATELINE: BAYVIEW, Tex., Feb. 25


So few people are applying for political asylum since the Government toughened
procedures here in south Texas early this week that the Immigration and
Naturalization Service is reducing the extra staff it brought in to start its
new program.

Officials of the immigration service say the declining number of applications
for asylum indicate the program is succeeding in discouraging ''frivolous''
ones. The agency maintains that most people seeking asylum here, mainly
Nicaraguans, Salvadorans and other Central Americans, have come for economic
reasons and are not fleeing persecution, a requirement for obtaining refugee
status.

A total of 50 examiners have been on duty here since Tuesday under the new
policy, in which applications for asylum are generally decided in one day and
are almost invariably rejected, leading to immediate detention and deportation
proceedings.

Of those 50 examiners, 26 will be sent home by Monday, said Alfonso De Leon, the
immigration service's assistant district director for examinations.

One of the two State Department employees on hand to issue advisory opinions
returned home Thursday, Mr. De Leon said.

''They are subject to recall, but it's just not cost-effective to have them here
with the numbers that are showing up, or should I say not showing up,'' said De
Leon, who oversees the adjudication process.

The immigration service reported it processed 233 asylum applications Tuesday,
the first day of the get-tough procedure. Only two people were granted asylum
that day.

Of 51 applications submitted Wednesday, none was approved. The number of
applicants dropped to 10 Thursday, all of whom were rejected and detained.

Of the 19 processed Friday, a 20-year-old Nicaraguan student was the only one
granted asylum.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 17, 1989, Friday, Late City Final Edition

For Illegal Irish Immigrants, A Time to Test That Luck

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1330 words


Young Irish immigrants in a steady stream climbed a flight of stairs above
Roosevelt Avenue in Woodside, Queens, last Tuesday to try their luck in the
Federal Government's latest organized immigration gamble - a lottery that
promises legal status to a happy few.

Gary Miley, a 27-year-old Irish architect, was at the door to the Tower View
Ballroom, ready with forms and advice. ''Berman visa applications, is it?'' he
inquired, his voice lilting politely as he pointed newcomers toward a row of
chairs. ''You'll want to start at the back and move up the rows in an s-shape,
like a confession line.''

Filling out forms and having their pictures taken, the applicants - several
hundred of them before the night was through - were moving through one of the
highly synchronized visa clinics that have been organized by Irish immigrant
support groups since March 1. That was the day the State Department began
accepting applications for the visa lottery, named after Rep. Howard L. Berman,
Democrat of California. The lottery will distribute 20,000 immigrant visas over
the next two years to people from 162 countries selected randomly by computers.

The lottery is intended to supplement immigration laws, which give preference to
immigrants with immediate family in the United States. The preference has left
people from countries like Ireland, where emigration has tapered off in the last
half-century. with few options.

'I Have My Fingers Crossed'

For the growing number of illegal Irish immigrants living in the United States
-estimated between 50,000 and 150,000, with half in the New York area - the
Berman visas may be the last roll of the dice.

''This is it,'' said Elaine Cunningham, 24, who came here four years ago from
County Westmeath and has a job as an office worker in Manhattan. ''I have my
fingers crossed.''

This now-or-never feeling explains the urgency behind the Irish effort - the
dozens of visa clinics being run around the country, the advertisements in the
local Irish press, the appeals from parish priests and today, a five-hour live
broadcast from the St. Patrick's Day Parade route by a local Irish-American
radio talk show host.

''The message for this one is, go for it,'' said the talk show host, Adrian
Flannelly, who has a weekly Irish show on WNWK-FM, 105.9. He will interview
Charles J. Haughey, the Republic of Ireland's Prime Minister, as well as John
Cardinal O'Connor and others for the broadcast, which will also be aired in
Ireland.

Trying to Win Their Trust

''The Irish are paranoid,'' Mr. Flannelly said of the illegal immigrants, noting
that many fear that the name and address on their applications will end up in
the hands of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. ''So, we're suggesting
they use their home addresses in Ireland. And we're putting people on the air
that Irish people trust - everyone and their mother - telling them, 'To win it,
you have to be in it.' ''

In Woodside, a neighborhood that has been a magnet for new Irish arrivals, most
applicants were reluctant to give their last names, having been living outside
the detection of the authorities without bank accounts, Social Security numbers
and other legal necessities.

''It's pretty tense,'' said Patrick, a construction worker who has spent almost
three years in America, where his youngest child was born. ''I'm in a bad
situation. I've been on this one job two and a half years, but for the next one
I'm going to have to produce some documentation.''

''I left Ireland with nothing,'' said Patrick, who described himself as a
country boy from County Kerry, one of the thousands who have left Ireland
because of its high unemployment. ''I heard good reports about it here - that if
you worked hard you had money at the end of the week. Now we have something
here.''

Depending on Luck

But winning a visa in a lottery is not something a family can plan on, and to
those at the Tower View Ballroom -many in their 20's and 30's with jobs in
construction, nursing and child care -the odds were looking long. ''Pretty
slim,'' as a dejected-looking Patrick put it.

The State Department will not make a prediction, but Irish groups estimate as
many as eight million people will apply before the month-long application period
ends on March 31. And with 161 other nationalities eligible - and applicants
lining up at United States embassies around the world - the Irish are not
expecting any breaks.

In 1986, the last time the United States organized a visa lottery - a program
named after its sponsor, Rep. Brian J. Donnelly, Democrat of Massachusetts - the
Irish did well. Out of the first 10,000 visas issued to 36 different
nationalities, 4,161 went to the Irish.

But there was a reason. In the Donnelly program, the advantage went to those who
applied early and often, a loophole that the Irish, well organized and well
informed, made the most of. People still talk about Donnelly-visa parties, held
in the United States and in Ireland, where guests spent the early evening
filling out hundreds of applications for the host. Some applicants were known to
have sent as many as 500 forms.

'Extremely Well Organized'

This time rules allow only one application per person, but the Irish networks
are still making sure that all their bases are covered. ''We're making no secret
of the fact that we did extremely well last time and that we are extremely well
organized this time,'' Mr. Flannelly said. ''We have been very effective in
getting the information out on the street,'' said Pat Hurley, a spokesman for
Irish Immigration Reform Movement. He said 300 to 400 applicants have flocked to
clinics held in Queens, the Bronx, Brooklyn and a dozen towns outside New York
City. The record belongs to the Boston area, where 900 people showed up at a
single visa clinic held recently in Dorchester.

The organizational methods used by the Irish are also being used to help illegal
immigrants from other countries. The countries are eligible if fewer than 5,000
of their people were admitted to the United States in 1988. Mr. Miley, national
chairman of the New Irish, a group devoted to immigration issues, said half the
callers on the group's telephone hotline are from other countries, like France,
Israel and the Caribbean nations. At the Tower View Ballroom, where the
decorations were ready for St. Patrick's Day, some of the drop-ins came not
because they were Irish but because the Irish were better organized.

Immigration Made a Big Issue

In the last two years, the fortunes of the illegal Irish have been pushed to the
top of the agenda of the Irish-American community, which has lent considerable
financial, moral and political support. This year, for the first time, the Irish
Immigration Reform Movement has been granted a spot and a banner in the annual
Fifth Avenue parade, to be held today. And last night, St. Patrick's Cathedral
held a mass for the ''undocumented Irish.''

Mr. Hurley said the push for Berman visas is only part of a long-term strategy.
Another major effort, being pushed by a Washington lobbyist now working for the
immigration movement, is to win passage of a bill that would give special
consideration to English-speaking immigrants.

Mr. Hurley is among an emerging crop of Irish-American advocates who are being
challenged by the problems of the new immigrants and invigorated by their
potential. Already they have shown they know how to put together a movement.

''They feel they have a claim here, which is one reason why are fighting so
hard,'' said Ray O'Hanlan, national editor of the Irish Echo, a 60-year-old New
York weekly. ''It's a new generation.''

Mr. O'Hanlan compared Mr. Hurley to Paul O'Dwyer, the former New York City
Council President. ''Paul O'Dwyer was Pat Hurley once.''

Mr. O'Dwyer noted a difference from the immigration of the 19th Century. ''This
time, nobody is opposed to them,'' he said. ''Nobody is saying, 'Get rid of
these Irish and send them back.' ''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photos of Irish immigrants in Queens (NYT/Vic DeLucia) (pgs. B1 & 3)

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 6, 1989, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. PROPOSES RISE OF UP TO 150,000 IN NEW REFUGEES

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 923 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 5


The Bush Administration asked Congress today to permit as many as 150,000
additional immigrants, many of them from the Soviet Union, to enter the United
States over the next five years.

Administration officials said the proposal to create a new category of immigrant
visas was the result of a flood of Soviet Jews and Armenians seeking to leave
their homeland under Moscow's newly relaxed exit policies. Thousands of them
have been unable to qualify under American law as refugees or as regular
immigrants.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said the first beneficiaries of the
proposal, which was detailed in legislation sent to Congress today, would
include about 19,000 Soviet citizens whose requests to leave for the United
States have not been processed because of a backlog of paperwork in the American
Embassy in Moscow.

Earlier Reagan Action Assailed

Early this year, in another attempt to deal with the potential influx of Soviet
migrants, President Reagan increased the country's immigration ceiling by almost
40 percent, The favoritism toward people coming from the Soviet Union has
already drawn criticism from some groups concerned about the plight of thousands
of Asians and Latin Americans who have been denied legal entry into the United
States.

Under the new Administration bill, the United States would grant 30,000 special
immigrant visas a year over the next five years to people whose admission would
be in the ''foreign policy interest'' of the United States. Those admitted under
the program would face less rigorous entry requirements than political refugees
or regular immigrants.

In a prepared statement, the State Department said that while Soviet citizens
would be the ''primary beneficiaries'' of the program, immigrants from other
countries could qualify if their admission to the United States was an
''important part of a broader foreign policy objective.''

Scant Enthusiasm

The Administration's proposal to create a special class of immigrants got a
lukewarm reception on Capitol Hill, where the chairman of a House Judiciary
subcommittee on immigration, Representative Bruce A. Morrison, said the
legislation appeared to be ''overextensive.''

The Connecticut Democrat said the Administration should have instead produced a
more specific proposal to deal with the ''mess they made with Soviet Jews last
year,'' when the Administration temporarily stopped issuing refugee visas to
Soviet citizens. ''We should be dealing with the immediate problem of Soviet
Jews,'' he said.

Federal law will permit up to 94,000 refugees to enter the United States each
year if they can prove a legitimate fear of persecution in their homelands. The
quota for Soviet refugees is 25,000.

In addition, the law permits 270,000 other foreign citizens to come to this
country annually as immigrants - no more than 20,000 from any one country - if
they have close relatives in the United States or can demonstrate valuable job
skills.

The American capacity to absorb Soviet immigrants has been strained by a recent
relaxation of Soviet exit policies. If the exodus continues at the current rate,
about 90,000 Soviet citizens, most of them Jews, will register for refugee visas
this year. Jewish emigration alone rose from 8,150 in 1987 to 19,300 last year,
the highest level since 1980.

To deal with the influx, the United States has granted so-called parole status
to some Soviet immigrants who do not qualify as refugees or as regular
immigrants.

Reduced Status

Such an immigrant enjoys fewer welfare benefits on arrival in the United States
than a regular immigrant, however, and is not in line for permanent residence
and American citizenship. Those drawbacks have led some potential immgrants to
remain in the Soviet Union in hopes of eventually being classified as refugees.

The State Department said today that it hoped to offer the special immigrant
visas to Soviet citizens it would have otherwise been allowed into the United
States under the parole program. ''Parole is an unsatisfactory solution for
these cases,'' said Richard Boucher, a department spokesman.

Asked what other immigrant groups might benefit from the Administration's
proposal, Mr. Boucher said immigrants from Southeast Asia might also be granted
the special visas.

The plight of the Asians has been of particular concern to private refugee
organizations since January, when the Reagan Administration announced that it
would offset an increase in the number of Soviet refugees by reducing the number
of places reserved for refugees from Southeast Asia.

Responsibility to Old Allies

The United States has long acknowledged a special responsibility for Vietnamese
and other Southeast Asians who once worked for the American Government, for the
former government of South Vietnam or for other governments once supported by
the United States.

Private refugee organizations reacted cautiously to the Administration's new
proposal, many saying that the legislation did not go far enough.

''The overall concept has some good aspects and some bad aspects,'' said Roger
P. Winter, director of the United States Committee for Refugees. ''We welcome
maximum Soviet emigration, but we wish the United States could find a way to be
as generous with other refugees as it is with the Soviets.''

Phillip A. Saperia, assistant executive vice president of the Hebrew Immigrant
Aid Society, said that while the legislation was ''wonderful, I don't think it's
an adequate response to the problems of Soviet Jews.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 30, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Large-Scale Immigration Also Hurts Cities

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 405 words


To the Editor:

Harry Truman once said that ''In no other realm of our national life are we so
hampered and stultified by the dead hand of the past as we are in this field of
immigration.'' Louis Winnick's ''Yearning to Be Free'' (Op-Ed, Feb. 28), on the
contribution immigrants can make to revitalizing our older cities, renders
Truman's observation as germane today as it was 40 years ago.

Although Mr. Winnick makes some mention of the historical downside of
immigration, he ignores fundamental changes in the immigrant flow to this
country in recent decades, as well as changes in America's economic
circumstances.

The need for low-skilled workers is declining as we continue to shift toward a
service- and technology-based economy. Our economy has even less need for
impoverished, low-skill workers. But as Leif Jensen, an immigration scholar, has
written, ''Much of the increase in poverty among immigrants over the 1970's was
due to sizable increases among those immigrants who arrived after the 1965
immigration reform. Poverty among the most recent arrivals . . . showed the
sharpest increase between 1970 and 1980. This supports the argument that the new
immigration has been characterized by an increasing flow of impoverished
immigrants.''

As for Mr. Winnick's argument that immigration is a ready-made answer to urban
decay, is he aware that there are 200,000 people in immigrant-saturated Los
Angeles living in some 42,000 garages, without plumbing and only makeshift
electrical connections? Does he know that thousands of Central American illegal
aliens in New York City and Washington are competing with poor Americans for
rapidly diminishing affordable housing, and that thousands of alien families are
doubling up illegally?

Is he aware that Hispanic poverty rates are due to outstrip those of blacks by
1990, according to the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities? We are
witnessing the rapid expansion of the underclass and the degradation in which
they live. Is this how to effect urban renewal?

It is true enough that large-scale immigration is not the fundamental cause of
the housing shortage, of unemployment and of the structural shift in the
economy. But it takes a romantic or a libertarian to ignore that a massive
influx will significantly and needlessly exacerbate such problems.

DAN STEIN, Executive Director, Federation for American Immigration Reform
Washington, March 17, 1988

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 10, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. LIMITING STAYS OF FOREIGN NURSES

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1181 words


Thousands of foreign nurses recruited to help ease the nation's severe nursing
shortage will be forced to leave because the Federal immigration agency refuses
to extend their temporary visas to work in the United States.

The foreign nurses have been hired for hospitals, nursing homes and nursing
agencies across the country, where about 300,000 nursing jobs are unfilled and
hospital nursing vacancies approach 20 percent, according to the American Nurses
Association.

But especially hard hit are New York and California, according to officials
there.

Thousands Affected in New York

About 4,000 nurses are affected in the New York metropolitan region alone, with
the first group of five-year visas, involving more than 1,000 nurses statewide,
expiring this year. Thousands more will come due in succeeding years.

And in California, the number ''has got to be in the ball park with New York -
maybe higher,'' said Arthur A. Sponseller, vice president of the Southern
California Hospital Council.

''I've got stories here in my file of people losing highly qualified, fully
trained critical-care nurses who will take literally months to replace, if at
all,'' Mr. Sponseller said.

Shortage Certified

The foreign-born nurses were admitted to the United States under what are known
as H-1 visas, at the request of employers, specifically because of the dire need
for their skills. The Federal Labor Department officially certified the nursing
shortage, which has worsened.

But last year, the immigration service ruled that such temporary work visas
would be limited to five years, with a one-year extension possible. And though
employers and nurses' unions are appealing to the immigration service to reverse
its policy, agency officials indicate that they are not inclined to change their
minds.

''We're simply trying to make the actual practice fit the requirement of the
law, which is that these people are here on a temporary basis and are not
supposed to stay indefinitely or become permanent,'' said Verne Jervis, a
spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington.

Contradictions in System

Advocates for the nurses say they are struck by apparent contradictions in the
immigration system. Amnesty is being conferred on many illegal aliens and they
are encouraged to remain, while those who complied with proper procedures, like
the nurses, are told to go.

The system also forces out foreign nurses when they are most valuable, after
they are acclimated to their jobs in the United States.

''The ones being asked to leave are those who know the most about care,'' said
Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association.
''There's little doubt that a fifth-year nurse is better equipped.''

Hard to Find Foreign Recruits

Meanwhile, hospitals may be forced to spend millions of dollars seeking to
replace the foreign nurses who must leave with fresh recruits from abroad, which
the law permits. But hospital officials say they are having a harder time
finding new recruits from the traditional foreign sources.

''There are ironies and a seeming unfairness,'' Mr. Jervis of the immigration
service acknowledged. ''Some argued against the amnesty law for rewarding people
who violated the law.''

Barring a policy change, the only other recourse is Congressional action to
revise the immigration law. But there is little movement on that front.

''Congress is just beginning to look at legal immigration,'' said Representative
Charles E. Schumer, a Democrat from Brooklyn, ''and it's problems like this that
I hope will help motivate us. We desperately need the nurses.'' Attracting
Domestic Applicants One legislative aide in Washington said the prevailing view
there is that using immigrants is not the best way to solve the nursing
shortage, that it would be better to attract domestic applicants with higher pay
and improved conditions.

Most hospital officials and leaders of nurses groups agree in principle. Yet
they say the shortage is so acute that the foreign nurses must be retained while
broader reforms are enacted.

''The loss of one nurse in this town is catastrophic,'' said Katherine Abelson,
executive vice president of Local 1199 of the Drug, Hospital and Health Care
Employees Union in New York, where there are severe hospital staff shortages and
overcrowding . Compounding this is an urgent need to expand nursing services
because of a rising caseload of AIDS patients, drug abusers, sick babies, those
suffering from mental illness and the ailing elderly.

The 4,000 foreign nurses represent about 12 percent of the nurses employed by
hospitals in the metropolitan New York region, and there are vacancies for
several thousand more.

Call to Exempt Nurses

In testimony to the United States Department of Health and Human Services'
Commission on Nursing in New Orleans this week, the Greater New York Hospital
Association called for immigration officials to exempt nurses from the cutoff
rules.

Mr. Jervis at the immigration agency responded: ''We're looking at it, but
frankly we don't think it would solve the problem; it would just delay it.''

How stringently the immigration law will be enforced against the nurses is a
critical quesion.

Immigrants who fail to leave by their specified departure dates do not incur any
criminal or financial penalties. They do face deportation if reported to the
authorities or uncovered in an investigation. Immigration officials concede that
this year's budget has scarce funds for additional enforcement.

Under the law, however, employers face sanctions for having workers who overstay
their visas and who were hired after Nov. 6, 1986. As a result, nurses in that
category are expected to be terminated.

'Doing Their Best to Comply'

''Hospitals are doing their best to comply with the law,'' said Mr. Sponseller
of the Southern California Hospital Council. ''They do not want to face
penalities, so unless the nurses are grandfathered exemptions, the hospitals are
not going to continue employing them.''

Some nurses may be fired when their visas expire, even if they were hired before
the 1986 date and their employers are not liable for fines. Hospital and union
experts say some employers will take this action for fear of running afoul of
the regulations or simply as a policy of employing only valid immigrants.

Foreign nurses can apply to become permanent residents as a prelude to
citizenship here, but for many that possibility is more theoretical than real.

For example, in the Philippines, which supplies far more nurses to the United
States than does any other country, the waiting list for entry here as a
permanent resident is discouragingly backlogged. Some nurses being admitted now
originally applied 17 years ago.

''If the foreign nurses go, it would be a tremendous blow to the remaining
nurses and to health care in New York and other parts of the country,'' said Mr.
Raske of the Greater New York Hospital Association. ''I don't know how we could
continue to supply as much service without them.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Lita Killip, head of the Philippine Center for Immigration
Rights, talking to nurses at Local 1199 about their options when their visas
expire (Philip Greenberg)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 13, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Coveted U.S. Visa Elusive Now for Senegalese

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 668 words

DATELINE: DAKAR, Senegal


Djibi Ndoye had come to the United States Embassy here seeking a visa to visit
his cousin, a street peddler who lives in a hotel in New York City.

As Mr. Ndoye explained his request to a consular officer, Iba Sow, his uncle,
relaxed in a nearby waiting room seated under a tourism poster featuring the
bright lights of the New York skyline at night.

''Our brothers took up a collection to open a bank account and buy him a
ticket,'' Mr. Sow said of his nephew.

But their arguments, filtered through a half-inch pane of safety glass, did not
move Patricia de la Sota, an American vice consul, to stamp a visitor's visa in
Mr. Ndoye's passport.

This West African nation emerged in the 1980's as an unexpected source of
clandestine third-world immigrants to the United States. From 1980 to 1987, the
number of non-immigrant visas granted to Senegalese quadrupled to 4,639, from
1,177.

But complaints from New York, the principal destination, about Senegalese
overstaying their visas have led American consular officials here to scrutinize
applications more closely.

The overall visa refusal rate has risen from 3 percent of 1,219 applications in
1980 to 32 percent of 6,808 applications in 1987. For first-time applicants, the
refusal rate is 75 percent.

According to Ann B. Sides, the American consul here, the increased scrutiny
started after immigration officials at Kennedy Airport reported a surge in visa
fraud among Senegalese. She also cited complaints from New Yorkers -a
Congressman, businessmen and several individuals - about illegal Senegalese
immigrants hawking scarves, watches and umbrellas on the streets of Manhattan.

''I know people in New York are very upset about this,'' the consul said of the
vendors. ''The refusal rate for visa applicants is going up.''

Traditionally, Senegal's seven million people looked north to France, the former
colonial power here. But in 1986, France joined other Common Market nations in
imposing visa restrictions on visitors from Africa.

Lucrative Shopping Trips

It used to be that Senegalese would be drawn to the United States largely by the
prospect of better-paying jobs. But because the Senegalese currency, which is
pegged to the French franc, has nearly doubled in value against the dollar in
the last two years, an increasing number of Senegalese come to New York on short
visits to buy merchandise for export to Senegal.

Meanwhile, visa fraud has become a major cottage industry in Dakar. In one case,
American consular officials noted a spate of strikingly similar bank statements.

''The police told us that applicants had bought them from a man who sat in front
of the embassy in a white car,'' Miss Sides said. ''He had a lap-top
mini-computer and ground them out on demand.''

In March, officials at Kennedy Airport detained six Senegalese trying to enter
with counterfeits of visas issued by the American embassies in Lagos, Nigeria,
and Libreville, Gabon.

The counterfeits were sold in Dakar for about $700 each, Miss Sides said,
adding: ''In December, about 80 percent of the sponsoring letters were false. We
have had one to two arrests a week in the waiting room.''

Last fall, there was a rash of applicants for transit visas from Senegalese who
said they wanted to travel to New York on their way to Mexico or Canada. Through
cross-checks with the Mexican and Canadian embassies, American consular
officials determined that the applicants had no intention of going beyond the
United States.

There is no ceiling for nonimmigrant visas for Senegalese, and there is no
directive from Washington to restrict the number of visas granted, Miss Sides
said.

Nevertheless, she said, New Yorkers sometimes hold her personally responsible
for the continuing presence of Senegalese street vendors.

Recalling her most recent visit to New York, last December, the consul added:
''Every time I was in New York and mentioned to people that I was the U.S.
consul in Senegal, I got: 'Why are you letting all these people in?' ''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 1, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Judge Tells U.S. to Stop Coercion Of Salvadorans Seeking Asylum

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1278 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 30


In a resounding rejection of Reagan Administration policy, a Federal district
judge here ruled late Friday that the Government had coerced Salvadorans seeking
asylum into leaving the country, and must stop the practice.

The judge, David Kenyon, also issued a manifesto of rights for Salvadorans
detained by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, including the right to
claim political asylum and the right to have legal representation.

The ruling followed a yearlong nonjury trial of a lawsuit filed in 1980 on
behalf of all Salvadorans detained for deportation. The case has been followed
by immigration rights lawyers around the nation as the lead civil rights case
for Salvadorans.

'A Phenomenal Victory'

Judge Kenyon barred the Administration from deporting Salvadorans in violation
of their rights under the Refugee Act of 1980, and he granted almost every
request in the suit for protecting Salvadorans.

''A phenomenal victory,'' exclaimed Charles Wheeler, director of the National
Center for Immigrants Rights here, one of the agencies that brought the suit.
''It shows the U.S. foreign and domestic policy towards Salvadorans has finally
caught up with them.''

Allen Hausman, the lawyer who led the Justice Department team defending the
Government, declined immediate comment, saying he wanted to study the decision.

No Decision on Appeal

He said the Government had not decided on an appeal, and he reiterated the
Government's denial in the trial that coercion had taken place. Salvadorans had
testified, for instance, that they had been physically forced to sign documents
saying they were being deported voluntarily.

The Administration has long insisted that Salvadorans who come to this country
are economic immigrants fleeing poverty, not political refugees, defined by the
refugee act as those fleeing the home country because of persecution or a
''well-founded fear of persecution.'' People applying for asylum are not subject
to the restrictions that apply to other immigrants, such as quotas, family ties
or job qualifications.

Judge Kenyon said the immigration authorities had treated Salvadorans
differently from other immigrants. He said, for example, that Salvadoran
detainees were singled out for transfers that sometimes took them thousands of
miles away from their lawyers, making representation difficult or impossible.

Advocates for the Salvadorans say the Administration does not want to grant
political asylum to Salvadorans because doing so would acknowledge human rights
abuses under a Government that is supported by Washington.

The ruling marked the second major legal setback for the Administration
regarding Central Americans seeking asylum. In March 1987, the Supreme Court
ruled 6 to 3 that applicants for asylum need show only that ''persecution is a
reasonable possibility,'' not that it is likely, as the Administration argued.

The Administration has said the United States cannot afford to take in everyone
from developing countries who wants a better life.

A lawyer for the Salvadorans, Sandra Pettit, of the Immigration Rights Office of
the Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles, said Judge Kenyon's ruling may pave the
way for Salvadorans who seek to remain in the United States.

''It should make it easier to establish asylum, not only because of his findings
on conditions in El Salvador, but also because he finds the immigration courts
improperly ignore those conditions,'' Ms. Pettit said.

In the trial, Government lawyers argued that many Salvadorans would say they
were political persecuted at home when they were not. The lawyers also argued
that granting Salvadorans an extensive set of formal rights would further slow
an already overburdened system for processing immigrants.

'Lack of Sensitivity'

Judge Kenyon said in his opinion, ''The impression of the I.N.S. agents and
officials that Salvadorans come to the United States solely for economic gain
reflect a lack of sensitivity and understanding, and derive from ignorance on
the part of I.N.S. agents as to the complex motivations and situations of those
who have fled El Salvador.''

''People from a wide cross section of Salvadoran society suffer human rights
abuses,'' the judge said. He noted methods of torture, including electric shock,
rape and beatings, suffered by Salvadorans in their homeland.

The judge ordered the immigration service to stop using any form of coercion
against the Salvadorans, including ''threats, intimidation, deceit and
misrepresentation to pressure detained Central Americans to return to their
countries.''

He noted that Salvadorans in the immigration service's custody were ''outwardly
humble and passive in the face of authority and vulnerable to pressure.'' He
added, ''This is particularly true because these detainees are aware that the
United States supports the Salvadoran Government, which tolerates and
participates in acts of terror.''

The judge required the immigration service to provide Salvadorans who cannot
read with a oral notice of their rights, including the right to seek asylum, in
English and Spanish. Judge Kenyon ordered that Salvadorans have access to
lawyers, telephones and up-to-date lists of free legal services.

He Cites Unhelpful Lists

He said the lists the immigration service had been distributing contained
''inaccurate, incomplete or nonserviceable telephone numbers, no telephone
numbers at all and inaccurate addresses for legal services.'' He said the
service listed ''agencies that accept no immigration cases at all, do not offer
free legal services, do not have Spanish speakers available, and do not
represent persons in the geographical area in which the list is distributed.''
He said it also listed agencies that no longer existed.

Advocates for the Salvadorans say there are as many as 500,000 Salvadorans in
the United States, mostly without legal status. Ms. Pettit said that as many as
3,500 Salvadorans are being detained by the Federal authorities.

In the trial, both political conditions in El Salvador and methods of arrest and
detention in the United States were examined.

Judge Kenyon ruled during the trial that political conditions in El Salvador
were relevant to refute the Government's argument that most Salvadorans come to
the United States for purely economic reasons. The Government made that argument
in pressing its view that Salvadorans did not qualify for a set of rights that
would protect their ability to claim asylum.

Salvadoran witnesses described a variety of methods used by immigration agents,
including physically forcing signatures to voluntary departure forms.

The voluntary deportation form is the document for immediate expulsion of an
alien from the United States. It must be signed, and it dispenses with a hearing
before an immigration judge.

Agents Deny Abuse

Immigration agents denied in their testimony that any abuse took place and said
Salvadorans were accurately informed of their rights. Mr. Hausman argued that
any abuses that had occurred were not part of a systematic pattern of coercion.

Judge Kenyon's decision includes six pages detailing a list of rights. It
establishes a framework of civil rights for the Salvadorans where there had been
almost none.

As part of that framework, he ordered that Salvadorans be given access to legal
materials, writing paper, pencils, pens and typewriters. He said agents had
confiscated such materials from detainees.

The groups suing on behalf of Salvadorans included the American Civil Liberties
Union, Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles, the National Center for Immigrants
Rights, and the Central American Refugee Center.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 10, 1988, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Study Finds Obstacles Exist For Immigrant Schoolchildren

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 529 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, May 9


Immigrant schoolchildren are hampered by rigid placement practices, lack of
bilingual education, cultural insensitivity, harassment from other students and
fear of deportation, according to a study.

Such children are often placed in classes for the handicapped or at
inappropriate grade levels because schools cannot cope with their cultural
differences, said the study, conducted by a student advocacy group.

This is true even though ''the education level of many new immigrants is
superior to that of previous migrations'' and sometimes exceeds that of
Americans, said the study, ''New Voices: Immigrant Students in the U.S. Public
Schools.'' The study was conducted by the National Coalition of Advocates for
Students, based in Boston, and financed largely by the Ford Foundation. It was
released last month in Chicago by Designs for Change, an organization that
belongs to the coalition.

Education Is a Right

The Supreme Court has ruled that all school-age immigrants are entitled to an
education, regardless of whether they are in the country legally, the study
noted.

About 6.6 million people immigrated to the United States in the 1970's, more
than two-thirds of them legally, forming one of the largest migrations in United
States history and one that is continuing, the study said.

Newcomers arriving now are primarily from Asia, Mexico, Central and South
America and the Caribbean, according to the report. Immigrant children, who
number as many as 2.7 million, comprise about 6 percent of the public school
enrollment in the United States.

After conducting public hearings in six cities where immigrants arrive in this
country and after interviewing parents and educators around the country, the
researchers reported that schools were doing a poor job of meeting the immigrant
students' needs.

Some areas of the country are fostering an ''English-only'' or ''English-first''
movement, undercutting public financing for educational programs serving
students who speak little or no English, the study said.

Point of View Assailed

The movement ''sends a clear message to newcomers that their languages and
cultures are unwelcome and inferior - a point of view that ill prepares this
country for the realities of its domestic and international future,'' it said.

Reine Leroy, an intergroup relations representative from Dade County, Fla., told
the researchers, ''Teachers thought that these kids were dumb, that they could
not learn.''

The study suggested restructuring public schools to better assess immigrant
students for placement in appropriate grades, increasing the quality of
bilingual education and providing counseling and support geared specifically to
immigrants.

The study said dropout rates for immigrant students were high, suicide attempts
were all too frequent and some young newcomers under extreme pressure had
responded by forming gangs for emotional and physical protection.

Although the study provided no figures on how often immigrant children were
mistakenly put in special education programs with physically and mentally
handicapped children, such steps apparently have been taken frequently, the
authors said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 29, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Immigration

SECTION: Section 5; Page 18, Column 5; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 186 words


To the Editor: I would like to suggest that Newark Airport should seriously
consider improving and expanding the immigration procedure for incoming overseas
flights. If a full jumbo jet arrives from Europe, many non-U.S. citizens have to
wait up to an hour or more to clear immigration.

Passengers are divided into two groups: U.S. and non-U.S. citizens. As a first
step toward improvement, I suggest that resident aliens (green card holders) be
permitted to join the U.S. citizen queue, thus expediting this group more
rapidly by separating them from the slower visitors' group, whose widely varying
passports obviously require closer scrutiny.

Furthermore, apart from a vote, are not resident aliens legally entitled to the
same Federal services as a U.S. citizen - that is, permitted to join the same
queue?

DOREEN S. HOWARD
  New York, N.Y.

A spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service replies: Only United
States citizens are permitted to bypass Immigration Inspection upon re-entry.
Permanent resident aliens are still citizens of their own countries, not of the
United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 29, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

FOLLOW-UP ON THE NEWS;
For Immigration, A Drive-In Office

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 40, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 185 words


WITH florists, dry cleaners, liquor stores, even a pawnshop, operating drive-in
establishments in Houston, why not an immigration drive-in?

Done. In May 1987 the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service
opened its first drive-in office in the nation in Houston. It was intended to
relieve crowding at the main office in the city caused by the amnesty program
for illegal aliens.

And it is working. ''It's very brisk down there,'' says Michael McMahon, the
deputy district director in Houston.

Most of Houston's 115,000 aliens in the amnesty program are of Hispanic origin,
and they are learning the American way fast - they drive. ''Less than 3 percent
utilize public transportation,'' Mr. McMahon says.

Registration for the amnesty ended May 4, but the paper work for those who have
signed up continues to flow. Four hundred to 700 drivers a day have been rolling
up to the drive-in window, just north of the downtown area, to exchange red
alien employment authorization cards for green temporary residence cards, Mr.
McMahon says.

It still is the only immigration drive-in in the country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 29, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

SOVIET ARMENIANS LET IN IMPROPERLY, U.S. OFFICIALS SAY

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1094 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 28


State Department lawyers have concluded that the United States is improperly
accepting thousands of Armenians as refugees without any finding that they have
been persecuted in the Soviet Union.

The lawyers said this practice appears to violate the Refugee Act of 1980, which
defines a refugee as a person with ''a well-founded fear of persecution.''

The State Department lawyers reported their concerns to the Justice Department
last week after receiving a cable from the United States Embassy in Moscow
indicating a belief that people leaving the Soviet Union are automatically
entitled to refugee status in the United States.

'Virtually Automatic' Admission

An official of the Immigration and Naturalization Service confirmed that the
agency's approval of refugee applications from Soviet Armenians has been
''virtually automatic,'' even though the Armenians are ''not generally
articulating claims of persecution in their I.N.S. interviews.''

The Armenians are leaving mainly for economic reasons, officials said.

The disclosure of the practice is potentially embarrassing to the Administration
because President Reagan recently asked Congress to double the refugee ceiling
for the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, to 30,000, mainly to accommodate more
Armenians. Some members of Congress are concerned that refugees from other
areas, particularly Indochina, are being treated less favorably.

The number of Armenians permitted to leave the Soviet Union has increased
dramatically, from about 200 a year in the mid-1980's to about 1,200 a month
since September. Emigration by Soviet Jews has also increased, from about 1,000
a year in the mid-1980's to more than 8,000 last year.

U.S. Sought Liberalization

The increased emigration from the Soviet Union results in part from diplomatic
efforts by the Administration. Mr. Reagan has repeatedly called on the Soviets
to liberalize their emigration policies and is expected to renew his plea at the
summit meeting in Moscow beginning Sunday.

Senator Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming, the ranking Republican on the Judiciary
subcommittee on immigration, recently told Secretary of State George P. Shultz
that the Administration is bending the Refugee Act to admit Armenians who are
not genuine refugees.

''We ought to stop this gimmickry of the word 'refugee,' '' Mr. Simpson said in
an interview. ''We must distinguish between the right to leave the Soviet Union
and the right to enter the United States. They are not the same.''

Many of the Armenians coming here as refugees have relatives in California and
could obtain regular immigrant visas if their relatives became American citizens
and filed petitions on their behalf, Mr. Simpson said.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, the subcommittee chairman,
said he would investigate the problem at a hearing next month.

Concern in Congress

The rise in Armenian emigration comes amid growing concern among some members of
Congress over the plight of Vietnamese and other Indochinese refugees, who are
being denied asylum in Thailand and Indonesia in part because of a perception
that the United States has become less willing to resettle such refugees.

The State Department informed Congress this month that it expects to admit no
more than 34,000 refugees from East Asia this year. That is 4,000 fewer than the
maximum number approved by President Reagan in October.

Soviet Armenians who want to come to the United States are interviewed by a
consular officer at the American Embassy in Moscow. Then they fly to Rome, where
they are questioned by an examiner from the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. The immigration service, a part of the Justice Department, decides
whether they may be admitted to the United States as refugees.

State Department lawyers prepared a confidential summary of their meeting last
week with Justice Department officials. A copy was obtained from the Justice
Department, and participants in the meeting confirmed its accuracy.

No Accounts of Persecution

The document makes these points:


* Ralph Thomas, deputy assistant commissioner of the immigration service,
''conceded that I.N.S. is not doing individual refugee determinations for the
Armenians and said that the Armenians do not generally share the characteristics
of other groups admitted as refugees.''


* Jeff Trecartin, an examiner for the immigration service, ''verified that in
hundreds of interviews with Soviet Armenians in Rome he had not encountered a
single individual claiming to have left the Soviet Union on account of
persecution or fear of persecution.''


* State Department lawyers are prepared to advise Mr. Shultz that he ''must take
steps to encourage the Department of Justice to end the apparent practice of
admitting Armenians to the United States as refugees without requiring
individualized showings of persecution.''


* Many Armenians arriving in the United States have received cash, medical
assistance and other benefits available to needy refugees. Such payments may
violate a Federal law designed to insure that Federal money is spent only for
authorized purposes.

Alternatives Sought

Administration officials said they hope to find another way to admit Soviet
Armenians to the United States if they do not qualify as refugees. The State
Department has asked the Justice Department whether it would be appropriate for
the Attorney General to use his ''parole power,'' which permits the admission of
aliens in emergencies.

Armenians have experienced persecution for centuries, but have generally not
suffered more than other nationalities in the Soviet Union, where many Armenians
settled after massacres by the Ottoman Turks early this century.

The Soviet Armenian Republic and Armenian areas of the neighboring Azerbaijan
Republic have been shaken by nationalist protests and clashes in recent months,
but the increase in Armenian refugee applications began before those
disturbances.

There is growing pressure on the United States to accept more refugees from Asia
as countries in that region restrict admissions of Vietnamese boat people.

Hong Kong is expected soon to abandon its 10-year-old policy of accepting boat
people as refugees. Thailand has turned away several refugee boats this month.
Indonesia has pushed off boats and shot at refugees attempting to land,
according to the American Embassy there. Malaysia has said it intends to close a
major refugee center and increasingly treats Vietnamese boat people as illegal
aliens rather than refugees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 5, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

WORKS IN PROGRESS;
Welcome Back

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

SECTION: Section 6; Page 102, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 294 words


IN 1907, THE PEAK YEAR, 1,004,756 immigrants were received at Ellis Island,
alongside the Statue of Liberty in New York Harbor. Beginning in 1989, half
again as many visitors are expected there annually, when the restoration of the
premises is complete and the Ellis Island Immigration Museum opens to the
public. The new museum, constructed within the same building that welcomed and
processed the immigrants themselves, will be the third largest in New York,
encompassing 100,000 square feet of exhibit space, two theaters, an oral history
archive and a library for immigration studies.

The central feature, however, remains the Great Hall (above, as it is today, and
right, as it was), the famous, second-floor registry room that dominated the
arrival experience of 17 million immigrants between 1892 and 1954. According to
Stephen A. Briganti, the president of the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island
Foundation, the Great Hall is being restored to represent its period of peak
function, during the first quarter of the century. ''Some of the original
benches will be in there,'' Briganti says. ''But there will be no exhibits. The
magic and beauty of the place is in imagining your ancestors there, having just
arrived, nervous and exhilarated both.''

Still $11 million short of the $140 million total cost of the project, the
oundation is planning the construction of the American Immigrant Wall of Honor
in a room adjoining the Great Hall. An estimated 40 percent of today's
population is descended from those who passed through Ellis Island, and for a
donation of $100, any American can have an ancestor's name inscribed on the
wall. Ten thousand people have reserved places already, Briganti says, ''though
we won't start building it until December.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of restoration work on Ellis Island Great Hall (Andrew
Holbrooke/Black Star); Russian immigrants, circa 1905 (Lewis W. Hine/Culver
Pictures)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 10, 1988, Friday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. May Need Humanitarian Admissions Rule

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 330 words


To the Editor:

Your report on the State Department's concern that thousands of Soviet Armenians
are being improperly brought into the United States as refugees (front page, May
29) says that State has asked whether the Attorney General's ''parole power''
could be used instead to admit the Armenians. The answer is no.

Since 1952, the Attorney General has had the power to ''parole'' aliens
temporarily ''for emergent reasons or for reasons deemed strictly in the public
interest.'' This authority was used to admit refugees from overseas, including
Hungarians in 1957, Cubans in the 60's and 70's, and Indochinese in the late
70's. More than 800,000 aliens were granted refuge under this procedure before
1980.

But Congress grew concerned with episodic executive branch use of parole and
sought, in the 1980 Refugee Act, to establish a mechanism for refugee admission
that incorporates international standards. Congress stipulated that the Attorney
General may not use parole to bring in categories of aliens who are not
refugees. Thus, there is no basis to admit the Armenians under the parole
authority.

Perhaps, as some say, a new humanitarian-admissions category is needed for needy
individuals who cannot be protected even under generous interpretation of the
Refugee Act or who receive status under conventional immigration quotas. Any
such proposal would raise sensitive questions. Should those admitted under this
new category receive fewer benefits than refugees to improve prospects for
enactment, or would such an arrangement give officials an incentive to classify
legitimate refugees in this new category to avoid the fiscal expense? Should
those admitted be part of the immigration quotas or of the annual refugee
ceiling?

Arriving at the answers may be difficult, but such answers may also provide the
only solution for the Armenians.

ARTHUR C. HELTON, Director, Political Asylum Project Lawyers Committee for Human
Rights
New York, May 31, 1988

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 9, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Armenians in U.S. Split on Visa Issue

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 600 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 8


For months now Suren Bursalyan had been expecting his brother, Zareh, to
emigrate from Soviet Armenia to join him in Hollywood, but the phone call from
Moscow Wednesday brought bad news.

The brother, a computer operator, had sold his house in Soviet Armenia and taken
his family of four to Moscow on his way to California. But the State Department
has stopped issuing refugee visas to Soviet citizens until October, and the
Bursalyans are stranded.

''He has nothing to live on,'' said Suren Bursalyan, who edits a biweekly called
Paros that caters to Armenian immigrants here. ''He cannot go back to Armenia.
It is unbelievable for America to do such a thing.''

American diplomats said the suspension, which went into effect Monday, was
forced by budget constraints. The suspension affects only people seeking to
emigrate directly to the United States, most of them Armenians.

A Different Armenian View

But at the offices in Glendale of the Armenian National Committee, which favors
an independent Armenian homeland and fears that further diaspora will weaken
Armenian identity, the view was at odds with that of Mr. Bursalyan. ''As a
policy we do not like to see Armenians leave the Soviet Union,'' said Lori
Titizian, the group's Western regional director. ''We do not consider them
political refugees.''

This dichotomy between personal and political imperatives marks the deeply
ambivalent reaction of Armenians in Southern California to the State
Department's action. The move cut to the heart of a problem for Armenians in
California, where generations of Armenians have flocked, fleeing the political
and economic ills in the Middle East and the Soviet Union without giving up
their dream of a homeland.

''This is a dilemma for Armenians,'' said Richard G. Hovannisian, a professor of
Armenian and Near Eastern history at the University of California at Los
Angeles. ''From the point of view of the individual and human rights, no one can
stand against the right to choose where and how to live, particularly when
families are separated.'' #10,000 Arrive Since October Southern California is
home for about 200,000 Armenians, most of them in Hollywood and Glendale;
another 40,000 are in Fresno, the central valley.

Most came from Lebanon, Iran and other Middle Eastern countries, but the latest
waves have come from Soviet Armenia. About 10,000 have arrived since last
October, and another 5,000 had been expected.

Despite historic persecutions and the disorders in Azerbaijan and Armenia, where
predominantly Moslem Azerbaijanis and the mostly Christian Armenians have
clashed, the new waves are seeking a better life in America and to join family
members.

Painful for Families

At the Armenian National Committee, Ms. Titizian said she had no objection to
ending refugee visas for Armenians as long as they were treated like other
Soviet citizens trying to leave.

But to those who were expecting loved ones, the news has been painful.

For a year now, Grigor Ejian, who teaches English to newcomers at the Armenian
Evangelical Social Service Center on Santa Monica Boulevard in Hollywood, has
been preparing to receive his wife's sister, brother and six other family
members this month.

Just 10 days ago, he said, the would-be emigres quit their jobs in Yerevan, the
capital of Soviet Armenia, sold their valuables and packed their belongings. Now
they are in limbo. Mr. Ejian's wife spent today trying to reach them by phone.
''They are very apprehensive,'' Mr. Ejian said. ''There is a feeling of
suspense, of never knowing what is next. It is very depressing.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 12, 1988, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

ON MY MIND;
Justice at State

BYLINE: By A. M. Rosenthal

SECTION: Section A; Page 25, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 746 words


Very soon now the United States will make a simple but profoundly important
proposal to the Soviet Union.

Washington will officially call on Mikhail Gorbachev's Government to allow all
Soviet Jews to immigrate to any country willing to accept them.

For most Soviet Jews who want to leave that would mean going directly to the
United States. That is far and away the leading country of their hearts' desire
and a country willing to take them in as refugees from oppression.

For Moscow, it would mean a first important step toward living up to
international agreements it has signed, and ignored, proclaiming the right of
people to leave their homelands if they seek a new life elsewhere.

For the Government of Israel, it will bring disappointment and anger. The
Israelis, eager for talented Jewish manpower, want Soviet Jews to go to Israel,
by desire and persuasion if possible, by the legal pressures and fictions of
Soviet emigration policy if necessary.

But for Americans who believe in giving Soviet Jews a chance to come to the
United States, the strategy the State Department has in mind is a fulfillment of
American principle.

The background is legal, political - and deeply emotional. It starts with the
Soviet policy of refusing to let citizens leave at will. This is based on the
theory that only traitors or maniacs would leave the Soviet Union, plus the
quite reasonable fear that, given the chance, too many people would.

Under world pressure, the Soviet Union agreed to allow some Jews, bedeviled by
anti-Semitism and hating Communism, to leave. Moscow decided who, how many, when
and what political or economic price the rest of the world had to pay for them.
Soviet Jews became pawns in an intricate and ever-changing game of Soviet
politics and blackmail.

Moscow also insisted that sane Soviet citizens would want to leave only if they
had relatives abroad. From this grew a legal fiction under which invitations
from suddenly discovered Israeli relatives would go to Soviet Jews. In time -
usually long, long time - some of them would get permission from the Soviet
Government to leave, with an Israeli visa. In Israel, they would immediately
become citizens under the laws of Jewish return. But for most Soviet Jews,
Israel is not their first choice. Arriving in Vienna, they would ignore their
Israeli visas and opt for the United States, which considers them eligible to
enter immediately as refugees. So the Israelis say they will now demand that
anybody who accepts an Israeli visa go there.

To guarantee that, the Israelis insist that the Soviet Jews go not to Vienna but
to Bucharest, where the Communist Government will make sure they go nowhere but
as directed - to Israel.

When they arrive in Israel, and automatically get Israeli citizenship, Soviet
Jews lose their refugee status. That means they cannot settle in the United
States except through the regular immigration process, which takes years.

The whole thing has become a matter of dispute between the U.S., which sees its
principles at stake, and Israel, which sees important needs involved. Some
American Jews support the Israelis in the name of solidarity.

Other American Jews believe it is wrong to insist that Soviet Jews be forced to
go to Israel if they do not wish to do so -particularly wrong coming from
American Jews, who have no intention of living in Israel themselves.

The State Department has worked out a two-part plan. It has not yet been
conveyed to the Russians or the Israelis. (It is not tied into the bureaucratic
financial mess currently holding up visas at the Moscow Embassy.) First would
come the request that Moscow allow Jews to go to the United States if they
wished. Maybe the Kremlin is ready; it now allows Armenians to go to the U.S.

If the Russians refuse, the State Department will ask that American immigration
regulations be amended so that Soviet Jews who have to go to Israel will not
lose their refugee status and could still immigrate to the U.S.

Israelis will be upset at the implication that a Jew with Israeli citizenship
can still be considered a refugee.

But the State Department will be right. It will be acting wisely by first
placing the responsibility where it belongs, with the Soviet Union. If that
fails, it will move to permit the refugees to come to the United States anyway.

Taken together, the two steps will combine political wisdom with a sense of
justice, good news from State for Americans who admire both.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 17, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THEATER REVIEW;
'Tintypes': A Cheer For the Melting Pot

BYLINE: By LEAH D. FRANK

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 19, Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 631 words


THE United States may be getting battered in the daily headlines, out at Studio
Theater the bruised flag is being proudly honored in a rousing revival of
''Tintypes.'' In this intimate musical by Mary Kyte, Mel Marvin and Gary Pearle,
we are once again infused with the spirit of adventure of the great wave of
immigration that took place around the turn of the century. If these immigrants
arrived in New York and discovered that the streets were not paved with gold,
they merely shrugged and determined to do some repaving.

In ''Tintypes,'' a multitude of scenes creates a photo album effect of immigrant
life in the late 1800's and early 1900's. To a pastiche of familiar tunes, such
as ''Yankee Doodle Dandy,'' ''Meet Me in St. Louis,'' ''The Wabash Cannonball,''
''Wait for the Wagon'' and ''America,'' the show takes a whirl through moments
of history as diverse as the invention of the light bulb, the Spanish-American
War, the building of the Panama Canal and the glory days of vaudeville.

Teddy Roosevelt blusters across the stage, pushing, poking and shouting the
country toward greater expansion and production. Behind his shouts of
encouragement are the waves of immigrant garment workers, steelworkers,
merchants and dreamers seeking liberty and pursuing happiness. As one character
explains, all he wants is a home with a closed door ''to open and shut like the
czar in his palace.'' They don't always get what they want, but their striving
is respectfully remembered in ''Tintypes.''

This production has been directed with a lighthearted touch by Domenick Danza,
who keeps everything on an upbeat note without ignoring the darker side of the
immigrant experience, such as poverty and discrimination. He is working with a
cast perfectly suited to their roles by virtue of their first-rate singing
voices and high degree of stage energy. Each member of this five-person cast is
called on to represent thousands of immigrants. No small feat, but each handles
his part with confidence.

Notable in the cast is Lorraine Ferro, a bright, pretty, perky actress. Ms.
Ferro, who appears to focus her entire attention on each of the characters she
plays, no matter how small the part, excels as the fiery Emma Goldman.
Christopher Springer brings a charming, slightly insolent manner to the variety
of young men he portrays. Frank DeMonaco strives to be every inch the loving,
cuddly teddy bear, which makes his Theodore Roosevelt especially endearing.
Elisa Dragotto is a graceful woman who lends dignity to all of her immigrants,
notably the Ziegfeld star Anna Held. Virginia DeSimone was the only member of
the cast to appear stiff on opening night, but she compensated by her clear and
lovely rendition of the song ''Nobody.''

The musical director, Bill Holland, does an outstanding job with his snappy
piano accompaniment, backed up only by a violin and a set of drums.

The one unfortunate aspect of this otherwise outstanding production is Ralph
Madero's lighting design. As set designer, Mr. Madero efficiently uses a number
of boxes that serve as everything from prop containers to park benches to
speakers' podiums. However, he undercuts his own set design by a lighting design
that makes no sense whatsoever. Too often the actors are left in the dark and
the scene changes are highlighted. An attempt to light portions of the show to
look like silent moving pictures only serves to keep the action from being seen.

In all, however, Studio Theater's ''Tintypes'' is a top example of the type of
small-scale musical this theater does so well. And, its unabashed, simple
patriotism is just the sort of tuneful summer fun needed to counteract the
effects of grimmer current events.

''Tintypes'' will continue through Aug. 6 at the Studio Theater in Lindenhurst.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 24, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Cuban Political Prisoners Slowly Come to U.S.

BYLINE: By GEORGE VOLSKY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 13, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 697 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 24


At 8:30 P.M. on May 5, a guard came to the cell of Pablo Prieto Castillo at the
Combinado del Este jail outside Havana and took him to the administration
compound where he was given new clothes and led outside to a small, windowless
van.

One hour later, when he got out of the vehicle at Havana's Jose Marti
International Airport, the 62-year-old Mr. Prieto realized that he was about to
leave Cuba. At 5 A.M. the next day, he landed in Miami, a free man after 25
years, 8 months and 3 days in 12 Cuban jails as a political prisoner.

Since April 20, without much fanfare, former Cuban prisoners have been arriving
here three times a week under an agreement between Washington and Havana, worked
out by the United States Catholic Conference. Some come directly from the
prisons; others had served their terms. Most were on the lists that American
bishops had delivered to the Castro Government.

As of Friday, 430 prisoners and 743 members of their families had come to Miami.
The December 1987 agreement specifies that 3,000 prisoners and family members
can be admitted to the United States by Sept. 30. To meet that deadline,
officials will increase the number of weekly flights to five.

Additional consular officers and Immigration and Naturalization inspectors have
been sent to the United States Interest Section in Havana to speed up the
processing. Steward Leppe of the State Department said, ''The Cuban Government
is implementing the agreement in a professional way.'' The two countries,
officials here said, are discussing the departure of more prisoners after
September.

The cost of the Havana-Miami airfare, $100 a person, is being advanced by the
Intergovernmental Committee for Migration, a Geneva-based group. Seven American
private social agencies are helping the Cubans to settle in Miami, where about
90 percent stay.

''They still don't believe they are free, and many had waited years for this
moment,'' said Grizell Trelles, director for Miami of the International Rescue
Committee, one of the American social agencies, describing the former prisoners
as they step off planes.

Mr. Prieto, who arrived here in May, said that it took him more than a month
''to think straight.''

He said that his family here, his wife, four daughters and six grandchildren,
find him restless. ''They don't understand that I cannot bear to be between four
walls for any length of time.'' He said he wants to be a driver, ''so that I can
see the sky all the times.''

Like Mr. Prieto, the 59-year-old Placido Diaz Millo, who spent 26 years in
prison, was a ''plantado,'' a prisoner who refused ''political rehabilitation''
offered by the Cuban jailers. In 1962, he was condemned to death for conspiring
against the Castro regime. The sentence was commuted to 30 years.

Mr. Diaz said that in recent months, in preparation for an inspection by foreign
observers, prisoner treatment in Combinado del Este has improved. ''But after
the visits, conditions deteriorated again, especially the food. Yes, there was
an improvement compared to the period before 1987, but I cannot forget or
forgive my 25 years of suffering.''

In 1987, he said, all the ''plantados'' were transferred to Havana to await the
airlift. Negotiations began January 1985 when a group of American bishops gave
President Fidel Castro a list of 250 political prisoners.

Additional names of prisoners, later set free by Cuba, were given to Mr. Castro,
among others, by John Cardinal O'Connor of New York; Msgr. Nicolas Di Marcio,
executive director of the Migration and Refugee Services of the United States
Catholic Conference; Senator Edward M. Kennedy; the Rev. Jesse Jackson;
President Francois Mitterrand of France, and Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez of
Spain.

The two former prisoners and Manuel Marquez Trillo, who also spent 25 years in
Cuban jails, said that fewer than 40 plantados remained in Combinado del Este.
These were the last of the so-called ''historical political prisoners,'' Cubans
sentenced at the beginning of the Castro revolution. Mr. Marquez, 60, whose
health is precarious, said that among the plantados were two men arrested on
Jan. 1, 1959, the day Mr. Castro came to power.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              August 17, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

10 Years, a Postcard and Next, Israel

BYLINE: By ESTHER B. FEIN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1304 words

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Aug. 16


The postcard came for David and Anna Shvartsman last week, a simple official
affirmation that their application to immigrate to Israel had finally been
accepted.

The Shvartsmans had been waiting nearly 10 years for the card, and for the last
two months, their anticipation had been heightened by the hope that meeting with
President Reagan during the summit meeting at the end of May - at a tea the
Reagans held for dissidents and would-be emigres - would end their wait.

''We can only be thankful for the President's help,'' said Yudif Lurie, Mrs.
Shvartsman's mother. ''On that day, our Soviet authorities had to accept the
attention of the world, focused on this issue, by someone with the world's
respect. And as a mother, I now see that my daughter is free.''

Not all of the 96 people who met with President and Mrs. Reagan have found their
cases so quickly resolved or their harassment eased. Though her daughter's
refusal has been ended, Mrs. Lurie, her husband, Emmanuil, and their daughter
Bella have been told that their decade-long request to leave has still not been
granted.

Positive Results Seen

But American Embassy officials and many of those who met the President said they
thought the meeting had already produced, and will continue to produce, positive
results for the cause of human rights in the Soviet Union.

''Pressure on any level helps,'' said Sergei L. Petrov, a photographer who sat
next to Nancy Reagan at the reception. ''Pressure at the highest level is
unmatched in what it ultimately can accomplish.''

Mr. Petrov learned last month through American officials that his eight-year
quest to emigrate had failed again, but he said, ''It would be wrong to think
meeting with the President was the wrong approach and that''s why I'm still
stuck.''

President Reagan was severely criticized by Soviet officials and the press for
his hardline stance on human rights before and during the summit meeting. The
meeting with Soviet dissidents and others at Spaso House earned particular ire,
and the day after it took place, Soviet newspapers and television programs
chided the President and attacked several of the guests, denouncing one as a
Nazi war criminal.

American Officials Concerned

American officials said that at the time, they were concerned that the press
reports signaled that the Soviet authorities intended to defy the President's
appeals. Their fears were raised, some officials said, when a day after the
meeting, Sergei A. Kovalev, a human rights campaigner who spoke at the event,
was told that a job he had been offered was being revoked because of his
participation.

But in the last two months, embassy officials said they had seen slow but steady
progress in settling cases highlighted by the Reagan meeting. While the
Government has reaffirmed its decision to deny emigration visas to several
longtime would-be emigres, and most have heard nothing at all, several families
have left or been told that they are free to go.

''It's impossible to tell precisely whom officials planned to release before
that meeting, and whom they may be holding back because of it,'' one embassy
official said. ''But it seems to us that in general, human rights was given a
boost and we are moving in a positive direction.''

Mathematician With Cancer

Veniamin I. Charny, a mathematician with cancer who had waited nearly a decade,
received permission soon after the summit and has already left. So have Boris
Perchatkin, his wife and eight children, Pentecostals from Nakhodka in the
Soviet Far East. Pyatras Pakenas, a Lithuanian whose wife was living in the
West, has joined her; Kim Fridman of Kiev also left for the West to join his
wife.

Tatyana and Yuri Zieman and their daughter Vera, whom the Reagans planned to
visit at home in Moscow until the Soviet authorities pressed them not to, left
Moscow last week. Ilya Besprozvanny was told that he was no longer considered a
security risk - an amorphous designation the authorities often use in denying
exit visas - and was therefore free to apply to leave.

Yuli M. Kosharovsky was the person at the meeting longest refused permission by
the Soviet authorities to emigrate, with 17 years of applications followed by
refusals.

Mr. Kosharovsky still holds that undesired distinction, his request to emigrate
denied once again.

Speech at Reception

One embassy official said the fact that Mr. Kosharovsky was one of three guests
who gave speeches at the reception ''probably has not helped his case,''
although Mr. Kosharovsky said he did not regret speaking.

Another man still waiting for news is Abe Stolar, an American citizen who came
here with his parents as a teenager in the 1930's and has been unable to leave.
He, his wife and son have been given exit permits, but his Soviet
daughter-in-law, Yuliya Shurukht, has not, and the family refuses to leave
without her.

Mr. Reagan seemed to take a personal interest in Mr. Stolar, a man of his age,
born in his home state, Illinois. ''But we've heard nothing, absolutely
nothing,'' Mr. Stolar said. ''Nevertheless, I still think it can only help that
he showed so much interest.''

Gauging the impact of the meeting on the would-be emigres is fairly simple,
embassy officials note: either people receive visas or they don't. It has been
more difficult to measure what, if any, effect it has had on those dissidents
not seeking to leave the country.

Journals Being Published

Mr. Kovalev was the one clear case embassy officials could point to of someone
suffering as a direct result of meeting with the President, although they do not
know if the job offer was revoked at the highest level, or because someone at
the institute where he was to work became nervous about the prospect.

Editors of unofficial publications who attended the event - Aleksandr Podrabinek
of Ekspress Khronika, Lev M. Timofeyev of Referendum and Sergei I. Grigoryants
of Glasnost - continue to publish their journals amid the varying degrees of
harassment they confronted before.

The Rev. Georgy Edelshtein, a dissident Russian Orthodox priest who was told a
week before the reception that he would not receive a parish, was last month
assigned to one in Kostroma, outside Moscow. And the Rev. Gleb Yakunin, who
spoke at the event, continues to have intermittent trouble with the Russian
Orthodox Church, as he did before the Reagan visit to Moscow.

The family of Paruir A. Airikyan, an Armenian prominent in the nationalist
movement who was recently expelled from the Soviet Union, is planning to join
him in the United States, although embassy officials say an application has not
yet been filed. Mr. Airikyan was imprisoned at the time of the summit reception,
but his family attended.

Attacked for War Crimes

Most enigmatic of the guests remains Nikolai Rozhko, an American citizen who has
been trying to leave the Soviet Union for many years. After the reception, the
Soviet press accused Mr. Rozhko of being a Nazi war criminal. American officials
confirmed that Mr. Rozhko had been convicted of war crimes, but say that since
he served his sentence he should be free to leave.

''At no time during years of negotitating with the Soviets over him did they
mention his record,'' said one official. ''I think it was a cheap shot they
fired because of the meeting.''

Even some who left had parting run-ins with Soviet resistance to their
departures. Two weeks after the Spaso House meeting, a Soviet official told the
Zieman family that their application had been refused again and that they could
not reapply until 1992.

''It was very, very upsetting to us,'' Mr. Zieman said before the family left
Moscow. ''But I think even more than worrying us, they wanted to show that
President Reagan couldn't tell them what to do. But I think in the end, he
did.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Tatyana and Yuri Zieman and their daughter (NYT/Esther B.
Finn)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 21, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE WORLD;
Some Doors Are Closing

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3, Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 285 words


A NUMBER of treaties and international agreements say that refugees should not
be sent back to countries where their lives or freedom would be threatened. But
they do not require countries to admit people who fear such dangers. More and
more, countries are adopting new rules, laws and policies to restrict admissions
of refugees.

Canada recently enacted a law that will make it easier for the Government to
detain aliens without travel documents. People seeking refugee status will have
fewer opportunities to appeal denial of their claims, according to immigration
lawyers. In the last year, Britain, Switzerland and West Germany have adopted
new procedures restricting asylum applications. Under a new British law,
airlines and shipping companies are subject to heavy fines if they transport
people without proper travel documents.

Hong Kong recently announced that boat people who cannot prove that they are
fleeing religious or political persecution will be incarcerated until they can
be returned to Vietnam. Thailand has pushed away many refugee boats approaching
its shores this year; in some cases, passengers drowned. Indonesia has turned
away boats and shot at Vietnamese attempting to land, according to the American
Embassy there. Malaysia has said it intends to close a large refugee center and
will cut back on admissions of refugees. Across Southeast Asia, people who would
previously have qualified for refugee status are now classified as illegal
immigrants.

Thus, says Bill Frelick, an analyst at the U.S. Committee for Refugees, a
private group, ''the notion seems to be gaining ground that not admitting
refugees is the most convenient and economical way of handling the problem.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Cambodian refugees in Thailand (Magnum/ Ian Berry); map
showing number of refugees throughout the world (Source: U.S. Committee for
Refugees)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 22, 1988, Monday, Late City Final Edition

A Renaissance For Ethnic Papers

BYLINE: By ALBERT SCARDINO

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1224 words


For the first time since the 1920's, the tide of immigration is at flood stage
in New York City, with millions of Asian, Caribbean and European newcomers in
search of a better life.

Rushing to keep up with them have been ethnic newspapers packed with classified
ads and stories of crime and corruption, with one eye trained on the mother
country and the other on the Mayor's office.

Some of the publications arrived with the latest wave of immigrants, often as
editions of national newspapers published in the home country. Others, after
decades of quiet service to a dwindling audience never comfortable with English,
have expanded rapidly to serve the growing foreign-born population. All told,
there are at least 12 foreign-language dailies and dozens of weeklies and other
papers published less regularly.

A Less-Partisan Outlook

Most of the papers are not audited for circulation, and their profits and
revenues are not disclosed. But whether they are tiny, family-owned publications
or branches of multinational giants, most share a common ambition: to serve
readers as consumers rather than as political partisans. With some exceptions,
they limit their opinions to their editorial pages and offer opportunities for
those who disagree to sound off in letters to the editor or guest columns.

''We are an independent newspaper,'' said Chin-Fu Woo, the publisher of The
United Journal, New York's oldest Chinese-language daily. ''We cover the news
fairly. We don't take the side of the Communists. We don't take the side of the
Government on Formosa.''

The ethnic papers in New York vary in size from 8-page tabloids to 60-page
broadsheets (full size). For some, the name defines the audience: The Irish
Echo, The Polish Daily News, The Korea Herald. Others include Il Progresso, for
the Italian community, and El Diario, for the Hispanic community.

Many Kinds of Approaches

Their philosophies of journalism and their approaches to marketing cover the
spectrum from restrained to sensationalist - a variety reminiscent of that in
the United States newspaper industry in the 19th century.

In those days, publishers were beginning to move away from dependence on the
political parties that had established the papers as their official voices. Not
until after World War II, with the disappearance of competing newspapers in most
cities, did the notion of impartial journalism become the standard in American
newspapers.

The ethnic press is following a similar path in New York. Now, instead of
demanding that the government that seized power in a revolution at home be
overthrown by the United States, the papers report more impartially on economic
development and foreign relations in those countries.

Mr. Woo, for instance, will not sell his front page to an advertiser. ''My front
page is my face,'' said Mr. Woo, 78 years old, who founded the paper in 1952.
''My face is not for sale.'' Nor will he use cosmetics. No color for The United
Journal.

Many of his five major competitors readily push their news inside to make room
for ads on the front page - at a premium of 50 percent or more above inside
space - and they print as many colors as their presses will allow.

David Leung, national editor of The Sing Tao Daily News, a six-day-a-week
broadsheet, pieces together the day's news from his parent newspaper in Hong
Kong and from wire services and other publications to fill 2 of the 40 pages in
a typical issue.

''Our parent was full of the news of the crash of the plane in Pakistan that
killed President Zia,'' Mr. Leung said last week, ''but they had very little
from the Republican convention, so we had to cover poor George ourselves.''

Variety of Advertisers

The advertisements that fill half of each issue of his paper are similar to
those that appear in the English-language press in New York. The Zeckendorf
Company promotes its new building at Union Square with a full-page ad and the
New York Mets hawk season tickets. Unlike the general-circulation dailies in the
city, the paper also frequently carries as paid advertisements proclamations
from elected officials - along with their photographs - wishing the Chinese
community good will on certain holidays or anniversaries.

Like most newspapers, the ethnic press derives more of its readership from the
fine-print material in the back of the paper than it does from its front page.
The Sing Tao Daily News publishes column after column of classified advertising
(help wanted, businesses for sale, tax services, used furniture) at $2 for a
two-inch ad.

Though the editors of most of the papers see their role as smoothing the
transition from the mother country to a more prosperous life in the United
States, the columns sometimes contain hints that hardship still dominates the
existence of new arrivals. In each issue of The Polish Daily News, a
construction company specializing in asbestos removal advertises for workers.

''I have heard doctors say that it is good work for older men, because they will
not live long enough to die of the disease caused by asbestos handling,'' said
Malgorzata Cwiklnska, the 38-year-old editor of the paper.

''For a new arrival who does not speak English, it may be the only job that will
allow them to move out of a crowded apartment in Greenpoint,'' she said.
Greenpoint, a neighborhood in Brooklyn, has been the center of the Polish
immigrant community in New York in the 1980's.

An Editor's Goals

Ms. Cwiklnska said she had tried to bring ''a more professional'' approach to
the newspaper in the 18 months she has served as editor.

The circulation of the paper has remained constant for five years at about
20,000, but the number of pages has doubled from 8 to 16 because of increased
advertising.

For The Polish Daily News, as for most of the immigrant press, the future
depends partly on immigration policy. If the number of new arrivals who do not
speak English shrinks, the papers will lose their audiences.

''We serve those who come here to stay but who have not yet become
assimilated,'' Ms. Cwiklnska said. Many of those here now came on tourist visas
and hope to become permanent residents.

The increase in immigration has been important to the economic recovery of the
city during the decade, said Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, the Regional Commissioner of
the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

''The numbers are hard to come by, but there is no doubt that we are
experiencing the greatest rise in immigration since the early part of the
century,'' Mr. Ehrenhalt said.

A Shift in the Pattern

From the 1920's through the 1960's the city's immigrant population was primarily
from within the United States: blacks from the South and Puerto Ricans.

''In the 1970's, that wave stopped and the new one began to form,'' Mr.
Ehrenhalt said. ''Fortunately for those who have come here in the last few
years, the city's economy has been expanding rapidly so that it could absorb
them.''

With the exception of Irish and Polish immigrants, most of the newcomers of the
80's have come from Asia and the Caribbean, Mr. Ehrenhalt said. ''When they make
it, they move to the suburbs,'' he said.

To move out of the ethnic enclaves of New York City, most of them will have to
learn English. ''Unless others come behind them, I don't know who it is who will
read our paper,'' Ms. Cwiklnska said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 12, 1988, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Cuban Refugees Arrive in Miami To Joyous Welcome by Relatives

BYLINE: By GEORGE VOLSKY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 767 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 11


A total of 671 Cuban refugees who had waited for years in Costa Rica and Panama
to join relatives in the United States arrived here today to the tumultuous
welcome of their families.

The Cubans were the first admitted to this country under an agreement reached
May 20 between the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Cuban American
National Foundation, a conservative lobbying group based here.

The arriving Cubans, the most refugees to enter this country in a day since the
daily flotilla of boats brought 125,000 people in three months of 1980 from the
Cuban port of Mariel, came on three flights, two from Costa Rica and one from
Panama. The flights were chartered by the foundation and paid for by relatives
of the refugees.

Emotional Reunion

Jorge Mas Canosa, the foundation's president, greeted the arrivals at the
Tamiami Park Youth Fair hall, where thousands of crying and laughing relatives
met the refugees as they were brought by bus from the airport.

In an interview, he said the agreement with the immigration agency allowed the
entry annually of up to 4,000 Cubans residing in third countries. He said 800 to
900 new refugees would arrive before December.

''This is not Mariel, when 125,000 illegal immigrants entered the country,'' Mr.
Mas said. ''These people all have sponsors, jobs, and medical insurance for two
years and we shall monitor it to see that sponsors fulfill their commitments.''

''It is an unprecedented agreement,'' said Mr. Mas. ''It is the first time that
the American taxpayers don't have to pay for social services of new refugees.
Early this morning when I came on the first plane from Costa Rica, I was crying
with these people for whom this was the end of eight years of frustration and
humiliation.''

Pedro Fuentes Reyes, a mechanical engineer, his wife, Elena, who is a physician,
and their three children, waited five and a half years in Panama to join his
three brothers here. Luis Fuentes Reyes, one of the brothers, said the family
was sending about $400 a month to maintain their five relatives in San Jose
where they could only find occasional jobs. To bring them over, the family paid
$750, $150 each for air fare from Costa Rica, and $1,300 for medical insurance.
''What can I say,'' said Pedro Fuentes, hugged by his brother Luis. ''I feel
happy to be in this promised land.'' #15,000 Await Visas According to estimates
by social agencies here, more than 15,000 Cubans await United States visas in
Costa Rica, Panama, Venezuela, Mexico, Spain, Peru and other countries.

The Foundation-I.N.S. accord establishes a third program for Cubans to enter
this country. Last December, the Reagan Administration and the Cuban Government
agreed to an orderly flow of Cuban immigrants, initiating in Havana the
processing of all who are eligible for United States immigrant visas under the
normal family emigration priorities. Part of the December agreement was to
repatriate 2,500 of the Mariel refugees, convicted on various crimes, now in
Federal custody.

In addition, under a different agreement worked out by the United States
Catholic Conference, 3,000 former political prisoners and family members are
being admitted by the United States. They have been arriving in Miami since
April 20 without much fanfare, in three direct flights from Havana.In contrast
with shabbily attired and impassive, almost fearful refugees and former
prisoners who come straight from Cuba, today's arrivals were well, sometimes
modishly, dressed and relaxed.

Concern About Publicity

While praising the Foundation's efforts, Rafael A. Penalver, a Miami lawyer who
has been active on behalf of the Mariel prisoners, expressed concern that the
publicity attached to today's refugee arrival would ''divert the public opinion
here'' so that sending several hundred Mariel inmates back to Cuba would be
palatable.

''This would be a mockery on the part of the Reagan Administration,'' he said.
''I hope the Foundation will not let itself be used in this kind of quid pro quo
game. The people who came in today could have done so years ago had the
Administration been more flexible.''

''The permission to third country Cuban refugees to come here is long overdue,''
agreed Raul Martinez, the Mayor of Hialeah the predominantly Cuban city of
150,000, part of Greater Miami, who was present at today's welcoming ceremony.
''Even though these people have sponsors, most of them will live in Hialeah, and
therefore the city will have to provide basic municipal services for them. This
will, at least initially, represent a burden for our taxpayers.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of a Cuban refugee being greeted by a relative (Reuters)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 26, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Hispanic Influx Spurs 3 Ballots on Language

BYLINE: By JEFFREY SCHMALZ, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1645 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 25


With 300,000 Hispanic immigrants a year pouring into the South and the West,
Spanish has supplanted English in some areas, and many Americans who say they
feel like aliens in their own country are stepping up a battle to reaffirm
English as the language of public life.

In Florida, Arizona and Colorado, proposals on the Nov. 8 ballot would designate
English as the official language, applying primarily to government documents and
meetings. Proponents argue that Hispanic Americans have been slower than
previous immigrant groups to adopt English and that the ballot measures are
necessary to encourage clarity of communication and the assimilation of Hispanic
immigrants.

''I didn't move to Miami to live in a Spanish-speaking province,'' said Dr. Mark
A. LaPorta, a 32-year-old Miami Beach internist who is the son of an Italian
immigrant and a leader in the fight to declare English the official language.

Opponents See Bigotry

Opponents argue that the measures represent nothing less than bigotry against
the Hispanic people. Freedom to express oneself, the opponents contend, includes
the right to decide what language to speak. They say America might as well face
the fact that the future of the country will be multilingual; whether it is
English and Spanish in Florida or English and Japanese in California.

Sociologists and political analysts say that in Arizona and Colorado, as well as
in California, where a declaration of English as the official language passed in
1986, the treatment of new immigrants is similar to the way European immigrants
were treated 100 years ago. Like their predecessors, the Hispanic immigrants
tend to be poor and undereducated and are often looked down upon by Americans
whose families have been in the country for generations.

But in Florida, and particularly here in Miami, where Hispanic Americans are
more than 55 percent of the city's population and 35 percent of the metropolitan
area's population, the issue is different, academics and civil rights activists
say. Although many of the immigrants here are poor and undereducated, a large
number are successful and prominent. The Mayor, Xavier Suarez, is Hispanic, as
are many business leaders.

Success Creating Resentment

It is Hispanic Americans' very success in Florida, sociologists say, that is
creating resentment against them. Some blacks, for example, have long been angry
that Hispanic immigrants, many of whom came from the educated middle and
upper-middle class in their own countries, have skipped over blacks and taken
the better jobs.

Thomas D. Boswell, a geography professor at the University of Miami who has
studied the migration of people from the Caribbean, said: ''Something has
happened in Miami unlike anything in other United States cities. In just one
generation, the Hispanic population has come to dominate. There's no question it
has created a backlash.''

What especially galls longtime Floridians is not so much what they perceive as
Hispanic Americans' slowness to learn English as the fact that native Americans
are increasingly finding that they have to speak Spanish. Many of the major
corporations here, while not specifically requiring their executives to speak
Spanish, say that any executive who wants to flourish should learn it.

At the Del Monte Tropical Fruit Company, for example, which maintains its world
headquarters in Coral Gables, Fla., Alfredo Vela, vice president for public
affairs, said that within the headquarters, three out of five senior executives
speak Spanish. ''Just about all of our support personnel are bilingual,'' he
said.

Learning Spanish

At a large Florida bank, Southeast Banking Corporation, the chairman, Charles J.
Zwick, said, ''Certainly a young officer at the bank should learn Spanish if he
wants to do well.''

Miami is a center for banks dealing with Latin America, and Mr. Zwick said he
was planning to learn Spanish. ''We're working on a transaction now,'' he said,
''where I could have been more effective if I could have carried on the luncheon
conversation in Spanish.''

In Northern cities, New York, for example, extensive use of Spanish is confined
to Hispanic neighborhoods. But here, it is citywide. Some people with jobs that
bring them into contact with the general public, such as store clerks and
airport security guards, do not always speak English. Signs on everything from
parking meters to exhibitions at the zoo are in both Spanish and English.

The city's main newspaper, The Miami Herald, publishes daily in both English and
Spanish. The radio station with the largest advertising revenues in the Miami
area last year, WQBA, broadcasts solely in Spanish.

It is possible to work and live here without speaking English. And at some major
banks dealing with Latin America, there are executives who speak only Spanish.

Trend Toward Bilingualism

But anyone who wants to move up in business generally has to learn English. The
trend in this city, therefore, is toward bilingualism, with economic pressures
pushing Hispanic Americans to learn English and other Americans to learn
Spanish.

Dr. LaPorta, who is fighting for the ballot issue, has learned Spanish and said
he welcomes immigrants. He said he was merely concerned that the formal language
of government, for the sake of clarity, be English. Yet he also voiced a
frustration that is often heard here.

''The Latins are coming up fast,'' he said. ''There's a headiness, a certain
righteous sense of superiority.''

In all three states, the English proposal is in the form of a state
constitutional amendment. The Arizona measure explicitly requires state and
municipal officials to conduct government business in English. The Florida and
Colorado proposals declare English the official language of the state and leave
it to the Legislature to interpret.

Bilingual Teaching Not Affected

Opponents say the measures would lead to the elimination of interpreters at
government proceedings and of Spanish translations now available on everything
from state lottery tickets to welfare documents.

It is generally agreed that the English-only provision would not be applied to
such matters as the 911 emergency telephone network. Bilingual education would
not be affected since it is mandated by the Federal Government.

Polls in the three states have found that the ballot proposals have overwhelming
support. In Florida, the Census Bureau puts the Hispanic population at 1.5
million, about 12 percent of the total population of 12.3 million. In 1970,
Hispanic Americans numbered 405,000, or 5.9 percent of the population.

In Colorado, the Hispanic population, is about 400,000, just over 11 percent of
the state total. But Hispanic Americans make up about 25 percent of the Denver
metropolitan area. In Arizona, the Hispanic people account for 16 percent of the
total population, or about 440,000 out of 2.7 million. In the Tucson area, they
make up 24.6 percent of the population.

Hispanic Immigration Differs

Supporters of the ballot proposal say Hispanic immigration differs from that of
other ethnic groups in several ways, most importantly, in its size. The Census
Bureau estimates Hispanic immigration to the United States at 315,000 in 1987,
most of it to the South and the West. By comparison, Italian immigration, for
example, was only 286,000 at its highest in 1907.

The supporters point out that previous immigrant groups came in spurts, while
Hispanic immigration has been steady and increasing. In addition, they note that
immigrant groups in the late 19th and early 20th centuries were usually unable
to return to visit their native countries once they arrived in the United
States. But the new Hispanic immigrants can travel back and forth because of
airplanes and because they tend to have more money than earlier immigrants.

All those factors, the supporters of the English proposal say, keep Spanish
entrenched among Hispanic immigrants.

Clouding the battle for the ballot issue has been a series of resignations by
board members at U.S. English, a private group that is a main sponsor of the
proposal in each of the states. The resignations came after it was disclosed
that a contributor to the group had advocated forced sterilization of some
minority group members and that an official of the group had written a
memorandum in 1986 complaining that too many immigrants were Roman Catholic and
that Hispanic immigrants had a propensity toward committing crime.

English Already Official

A leader in the opposition to the Florida proposal, Osvaldo Soto, a 59-year-old
lawyer who fled Cuba in 1959, says the ballot issue is ''the product of bigots
and racists.'' He said English was already the official language of the country
and that the only purpose of passing the ballot proposal would be to belittle
Hispanic Americans.

Mr. Soto said most Hispanic Americans want to learn English and want their
children to learn ''because that's how they're going to succeed in this
country.'' He said Hispanic Americans were a relatively new immigrant group and
that they would follow the pattern of previous groups in the use of English: The
first generation does not speak it; the second generation speaks both English
and the language of the home country; the third generation speaks only English.

Hispanic Americans are learning English, Mr. Soto said, adding that the
continuing immigration of Hispanic people gave the impression that Hispanic
Americans were not learning it. He said that many of the early Hispanic
immigrants, those fleeing Cuba in the late 1950's, were middle-aged and had
found it difficult to learn a new language.

''On any given day,'' Mr. Soto said, ''I don't get less than 10 calls from
elderly people, saying they can't get this translated or they can't get that
translated. And that's before the amendment even passes.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of a Spanish banner hanging at a store in Hialeah, Fla. (pg. B8)
(NYT/Susan Greenwood)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 9, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

The Road to Extermination: Kristallnacht Lessons Pondered by Historians

BYLINE: By PETER STEINFELS

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1403 words


Fifty years ago many Americans voiced shock at the terrible events of
Kristallnacht. But not long afterward, when Senator Robert F. Wagner of New York
proposed to stretch immigration quotas so that about 10,000 Jewish children
could escape Nazi violence and come to the United States, the effort was
defeated in a Congressional committee.

This is one of the harsh facts that historians cite as they search for lessons
of the Nazi rampage against Jewish homes, businesses and places of worship that
storm troopers carried out 50 years ago tonight.

Supporters thought that the child refugee measure, backed by prominent religious
leaders, would be difficult to oppose. But about 70 percent of the American
public did so anyway, according to Prof. David S. Wyman, the author of the
highly praised book, ''The Abandonment of the Jews,'' published by Pantheon. The
bill was battered in Congressional hearings, Professor Wyman said, ''largely by
testimony from the American Legion and patriotic groups.'' Eventually, Senator
Wagner had to withdraw it.

Complicated Lessons

For many people observing the anniversary of Kristallnacht, the lessons may seem
as obvious as the motto ''Never again.'' But for historians like Professor
Wyman, who teaches at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, the lessons
often prove to be more complicated, though no less bitter, than at first
assumed. The world's failure to respond to the plight of Europe's Jews, for
example, occurred not amid silence but despite widespread, vociferous protest,
these historians say.

Then there is the complicated relationship between Kristallnacht and the
Holocaust, In key respects, they say, Kristallnacht was a throwback to earlier
pogroms, what one historian, Ian Kershaw, called a ''quasi-medieval orgy of
destruction,'' rather than a prototype for the hidden, systematized regime of
death camps. Kristallnacht even backfired on the Nazi faction that directed it.

Finally, the historians observe, the open brutality of Kristallnacht may have
saved many German and Austrian Jews by finally persuading them to flee Nazi
rule. At the same time, to the extent that the violence of Kristallnacht stirred
strong revulsion among the German and Austrian populace, it also made many
citizens more complacent about ''legal'' anti-Jewish measures, and it convinced
the Nazis that they should be more secretive in the future.

Nazi Excuse for Attacks

The Nazis organized Kristallnacht after Herschel Grynszpan, a 17-year-old Jewish
student living without papers in France and distraught over news that his
parents had been suddenly and brutally deported to Poland, assassinated a
low-level German diplomat in Paris. What was thinly disguised as a spontaneous
outburst of German wrath against the Jews was carried out by the Nazi Party's
brown-shirted storm troopers. Orchestrating the furor was Propaganda Minister
Joseph Goebbels.

Goebbels had bitter rivals within Nazi ranks, and Heinrich Himmler moved to
coopt the storm troopers' attacks by ordering his elite S.S. and Gestapo forces
into action, confiscating valuables and arresting Jews. Hermann Goring, director
of Germany's economic policy, was infuriated by the wanton destruction of Jewish
properties that he had planned to expropriate.

Within days Goebbels and the rowdies who started the wave of Kristallnacht
violence lost their bid to dominate Germany's anti-Jewish policy. ''A police
state does not like spontaneity,'' noted Holger Herwig, an historian at
Vanderbilt University. Control passed to what Mr. Herwig called the
''rationalists,'' the methodical government officials.

It was the methodical men who ordered that insurance payments for Kristallnacht
damage should go to the state rather than Jewish owners, who inflicted the Jews
with a billion-mark fine for supposedly provoking their own injuries and who
enacted the final measures to bar Germany's Jews from any viable economic
activity.

Michael R. Marrus, who teaches at the University of Toronto, described
Kristallnacht as ''more the end of a phase'' than the beginning of the
Holocaust. But Mr. Marrus agrees with historians like Karl A. Schleunes of the
University of North Carolina at Greensboro, who views the 1938 outburst as a
turning point because its very excesses forced a clarification of authority
lines.

'Machinery Was in Place'

''Now a machinery was in place,'' Mr. Schleunes said. It was typified not by
storm troopers but by officials like Adolf Eichmann who had forced the
emigration of 50,000 Austrian Jews within six months of Austria's annexation by
the Third Reich, According to Mr. Schleunes and other historians, that machinery
had not yet turned from expulsion to extermination. Widespread direct violence
against Jews was not yet clearly state policy, but ''that taboo had been
broken,'' said Henry R. Huttenbach, a historian at City College of New York who
is writing a book on ''the struggle for control of anti-Semitism'' among Nazi
factions and government officials. Kristallnacht was not a planned dress
rehearsal for the Final Solution, but a glimpse at what the Nazi regime was
capable of doing.

If this glimpse into the future horrified many people worldwide, why was their
outrage not translated into action? Within Germany, much of the popular
disapproval reflected disgust at the disorder and lawlessness of Kristallnacht
rather than compassion for the victims, although the latter was not missing
either, according to Mr. Kershaw's study of contemporary accounts. Only a few
individuals dared to make their opposition public - and suffered beatings and
abuse as a consequence. Most of all, Mr. Kershaw concluded, as long as
established institutions like the churches maintained official silence, brave
individuals were isolated and public revulsion ''was bound to remain inchoate.''


'The Road to Auschwitz'

Mr. Kershaw even suspects that the shocking violence of Kristallnacht made the
quieter, legal anti-Jewish measures that preceded and followed it more
acceptable to many Germans by contrast. And momentary disapproval was quickly
dissipated by inertia and indifference. Though Kristallnacht was the work of a
small minority of active bigots, a latent anti-Semitism, fed by Nazi propaganda,
numbed the feelings of a much greater number. For most Germans, the fate of the
Jews simply did not loom that large. ''The road to Auschwitz was built by hate,
but paved with indifference,'' Mr. Kershaw concluded.

Although the international protest was obviously much more vociferous, it had
almost no practical outcome. Four months earlier, President Roosevelt had
convened the Evian Conference in hopes of lowering barriers for refugees, but
the response from most nations, with the United States prominent among them, was
grudging. Not even Kristallnacht changed this attitude.

''If the outside world had been willing to make some sacrifices and open the
doors, the Jews in Germany and Austria could have been saved,'' Mr. Wyman said.
He attributed the unwillingness to accept refugees to Depression-era economic
fears. ''But I think a more important underlying reason was anti-Semitism,'' he
said, adding that from 1938 to 1944, ''anti-Semitism reached its peak in
American history.''

According to Mr. Marrus, reports of Kristallnacht atrocities may have helped
counter notions stirred by the Munich settlement that Nazi Germany could be
weaned from violence. But there was no effective diplomatic response to
Kristallnacht. The United States recalled its ambassador after hesitating for
four days, and that was the strongest international gesture.

''Whatever the outcry, Hitler had already decided that the outside world was
impotent,'' Mr. Huttenbach said. Throughout 1938 other nations had been unable
or unwilling to mount a united response to the German annexation of Austria, to
the refugee question, to the Munich crisis. Both Mr. Huttenbach and Mr. Herwig
believe that an economic boycott might have given Hitler pause, but none was
forthcoming.

In the end, these historians feel, the lessons of Kristallnacht may be that
indifference and inertia are as much the villains as active bigotry, and that
words without actions can be as dangerous as silence. The German and
international reaction to Kristallnacht was enough to instruct the Nazi regime
in the advantages of concealing future anti-Jewish violence but not enough to
restrain it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 10, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. FACES FLOOD OF SOVIET EMIGRES

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 894 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 9


Secretary of State George P. Shultz met with top aides today to seek ways to
deal with a flood of Soviet citizens who have applied to come to the United
States.

The United States has pressed the Soviet Union for years to increase emigration.
Now, with a recent relaxation of Soviet exit policies, the American capacity to
absorb Soviet refugees has been strained.

On July 1, the American Embassy in Moscow temporarily stopped issuing refugee
visas to Soviet citizens, citing budgetary constraints. The embassy started
reprocessing applications later that month, and Administration officials have
said that all of the 3,000 or so Soviet citizens who were then stranded have
received permission to come to the United States. In the meantime, a backlog of
about 9,000 new applications has emerged in Moscow, American officials said.

''We simply don't have enough funds and slots to take in as refugees all of the
Soviets with exit visas,'' a State Department official said.

Ceiling Is Filled

The United States has already filled its Moscow ceiling for the first part of
the 1989 budget year and the Immigration and Naturalization Service says that it
will not begin approving new applications until January. These people are the
people who make up the backlog of 9,000. Since July 1, a senior American
diplomat in Moscow said, the embassy has not been able to process applications
received after that date.

State Department officials have been developing different options to deal with
the potential influx, including making greater use of the Attorney General's
authority to admit people under a special action called parole that allows them
to come in despite refugee ceilings; sponsoring refugees with private money
instead of Government money; creating a completely new class of immigrant who
could enter the United States on an expedited basis, and going to Congress to
request a higher ceiling and more money so more Soviet refugees could come here.

By gaining refugee status, an immigrant can move to the United States without
delay and wihout meeting various qualifications, including an invitation from a
relative living in the United States who has American citizenship.

Another option, supported by some officials at the State Department and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, is to take a stricter stand on which
Soviet citizens qualify as refugees. Soviet citizens turned down for refugee
status could be forced to go through potentially far lengthier procedures to
enter the United States as immigrants.

While there is debate within the Administration on what approach to take, there
is no dispute that more would-be emigres are waiting for permission to enter the
United States. The Moscow applicants, who are primarily Armenians, are being
urged not to sell their houses or take other drastic actions because they may
have a long wait.

The backlog does not affect most Jews who leave the Soviet Union because they
leave with Israeli visas and apply in Rome for refugee status to enter the
United States. But State Department officials say that if current Soviet
emigration trends continue, the United States will exhaust its allotment for
refugee admission from Rome.

Jewish Groups Worried

The legal ceiling for refugees from Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union in
fiscal 1989 is 24,500. Under the Administration's procedures, an American
diplomat in Moscow said, 16,000 of these refugees come from the Soviet Union,
with 4,000 handled in the Soviet Union and the rest in Rome.

Some representatives of American Jewish groups said that they were worried about
the problem.

David A. Harris, Washington representative of the American Jewish Committee,
said the increase in Soviet emigration was a foreign policy success for the
Reagan Administration. But Mr. Harris expressed concerns about the potential
delays in admitting Soviet refugees into the United States. ''How ironic and
tragic it would be if the United States created a new category of Soviet
immigrant - the waitnik.''

Reviewing the matter today, Mr. Shultz met with senior officials in charge of
refugee programs, human rights matters, Soviet affairs and legal questions.

State Department officials said there were significant differences between the
Department's Bureau on Refugee Programs and its Bureau on Human Rights and
Humanitarian Affairs over how to deal with the increase in potential immigrants.


A Worldwide Problem

State Department human rights specialists are advocating new measures tailored
to accommodate new Soviet emigrants, officials say.

But the department's refugee specialists, like some officials at the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, are inclined to see the increase in Soviet
applicants as part of a worldwide problem in which there are more refugees than
places available in the United States. The refugee specialists, however,
reportedly support some new measures, such as creating a new category of
immigrant, State Department officials said.

Karl Zukerman, executive vice president of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society,
said the United States had already been trying to cope with the increased flow
of emigrants by taking a stricter stand on which Soviet citizens can qualify as
a refugee. To qualify, a person has to show American authorities that he left
because of a well-founded fear of persecution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 13, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Tracing Families Through Ellis I.

BYLINE: By ALBERT J. PARISI

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 12, Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1110 words

DATELINE: ELLIS ISLAND


AMID screeching power saws and hammer blows, Philip Lax wandered along dusty
corridors in the main immigration building, just as his parents had in the
1920's.

''For them, anxiety was in the air, coming to a new country and not knowing what
to expect,'' Mr. Lax said, pointing to a spot where a staircase once stood,
leading immigrants into a vast processing room. ''Now there is another kind of
anxiety in the air, but this comes from a sense of joy in remembering those
before us and what they did to make this country free and great.''

On this 30-acre island, 1,500 yards off the Jersey City shoreline, some 17
million immigrants traveling third class and steerage were processed into the
United States. For the healthy and those willing to work, it was known as the
isle of hope. For the infirm and the incurable - those whom immigration
officials earmarked for return to their ports of departure - it came to be known
as the island of tears.

Mr. Lax, 68 years old, a resident of Maplewood and president of the Ellis Island
Restoration Commission, has played a major role in the island's renovation,
along with such other prominent individuals as Lee Iacocca, but while others
were concerned with fund raising and architectural planning, it was he who
fought for a ''living memorial'' for immigrants and their descendants, according
to restoration officials.

Getting a Visual Record

The island - it is due to open next year as a national park monument - will
feature a computerized family history-genealogy center that, according to Mr.
Lax, ''will enable anyone who had family come through the island go to a
terminal, key in a name and have a visual record of when that person arrived.''

The project - it is still in the implementation stage and is not expected to
open until 1992, the 100th anniversary of the island's opening - will cost $25
million in funds raised through private and corporate donations.

''For me, the genealogy center started as a dream, and people told me that it
just could not be done,'' said Mr. Lax, president of a Short Hills-based real
estate investment company, ''but down deep I knew it could be, if we went about
it the right way.''

For two years, Mr. Lax and a handful of commission volunteers combed through
officials records ranging from Immigration health reports to warehoused
passenger ship manifests, dating back to 1892. Ellis Island processed its last
immigrant in 1954, when operations shifted to newer facilities in Manhattan.

The genealogy center, once completed, will be housed in two rooms flanking a
general information area adjacent to the main building's Great Hall.

''In using the computers, people will be able to find out the exact day and time
their parents and grandparents arrived here, what kind of health they were in,
how much money they had in their pockets, if there was anyone to meet them and
where they were bound,'' Mr. Lax said.

May Display Photographs

In time, and through historic contributions from descendants, immigrant
photographs may also be displayed as part of the visual record, he said.

For Mr. Lax, the historical search was also motivated by a need to rediscover
his own past.

''My parents both came from Austria around the same time,'' he said. ''My father
was 18 and my mother was 16, and while I know when my father arrived, I'm not so
sure about my mother. Through all this work, I'm going to find out.''

For Kevin C. Buckley, superintendent of the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island
National Monument for the National Park Service, Mr. Lax's efforts encompass a
national pride that thousands have come to feel for the island's restoration.

''Phil is tireless and astounding when it comes to what he has done,'' Mr.
Buckley said. And while others have worked on the mechanics of getting all this
together, it is Phil who has attempted to establish its soul.''

Renovation of the island and its 10 support buildings would have little meaning
unless ''people could get a sense of what their families experienced, and
through his efforts, by the touch of a button, we will enable people to
establish a permanent bond,'' Mr. Buckley said.

''A while back, I was here when a group of school kids were getting a tour,''
Mr. Lax said, ''and, at first, I thought they had little interest until I
listened in and saw that they were quiet and attentive. One child after another
said how they had heard stories about the island from their parents or their
grandparents, and it brought tears to my eyes. Because in that group I stood,
with the very same kind of feeling.''

He recalled a meeting in Washington several years ago with the late Senator
Frank Church of Idaho, who asked why it was so important to restore a handful of
crumbling buildings.

''I told him that what we are as a nation today is because of the hopes and
dreams of millions of immigrants who passed through there and made a better life
for themselves, their families and the nation that opened its arms to them,'' he
recalled. ''We remember the sacrifices of our Civil War dead through the Lincoln
Memorial, but what at that time had we to honor those who dreamed of a new
beginning in the land of freedom and plenty?''

Mr. Lax, a Newark native who is listed in the current edition of Who's Who in
America, graduated from West Side High School and earned a bachelor's degree in
business education from New York University in 1940. He and his wife, Mildred,
who recently celebrated their 40th anniversary, are the parents of two
daughters, Corrinne and Barbara.

On a recent tour of the island, Mr. Lax pointed to a steel frame that will soon
be enclosed by a canopy.

'An Exact Feeling'

''We found old photographs of what the canopy looked like, and this is what
we've recreated so that visitors will get an exact feeling of what their loved
ones first saw when they came here,'' he said.

He said that the island's first processed immigrant 96 years ago was 12-year-old
Annie Moore of County Cork, Ireland. She and her family settled in Connecticut.

Martin Morrin of Englewood, a plasterer working on the Great Hall and a recent
immigrant from Cork, was not surprised.

''I came here two years ago and I can imagine what she felt,'' he said.
''Working here is kind of an honor because I had relatives pass through this
very place, and in a way, it's my own history that I'm helping to restore.''

When the island opens next year to tourists, Mr. Lax plans to brings his 2
1/2-year-old grandson, Nicholas, here.

''We'll take a walk and I'll hold him in my arms and point out the sights,'' Mr.
Lax said, ''because I'm doing all of this as much for him as I am for myself.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Phillip Lax, President of the Ellis Island Restoratin
Committee

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             November 16, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

3 Workers Injured as Immigration Agents Raid Garment Plant

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sharon Ali being taken to an ambulance yesterday after a fire escape
collapsed at 22 West 32d Street, apparently under the weight of as many as 15
workers fleeing from agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
Officials said that the workers were from floors that house a garment plant and
that others were also believed injured, but had fled before emergency workers
arrived. (AP)

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 20, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE WORLD;
To Emigres, Sakharov Remains Above It All

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3, Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 867 words


THE night he arrived in Boston on his first trip outside the Soviet Union,
Andrei D. Sakharov accepted a box of long-stemmed roses from a man he had never
met - an American-born Crimean Tatar whose people have been on Dr. Sakharov's
list of causes for more than 20 years.

It was a gesture meant both to welcome the Nobel Peace Prize laureate and to pay
him homage. For the few Crimean Tatars living in the West, as for many others
concerned with Soviet human rights issues, Dr. Sakharov, at 67 years old, is a
symbol of constancy, an unmoving light against which people and events are
brought into focus. His two-week trip here, which began Nov. 6, has only
reinforced that view.

''He was never broken,'' said Ayshe Seytmuratova, a Crimean Tatar who emigrated
here 10 years ago and was reunited with Dr. Sakharov last week. ''He has always
spoken out his opinions, no matter what, no matter where. He used to fight for
these same issues before, back in the time of stagnation.''

''If his fight now coincides with perestroika, he's not to blame,'' she
continued, using the Russian word that has become synonymous for changes under
way in the Soviet Union. ''I don't see any changes in his struggle, except
perhaps a few changes of words.''

Not all Soviet immigrants are so accepting of Dr. Sakharov's defense of official
Kremlin policies. A few say quietly that in embracing perestroika, he is letting
himself be used by Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the Soviet leader; others think his
list is too limited and that he should speak up more forcefully on other causes,
Jewish emigration, for instance.

For Yuri Yarim-Agaev, who was exiled in 1980 and now heads a group, Center for
Democracy, in New York City, Dr. Sakharov's backing of Mr. Gorbachev's program
is somewhat puzzling. ''If he is calling for support of Gorbachev, then I must
disagree with him,'' he said.

But for the most part, Dr. Sakharov's moral authority puts him above the debates
that continually rage in emigre circles about where the Soviet Union is headed.
''I love Sakharov very much, and I relate to him as a great man, whether he is
right or wrong,'' said Alexander I. Ginzburg, a dissident who is now a
journalist in Paris. ''He has a right to love Gorbachev, and I have a right not
to.''

During the decade when Soviet authorities were moving to break up the human
rights movement, Dr. Sakharov's old associates scattered, many to the West. Some
remained active in human rights campaigns in Washington, Israel, Geneva or
Vienna.

Others have retreated into a self-ordered exile. Alexander I. Solzhenitsyn,
through a spokesman, declined to comment on Dr. Sakharov's visit. Valery
Chalidze, another veteran of the early days of the movement who now lives in
Vermont, said he had nothing to say because he is ''out of touch.''

A Special Role

In a speech in 1981, Mr. Chalidze carved out a special place for Dr. Sakharov in
the centuries-old Russian conflict between the intelligentsia and the state. In
this tradition, Mr. Chalidze said, Dr. Sakharov was the exception who went
beyond the ''exclusively negative role'' typically pursued by the cultural
elite.

Mr. Chalidze predicted that Dr. Sakharov will be remembered in history books
''as one of those rare intellectuals who dared to break down the wall between
power and culture, disregarding the moral taboos of his social group and the
lack of understanding of the authorities.''

In Mr. Gorbachev's Soviet Union, Dr. Sakharov remains neither insider nor
outsider. He was nominated to the governing body of the Soviet Academy of
Sciences at the same time that he became honorary chairman of the unofficial
anti-Stalinist group Memorial. He has defended the right to emigrate, but has
never expressed a personal desire to live outside the Soviet Union. And he
appears comfortable both praising and criticizing the course of change.

Many emigres now in America are more cynical about Mr. Gorbachev's program; most
had not been politically active in the Soviet Union but upon arrival here turned
aggressively pessimistic about the chances for change from Moscow.

Many former dissidents, on the other hand, want to encourage positive changes,
and are willing to acknowledge them when they happen. In their view, Dr.
Sakharov is the best person to draw distinctions on the nature of the changes
taking place.

''He is a reasonable man,'' said Yuri F. Orlov, a physicist and former political
prisoner who lives near Geneva. ''He says what is good and what is bad. He is a
scientist. I know many Sovietologists in the West who are not scientists, but
romantics.''

Many old associates feel that Dr. Sakharov, for the moment, has the better of
his relationship with Mr. Gorbachev. ''It is impossible to use Sakharov in any
direction,'' said Dr. Valery Soifer, a biologist who emigrated last year and now
teaches at Ohio State University. ''He does not belong to any group, any
faction.''

Dr. Sakharov's friend, Ludmilla Alexeyeva, an emigre and author of a book on
Soviet dissent, put it this way: ''Circumstances change, but Dr. Sakharov
doesn't change. Auditoriums change, but Dr. Sakharov doesn't change. There is
something so great, so nice in his unchangingness.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Andrei D. Sakharov in Washington last week (NYT/Jose R. Lopez)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 20, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Nicaraguans Crowd the Miami Welcome Mat

BYLINE: By JEFFREY SCHMALZ, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1537 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 18


From the street, the storefront here looks festive, its window covered by a
giant blue and white flag of Nicaragua, photographs of a smiling Pope John Paul
II and a poster announcing ''Gran Fiesta Danzante'' (''A Big Dance Party'').

But inside, its three rooms are home to 103 people. In one of them, 32 men sleep
on soiled mattresses covering the entire floor. The two other rooms are a blur
of confusion: stacks of Pampers and canned goods, toddlers crying, rice and
beans cooking on hot plates, television sets blaring. In a narrow back alley of
this privately operated shelter, women draw water from a communal spigot.

''It's tougher than I thought it would be,'' Alfredo Diaz said in Spanish.

Along with his wife and two small children, Mr. Diaz arrived here six weeks ago
from Nicaragua, by way of Mexico and Texas. ''It's not good,'' he said.

Miami, which for three decades has absorbed wave after wave of Latin American
immigrants, is being hit with a new wave, this time Nicaraguans, that many
officials here believe presents this area's worst immigration problem since more
than 100,000 Cubans arrived by boat in 1980.

According to Federal figures, the number of Nicaraguans arriving in the Miami
area began to more than double two months ago, rising from 300 a week to 800, a
level many immigration officials believe will remain steady. That would mean
40,000 new Nicaraguan immigrants in one year, joining the 100,000 who over the
last decade have come to Miami and surrounding Dade County, where Hispanic
people now make up more than 35 percent of the population.

Unlike the previous Nicaraguan immigrants, many of whom were middle-class, most
of the new ones are poor, unskilled and often illiterate -campesinos from the
countryside. Miami, which considers itself as much the northernmost city of
Latin America as the southernmost city of the United States, has a tradition of
welcoming Spanish-speaking immigrants, but this time it is caught up in a debate
over what to do.

Some Nicaraguan support groups are clamoring for aid, and the city has agreed to
open a 200-bed shelter. But municipal officials are reluctant to do much more,
partly for fear of encouraging a greater flood of immigration, partly because
many would rather concentrate aid and attention on support for the opposition
movement within Nicaragua.

Further, city and county officials here, many of whom are Hispanic immigrants
themselves, oppose broad social service efforts generally. They object to the
cost and they fear that the programs may lead immigrants to a life of dependence
rather than one of relying on their own pluck.

'They Don't Have One Cent'

''These new immigrants are scared,'' said Carmen Lacayo, one of 11 women who
make up Hermandad Nicaraguense (Nicaraguan Brotherhood), a group that supplies
the Nicaraguans with donated food and clothing. ''Maybe they've sold a pig to
pay for the trip. By the time they get here, they don't have one cent. Sometimes
even their birth certificates have been stolen. We ask them to sign for their
food packets, and they can't write.''

Immigration officials and Nicaraguans themselves attribute the increase in
immigration to two main factors: worsening economic hardship in Nicaragua and a
realization that the rebel effort there will not topple the Sandinista
Government any time soon. Many city officials believe the economic motive for
immigrating is now the bigger one, a change from the early 1980's, when, shortly
after the Sandinistas assumed power, thousands fled for mainly political
reasons.

Some of those arriving here left Nicaragua only recently, coming by way of
Mexico. Others lived for months in refugee camps in Honduras and other Central
American countries, which have been pressing the United States to take the
Nicaraguans.

A Long Wait for Asylum

Federal officials say 80 percent of Nicaraguans who make their way through
Mexico and cross the Texas border, virtually all of them illegally, wind up
here, drawn by the city's Latin flavor and its already established Nicaraguan
community.

Once here they apply for asylum, a category covering immigrants fleeing a
government regarded by the United States as oppressive. But the Immigration and
Naturalization Service says it has a backlog of 27,000 applications in Miami. By
law, if the agency cannot process an application within 60 days, which it says
it cannot because of the volume here, it must issue a renewable one-year
authorization allowing the applicant to work. And that is what it automatically
does with the Nicaraguans.

Nonetheless, the entire procedure can be one of frustrating, even painful delay
for such immigrants. A formal granting of asylum takes years, and only once it
is granted can an immigrant begin the process of seeking citizenship.

Further, immigrants say that in practice the time between their applying for
asylum and receiving work authorization can last four months. That means four
months without being able to earn money to eat or rent a home. Those lucky
enough to have friends or relatives already here may be able to move in with
them. The choices otherwise are to find scant space at a private shelter, or to
give up.

''No papers, no papers,'' said Jose Abram Vasquez, 52 years old, explaining why
he could not get a job. He said he was returning to Honduras, where he had left
his wife and four children, to figure out what to do.

Problems for the Schools

In the Dade County school system, Nicaraguans have become the fastest-growing
ethnic group: 13,560 Nicaraguan students are enrolled this academic year, more
than three times the 3,664 of last year.

''This is very different from what we've seen with Nicaraguans in the past,''
said William Renuart, the principal of South Miami Junior High School. ''These
kids 13, 14, 15 years old can't read. They have no educational experience.''

This week South Miami Junior High began placing the Nicaraguans in daylong
classes, each headed by one teacher who, speaking Spanish, drills them in the
basics of reading and arithmetic. Mr. Renuart said he began the program after
teachers found that ''the Nicaraguans behave so well, are so quiet, that it was
easy'' to ignore them.

A Building of Tensions

In general, the Nicaraguans seem to get along well with the other Hispanic
groups here. The police say that unlike other immigrant waves, particularly the
Cuban surge in 1980, this one has brought no rash of crime.

Still, some tensions are developing. For decades blacks have been upset that
jobs they believe should be theirs are going instead to Hispanic immigrants. The
average monthly unemployment rate among blacks in the Miami area was 10.4
percent last year; for Hispanic workers it was 5.8 percent.

''It's gotten to the point now where we've just resigned ourselves to the fact
that there's going to be this kind of immigrant flow,'' said Johnnie McMillian,
the head of the Miami-Dade chapter of the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People. ''But it's a terrible strain in terms of housing,
jobs. The more Nicaraguans and other immigrants, the fewer jobs for everyone
else.''

Differences Among a People

Given a virtual absence of government aid, the Roman Catholic Church has taken a
leading role in the relief efforts. Church officials say Nicaraguans who have
been here for years have been less generous than Cubans in helping the new
Nicaraguan immigrants. The officials attribute this in part to class
differences, with the earlier Nicaraguans, who tended to be wealthier, looking
down on their poorer countrymen arriving now.

The church officials also say this latest immigration surge reflects a collapse
of the rebel movement, a failure that they say the earlier Nicaraguan immigrants
do not want to acknowledge.

The Rev. Leon Pallais, a Roman Catholic priest who left Nicaragua seven years
ago, called ''the lack of generosity'' by the longer-established Nicaraguans
here ''selfish, extremely selfish.''

'They Have to Learn to Fight'

But Nicolas Lopez-Maltez, the editor of La Estrella de Nicaragua (The Star of
Nicaragua), a monthly newspaper for immigrants here, with a circulation of
30,000, said that Nicaraguans as a whole were not so well established here as
the Cubans, whose major immigration began two decades earlier, and therefore did
not have as much money to give.

In addition, Mr. Lopez-Maltez, who left Nicaragua in 1981 after two years of
imprisonment by the Sandinistas, said: ''Yes, we have to make sure there are
medical and education facilities for them and work permits. But beyond that, no.
They have to learn to fight for themselves and respect themselves.''

Many of the Nicaraguans wind up in Sweetwater, a town near Miami that already
had an established Nicaraguan community. They sleep 10 or more to the room. The
men find work bagging groceries in supermarkets or cleaning floors in one of the
malls. The women work as maids.

''When they cross the river together into Texas, they become brothers,'' said
Mrs. Lacayo, the Nicaraguan Brotherhood member. ''You make friends. You stick
together. One has a cousin here who can help. One has a friend. It's like in
wartime. You are all one. You survive.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of Nicaraguan refugees at a privately operated shelter in Miami,
where the number of Nicaraguans arriving has risen from 300 a week to 800 (pg.
1); Iris Diaz, a Nicaraguan refugee, and her children on a mattress in a small
private shelter in Miami. (NYT/Susan Greenwood) (pg. 24)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 4, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Gorbachev Impressing The Skeptical Emigres

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 22, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1129 words


On the crowded sidewalks of Brighton Beach, where shoppers speaking Russian
trawl expectantly through the stores as if they were still in the Soviet Union,
Mikhail S. Gorbachev is getting some unlikely praise in the days before he
arrives in New York.

''We think he does a good thing,'' said Alexander Greenburg, an Odessa native
who came to New York 12 years ago, during a recent conversation on the corner of
Brighton Beach Avenue and 7th Street. ''Gorbachev's a nice guy - not like the
others before.''

In the shops that sell sausages from Minsk and dumplings from Siberia and in
restaurants with names that evoke the cafes of Moscow and Odessa, there is
little excitement over Mr. Gorbachev's arrival - no one interviewed plans to
cheer his motorcade - but many shared Mr. Greenburg's positive view of the
visitor.

Former Badge of Honor

In the year since he was last in the United States, changes initiated by the
Soviet leader have reached New York's growing community of Russian immigrants, a
group for whom a deep suspicion of all things Soviet is often a source of
identity.

To some degree, Soviet emigres -once regarded as traitors and treated as pariahs
- have benefited from glasnost, the Kremlin's policy of openness. With freer
travel now allowed, immigrants and their Soviet relatives are exchanging visits
at a pace that is outstripping available plane tickets. Emigre artists and
writers, with a few notable exceptions, are gaining recognition back home;
visiting Soviet officials, who once shunned the company of their former
countrymen, are now seeking them out.

Few of the former Soviet citizens accept this awkward courtship at face value -
''a game for export,'' one Russian-born, midtown restaurateur called it. Most
immigrants are still dubious about Mr. Gorbachev's chances for success and about
his motives.

''People are confused about what is going on in the Soviet Union,'' said
Vladimir Kozlovsky, a staff writer for the Russian-language newspaper Novoye
Russkoye Slovo and a correspondent for the BBC's Russian service. Alluding to
emigrant sketicism, he added, ''The party line is that the changes have been
only cosmetic, but there have been some benefits and people normally welcome
benefits.''

Unprecedented Speed

For Alla Rytova, 35 years old, who came here from Kiev with her 4-year-old
daughter Polina, the Gorbachev era meant getting a visa just two months after
she applied for it. Three months later, sitting in a park off the Brooklyn
seashore, Mrs. Rytova said she could only be sympathic to the Soviet leader's
troubles. ''It is very difficult to rebuild what was put together badly over 70
years,'' she said.

Branda Lishinskaya, 61, who arrived here from Odessa over the summer, had had to
wait 10 years for her Soviet visa, but she too credits Mr. Gorbachev with the
change in her fortunes. ''If there had been no Gorbachev,'' she said brightly as
she and her sister made the rounds of fruit and vegetable stands that exceed the
dreams of the most fanciful Soviet shopper, ''I wouldn't be here.''

The contrasts between life here and life in the Soviet Union are still well
known to immigrants. For all the talk of glasnost, former Soviet citizens
-especially those who have returned recently for visits - know that the
country's economic situation has not improved. In fact, in some cases, goods
have become more scarce.

''The people I see who have gone back are calling it 'the best cure for
nostalgia,' '' said Pauline Bilus, project director for Action for Russian
Immigrants, a service agency based in Brooklyn. ''They say 'What's new? Nothing
has changed.' As one man said, 'a lot of it is pure baloney.' ''

Fewer Poignant Separations But some of the changes are real. Over the last year,
the number of private guests allowed out of the Soviet Union on invitations from
friends and relatives has ballooned - from a few hundred in 1986 to 2,500 last
September. This has swept away what was once the heartbreak of Soviet emigration
- when those who left thought they would never again see those who stayed
behind.

''It's beautiful,'' said Simon Feldman, owner of the White Acacia Market on
Brighton Beach Avenue. ''It's like being in prison, and someone opening the
door, saying you are free to go - whether for a visit, or longer, it doesn't
matter.''

In the meantime, Moscow has continued to build bridges to the the emigrants -
sending waves of performing artists, authors, cooks and economists to the West,
offering official spokesmen to appear on any occasion, moving to break down some
of the barriers that for more than half a century divided the Soviet world from
the emigre world.

This mixing of cultures has recently picked up speed, particularly in New York.
In the last year, Soviet officials have given interviews to emigre newspapers,
appeared on a local Russian-language cable program, even invited emigre
journalists who were once considered anathema to receptions at the Soviet
Mission to the United Nations.

Business Is Business

Boris Blekh, co-owner of the Russian Samovar restaurant on West 52d Street, is
still amazed that a Soviet deputy foreign minister recently came to lunch -
itself unheard of some years ago - and even shook his hand. ''That,'' Mr. Blekh
said, ''is already something.''

Dreams of joint ventures with Western partners have also lured visiting Soviets
into contacts with emigres; Mr. Blekh says a large number come to his
restaurant, trying to sell schemes that usually falter on the unacceptability in
the West of the Soviet ruble.

Pleased by the changes that directly benefit them, many immigrants are still
waiting for further developments. While he welcomes appearances by Soviet
officials with emigres on local Russian-language stations as a step forward,
Alexander Goldfarb, a human rights campaigner, is waiting for the day when the
same interviews are shown on Soviet television.

A Change in Vision

''I think all this will be to the good if it really develops into something,''
Mr. Goldfarb said. ''If Soviet political culture accepts the idea that leaving
the country and living abroad is not an act of treason, that would be a major
step.''

Today, there is a new twist to the laments over emigration policies heard in
places like Brighton Beach. This time, the outrage is directed at the United
States, not the Soviet Union, after the news that United States immigration
authorities have refused refugee status to about 150 Soviet Jews since October.

''As a Jew, I have a big concern not with Mr. Gorbachev, but now with the
American side,'' Mr. Feldman said.

And so far, the Soviet leader's entourage - which is planning stops at the
Metropolitian Museum of Art and the Trump Tower - has not put Brighton Beach on
its route.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of Alla Rytova and her daughter, Polina; Vladimir Kosovsky, an
emigre journalist for a Russian-language newspaper (NYT/Fred R. Conrad)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 5, 1988, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Metro Matters;
Policy Remedy: Unfettered Work For New Yorkers

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 775 words


When a mayoral Commission on the Year 2000 peppered largely optimistic
predictions with some disturbing caveats last year, it called its forecast ''New
York Ascendant.''

A new vision, commissioned by the Manhattan Institute, a public policy research
group, is entitled ''New York Unbound.'' The title is less a reflection of how
the city functions than of the book's prescription for constraints that the city
must shed in order to prosper. Predictable free-market nostrums aside, the
essayists offer provocative and timely insights.

Louis Winnick, former vice president for urban affairs of the Ford Foundation,
predicts that an infusion of immigrants may push New York's foreign-born
population beyond its 20th century peak of 40 percent. But peering well beyond
the melting pot, Nathan Glazer, professor of sociology and education at Harvard,
fears ''serious racial and ethnic conflict in the future, as new immigrants pull
ahead of older low-income populations that seem unable to connect with the
city's opportunities.''

Only last week, the city's Commission on Human Rights appealed for continued
negotiations to resolve boycotts by blacks of businesses owned by Korean
immigrants - a simmering conflict triggered again in August by an altercation at
a Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, produce market.

Equally current is a searing analysis by Frank J. Macchiarola, the former city
schools chancellor. ''The real enemy,'' he wrote, before Dr. Richard R. Green
assumed the chancellorship last March, ''is the system's leadership in the
recent past.''

''An administration in which the chancellor actually has an educational
philosophy of some sophistication will represent a significant departure from
the experience of the past five years,'' he wrote, adding presciently that if
Dr. Green failed to install capable and compatible deputies ''he will walk naked
and vulnerable in one of the toughest bureaucracies in the world.'' (Mr.
Macchiarola recalled, perhaps presciently, too, that only two other chancellors
or superintendents were recruited from outside the system in modern times and
both were ''rendered ineffective'' within 18 months).

He bemoaned a reluctance to involve parents and a paralysis resulting from the
teachers union's control over three of the seven Board of Education members. He
said the Board had ''used the lame excuse that its effective power has been
removed by decentralization'' when, in fact, it could invoke existing authority
to better monitor community school boards.

''There is no question,'' he wrote, ''that community school boards in virtually
every neighborhood of the city have done a better job in elementary education
than the central Board has in special education and in the high schools.''

The philosophical underpinning of the book (published by Basil Blackwell) is
that public policies have stifled New York's fundamental vitality. Only last
week, a proposed form of commercial rent control was nearly approved by a City
Council committee.

Tendencies that bind were identified by Peter D. Salins, who is chairman of the
Department of Urban Affairs and Planning at Hunter College, as New York's fear
of the marketplace; pursuit of a free lunch; propensity to regulate; array of
vested interests; indifference to the impact of taxation, and debilitating and
diffuse political culture.

None is unique to New York, although Mr. Salins expressed alarm that the city
seems to suffer disproportionately. Nor are many of the problems unprecedented.
(Of 13,094 pupils who began the ninth grade in 1906, Andrew Hacker, professor of
political science at Queens College, wrote, fewer than one in five graduated
four years later; most probably left to work, though).

''New York Unbound'' is itself fettered by failure to deal adequately with the
causes and the potential cures for drug abuse or with not-in-my-backyard
resistance amid the book's proposals to make the political system more efficient
and responsive, and by its conclusion that a 50 percent subway fare increase
would not seriously burden poor people. Moreover, many proposed remedies are
arguable. Just presenting them, however, may help stimulate and broaden public
debate (which is what Manhattan Institute hopes to do today and tomorrow at the
Harvard Club in Manhattan).

Somehow, Mr. Winnick wrote, New York is bound to muddle through. And he said,
''though muddling through is neither a dazzling successful outcome nor a
hopelessly failed one, New York is still likely to remain the nation's primary
business and cultural center, a proving ground for the creative, and magnetic
north on the compass of the world's emigrants.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 9, 1988, Friday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. to Ease Backlog In Soviet Emigration, But Draws Criticism

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 819 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 8


The Reagan Administration moved today to ease the bottleneck on Soviet
emigration to the United States, but some Congressional critics and American
Jewish groups said the steps were inadequate.

Responding to a request from the State Department, the Attorney General, Dick
Thornburgh, announced today that he would make extraordinary use of his parole
authority to admit thousands of Armenian and Jewish emigres who have not been
accepted by the United States for refugee status.

Mr. Thornburgh also said the Immigration and Naturalization Service will send an
I.N.S. officer to Moscow very soon to grant the paroles and resume the review of
refugee applications. An official from the immigration service had been
scheduled to return to process refugee applications in early January.

Interim Steps to Ease Problem

Administration specialists said these steps would alleviate the backlog of
prospective Soviet emigrants but would not immediately eliminate it. And Mr.
Thornburgh described the steps as interim measures that would ease the problem
until the Bush Administration and Congress can develop a longer-term plan.

At the heart of the problem are the increased number of potential Soviet
emigres, who are seeking to come to the United States as refugees under the
Soviet Union's relaxed emigration policies.

So many Soviet citizens have applied at the Moscow embassy to come to the United
States as refugees that the quota for refugee admissions was temporarily
exhausted last month and the Immigration and Naturalization Service officer
there was withdrawn. There is now a backlog of about 11,000 refugee applicants
in Moscow, most of whom are Armenian, a State Department official said.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service, meanwhile, has also been trying to
cope with the increase in refugee applications by rejecting those for refugee
status from some Soviet Jews with Israeli visas who leave the Soviet Union, and
then apply in Rome to come to the United States.

These applications were denied on the ground that these Jews did not have a
''well-founded fear of persecution'' in the Soviet Union. The law requires such
a fear as a condition of refugee status. The I.N.S. move drew strong protests
from American Jewish organizations. #2,000 Emigres Each Month Under the steps
announced today by Mr. Thornburgh, the Attorney General would use his parole
authority to admit up to 2,000 emigres each month from Moscow. The Attorney
General would also parole all Soviet emigres in Rome who ''cannot be admitted
under current constraints.'' In the 1988 fiscal year only 37 Soviets were
admitted into the United States under parole procedures.

Unlike a refugee, an emigre who is paroled receives no Federal assistance and
must obtain an affidavit from an American pledging financial support. In
addition, it is more difficult for emigres who are paroled to become American
citizens, said a spokesman for the I.N.S. They can become an American citizen
only by indirect means, such as by marrying an American, the spokesman said.

An I.N.S. officer is to leave soon for Moscow to grant the paroles and to begin
reviewing new refugee applications. An I.N.S. spokesman said that sending the
officer to Moscow would speed up the processing of refugee applications. But he
said that there was no decision yet to increase the number of refugees who would
be admitted during the current fiscal year, which ends next Sept. 30.

As part of a long-term plan, the Administration will propose the creation of a
new class of immigrant, who will be allowed to come to the United States on an
expedited basis.

Parole as 'Limbo Status'

Mr. Thornburgh's decision was critized by representatives of American Jewish
groups, who challenged the assumption that some Soviet Jews do not have a vaild
fear of persecution and thus should be eligible for parole and not refugee
status.

''It is not a solution to the problem,'' said Phillip Saperia, an official at
the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society. Mr. Saperia said that parole was a ''limbo
status'' since it did not provide for federal assistance and it was difficult to
become a citizen.

Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Democrat from Brooklyn who serves on the
House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, also criticized the Administration
plan as ''woefully inadequate.''

''It sends an incorrect message that Jews are not being persecuted in the Soviet
Union,'' Mr. Schumer said, among other criticisms.

Micah H. Naftalin of the Union of Councils for Soviet Jews also said the plan
was a ''very inadequate response.'' He said the Administration should stop its
new policy of challenging the refugee status of some Soviet Jews on the ground
that they are not being persecuted.

Jewish groups say that they are prepared to provide financial assistance for
Soviet emigres but cannot afford the amounts entailed by the Administration's
approach.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 11, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

For Stranded Jews, 'When' Is Now 'If'

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 858 words

DATELINE: LADISPOLI, Italy, Dec. 9


All across the main square of this seaside town 22 miles west of Rome, the
language is Russian.

Today, as on every day, Piazza Vittoria was filled with Jewish emigrants from
the Soviet Union, men and women who clustered around the central fountain in the
hunched-shoulder cold, exchanging gossip or just killing time because they had
little else to do.

Mostly, these recent Soviet arrivals talked of when they might be able to leave
this way station on the Tyrrhenian Sea for the United States. For some, like
Yevgeny Shpaer, the question was no longer one of when but if.

''We planned to celebrate our children's birthdays this month and next month in
America,'' Mr. Shpaer said. ''Now, I think that must wait.'' Trapped by U.S.
Shift Mr. Shpaer, a 30-year-old biologist from the Latvian capital, Riga, is one
of 177 Soviet Jews who have been stuck in Ladispoli since early autumn, when
Rome-based representatives of the Immigration and Naturalization Service turned
down their requests to come to the United States with refugee status. These
emigrants, American officials decided, could not demonstrate ''a well-founded
fear of persecution'' were they to remain in the Soviet Union.

It was a major change in procedure, marking one of the few times that Washington
had not automatically approved refugee applications from Soviet Jews. In the
meantime this year, more than 13,600 other Soviet Jews with apparently similar
backgrounds have moved on to the United States from this primary transit point.

Those left behind say they do not understand why, and wonder what their next
move should be. ''There is no difference between us and those who were
accepted,'' said Alexander Rabichev, a 34-year-old dentist from Moscow whose
application was rejected last month.

''To be a Jew in Russia is to be discriminated against,'' Mr. Rabichev said in
lightly accented English. ''Finding a job was very difficult. To enter the
institute there meant many, many problems because we are Jewish.''

''The Americans,'' he said, ''now tell us, O.K., we are restricted, but maybe
not at a level that qualifies us as refugees. Where is that level? What is the
criterion? Maybe it would be better if I come without an eye or an arm?''

Victims of a Decision

United States officials in Rome declined to discuss their reasons for rejecting
Mr. Rabichev and the others. But they apparently have fallen victim to a
decision in Washington to scrutinize refugee applications more closely at a time
when a rising number of Soviet Jews and Armenians are clamoring to leave their
country.

Amid a growing dispute over the new emigration situation, Attorney General Dick
Thornburgh announced measures on Thursday to ease the bottleneck, including
extraordinary use of his parole authority to admit those in Ladispoli who had
been turned down. Parole status may be better than but it is more cumbersome
than being declared refugees. They must find sponsors willing to promise
financial support, and can expect a more difficult time in becoming American
citizens.

Word of Mr. Thornburgh's announcement spread quickly through Piazza Vittoria
this morning, and it was the day's big news. But most of the people could not
determine whether it would help them. More than a few said they expected to be
here for a while.

Ladispoli, a town of 17,000, is accustomed to strangers. In the summer, tens of
thousands of Romans flock here to cool off by the water; for the remainder of
the year, apartments are empty and available for emigrants. There are an
estimated 6,000 transients - Russians, Poles, Iranians, Arabs and Africans -
waiting for visas that will take them to their chosen destinations.

Soviet Jews dominate, more than 4,000 altogether, nearly all of whom could
expect until now that they would be admitted to the United States. The windswept
town square almost belongs to them. There, some try to sell items passed on from
previous generations of emigrants, perching their meager wares for public
inspection on the concrete rim of the fountain - a Soviet-made iron, a worn
suitcase, a half-squeezed tube of toothpaste.

For the religious, there is a synagogue a few paces away, in a large hall that
used to be a movie house.

They live in small apartments, usually one family to a room, and the monthly
rent that each family must pay typically runs to $400 or more, quite high by
local standards. Most of those who were rejected by the United States subsist on
allowances from the American Joint Distribution Committee, a Jewish relief and
social welfare organization based in New York.

For the most part they are well educated, and their numbers include scientists,
physicians, engineers and computer programmers.

Several suspect that their education has worked against them. To American
officials, they said, it may have been taken as evidence that they had not
suffered discrimination, rather than that they had to overcome higher barriers
than normal.

And it is deeply upsetting, they said, not to know what awaits them. ''We can't
go back - we don't want to go back,'' Mr. Shpaer said. ''Now we are trapped
here, and our future is not clear.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Soviet Jews gathered in Ladispoli, Italy, a way station for
emigrants headed for the United States. (NYT/Stefano Micozzi)

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             December 21, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Immigration Chief Wants Asylum Unit Disbanded

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 664 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 20


The Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service has asked
Attorney General Dick Thornburgh to disband a Justice Department unit that has
helped Central Americans and others seek asylum in the United States.

The Commissioner, Alan Nelson, complained in a private memorandum to Mr.
Thornburgh about the ''validity'' of the Asylum Policy and Review Unit, which
has prodded the department to override a number of denials of asylum by the
immigration service.

''A.P.R.U. has cost I.N.S. appropriations $750,000 since inception,'' said Mr.
Nelson's Dec. 13 memorandum, which was obtained by The Associated Press. ''The
entire purpose of A.P.R.U. and its continued existence should now be reviewed by
your staff.''

The unit's reviews of rejections of asylum are ''just plain financially
wasteful,'' Mr. Nelson wrote.

Action in 70 Cases

Justice Department officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the unit
had persuaded immigration officials to reconsider 35 cases and referred another
35 to officials who then directed that they be reversed.

The review unit was established in 1987 after a Soviet seaman who jumped ship on
the Mississippi River in 1985 was returned to his Soviet vessel on orders of the
United States Border Patrol, a part of the immigration service.

An immigration service spokesman, Greg Leo, declined to comment on the memo.

Henry Curry, director of the review unit, would not respond directly about the
memorandum but said, ''This office serves a vital purpose.'' He said its staff
was dedicated to assuring that ''the purposes of United States asylum policy are
carried out.''

Arthur Helton, driector of the political asylum project of the Lawyers Committee
for Human Rights, said, ''The establishment of the Justice Department unit was a
positive development in that it recognized that I.N.S. was incapable of handling
the asylum function.'' His group favors removing the service from the asylum
process.

But Commissioner Nelson contends that the review unit will be unnecesary once
proposed regulations to implement the Refugee Act of 1980 take effect. That law
established the standard of granting asylum to refugees who have a well-founded
fear of persecution in their homelands.

The proposed regulations, first discussed three years ago, are finally being
shaped as increasing numbers of Nicaraguans and other Central Americans seek
asylum in the United States.

Mr. Nelson's memorandum asks Mr. Thornburgh to review the proposals and to issue
a final regulation by the end of the year. The Attorney General is in Europe
until later this week and has not yet conducted discussions on the proposed
regulations, the department sources said.

Last week the A.P. obtained immigration service documents outlining a program
under which it could become more difficult for Central Americans seeking asylum
to get work permits while their applications are pending.

Decentralization Sought

Mr. Nelson's memorandum also asked Mr. Thornburgh to modify a regulatory
proposal that would set up a centralized system of officers to consider asylum
applications. The commissioner instead wants the asylum officers placed under
the control of district immigration directors. Under that decentralized
approach, I.N.S. examiners last year granted 110 asylum requests from
Salvadorans and rejected 3,822. They also granted asylum requests from 2,786
Nicaraguans, while denying 2,455, and granted the requests of 24 Guatamalans,
while denying 447 others.

''Asylum applications have almost tripled in the past year due primarily to the
more permissive approach to work authorization,'' Mr. Nelson's memo said.

Officials indicated was referring to a July 1987 statement by Attorney General
Edwin Meese 3d directing the immigration service to encourage applications for
work authorizations from Nicaraguans seeking asylum.

About 60,700 people applied for asylum in the 12 months that ended Sept. 30, up
from 26,100 in fiscal 1987.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 159 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 27, 1988, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Free Speech: For Aliens, Too

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 454 words


In the early morning hours of Jan. 26, 1987, seven immigrants living in Los
Angeles were arrested at gunpoint in their homes. The Immigration Service then
treated the seven, and another immigrant arrested later, just as harshly in
custody. They were detained under maximum security for two weeks in prison. They
were even handcuffed during meetings with their lawyers.

Who were these dangerous troublemakers? The Immigration Service claimed they had
to be deported because they belonged to an organization that advocates
subversive activities. Now, U.S. District Judge Stephen Wilson has ruled in Los
Angeles that when immigrants' First Amendment rights collide with the
Government's right to control immigration, the First Amendment wins. It's a
victory for free speech and common sense.

The McCarran-Walter Act of 1952 allows deportation, of aliens who might engage
in or advocate terrorist, anarchistic or subversive activities. The Government
eventually charged the eight immigrants, seven Jordanians and the Kenyan wife of
one, with belonging to an organization, the Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine, that advocated unlawful destruction of property. The Popular Front is
a self-described Marxist group that was involved in several hijackings in the
1970's, most notably that of an Air France jet flown to Uganda, where Israeli
commandos killed the hijackers. The eight immigrants, mostly students in their
20's and 30's who have resided in America for several years, denied membership
in the Popular Front. They challenged several provisions of the McCarran-Walter
Act that allow deportation of aliens who advocate or are affiliated with
organizations that advocate world Communism, totalitarian dictatorship or the
destruction of property.

Judge Wilson, a Reagan Administration appointee, now supports their view,
declaring those provisions unconstitutional. He found that aliens, once admitted
to the United States, have free-speech rights which generally take precedence
over the Government's right to control immigration. But that concession does not
diminish the Government's power to deport aliens engaged in harmful activity
unrelated to speech, like terrorism or crime.

Too often, however, the harmful activity that Government seeks to control is
only speech. As Judge Wilson noted: ''In this case, the Government is trying to
stifle certain ideas from entering our society from certain aliens through its
immigration power. Our society, however, was built on the premise that only
through the free flow of ideas can our nation grow and prosper.''

It's a judgment worth cheering. Judge Wilson rightly recognizes that immigration
law ought to control offensive actions, not offensive views.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company
