
                               1 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 4, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Illegal Workers: a Long Road to Legality

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr.,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 3; Home Desk

LENGTH: 1187 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 3


The line of applicants seeking green cards so they may legally work in American
households is so long that unless the law is changed, it is virtually pointless
to apply, immigration lawyers say.

Before quotas were tightened in 1991, such cases were routine. But no more. Even
when the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Labor Department have
formally certified a specific need for a foreigner to do work that no qualified
citizen or permanent resident wants, the quotas effectively mean a wait of 15 to
20 years for those who apply now.

Calls for changes in the law have increased since the nomination of Zoe Baird as
Attorney General was derailed because of her family's illegal employment of a
Peruvian couple as baby-sitter and driver.

The possibility of change, no matter how uncertain, may encourage those who have
been using undocumented workers (in other words, illegal aliens) as household
employees to start the paperwork flowing.

"I think something needs to change," said Paul Virtue, deputy general counsel
for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. "It looks like they were wrong
when Congress said that in general there are sufficient workers in the United
States to take these jobs."

Technically, families who start the process in behalf of immigrant workers have
given the Immigration and Naturalization Service all the data it would need to
fine them for employing illegal aliens. But that almost never happens, because
enforcing the law on domestic employers is at the bottom of the service's
priorities, Mr. Virtue said. Instead, the service focuses on areas like
deporting felons, shutting down industrial sweatshops and fighting fraud.

"We don't scan through the petitions routinely to try to identify violators,"
Mr. Virtue said. He estimated that the service fines fewer than 100 people a
year for illegally employing household workers; the maximum fine for a first
offender is $2,000. The service can also start proceedings to deport the
workers. Some cases are reported by informers, a few are high-profile cases like
the Bairds, and others are cases randomly selected for investigation.

In a letter this week to Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat
who is chairman of the Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Immigration and
Refugee Affairs, the executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association called for changes to accommodate people in situations like the
Bairds'. The director, Warren R. Leiden, is a member of the Commission on
Immigration Reform, which was set up to recommend changes needed in immigration
law. Its first report is due in September 1994.

Robert Remes, an immigration lawyer in Washington, said: "I would say at least
start the process. It is not inconceivable that the law might change at some
point. Otherwise, these people are condemned to permanent nothingness."

"But a wait of 15 years is so long as to be almost hopeless," he added. His fee
for the whole process is typically $2,700, but he said he could no longer
justify his fee when the prospect of eventual success is so distant.

Workers who can demonstrate a skill, even one as basic as professional cooking
or hairdressing, can get green cards in just a few years. And people who have
been relying on illegal workers for years might want to help them qualify for
new work as skilled employees.

For example, Mr. Remes told of a Jamaican who had been waiting four years for a
green card. When her sponsors realized that the wait would be at least five more
years, they asked her if she had a skill other than baby-sitting. It turned out
that she had once worked as a cook for a catering company in Jamaica. A friend
of her employers who owns a catering business agreed to sponsor her as a skilled
worker, cutting her likely wait to about two years.

The woman's long wait in domestic service -- especially painful for her because
her children are still in Jamaica -- is not unusual. Since 1991, only 10,000
unskilled immigrants a year have been allowed green cards. More than 80,000
people are now in line, according to the State Department's Bureau of Consular
Affairs.

Some people getting their green cards this month began the application process
in late 1987. Because of waits like that, the immigration lawyers' association
calls the current provisions of the law "virtually useless." It is calling
instead for speeding up the line and allowing child-care workers to work legally
but temporarily while waiting for green cards.

The green card (in fact, it is now rose-colored) confers permanent residency
status, the most common way for a foreigner to get the right to work. An
applicant and a potential employer, who is the sponsor, must meet several
requirements:

* The first step is to obtain a Labor Department certification that the sponsor
is offering the prevailing local wage (which in the case of child-care workers
in the District of Columbia is now $7.22 an hour) and that no qualified United
States workers are available. This involves filing paperwork and advertising the
job. It is common for no legally qualified applicants but many illegal aliens to
apply. Depending on the application backlog, which varies by region, the labor
certification can take a few months to a couple of years.

* The next step is to submit a visa petition to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. That petition is often approved in a few months,
depending on the regional backlog.

* Then it is time to obtain an immigrant visa, normally granted at the United
States Embassy in the worker's home country. But this is where the long line
forms, and there will be quite a wait before the worker can go home and pick up
that visa.

An American consul can give visas only to applicants whose priority date -- that
is, the date they first filed application for labor certification -- is before a
cutoff date set each month by the State Department. The current cutoff for
unskilled workers is Nov. 1, 1987. In recent months, the cutoff date has been
moving forward by about one week a month. At this rate, an immigrant who files
the initial labor application today probably won't qualify for an immigrant visa
for at least 16 years.

When a visa is issued, the immigrant returns to the United States, surrenders
the visa at the point of entry, gets a permanent-residency stamp in his or her
passport and is fingerprinted. Finally, the worker gets a permanent green card
later in the mail. Formally, it is called an Alien Identification Document.

Immigration lawyers say the United States should adopt a system like Canada's.
After obtaining the labor certification and visa petition, the worker could
remain country conditionally for three years. During this time, the immigrant
would have to work in the sponsor's home, under conditions and pay established
by the Labor Department, and fully comply with tax and Social Security laws. At
the end of that period, the worker would qualify to be sponsored for permanent
residence under provisions that apply to skilled workers, allowing him or her to
get a green card in a reasonable time.


LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC:  Here are the basic steps to obtain an Alien Identification Document,
which gives a foreign citizen permanent legal residence and the right to work.
Detailed information is available from immigration lawyers or the Immigration
and Naturalization Service.
Chart: "How to Apply For a Green Card"

1) Apply to the Labor Department for a labor certification. The sponsor must
offer to pay the prevaling local wage for the job, advertise the position and
attest that no American citizens, permanent residents, or other qualified
workers respond. The certification can take from a few months to a couple of
years.

2) Once the certification is approved, file a visa petition with the Immigration
and Naturalization Service. The petition should be approved in a few months.

3) Get an Immigrant visa at the U.S. Embassy in the worker's country of origin.
In practice, this takes many years. Right now, this visa is granted to unskilled
workers who first started the application process before Nov. 1, 1987. The
cutoff date is revised monthly, but it is advancing only about one week at a
time.

4) Upon finally getting the visa, the worker must surrender it at a point of
entry and get a permanent residency stamp in his or her passport. Fingerprints
are taken and a permanent green card arrives in the mail at a later date.

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 15, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

THE NEW PRESIDENCY: Justice Dept. Designee;
CLINTON NOT FAZED BY NOMINEE'S HIRES

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 397 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 14


President-elect Bill Clinton knew but was not worried that Zoe Baird, his
nominee to be Attorney General, had hired two illegal aliens to work in her home
in New Haven , transition officials said today.

"It was fully disclosed," said Dee Dee Myers, Mr. Clinton's press secretary. "He
considered it and did not think it was a problem."

Mr. Clinton's views on Ms. Baird's disclosure that she and her husband had hired
a Peruvian couple living illegally in the United States came as transition
officials and associates of Ms. Baird's scrambled to blunt any possible adverse
reaction before the confirmation hearings next week.

If confirmed, Mrs. Baird will supervise the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, which enforces the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act. The law
carries civil penalties of up to $3,000 for each count for businesses and people
who knowingly hire illegal aliens, although as a matter of policy the
immigration service almost never prosecutes household employers.

Associates of Ms. Baird, a top lawyer for Aetna Life and Casualty in Hartford,
and her husband, Paul Gewirtz, a constitutional scholar at Yale law school, said
they had relied on advice from a lawyer in Connecticut when they hired the
couple.

In a letter released tonight by transition officials, the lawyer, Thomas H.
Belote of Ridgefield, Conn., said he had told the couple that while "civil
penalties are technically applicable" for hiring illegal aliens "no employer
sanctions have ever been applied as a result of the employment of undocumented
domestic workers in Connecticut."

In the letter, Mr. Belote said he told Ms. Baird and Mr. Gewirtz that they
should file papers with the Labor Department and the immigration service to help
the Peruvian woman move toward legal residency. He said he had told them that
the man would gain residency approval as well through the filing for his wife.
Immigration lawyers confirmed that the application could have covered both.

He also said he had told them not to pay Social Security withholding taxes for
the couple, because without Social Security numbers, there was no method to make
the payments. The payments could be made later, he said.

People who employ illegal aliens are obliged to pay the tax. In recent weeks,
after Ms. Baird was nominated, she and Mr. Gewirtz paid about $8,000 in back
Social Security taxes.


LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 6, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Judge's Hiring of Illegal Alien in 80's Did Not Violate Immigration Law

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 803 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 5


Judge Kimba M. Wood was right when she said tonight that she violated no law in
hiring an illegal immigrant to work as her baby sitter in March 1986.

Congress outlawed the practice eight months later. On Nov. 6, 1986, President
Ronald Reagan signed the Immigration Reform and Control Act, which prohibits the
hiring of illegal aliens.

Under the immigration law as it existed before that date, it was against the law
for illegal aliens to be in the United States, but it was not illegal for
Americans to employ them.

The prohibition on hiring illegal aliens took effect immediately when the bill
was signed by President Reagan on Nov. 6, 1986. It applied only to hiring that
occurred after that date, and the penalties of the 1986 law did not apply to the
continuing employment of illegal aliens who had been hired before it went into
effect.

The 1986 law was passed after a bipartisan majority in Congress concluded that
it was inconsistent, perhaps even hypocritical, to treat employer and employee
so differently. The main purpose of the law was to curb the influx of illegal
aliens. Recent studies by the Census Bureau show the law has not achieved that
goal.

Judge Defends Acts

Judge Wood, who sits on the bench in Federal District Court in Manhattan,
withdrew her name tonight from consideration for Attorney General, declaring,
"All of my acts were lawful." But she acknowledged that her baby sitter was in
the United States unlawfully from 1980 to December 1987, when she gained legal
status under the amnesty provisions of the 1986 law.

Even under the old immigration law, it was forbidden to bring an illegal alien
into the United States or to conceal or harbor an illegal alien. For such
offense, the law authorized a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a
$2,000 fine.

But a famous provision of the old law, known informally as the Texas proviso,
stipulated that the employment of illegal aliens "shall not be deemed to
constitute harboring."

This section was called the Texas proviso because many Texans took advantage of
it by hiring illegal aliens from Mexico and other countries south of the border.

Judge Wood said her baby sitter's visa had expired when she was hired in March
1986. Most aliens with expired visas entered the United States legally, but fell
into illegal status when they stayed here longer than allowed by the Federal
Government.

Concern About Practice

Although Judge Wood's action in hiring an illegal alien was not prohibited in
early 1986, there was a growing consensus in the mid-1980's, expressed by
members of Congress, that the employment of illegal aliens was an undesirable
part of the underground economy. Jobs were seen as a magnet that drew illegal
aliens to the United States.

Given this consensus as well as the strong public reaction to the case of Zoe
Baird, President Clinton's first nominee for Attorney General, who withdrew
after the firestorm over her employing two illegal aliens, it would have been
politically awkward for Judge Wood to defend her hiring of an illegal alien at a
confirmation hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee.

The 1986 law was known by the names of its sponsors, Senator Alan K. Simpson,
Republican of Wyoming, and Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of
Kentucky.

Charles Gordon, who was general counsel of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service from 1966 to 1974, said that before passage of that law, "there was no
prohibition at all on employment of illegal aliens as household workers."

Commenting on Judge Wood's fate, Mr. Gordon said in an interview: "This is an
outrage. It was never contemplated that the law would be used to penalize career
people who needed assistance to help them in the care of children."

In a letter to the editor of The New York Times last month, Mr. Gordon said the
1986 law and its "employer sanctions" should be reconsidered because they were
ineffective.

David Carliner, an immigration lawyer who has written a book on the rights of
aliens, also said that Judge Wood had done nothing illegal.

"It was made quite clear by the Justice Department that employers hiring
undocumented workers before that date were not in violation of the statute,
which was a criminal statute," Mr. Carliner said in an interview. "The
department made clear that employers would be able to continue employment of
people in illegal status who were hired before Nov. 6."

Mr. Carliner said Judge Wood was being treated too harshly. "She is being
penalized for an action that was not illegal or improper at the time she
employed the baby sitter," he said. "She didn't violate the law. I don't
understand why she should have any adverse judgment relating to her because of
this situation. It was done by many employers, and none of them were prosecuted
or penalized."

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 7, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Looking for an Attorney General: The Law;
NO LAW VIOLATED BY JUDGE IN 1986

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 791 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 5


Judge Kimba M. Wood was right when she said she had violated no law in hiring an
illegal immigrant to work as her baby sitter in March 1986.

It was not until eight months later, on Nov. 6, 1986, that Congress outlawed the
hiring of illegal aliens, when President Ronald Reagan signed the Immigration
Reform and Control Act.

Under the immigration law until that date, illegal aliens had no right to be in
the United States but it was not illegal for Americans to employ them.

The prohibition on hiring illegal aliens took effect when the bill was signed.
The law applied only to hiring that occurred after that date, and did not
penalize people who continued to employ illegal aliens hired before it went into
effect.

The 1986 law was passed after a bipartisan majority in Congress concluded that
it was inconsistent, perhaps even hypocritical, to treat employer and employee
so differently. The main purpose of the law was to curb the influx of illegal
aliens, but recent studies by the Census Bureau show that the law has not
achieved its goal.

Judge Defends Acts

On Friday night, Judge Wood, who sits on the bench in Federal District Court in
Manhattan, withdrew her name from consideration for Attorney General, declaring,
"All of my acts were lawful." But she acknowledged that her baby sitter had been
in the United States unlawfully from 1980 to December 1987, when she gained
legal status under the amnesty provisions of the 1986 law.

Even under the old immigration law, it was forbidden to bring an illegal alien
into the United States or to conceal or harbor an illegal alien. For such
offense, the law authorized a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a
$2,000 fine.

But a provision of the old law, known informally as the Texas proviso,
stipulated that the employment of illegal aliens "shall not be deemed to
constitute harboring."

This section was called the Texas proviso because many Texans had taken
advantage of it by hiring illegal aliens from Mexico and other countries south
of the border.

Judge Wood said her baby sitter's visa was expired when she was hired in March
1986. Most aliens with expired visas had entered the United States legally but
fell into illegal status when they stayed here longer than allowed by the
Federal Government.

Concern About Practice

Although Judge Wood's action in hiring an illegal alien was not prohibited in
early 1986, there was a growing consensus in the mid-1980's, expressed by
members of Congress, that the employment of illegal aliens was an undesirable
part of the underground economy. Jobs were seen as a magnet that drew illegal
aliens to the United States.

Given this consensus, as well as the strong public reaction to the case of Zoe
Baird, President Clinton's first nominee for Attorney General who also withdrew
after a firestorm over her employing two illegal aliens, it would have been
politically awkward for Judge Wood to defend her hiring of an illegal alien at a
confirmation hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee.

The 1986 law was known by the names of its sponsors, Senator Alan K. Simpson,
Republican of Wyoming, and Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of
Kentucky.

Charles Gordon, who was general counsel of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service from 1966 to 1974, said that before passage of that law "there was no
prohibition at all on employment of illegal aliens as household workers."

'This Is an Outrage'

Commenting on Judge Wood's fate, Mr. Gordon said in an interview: "This is an
outrage. It was never contemplated that the law would be used to penalize career
people who needed assistance to help them in the care of children."

In a letter to the editor of The New York Times last month, Mr. Gordon said the
1986 law and its employer sanctions should be reconsidered because they were
ineffective.

David Carliner, an immigration lawyer who has written a book on the rights of
aliens, also said that Judge Wood had done nothing illegal.

"It was made quite clear by the Justice Department that employers hiring
undocumented workers before that date were not in violation of the statute,
which was a criminal statute," Mr. Carliner said in an interview. "The
department made clear that employers would be able to continue employment of
people in illegal status who were hired before Nov. 6."

Mr. Carliner said Judge Wood was being treated too harshly. "She is being
penalized for an action that was not illegal or improper at the time she
employed the baby sitter," he said. "She didn't violate the law. I don't
understand why she should have any adverse judgment relating to her because of
this situation. It was done by many employers, and none of them were prosecuted
or penalized."

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 9, 1993, Tuesday

CORRECTION:

A headline on Sunday about the relationship of the 1986 immigration law to the
situation of Judge Kimba M. Wood referred imprecisely to the law's sanctions.
Before it took effect, there was no legal bar to hiring an illegal immigrant.
Afterward, such hiring, on a small scale, became a civil violation, not a crime.


                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 10, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Yes, Immigration Law Reaches Into Your Home

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 527 words


To the Editor:

The first paragraph of "Reconsider Aliens Law in Light of Baird Case," Charles
Gordon's Jan. 22 letter on United States immigration law and the hiring of
illegal aliens in light of the case of President Clinton's nominee for Attorney
General, is basically factual, but the balance is not.

Many young families have faced the problem of obtaining child care, but I would
doubt that many who have a $600,000 income found it to be much of a problem. The
1986 Simpson-Mazzoli immigration law imposed penalties against those who
knowingly hire illegal aliens, but before enactment of employer sanctions many
young couples who were determined to hire legal workers (and many were) had the
same difficulties that young families face today. Thus, the '86 law caused its
most severe problems only for those who wanted -- or were willing -- to hire
illegal workers.

It is possible that former Representative Peter Rodino, the New Jersey Democrat
who was chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, may have originally
"disclaimed any desire to apply it to families who employed household workers"
when he proposed employer sanctions in the 70's, but he was in full accord with
the final legislative result in 1986. However, I have never supported exempting
small employers, including the employers of domestic workers, from the law;
neither before the legislation was enacted, nor since.

Zoe Baird, after having been advised by a lawyer that she would be, or was,
violating the law, hired a nanny and a driver, both illegal aliens. For many
months she neither withheld Social Security nor did she begin the labor
certification and permanent residence processes.

Mr. Gordon is apparently unaware that study after study has demonstrated that
employer sanctions have reduced illegal immigration. Although apprehensions
along the border are again increasing, they remain below what they were in 1986
and are substantially below what they would be today if the increases we saw
throughout the 80's had continued in the absence of the legislation.

Finally, for Mr. Gordon to imply that 50 percent of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service budget is dedicated to enforcing employer sanctions is
surely ludicrous. Of that portion of the agency's entire budget allocated to
investigations only one-third is used for enforcing employer sanctions. I doubt
that amounts to even 10 percent of the full budget.

I would be among the first to acknowledge that employer sanctions are not
working as well as Peter Rodino, Ron Mazzoli and I had hoped. A critical -- and
as yet unaddressed -- defect is the widespread use of fraudulent identification
combined with a lack of resources for proper enforcement by Immigration and
Naturalization. These deficiencies have made the law less effective than what we
originally sought.

I will be working closely with Senators Edward Kennedy and Paul Simon,
Representative Mazzoli, the new Immigration and Naturalization commissioner,
Democrats and Republicans in the House and Senate, and the new Attorney General
on these issues.

ALAN K. SIMPSON
United States Senator, Wyo.
Washington, Feb. 5, 1993

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 17, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE NEW PRESIDENCY: Justice Department;
Nominee Pays Fine for Hiring of Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 611 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 16


The Immigration and Naturalization Service sought and received payment of a
$2,900 fine today from the Attorney General-designate, Zoe Baird, and her
husband for employing a Peruvian couple living in the country illegally.

The hiring of the illegal aliens as baby sitter and driver, as well as the
failure to pay Social Security taxes for them, has proven embarrassing to Ms.
Baird, who as Attorney General would be in charge of enforcing immigration
policy. Thus far, however, the Republicans on the Senate Judiciary Committee
have not pressed the matter.

Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, the ranking Republican on the panel, said today:
"I think this is the final step in putting the whole incident behind us. I think
she is going to make a great Attorney General."

The reticence by Republicans to challenge Ms. Baird seems to be rooted in part
in their belief that she is closer to them on policy than other possible
Democratic choices for Attorney General.

Republicans have noted with satisfaction that Ms. Baird supported tort reforms
endorsed by Vice President Quayle and other conservatives. And as a lawyer for
General Electric in the early 1980's she favored watering down the Federal
whistle-blower's law, a position that has attracted strong criticism from some
Democrats and consumer advocates.

After briefly discussing the possibility of delaying confirmation procedures,
Republicans and Democrats on the panel have agreed to hold hearings on Tuesday
as originally scheduled.

The $2,900 civil penalty comes on top of $8,000 in back Social Security taxes
Ms. Baird, and her husband, Paul D. Gewirtz, a constitutional law professor at
Yale University, paid in a lump sum earlier this month.

Mistake Is Acknowledged

George Stephanopoulos, Mr. Clinton's communications director, issued a statement
today saying: "Ms. Baird has taken responsibility for this matter and
acknowledges that to have hired any employee before receiving the necessary
authorization was a mistake. She deeply regrets the mistakes she has made in
this matter."

The statement continued, "President-elect Clinton has complete confidence in Zoe
Baird."

Responding to the decision of the immigration service to impose a fine on Ms.
Baird, Senator Joseph R. Biden of Delaware, the Democratic chairman of the
judiciary panel, said he still expected her confirmation.

"The I.N.S. decision is based on information voluntarily provided by Ms. Baird
to the I.N.S. prior to her being named as Attorney General-designate and to the
F.B.I. and members of the Judiciary Committee following her designation," he
said in a statement. "This matter must be placed in the context of Ms. Baird's
otherwise outstanding record."

On Friday members of the Judiciary Committee received copies of an F.B.I. report
investigating the hiring of the couple. Mr. Hatch said he did not expect
anything in the report would damage her prospects for confirmation.

Employers' Obligations

Under the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act, employers must verify the
citizenship status of employees before they hire them; otherwise they are liable
to pay fines of up to $3,000 a violation. But because the law is so frequently
violated, it is rarely enforced.

The statement Mr. Stephanopoulos released noted that Ms. Baird and Mr. Gewirtz
had relied on the advice of an immigration lawyer.

Because the Peruvian couple were in the process of applying for citizenship, the
lawyer "advised Ms. Baird and her husband that it was the practice of the I.N.S.
not to impose sanctions in these circumstances," the statement concluded.

The Peruvian couple were employed for almost two years.

NAME: Zoe Baird

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Zoe Baird (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 25, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

A Forged Visa, but a Legitimate Case

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 50; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 527 words


Critics of the asylum system say it has become a crooked avenue for illegal
immigration. They point to thousands of asylum-seekers who come to the United
States bearing bogus visas and passports purchased from smugglers, embassy
officials or airline employees.

But Federal and international laws deliberately create a loophole for such
people. The principle is straightforward: the state authorities who control
legitimate travel documents are the same people from whom asylum-seekers are
fleeing.

Not everyone pleading for asylum and clutching a forgery is a fraud, as shown by
the case of Diaimoi Smith, decided on Friday in a Newark immigration court.
Immigration lawyers say Mr. Smith, a 22-year-old Liberian, is an example of
someone who could be barred from asylum under legislation before Congress.

Mr. Smith, the eldest son of farmers, said he had left his village to become a
business student at Cuttington University, a 100-year-old Episcopal college in
Suakoko, Liberia.

Liberia, founded by freed American slaves in 1822, is suffering a brutal civil
war. Its most murderous soldier is Charles Taylor, whose forces have killed
hundreds of innocent people, according to State Department human rights reports.
In May 1990, Mr. Taylor captured Cuttington University and made it a military
base.

Forced to Be a Bodyguard

According to Mr. Smith's sworn affidavits filed with immigration authorities, he
was forced to serve as a bodyguard to a battalion commander. A few months later,
Mr. Taylor decided the commander was a traitor and executed him.

Mr. Smith was imprisoned in a filthy cell with the rest of the slain commander's
bodyguards and tortured for four months. "I was waiting for the end," he said in
an interview last week. "I prayed to God for a miracle to get me out of there."

On Feb. 25, 1991, a schoolmate freed Mr. Smith. They began a nine-day, 90-mile
trek through the jungle toward the Liberian border. Stateless, without
possessions, sleeping on the ground and going for days without food, Mr. Smith
crossed into the Ivory Coast and made his way to the capital, Abidjan.

An aunt in Maryland sent him money. He bought a forged visa from a janitor at
the Liberian Embassy for $100 and flew to the United States in December 1991.
After asking for asylum at Newark International Airport, he was questioned by
immigration officers.

'They Were Threatening Me'

"It was like what I had gone through in Liberia," he said. "They were
threatening me, saying, 'You are lying; tell the truth.' " But he was released
pending a hearing.

Mr. Smith went before an immigration judge in Newark on Thursday, represented by
Stephen H. Schwartz, an antitrust lawyer donating his time. For five hours, a
lawyer for the Immigration and Naturalization Service argued that Mr. Smith's
bogus visa was grounds for deportation.

The immigration judge, William Strasser, disagreed. On Friday, he granted Mr.
Smith asylum.

"The legal system in this country is very good," said Mr. Smith, who plans to
attend a business school in Minneapolis. "For all I have gone through, I will be
able to pick up my life and go forward from here."

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 22, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Reconsider Aliens Law in Light of Baird Case

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 392 words


To the Editor:

The problem faced by Zoe Baird, Bill Clinton's nominee for Attorney General,
illustrates a fundamental defect in our immigration laws. Ms. Baird and her
husband are distinguished lawyers who have a 3-year-old child. It was necessary
for them to employ household workers to care for him while the parents pursued
their careers. They employed undocumented foreign workers, whom they assisted in
the first steps of their application for permanent residence, a process that
takes years.

Many young families throughout the United States have faced this situation. It
results from the 1986 immigration law, which imposes sanctions against those who
employ undocumented alien employees.

When this law was proposed, its sponsors disclaimed any desire to apply it to
families who employed household workers. I was then general counsel of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and made such a disclaimer in responding
to specific inquiries by members of the House immigration subcommittees at a
hearing on the proposed law. Such declarations were made again when Congress
considered the Simpson-Mazzoli legislation and after it was enacted in 1986.

I do not know Zoe Baird, but I believe that her employment of an undocumented
alien, who was required for the home care of the child while the mother engaged
in her professional career, has no bearing on Ms. Baird's fitness to be Attorney
General of the United States.

Indeed, I suggest that the public scrutiny of this matter presents an excellent
opportunity for us to reconsider the system of employer sanctions enacted in
1986.

This system has sought to make every employer in the United States an assistant
enforcement officer. Yet it has had no effect in its goal of stopping illegal
immigration to the United States. Official figures show no perceivable reduction
in the tide of illegal entries.

At the same time there has been a massive increase in the swarms of
investigators, lawyers, judges and supporting personnel engaged in seeking to
enforce this law.

The cost of administering this misguided law have more than doubled, and the
annual appropriation of the Immigration and Naturalization Service now exceeds
$1 billion. We could save more than half a billion dollars annually by ending
this failed experiment.

CHARLES GORDON
Washington, Jan. 15, 1993

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 11, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Law Failed to Stem Illegal Immigration, Panel Says

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 868 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 10


With the Clinton Administration still smarting from the problems with the
child-care arrangements of Zoe Baird and Judge Kimba M. Wood, a new Government
report contends that illegal immigration continues unchecked and is making a
mockery of a 1986 law that was intended to curb it.

Foreigners who seek low-wage jobs -- working in homes, cleaning office
buildings, doing the heavy lifting on construction crews, sewing in garment
shops, bringing in the nation's fruit and vegetable harvests -- are rarely
competing with Americans for those jobs.

Both employers and their unauthorized workers run some risk, but the risk is
small because enforcement is difficult. Workers have easy access to fraudulent
work documents, and the Government has been reluctant or unable to track down
most violators.

Next week the Commission on Agricultural Workers, created under the Immigration
Reform and Control Act of 1986, will submit to Congress the most thorough study
yet of the immigration law. Established to appease farmers who feared that the
law would cut off their labor supply, the commission only examined the law's
effect on farming. But its findings of widespread illegal immigration apply to
all parts of the economy that attract unauthorized foreign workers.

'Oversupply of Farm Labor'

After six years of study, the commission's 12 members concluded: "Rather than a
stabilization of the labor supply, there is a general oversupply of farm labor
nationwide. Unauthorized immigrants continue to cross the southern border in
large numbers."

The commission suggests tough new controls on illegal immigration, including
development of a fraud-proof identification document for immigrants. Senator
Alan K. Simpson, a Wyoming Republican who was an author of the 1986 law, has
long espoused such a document, but it raises the hackles of those who regard the
document as an invasion of privacy.

Others say the Government could do more to improve the wages and working
conditions of menial jobs so that more Americans would be willing to apply for
them. The commission says wages and working conditions will improve if the law
really stems the supply of foreign workers.

Both the commission and various immigration experts say the steady influx of
unauthorized workers worsens working conditions for everyone. "You get low pay
for household work, poor conditions and people being taken advantage of," said
George High, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a small
Washington-based research group.

'Systematic Effort' Needed

Demetrios G. Papademetriou, a scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace and the Labor Department's immigration policy director in
the Bush Administration, said, "What we don't do is make a systematic effort to
control immigration."

Mr. Papademetriou, whom commission officials consulted about their report, said
it was impossible to know how many immigrants had illegally entered the United
States. But he said the most plausible estimate was 3.5 million, of whom 500,000
were farm workers and 350,000 were domestic workers. He said the domestic
workers were concentrated in New York City and northern New Jersey, and in Los
Angeles, Chicago, Miami and Houston.

The Internal Revenue Service estimates that two million Americans employ
domestic workers -- cleaning house, caring for children, tending gardens -- and
that only 250,000 of those workers meet all the requirements of the immigration
and tax laws.

"It's massive in Washington, D.C.," said Michael Maggio, an immigration lawyer
here. "They're working in the homes of our lawyers, our journalists and our
government officials."

At the same time, the nation's principal enforcement agency, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, largely ignores violations in farming and domestic work
because of insufficient staff. Instead, the agency concentrates on factories and
work sites where it stands a better chance of finding large concentrations of
workers who lack the proper documents.

Searches Called Inefficient

Under pressure from farmers, the Reagan Administration refused to let the agency
conduct unannounced sweeps of farms or ranches in search of such workers,
requiring instead that it first inform the owner of the farm where it expected
to find the workers.

Tracking down unauthorized maids and child-care workers is inefficient, the
agency says. "We don't do very much in the area of domestics." said Verne
Jervis, an I.N.S. spokesman. "It's not productive. We've got 1,500
investigators, nowhere enough people to concentrate on household help."

On its face, the 1986 immigration law seems tough. It granted amnesty to several
million immigrants who could show that they had been working in the United
States for at least 90 days. But it also established penalties of $100 and up to
six months in prison against employers who knowingly hired illegal aliens.

The law requires an employer to ask a job applicant for any of a variety of
official papers -- a visa, a driver's license, a Social Security card. But it
does not require that the employer verify the document. As a result, a thriving
industry of counterfeit card makers has emerged.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 18, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

America's Better Self Got Lost in Aliens Law

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 341 words


To the Editor:

We share A. M. Rosenthal's sense of solidarity with immigrants in "Aliens: Let
Them Work" (column, Feb. 9). A nation of immigrants, the United States has at
various stages of history turned its back on its best self and let its fearful
face show. Xenophobia and racism -- both strong currents in American life --
often combine in the making of immigration policy.

The American Friends Service Committee and many others who work closely with
today's immigrant communities opposed employer sanctions when the 1986
immigration law was under consideration. Our fundamental objection to the
proposed law was that we saw the sanctions provision as a denial of a strong
religious tradition in this country that calls on us to welcome the stranger.

We saw the employer-sanctions provision as leading to discrimination in hiring
by employers, who would reject a foreign-looking applicant, rather than risk
hiring undocumented people. Such has proved to be the case. We saw the provision
as leading to a market in forged documents. Such a market thrives.

We saw the employer-sanctions provision creating a highly vulnerable group of
employees, unable to protect themselves from economic exploitation and other
abuse. This has come to pass: witness the new sweatshops across the country.

We saw the law as asking employers to be part of a governmental effort designed
to starve immigrants out, to drive them home again and to deter others from
coming -- to become, as Mr. Rosenthal says, "an unpaid work-police."

The issues immigration policy seeks to address would be better dealt with by
investment in enforcement of labor laws concerning fair wages and working
conditions for all workers, documented or undocumented, meaningful foreign debt
relief and international economic cooperation directed to achieve sustainable
development. Let us welcome the stranger. Let us repeal employer sanctions.

BARBARA W. MOFFETT
Natl. Community Relations Secy.
American Friends Service Committee
Philadelphia, Feb. 10, 1993

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 12, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Legal Settlement Widens Rights of Detained Aliens

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 509 words


After a 14-year legal battle, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has
agreed to inform people arrested as illegal aliens of their legal rights and to
offer them the opportunity to consult a lawyer.

The settlement, which came in a class action suit brought in 1978 by the Center
for Human Rights and Constitutional Law in Los Angeles, could affect the more
than 1.5 million people who are arrested each year nationwide, the
organization's executive director, Peter Schey said Wednesday. Preliminary
approval of the agreement was announced by a Los Angeles Federal court on
Tuesday and a final hearing has been set for July 29.

Under the agreement, two forms given to people arrested as illegal aliens will
be revised to inform them of certain rights.

Notices of Rights

Immigration officials will distribute a new Notice of Rights form to all
detainees, advising them of the right to contact a lawyer, to request a list of
free and low-cost legal services and to communicate with a consular officer
representing their home countries. The settlement also requires that the
detainees be informed of legal avenues to become residents.

Another form, a Request for Disposition, which asks detainees to waive the right
to a hearing before deportation, is also to be revised. The new form will ask
aliens whether they believe they face harm on returning to their home countries
and will give them, except for Mexicans and Canadians, an opportunity to appear
before an immigration judge to request political asylum.

"This settlement protects aliens' basic right to consult with counsel and is the
closest thing to a Miranda-type warning for immigrants facing deportation," said
Mr. Schey, the lead counsel for the plaintiffs. The 1966 Miranda decision
requires the police to inform people arrested on criminal charges of their right
to remain silent and to consult a lawyer before being questioned.

Melissa Burns, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department, confirmed that Judge
William Matthew Byrne Jr. of Los Angeles Federal District Court had signed an
order granting preliminary approval to the class action settlement. Under the
agreement, the new forms will be used by the immigration service and Border
Patrol for 30 months so officials can evaluate the effectiveness of the measure.

The lawsuit was initially filed by a Mexican citizen, Rose Melchor Lopez, and
several other aliens who were arrested in a raid on a Los Angeles shoe factory
in 1978. Ms. Lopez and 65 other immigrants who were arrested in the raid said
that they were not permitted to seek legal help and that they were coerced into
waiving their rights and accepting immediate expulsion.

The Los Angeles human rights group obtained a temporary restraining order and 45
members of the group rescinded the waivers. Ms. Lopez and 30 others were found
not to be deportable at hearings by the immigration service. But the group went
ahead with the lawsuit, Lopez v. I.N.S., so it could get a decision on the
rights of others arrested by the immigration service.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 24, 1992, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

307 Workers Arrested as Aliens at Packing Plant

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 341 words

DATELINE: GRAND ISLAND, Neb., Sept. 23


More than 100 immigration officers raided a meatpacking plant on Tuesday night
and arrested 307 employees who they believed were illegal aliens, an immigration
official said today.

Nearly all the arrested employees, 55 women and 252 men, were from Mexico,
officials said. They were initially taken to the National Guard armory here for
interviews with immigration officials. By this afternoon 46 had been put on a
plane for a flight to El Paso, where they will then be sent home, the officials
said. About 200 others have also agreed to return home, while 50 have requested
deportation hearings, the officials said.

The raid was the immigration service's largest this year, said Jim Cole, an
officer for the agency.

The raid at the plant, owned by Monfort Inc., a division of Conagra Inc., began
at about 6 P.M. on Tuesday, when more than immigration officers, assisted by the
Border Patrol, the United States Marshals Service, the Nebraska State Patrol and
the local authorities, shut down the plant.

Locked In, Locked Out

Guards were posted at the plant's gates so that no one could enter or leave as
the law officers arrested workers who, they said, had illegally entered the
United States and used counterfeit documents to get jobs. The final busload of
arrested employees left the plant at about 3 A.M., but the plant did not reopen
until 9 A.M. today, officials said.

Paul Christensen, the supervisor of special agents for the immigration service
in Omaha, said the Monfort plant in Grand Island, the city's largest employer
with about 1,900 workers, "has employed illegal aliens for as long as I've been
here," which he said was about nine years. He did not say why the agency had
decided to move against the plant at this time.

Gene Meakins, a spokesman for Monfort, criticized the agency for the raid and
said its show of force was unnecessary. "I think we've always cooperated with
them," Mr. Meakins said. "We have nothing whatsoever to hide." The company does
not knowingly hire illegal immigrants, he added.


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 22, 1992, Thursday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

LAW FAILS TO STEM ABUSE OF MIGRANTS, U.S. PANEL REPORTS

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1710 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 21


The law Congress enacted six years ago to combat illegal immigration has done
nothing to stop exploitation of migrant farm workers, one of its principal
objectives, a Government-appointed, bipartisan commission has found.

The panel, charged with assessing the law's impact on agriculture, confirms
earlier reports that illegal immigration continues largely unchecked.  The
commission attributes the problem to lax enforcement, widespread fraud and the
tenacity of people, mostly Mexicans, in fleeing severe unemployment at home for
jobs in the United States.

Little Incentive to Improve

Congress was both tough and benign in adopting the Immigration Reform and
Control Act. To stop illegal immigration, the law established sanctions against
employers who hire unauthorized workers, and it granted amnesty to three million
workers who could show they had worked at least 90 days in agriculture in the
United States in the year ending May 1, 1986. But inadvertently, the law also
gave birth to a bustling market in counterfeit documents that has undermined the
objectives of the law.

The resulting tide of new illegal immigrants who possess phony documents and who
accept substandard working conditions leaves employers with little incentive to
improve those conditions. Unless a document is obviously bogus, it is evidence
enough to protect an employer from the law's sanctions, ranging from a $100 fine
for sloppy bookkeeping to six months in prison. Indeed, if an employer is overly
cautious and demands additional proof from a worker who turns out to be legal,
the employer risks being charged with discrimination.

Less and Less Effective

The law's failings are most apparent in agriculture, the focus of the
commission's scrutiny. The migrant and seasonal farm labor force is the easiest
place for illegal immigrants to find work, and agriculture, especially
labor-intensive fruit and vegetable farming, is the industry most dependent on
them.

The commission's study, the most comprehensive look at the impact of the
immigration law, will be submitted to Congress early next year.

The final draft of the study says that with fraud increasing the law is becoming
less and less effective. Beefing up enforcement and making changes in the law
can help slow the immigration.

The study proposes development of a "fraud-proof work authorization document for
all persons legally authorized to work in the United States," some-
thing that civil libertarians persuaded Congress to leave out of the law on the
ground that it smacked of an identity card.

To control illegal immigration, the commission urges Congress to sweep away
prerogatives that exempt many farmers from providing their workers with overtime
pay, housing with toilets, unemployment insurance, workers' compensation for
injuries on the job and the right to form unions. Farms with less than 10
employees, the majority of all farms, also do not have to comply with Federal
health and safety laws. Farmers have thus become dependent on people who will
accept those conditions, primarily Central Americans.

If the exemptions were phased out, the commission says, legal workers who shun
most farm jobs today would vie for the jobs and crowd out illegal immigrants.

Created as Concession

Congress created the panel, the Commission on Agricultural Workers, to review
the impact of the law as a concession to farming interests who feared that the
immigrants granted amnesty would flock to better-paying jobs off the farm and
leave them with no one to harvest crops. After five years of research, the
commission has completed its work and will meet Nov. 6 for the final review of
its findings.

The chairman, Henry J. Voss, who is a peach grower in California and the
director of the state's Department of Food and Agriculture, said he expected
little more than fine-tuning because he and the 10 other commissioners worked
through their differences during the drafting process. "Our findings around the
country were generally the same," Mr. Voss said. "There is a continuous stream
of illegal immigrants entering the agricultural work force."

The draft, a copy of which was obtained from people close to the commission,
says the law has produced none of the major benefits that lawmakers expected,
especially improvements in agricultural wages and working conditions. Nor did it
bring about the shortage of workers feared by fruit and vegetable growers.
"Rather than stabilizing," says the draft, "the national farm labor supply is
registering a pronounced surplus."

The commission's proposals will probably face wide opposition from farmers'
organizations, and it is surprising in a majority of the 11 members, like Mr.
Voss, are current or former farmers or leaders of farm organizations who could
have something to lose from expanding Federal regulations to farm labor.

"We will be violently interested in that," said Elizabeth Whitley, assistant
director for national affairs at the American Farm Bureau.

The commission found that bigger problems await the nation without vast changes
in agricultural policy. Mr. Voss said illegal immigration, in creating hundreds
of thousands of jobless or underemployed workers, many with families, affects
all taxpayers, including farmers. "The social problems are an issue that have to
be addressed," he said.

Without changes in the law, the report warns that "farm worker households of the
1990's will likely experience increasing levels of poverty and economic stress"
and that "if present trends continue, by the turn of the century, a very
substantial portion of the overall U.S. farm labor force is likely to again be
unauthorized."

No one really knows how many illegal immigrants are working in the country. The
commission estimates that 2.5 million laborers, most of them immigrants, work on
the nation's farms. Under the amnesty program, three million people were granted
residency permits, and uncounted others who never sought or received amnesty
continue to work in the fields. How many more have come into the country
illegally since then, or where they have gone to work, is incalculable.

One gauge of the law's failings is the number of apprehensions of people trying
to cross the 2,000-mile Mexican-American border. Duke Austin, a spokesman for
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said apprehensions of illegal
immigrants plunged to 853,000 in 1989 from 1.6 million in the 1986 fiscal year,
just before the law was enacted. But he said they had been rising since then, to
an estimated 1.2 million in the 1992 fiscal year. The number of border agents
has changed little in that time, he said.

Congress established the amnesty program largely to placate agricultural
employers who feared losing their pool of immigrant labor. It also established a
program to permit farmers to recruit more foreign workers if the newly legalized
workers fled farms to better jobs. The farm labor pool is bigger than ever,
however, and no farmer has had to resort to the recruiting program, the report
says.

The commission says few workers granted amnesty have left agriculture because of
a lack of skills, language difficulties and the recession in the United States.
And the workers are no better off. "Since the mid-1980's," it says, "hired farm
workers' living and working conditions have generally not improved."

With increases in the Federal minimum wage to the current $4.25 from $3.35 an
hour, when the law was enacted, the average farm worker's wage reached $5.57 an
hour last year. But after taking account of inflation, it declined 2 percent
from 1986 to 1991.

A consequence of the surplus of labor is that immigrants, legal and illegal, get
less work than they want. "In most areas," the report says, "an increasing
number of newly arriving, unauthorized workers compete for available jobs,
reducing the number of hours available to and contributing to lower annual
earnings for all workers."

Said Daniel Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, which wants to limit all immigration to the rate of growth of the
American population, or to about 300,000 people a year. "Illegal immigration has
destroyed the incentive to provide decent wages, housing and working
conditions."

At the root of the failure of the law is the fraudulent-document industry,
people who make birth certificates, resident alien cards, Social Security cards,
driver's licenses and other documents to show employers that the immigrants are
authorized to work in the United States.

"Supplying fraudulent work-authorizing documents has now become a thriving
business," the commission's draft says.

Senator Alan K. Simpson, the Wyoming Republican who was one of the law's
principal authors, said he had been skeptical about whether the law could work
because of the concessions it made to farmers, like the amnesty program and the
decision not to require a fraud-proof driver's license or other identification
document because they would threaten workers' privacy.

Mr. Simpson said he had not seen the commission's draft report. But he said:
"Employer sanctions really don't function correctly unless you do something
about fraudulent documents."

President Reagan appointed six commission members members, including Mr. Voss.
The Speaker of the House appointed three, and the President pro tem of the
Senate appointed three. In addition to Mr. Voss the commissioners are Richard B.
Abell, an Assistant Attorney General in the Reagan Administration; Lloyd W.
Aubry Jr., director of the California Department of Industrial Relations;
Michael V. Durando, president of the California Grape and Fruit League; Ben M.
Gramling 2d, a South Carolina peach grower; Delores Huerta, co-founder and first
vice president of the United Farm Workers.

Also, Roger M. Mahony, Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles; Phillip L.
Martin, agricultural economist at the University of California at Davis; Russell
Pitzer, a West Virginia fruit grower; George Sorn, executive vice president of
the Florida Fruit and Vegetable Association, and Russell L. Williams, president
of Agricultural Producers of California. A 12th member, Othal E. Brand, the
Republican Mayor of McAllen, Tex., resigned.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 26, 1992, Monday

CORRECTION:

Because of an editing error, an article on Thursday about the effectiveness of
the 1986 immigration law misstated a provision in some copies. Farmers with
fewer than 10 employees do not have to comply with Federal health and safety
laws.


GRAPHIC: Chart: "What the Commission Proposes" -- The Commission on Agricultural
Workers proposes many changes in labor regulations governing farm workers. These
are among its recommendations.

* To curb illegal immigration, improve border controls, internal apprehension
mechanisms and enforcement of employer sanctions. Develop a fraud-proof work
authorization document.

* In the face of a surplus of farmworkers, discontinue the Replenishment
Agricultural Worker (RAW) program that lets farmers recruit new immigrants.

* Require the Department of Labor's job-placement service to aid in placing farm
workers in jobs to help them remain employed longer during the year.

* Tighten regulation of farm labor contractors, or crew leaders, who recruit and
manage many farmworkers pay them less than other farm workers. Make farmers
liable for claims against the farm labor contractors they use.

* To improve appeal of agricultural jobs, grant farm workers the same rights as
other workers rights to unemployment insurance, workers' compensation insurance,
overtime pay, union organizing and collective bargaining.

* Assure farmworkers' children the same opportunities for health care, education
and day care provided children of other workers. (pg. B10)

Graph: "The Effect On Farm Wages" shows United States farm wages per hour,
adjusted for inflation, 1965-1990 and effect of Immigration Reform and Control
Act on these wages. (Source: U.S. Department of Agriculture) (pg. B10)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 15, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Needed: Answers From Ms. Baird

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 741 words


The revelation that Zoe Baird, President-elect Clinton's choice for Attorney
General, hired two illegal aliens sounds like somebody's idea of a bad joke. But
it's no joke. Ms. Baird would be the country's chief legal officer, overseeing a
vast bureaucracy that includes the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Yet
she carried out what appears to be a clear, prolonged violation of the
immigration law.

Ms. Baird and the Clinton staff said there were mitigating circumstances and an
attempt to follow proper procedures that made Ms. Baird's conduct acceptable. If
so, now is the time to make that case, convincingly and rigorously.

After 12 years of suffering with attorneys general who were insensitive to civil
rights and often to legal ethics, this country needs the assurance that with a
new President who has pledged that his government will be better, the Justice
Department will be in the hands of someone with unimpeachable standards.

Senator Joseph Biden Jr. and his Senate Judiciary Committee have an obligation
to press for a full accounting before making a final judgment as to Ms. Baird's
fitness to be Attorney General. The country cannot afford, and Mr. Biden's
reputation cannot stand, another tardy, unfocused inquiry like that produced by
his committee in the Clarence Thomas hearings.

Some of the details surrounding Ms. Baird's conduct are in dispute, but not the
substance. Two summers ago, she hired a Peruvian couple who were living in the
United States illegally. The wife worked for Ms. Baird as a baby sitter until
just after the November election, the husband until last March as a part-time
driver. Ms. Baird, a lawyer with Aetna Life and Casualty in Connecticut, and her
husband, Paul Gewirtz, a constitutional law expert, did not pay Social Security
taxes for either employee until they made a lump-sum payment this month.

Ms. Baird told the Clinton transition team that she and her husband did not pay
the taxes earlier on the advice of a lawyer, and that the same lawyer said
hiring the couple was permissible because she was sponsoring their citizenship.
Ms. Baird did get the Labor Department's certification for the wife, and,
transition officials say, last October the Immigration and Naturalization
Service approved her request to put the woman on a list for a green card. No
application was made for the husband because once his wife won legal status, he
would receive it automatically, according to lawyers advising the transition
team.

The F.B.I., now conducting a background inquiry, will presumably sort out the
conflicts and provide more details. But it cannot smooth out the legal and
ethical problems raised by Ms. Baird's conduct. What she did is common practice
among professional families who employ domestic workers. But it remains
troubling and potentially disqualifying conduct for an Attorney
General-designate.

On the facts, Ms. Baird appears to have broken the broadly publicized
Simpson-Mazzoli law of 1986 that, in exchange for granting amnesty to millions
of illegal aliens already here, clamped down on hiring recently arrived illegal
immigrants. Surely she and her husband, as lawyers of national reputation,
realized the implication of what they were doing, no matter what another lawyer
advised. If there was no violation, next Tuesday's hearings must make that
clear.

That Ms. Baird knows she has a problem is evident. It is difficult to believe
that the timing of the lump-sum tax payment -- this month -- was a coincidence.
Moreover, she clearly knew something was amiss, since she disclosed the
information to Mr. Clinton before her nomination, to the F.B.I. and then to
Senator Biden and the Judiciary Committee.  Disclosure is healthy but does not
erase the problem. Mr. Clinton, for all his promises of setting higher
standards, has obviously decided to look the other way. Mr. Biden and his
colleagues -- anxious to avoid inciting the ire of women still angry about his
committee's offensive questioning of Anita Hill -- seem prepared to do the same.
It is not even clear that senators will question Ms. Baird about the matter at
her confirmation hearings.

The Clinton campaign argues that the paper trail will show that Ms. Baird acted
in good faith, which would be welcome news. But anything short of providing an
honest and convincing explanation has to disqualify Zoe Baird from the office
for which she otherwise has impressive credentials.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 9, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

A Teach-In on Nannies

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 788 words


The Clinton Administration's rejection of a second female candidate for Attorney
General has roiled the country, leaving a lot of people angry and frustrated.
Yet the issues are different in the cases of Judge Kimba Wood and Zoe Baird.
Unless the White House and the electorate start to draw some distinctions,
appointment of high government officials will become mired in confusion.

The most immediate question is why President Clinton dropped Judge Wood when,
unlike Ms. Baird, she had broken no laws. The distinctions between the two cases
are important. Zoe Baird knowingly violated the 1986 immigration law by hiring
illegal immigrants as household workers. She considered it a technical
violation, consulted her own lawyer and was sponsoring her baby sitter for
residency. Nonetheless, by openly breaking the law she forfeited her claim to a
job that required her to uphold the nation's laws and oversee the Immigration
and Naturalization Service.

Judge Wood, on the other hand, hired an illegal immigrant as her baby sitter
before the 1986 law went into effect. She did pay taxes and did attend to the
requisite paperwork. If President Clinton dropped her primarily to avoid a
public relations problem, he did her an injustice. But it is equally plausible
that a loss of confidence in Judge Wood at the White House sealed her fate.

She asserted that when the President asked her whether she had a "Zoe Baird
problem," she said no and did not volunteer until late in the process that she
had hired an illegal immigrant when it was still lawful to do so. Her answer,
while honest, may have led President Clinton to question her judgment and
willingness to level with him. If the President lost confidence in their ability
to work together, then his decision to drop her nomination was a legitimate
exercise of executive prerogative.

But the Baird-Wood episodes raise broader questions about whom the President can
name to be attorney general and to serve in other posts. Mr. Clinton's spokesman
George Stephanopoulos said yesterday that all candidates for jobs subject to
Senate confirmation were being asked if they had hired aliens illegally or
violated tax laws on household help, and that if the answer on aliens was yes,
that would probably be disqualifying.

Raising these questions is not going too far for an Administration that claims
to represent a new dawn of fairness for women in America. After what Ms. Baird
and Judge Wood have been through, it would be the worst hypocrisy for Mr.
Clinton to now declare a moratorium on such inquiries just because the issue is
starting to pinch men. Questions of adherence to tax laws, immigration laws,
indeed any laws are always fair ones for people whose salaries are paid by
taxes.

But once that threshold is reached, a series of more nuanced questions come into
play -- questions that require Presidential intervention rather than another
appearance in the briefing room by Mr. Stephanopoulos. It is time to hear
President Clinton's views on the kinds of distinctions that apply in these
cases. Does the President propose an absolute litmus test on all legal
violations? Does it matter if the transgression was willful or negligent?
Prolonged or transient? Involving large sums or small? Isolated or part of a
pattern? Highly relevant to the job under consideration or marginal?

As a candidate, Mr. Clinton was full of hairline distinctions on such questions
about his own personal life and professional record. As President he has an
obligation to lead public opinion and stake out the standards by which he will
govern. One reason he has gotten low marks in his first weeks is that it has
been so hard to find him, or even his fingerprints, on important issues.

Once Mr. Clinton decided to seek women for high offices, it may have been
inevitable that the issue of child care would arise, exposing the fact that so
many child-care workers today are illegal aliens. Ms. Baird volunteered the
information herself. Not everyone would have. And a man whose wife had hired an
illegal immigrant probably would have survived nomination.

The perception that child care is primarily a woman's responsibility perpetuates
a double standard. It's unquestionably healthy that all candidates for top
Presidential appointments -- male and female -- will now have to provide the
same information about household help.

As members of a generation with complex private and professional lives, Mr.
Clinton and his wife, Hillary, may want to take this as an opportunity for a
national teach-in. If such an exercise worked for the economy, why not for an
issue that has sparked a firestorm of debate in homes and offices, on the talk
shows and at dinner tables?

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 18, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

America's Better Self Got Lost in Aliens Law;
'Victims' Who Exploit

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 238 words


To the Editor:

I cannot fathom why Anthony Lewis and others have painted Zoe Baird and Kimba
Wood, President Clinton's first two nominees for Attorney General, as victims of
a male-dominated society simply because they employed illegal aliens as child
care workers (column, Feb. 8).

Admittedly I am not a mother or a highly paid professional woman. However, I
have worked with immigrant rights groups, and I can tell you the main reason
people employ illegal aliens is that they will work for much less, and because
of their tenuous status with the Immigration and Naturalization Service they are
more compliant and more easily exploited.

With regard to the consequences of the actions of Ms. Baird, Judge Wood and any
men whose wives have employed illegal aliens, this is not about keeping women in
their place. I wish somebody would keep me in my place as a Federal district
judge or a $500,000-a-year general counsel for a Fortune 500 company.

If these women were low- or middle-income workers who would be put into a
serious financial bind by paying the prevailing rate for legal nannies, I might
feel different. However, this issue has nothing to do with feminism and
everything to do with the wanton, callous, capitalistic exploitation of the
reserve army of the unemployed.

We've come a long way, baby. Is this the direction we want to continue going in?


BETSY SHACKELFORD
New York, Feb. 8, 1993

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 29, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Criticism Grows Over Aliens Seized During Riots

BYLINE: SETH MYDANS,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1192 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 28


Lucia Artal Ramos is a trophy of the Los Angeles riots, one of hundreds of
illegal immigrants who were swept off the streets as the Immigration and
Naturalization Service took advantage of the city's recent chaos.

By her own account, police officers stopped her on the evening of May 4, told
her she was going to get "a free ride back to your country," and handed her over
to immigration agents who held her without charges for 18 days before a lawyer
obtained her release.

Mrs. Ramos, who is from Guatemala, is part of one of the biggest hauls of
illegal immigrants in the history of the city, where thousands of newcomers live
and work without documents among the legal Hispanic residents. In the weeks
since the riots, criticism has grown that the police and immigration agents
improperly detained people.

Although the officials deny it, the critics say that hundreds of Hispanic
residents were interrogated about their immigration status on the basis of their
race alone.

"We were out there doing our job," Robert M. Moschorak, the Los Angeles regional
director of the immigration service, said in a recent interview. "I'm very proud
of the job we did."

781 Illegal Aliens Deported

He denied that his agents had overstepped the law, and he said many of the
looters and lawbreakers had been illegal aliens.

As of last weekend, his office said, 944 people, most of them from Mexico, had
been taken into custody by the immigration service. Of these, 781 waived their
right to a deportation hearing and were immediately sent back across the Mexican
border.

Critics of the roundup, including immigrant-rights group and civil liberties
organizations as well as local Hispanic officials, say that rather than helping
to restore order, as it had been asked to do, the immigration service saw a
chance to pursue its own agenda.

"We were a city in crisis, and our politicians and Police Commission should not
have allowed the enforcement of civil immigration violations to go hand in hand
with attempts to calm down and defuse the situation," said Nils W. Frenzen,
directing attorney of Public Council, a legal aid group.

These complaints were aired at a hearing last week of the Police Commission, a
civilian body that oversees the police force. The commission president, Stanley
K. Sheinbaum, said the complaints would be investigated by a special commission
studying police conduct during the rioting that began April 29, the day that
four Los Angeles police officers were acquitted of severely beating a black
motorist, Rodney G. King.

As looters rampaged through stores, the critics say, the police and immigration
officials were loading their vehicles with illegal aliens they had detained in a
variety of improper ways.  In some cases, like that of Mrs. Ramos, the critics
say the police violated long-standing procedures by detaining people solely
because they did not have documents to prove they were in the country legally.
The police denied this accusation.

Immigrant rights groups have gathered numerous examples of men and women who say
they were arrested without criminal charges for failing to produce immigration
documents while shopping or waiting at bus stops or during searches for looted
goods in their homes. Such police detentions on Federal statutes would only be
legal in rare circumstances.

In other cases, as the police themselves confirm, they handed over to the
immigration service people who had been detained for looting or curfew
violations but who normally would have been released for lack of strong
evidence.

"We had a large number, about 100 out of 363 arrested for curfew violations and
looted goods, with status determined to be undocumented," said Capt. Dennis
Conti, the commander of Newton Police Station in a heavily Hispanic area. "Those
were turned over directly to I.N.S. It speeds up the system."

Agents Accompanied Officers

Such action violates a long-standing department policy of working hand in hand
with immigration agents. In still other cases, the police said that immigration
agents accompanied them in Hispanic neighborhoods as interpreters. Critics say
the agents took advantage of the situation to interrogate and detain people on
the basis of their immigration status.

In one case, E. J. Flynn, the legal director of the Central American Refugee
Center, said a Guatemalan he would identify only as Miguel R., was visiting his
girlfriend when the police and immigration agents knocked on the door to search
her apartment for looted goods. He was detained when he was unable to prove that
he was in the country legally.

Using the required technical legal terms, Mr. Moschorak said people were asked
to prove their immigration status only when "specific articulable facts" would
lead an agent to believe that they were undocumented.

He said such facts could include "things like speaking a foreign language,
wearing clothing that would basically be of foreign origin, or foreign
appearance if coupled with some of these other things."

He agreed that such a description could apply to vast portions of the city's
population, in which 40 percent of residents are of Hispanic origin and hold a
variety of immigration statuses.

In addition, the critics say United States Border Patrol agents, who joined the
peacekeeping efforts in the city along with a number of other Federal agencies,
were assigned to patrol Hispanic neighborhoods where the effect of their
presence was less to restore order than to sow fear.

"Federal law-enforcement forces have been deployed in our city to apprehend
looters, arsonists and murderers who have terrorized our community," said City
Councilman Mike Hernandez, one of several political leaders who spoke out
against the activities of the Immigration Service. "They should not be here to
arrest and detain law-abiding bystanders, who may happen to be undocumented."

Mr. Moschorak said about 400 agents of the Border Patrol were deployed in the
city to assist in keeping order but that "there is nothing to indicate that they
arrested aliens who were illegally in the country only because they were
illegally in the country."

Stopped in the Street

When police officers turned their searchlight on Mrs. Ramos and her husband as
they were walking to a restaurant late at night in the aftermath of the rioting,
she said, she did not know why they were stopping her.

"The policewoman said, 'What are you, a prostitute? How would you like a free
ride back to your country? ' " Mrs. Ramos said.

When she and her husband, who worked as a security guard, told the officers that
they did not have immigration papers, they were taken to a police station and
turned over to the immigration service without being charged with any crime, she
said.

Last weekend she was released pending a hearing because she is four months
pregnant and was becoming ill, said Mr. Flynn, who is representing her. As for
her husband, Mrs. Ramos said she had not seen him since the night of their
arrest and had been told by immigration officials that they had no record of
him.

"I assume he is still in prison here somewhere," she said.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: After the rioting in Los Angeles, Lucia Artal Ramos, an illegal
immigrant from Guatemala, was stopped by the police and handed over to
immigration officials, in one of the biggest detentions of illegal aliens in the
city's history. Critics say the police violated procedure in interrogations.
(Bart Bartholomew for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 25, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

OCT, 18-24: Counterfeiters Prosper;
Law Fails To Protect And Curtail Migrants

BYLINE: Peter T. Kilborne

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 254 words


In 1986, Congress tried to curb illegal immigration, mostly from south of the
border, with a law that granted amnesty to three million unauthorized laborers
already here and that established sanctions for employers who hire unauthorized
newcomers. Congress created a commission to assess the law.

After slowing for a few years, the flow of illegal immigrants appears to be
climbing back to its mid-1980's levels, although no one knows the real numbers.
Last week, the final draft of the commission's research showed that the
Immigration Reform and Control Act has failed in just about every way feared or
expected.

Farmers, who thought the law would dry up their labor supply, often turn workers
away. The anticipated rise in wages and improved conditions from farmers
competing for a shrinking supply of workers have not happened either. After
accounting for inflation, the study says, migrant worker wages have fallen 2
percent.

The commission found that the law has been undermined by counterfeiters, who
produce authentic-looking driver's licenses, Social Security cards or birth
certificates for the workers. It suggested that fraud-resistant documents be
developed.

But it says the best solution is to phase out Washington's "agricultural
protection" that exempts most farms from benefits like overtime pay and
unemployment insurance. The practice repels many American job-seekers. Removing
it would encourage more to apply -- reducing jobs for illegal immigrants and
their incentive to cross the border.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 27, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Reform Holds Key to Economy;
Easy to Get In

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 201 words


To the Editor:

It is deeply alarming. Hordes of illegal immigrants are flooding New York City.
The Immigration and Naturalization Service may even be collaborating, for a man
from Java boasted to me that upon arriving at Kennedy Airport an official simply
told him to "keep moving." A Mexican youth also informed me that he had come all
the way from Mexico City by train without a ticket and was never once challenged
by either a conductor or border guards.

The quiescence of unions is also extraordinary. Several months ago The Atlantic
published a fine article on the impact of illegal immigration upon Los Angeles,
"Black vs. Brown." The writer reported that the black hospital workers' union
had been smashed, with the former employees replaced by Mexican illegals.

Mexico has adequate reasons for encouraging flight. The Mexico City population,
7 million in 1970, is now 20 million and will reach 28 million by the end of the
decade. The city's water supply and waste disposal are both already inadequate.

What will be the impact, in a few years, of a half-million and more illegal and
illiterate immigrants on our battered city?

SIDNEY SHANKER
Forest Hills, Queens, Nov. 10, 1992

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 23, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Illegal Worker Disappears

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 169 words

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, Jan. 22


A Peruvian man who worked illegally for Zoe Baird, President Clinton's first
nominee for Attorney General, has disappeared, leaving a note saying he plans to
return to Peru, his most recent employer said today.

The note came to light shortly after Immigration and Naturalization Service
officials said they had scheduled an interview with the man, Victor Cordero, and
his wife, Lillian, to determine whether they should be deported.

The whereabouts of Mrs. Cordero, who is separated from her husband, could not be
determined today.

The Corderos began working for Ms. Baird in 1990. Mr. Cordero, 26, left in March
and went to work for a Stamford businessman, Sanford Redmond, as a domestic
worker. Mr. Redmond said he was not aware that Mr. Cordero was an illegal alien
until it was reported by the news media.

"I am very sorry but I have to go back to my country," Mr. Cordero wrote Mr.
Redmond. "I don't want any problems for you. You are a nice person. Please
forgive me. Thanks for everything."

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 14, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Clinton's Choice for Justice Dept. Hired Illegal Aliens for Household

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 970 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 13


Zoe Baird, Bill Clinton's nominee to be Attorney General, employed two Peruvians
living illegally in the United States as her baby sitter and part-time driver
for nearly two years, Government and Clinton transition officials said today.

Transition officials said the couple began working for Ms. Baird in the summer
of 1990, when she was about to take a job at Aetna Life and Casualty in
Hartford. The husband stopped working for Ms. Baird in March of 1992, but the
wife continued to help care for Ms. Baird's 3-year-old son until the woman left
or was dismissed shortly after the election.

The transition officials also said that Ms. Baird and her husband had been told
by a lawyer that it was not possible for them to pay Social Security taxes for
people who do not have a right to work here. As a result, they did not pay the
taxes until they made a lump-sum payment this month.

The hiring of the South American couple, an issue that has become a subject of a
background inquiry by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, is potentially
embarrassing for the country's prospective top law enforcement officer, who as
Attorney General would supervise the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Law Calls For Fines

The immigration service, which has unsuccessfully struggled to curtail the tide
of illegal workers, is responsible for enforcing a 1986 law that makes it
illegal to knowingly hire an illegal alien. Employers, no matter how few people
they hire, are required to verify the citizenship status of their workers.
Individual homeowners are liable for civil penalties, including fines of up
$3,000 for each violation.

In practice, the immigration service rarely prosecutes people who employ illegal
aliens in their homes.

Clinton transition officials said today that Ms. Baird believed she was acting
legally when she hired the Peruvian couple, because she was sponsoring the
woman's application for citizenship. But immigration lawyers said applicants for
citizenship could not be legally employed until receiving a visa and work
permit, which the Peruvians did not have.

Ms. Baird volunteered information about the jobs held by the couple to Mr.
Clinton before she was named and to the F.B.I. in her background questionnaire.
She has also discussed it with Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Delaware
Democrat who heads the Judiciary Committee and Senator Orrin G. Hatch,
Republican of Utah, a senior member of the panel, which scheduled hearings on
her nomination for Tuesday and Thursday next week.

"Zoe Baird fully disclosed and explained the situation during the selection
process, and she will be an excellent Attorney General," said Ricki Seidman, a
spokesman for the transition office in Little Rock.

Mr. Biden said in a telephone interview today that Ms. Baird volunteered
information about the issue on two occasions, first when she met with him on
Jan. 5 and again on Tuesday when they met to discuss questions likely to be
raised at the hearings.

Mr. Biden said he was satisfied with her explanations but would withhold
judgment until he had received the F.B.I. report to the committee this week. Mr.
Biden said he informally alerted several Democratic members of the committee,
including Senators Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, Howard M. Metzenbaum of
Ohio and Dianne Feinstein of California, to the potential problem.

He said those discussions had led him to conclude that barring a report to the
contrary from the F.B.I., "this is not a deal breaker, this is not anything that
should keep her from being Attorney General."

Contradictory Accounts

The record provided by transition officials of the couple's employment by Ms.
Baird and her husband, Paul Gewirtz, a constitutional scholar at Yale Law
School, contradicts accounts provided by Government officials. The conflicting
details leave unresolved some questions about the Peruvians' employment history.

Transition officials said Ms. Baird had obtained a Labor Department
certification for the couple, a step toward sponsoring the two as permanent
residents. But Government officials said an application was made for the wife
but not for the husband.

Once such a certification is approved by immigration authorities, a foreign
worker is placed on a waiting list to enter the country legally. The worker is
not eligible to enter the United States until he or she receives a visa and work
permit. But in many cases, the prospective workers are already in the country
and simply flout the law, working illegally until they are advised they may
enter the country.

Government officials said Ms. Baird and Mr. Gewirtz did obtain a labor
certificate and applied to the immigration service for a spot on the waiting
list. But they said the I.N.S. never approved the certification for the Peruvian
couple and thus neither ever had any legal status in the United States.
Transition officials said the I.N.S. did approve the certificate in October
1992.

Typically, when immigration authorities discover that foreigners are living in
the country unlawfully, the aliens are asked to report to a local immigration
office to discuss their status, officials said. It is unclear what action may
follow.

Transition officials said the Peruvian couple, whose names and whereabouts they
would not disclose, left Ms. Baird and Mr. Gewirtz voluntarily, but other
officials said the woman had possibly been dismissed shortly after the election,
suggesting that Ms. Baird and Mr. Gewirtz could have tried to clear up the
matter as Ms. Baird prepared for a possible job with the Government.

Recently, lawyers helping Ms. Baird prepare for her confirmation hearings told
her she should have made the Social Security payments, the transition officials
said. This month, she wrote a check to the Treasury for the full amount.


NAME: Zoe Baird

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Zoe Baird. (Reuters)

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 27, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

2 Candidates for Governor to Pay Back Taxes for Aliens

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 380 words

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 26


Saying they want to move ahead with their campaigns, two Republicans who hope to
be governor announced today that they have agreed to pay back taxes for hiring
illegal aliens.

Christine Todd Whitman said her payments would total $22,694 for Social Security
and unemployment taxes to the Federal Government and the state of New Jersey for
employing two undocumented workers for three and a half years to take care of
her children.

She said $14,467 was paid today to the Internal Revenue Service. A check for
$8,227 will be delivered to state tax officials on Wednesday, she said. Campaign
officials said penalties and interest would be paid when they are determined by
the tax agencies.

The second candidate, W. Cary Edwards, a former state attorney general, said he
intends to make a payment totaling $2,820 to cover Social Security and state and
Federal unemployment insurance taxes for employing a Portuguese woman without
residency status as a housekeeper for about 18 months.

Additional Fines

Both candidates could face additional fines from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service if they are found guilty of breaking Federal law. John
Gershkoff, who heads the New Jersey region's investigations unit for the
immigration service, said today that the Whitman and Edwards cases were being
reviewed.

Mrs. Whitman and Mr. Edwards disclosed their employment of illegal aliens on
Friday following the furor over President Clinton's nomination of Zoe Baird as
attorney general. Ms. Baird, who admitted that she and her husband employed
illegal aliens to care for their son, withdrew her nomination.

Mrs. Whitman, who plans to announce formally her candidacy for governor on
Wednesday, said she hoped the payment would "put these matters behind me." But
she acknowledged that she did not believe the issue would go away.

"It's always going to be there, and it will be part of how people view me," Mrs.
Whitman said. "But there are other things, such as the issues of the campaign. I
expect this will be fully aired again, and I am willing to discuss it."

Mr. Edwards, whose admission of hiring an illegal alien came four hours after
Mrs. Whitman's disclosure, said he would make the $2,820 payment "in order to
get on with the issues of the campaign."

NAME: Christine Todd Whitman; W. Cary Edwards

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 6, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Drops Case Against Guide for 16 Jailed Tourists

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1120 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Nov. 5


The Federal Government today dropped all charges against a Malaysian tour guide
accused of smuggling illegal aliens into the United States, ending a painful and
puzzling ordeal for members of a tour group who had been held in jail here for
more than two weeks as material witnesses.

The surprise decision to dismiss the charges against the tour leader and release
the 16 Malaysian tourists who remained incarcerated out of an original group of
24 was made by A. John Pappalardo, the United States Attorney here. Mr.
Pappalardo acted after the Government had come under increasing criticism from
the Federal magistrate hearing the case as well as defense lawyers, human rights
campaigners and Malaysian diplomats.

Peter T. Elikann, a lawyer for one of the tourists detained by the Government as
a witness, Lai Wan Cheng, said the Immigration and Naturalization Service
"absolutely trampled the rights of these people." He said Ms. Cheng signed a
statement only after being repeatedly threatened by immigration agents who told
her "they would keep her in jail here for life."

He said another agent had told Ms. Cheng, a 41-year-old seamstress: "You're not
here to work. You are here to be a prostitute."

Legal and Ethical Questions

"I think if it was English-speaking people that this never would have happened,"
Mr. Elikann said.

James Farmer, the head of the Organized Crime Strike Force in Boston, said
accusations that the Government's detention of the entire group was racist are
"absolutely, categorically untrue."

But several lawyers questioned whether the Government's action was legal or
ethical.

For example, some lawyers said the Government might have violated the law by
detaining the group for eight days after they arrived in Boston from Paris on
Oct. 21 before any of them appeared in court.

Lawyers in the case say the immigration service has sweeping powers to hold
aliens, but the agency must take anyone accused of a crime or wanted as a
witness before a judge within three days. The tour leader, Chee Kheong Choong,
was charged on Oct. 28 with trying to smuggle two of the Malaysians into the
United States, and the next day the Government asked a Federal magistrate to
hold seven of them as witnesses.

Request to Hold Others

Mr. Choong's lawyer then insisted that many of the others be held to give him a
chance to question them.

Lawyers also questioned why the immigration service did not permit the
Malaysians to notify their consular officials or engage lawyers during those
eight days, as normally required by law. Asking why, they noted that no
Government agency had notified the Malaysian Embassy in Washington to tell them
25 of their citizens were being detained.

Equally important, they have asked if immigration agents threatened or abused
any of the Malaysians, as several defense lawyers charged in Federal District
Court here in the past three days.

Questions have also been raised as to whether the people seized were really
tourists, as they have asserted, or whether the Government was right to suspect
that at least some of them intended to stay on illegally and work in the United
States. A crucial factor in the Government's thinking, said one official who
spoke on the condition that he not be identified, was that the 25 people were
all ethnic Chinese.

In the past year, Government officials have become increasingly concerned over a
wave of illegal Chinese immigrants. Some of these illegal immigrants have become
involved in a growing web of Chinese organized crime groups this country.

An immigration agent testified in court this week said that a check of computer
records had found that 21 of the 24 Malaysians had been in this country before
and that many of them had overstayed their six-month tourist visas. He said one
had stayed and worked for up to six years.

But Arthur Helton, an executive with the Lawyers Committee on Human Rights in
New York, said that given the way the immigration service processes information
about departures of aliens from this country, it would have been impossible for
the agency to ascertain such information when the group was first detained.
Because the agency does not stamp a person's passport on departure, it would
have been very difficult to prove in court that so many members of the group had
overstayed.

'Highly Unusual' Detention

Much of the information leading to the smuggling charge against Mr. Choong came
out only under questioning while the group was being held in one of several
local jails.

"This sort of detention is highly unusual, and the Government's conduct is
troubling," Mr. Helton said. "They seem to have lumped people together as a
group."

The Malaysians were first detained at Logan Airport on Oct. 21 when an
immigration inspector noticed that one of the tourists had been in the United
States before and might have overstayed her tourist visa.

Today, some officials of the immigration service, the Justice Department and the
State Department were blaming each other for the troubles.

Mr. Farmer, head of the Justice Department's Organized Crime Strike Force here,
said it was the immigration service that had held the Malaysians during the
eight days before their first court appearance on Oct. 29. But Timothy Whelan,
deputy director of the immigration service in Boston, said his agency had held
the group after a request from the United States Attorney's office.

Mr. Whelan also said his office immediately notified the State Department about
the Malaysians, thinking the agency would notify the Malaysian Embassy. "Part of
the problem was logistics," he said.

Phyllis Young, a State Department press officer, said she did not know why the
department had not notified the Malaysian Government. But she acknowledged an
error had been made. "Timely notification was not given as required by our
consular agreement," she said. "The Department of State has expressed its regret
to the Malaysian Government."

In announcing the Government's decision today in Federal District Court,
Magistrate Marianne Bowler said: "There have been a number of problems in this
case. Time was of the essence."

Deportations Are Ordered

She then ordered that the tour leader, Mr. Choong, and the group members who
were still incarcerated be deported immediately. "I'm ordering everyone in this
case to be on flights out of this country today," she said.

The other eight Malaysians were freed on her orders earlier this week.

In explaining his decision to drop the case, Mr. Pappalardo said it became
impossible to prosecute after the magistrate ordered on Wednesday that
depositions of each of the tourists be kept to 90 minutes so as to let them go
quickly.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 11, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

2 Men Are Convicted In Smuggling Aliens

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 117 words


Two Queens men were convicted on Tuesday on charges of trying to smuggle 150
Chinese aliens into the United States in exchange for payments of $20,000 to
$30,000 each.

The men, George Huang, 42, of Elmhurst, and William Chen, 45, of Woodbury, both
naturalized American citizens, were convicted in Federal District Court in
Manhattan and were ordered held without bail until sentencing on May 11. They
face a maximum of five years in jail and fines of $250,000.

A vessel owned by Mr. Huang and Mr. Chen was seized by the Coast Guard off the
coast of North Carolina on Sept. 7, officials said.

Authorities who boarded the ship found the smuggled aliens living on wooden
shelves in the hold.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 31, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

There Comes a Time To Control the Borders

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 13; Column 6; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 263 words


In response to the letter by Patrick Young [Jan. 3] in which he claims that my
comments concerning illegal aliens are xenophobic and wrong. If the comment "Why
do American citizens, who joyfully help those who come here legally, have
obligations to those who criminally entered this country?" is xenophobic, so be
it. While he states El Salvadorans who come to this country are not criminals
due to their status as war refugees, he does not comment on the illegal aliens
from other countries, too numerous to mention. He does not mention that having a
fake Social Security card to illegally get a job is a crime. We are not told of
the costs through increased taxes to take care of these people's need for
special education, bilingual teachers and health care.

He states, "The Statue of Liberty is more than a monument it is an ideal." I
agree. As I stated, "The United States admits more legal immigrants than any
other country." Unfortunately the time when the United States was an unexplored
wilderness with the space for any and all is over. In the past the immigrants
who came here were mostly on their own to sink or swim. Now however a vast
"safety net" has been mandated in which we pay for those who have entered this
country illegally. While I am proud of our country's status as a nation of
immigrants, there comes a time which our resources become limited and we cannot
expect to receive all of those driven by economics and population pressures out
of their countries. Any country must retain some control of its borders.

ROBERT F. LA PORTA
Dix Hills

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 17, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Coming to America

BYLINE: By ROBERT SURO

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 134 words


A record 1.8 million immigrants were given permanent residency in the United
States last year, most of them under six-year old amnesty programs for illegal
aliens. More than 1.1 million of them were already living in the United States
when they received permanent status, according to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service; the rest arrived in the country last year.

For the past three years the number of persons granted permanent residency has
increased sharply as a result of the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act,
which granted amnesty to illegal aliens who could show that they had lived in
the country on a continuous basis since 1982.


Another amnesty was offered to people who could show that they had come into the
United States to do seasonal agricultural work.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Statue of Liberty.

Graph tracks immigrants, 1980-1991, and those granted amnesty, 1989-1991
(Source: United States Immigration and Naturalization Service)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 5, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Our Porous Borders

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 172 words


To the Editor:

In "The Riots: Underclass vs. Immigrants" (Op-Ed, May 15) Edward N. Luttwak
implicitly notes the major problem of illegal immigration, but does not complete
the picture. The seemingly endless flow of illegal immigrants affects more than
the underclass; it has ramifications for the country at large.

Congressional redistricting is based on a 1990 census that includes millions of
illegals. California, where the major disturbances occurred, is bulging with
illegal aliens; they not only displace citizen workers and claim valuable social
resources, but without a vote they also change the composition of Congress.

The news media, academia and Congress should focus on the illegal-immigrant
inflow from the third world. Unless we take effective steps to control our
borders, social-welfare programs introduced in the aftermath of Los Angeles are
fated to fall short, and our nation will be faced with the dismal prospect of
declining living standards.

ALAN SOKOLSKI
Silver Spring, Md., May 21, 1992

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 7, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Mexican Women, Doffing Old Ways, Join Exodus

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1875 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico, June 1


When the husband of Esther Alvarez left their home in the northern city of
Hermosillo to look for work in the United States, she took her first job, as a
janitor, and told her two young children to expect their father back soon.

"He was going to go and make some money," Mrs. Alvarez said. "I don't know if he
ever did."

Mrs. Alvarez was sitting by the fetid Tijuana River, awaiting the night. After
it fell, she planned to climb the high metal barrier that separates Mexico from
San Ysidro, Calif., run the gantlet of bandits and Border Patrol agents, and
follow her husband's path. She said that she was not planning to look for him
and that he had probably found another woman a long time ago. Instead, she said,
she was going to make good on his promise for her children.

With hundreds of thousands of other women, Mrs. Alvarez, 35 years old, is part
of a fundamental change in the tide of undocumented Mexican migrants to the
United States.

After decades in which the flow was made up overwhelmingly of men traveling for
seasonal work, the number of Mexican women crossing into the United States has
risen sharply in recent years. Census and immigration data indicate that women
now account for about half of the Mexican immigrants who settle in the United
States.

Partial records of the Mexican adults caught crossing the border illegally show
that the proportion of women among them has nearly doubled, from 8 percent to
about 15 percent, since 1987.

Many of the women have gone to join husbands and other family members who gained
amnesty under the 1986 immigration-reform law. Others have been sent for by
fathers, husbands or boyfriends who, even without residency papers, have become
more settled or financially secure. But sociologists and anthropologists who
have studied the phenomenon say it also reflects a steady evolution in the roles
that women are playing in a society defined for centuries by its rigid
patriarchy.

Over the last two decades especially, Mexican women have grown more independent
of their families. They marry later and have fewer children. Though they have
been working outside their homes in growing numbers since the 1950's, the
economic crisis that began in 1982 has pushed many more into the labor force.

The experience of being left behind by migrant husbands has itself often
transformed the lives of Mexican women. In tradition-bound communities in the
countryside, the sudden responsibility for homes and children has been the
catalyst for a new self-confidence and autonomy, researchers say. Women who
might not previously have made decisions about where to live are now insisting
on joining husbands in the United States or seeking lives of their own there.

"These women are more and more in control of their own lives," said Mercedes
Gonzalez de la Rocha, an anthropologist who studied women leaving an isolated
farming village in the western state of Jalisco.

The Cultures Clash At Mexican Fiestas

For the time being, there are only hints of how Mexican society might be changed
by the exposure of so many more women to a culture in which women's independence
is comparatively matter-of-fact.

In the central state of Puebla, the annual fiestas of towns that have long sent
their men to work in the United States have become parades of suddenly clashing
cultures. Women who have stayed behind dress in the braided hair and embroidered
skirts of their great-grandmothers; those back visiting from "the other side"
wear nylons, punk haircuts and costume jewelry.

In San Francisco or Chicago, Mexican women say the situation is sometimes
reversed: women whose independence in Mexico has led to their trips north find
themselves back to cooking, cleaning and caring for their children in insular
communities that resemble rural Mexico as much as they do the next neighborhood.

Yet from about three dozen Mexican women interviewed in the United States or as
they crossed the border came story after story of experiences not easily
forgotten and of people who it seemed would not be the same.

Guillermina Bautista, now a domestic worker in Los Angeles, told how in one of
many beatings she received from her alcoholic husband in their poor village in
Oaxaca State he broke her nose. She retaliated by scalding him with hot soup.

"My mother almost killed me," the 29-year-old Ms. Bautista recalled. "She said,
'You don't raise your hand to your husband.' And I forgave him. I had to live
with him. He was the father of my children. And what would people say if you did
anything?"

After her husband left her, Ms. Bautista took her two small boys and sneaked
across the border at Tijuana as he had. She said she did not look for him when
she arrived in Los Angeles; he eventually found her through a sister of hers who
lived there. And when Ms. Bautista refused to stay with him, she said, he again
beat her badly.

"I called my sister," Ms. Bautista said. "She said, 'If you want to be done with
this problem, this is what you do.' I called the Santa Monica police, and in the
end they deported him."

Migration Changes The Age-Old Ways

Telling her story at a Roman Catholic Church center in West Los Angeles after a
meeting of the fledgling domestic workers' cooperative that she and other
Mexican and Central American women have joined, Ms. Bautista seemed at once
proud and taken aback by what she had done.

Other members of the cooperative nodded when Juana Campos, a 25-year-old woman
raised in the western Mexican town of Zacapu, said: "Yesterday, in Mexico, you
did everything without thinking about it. Things were the way they always were.
Here, you have to understand things, to try to make them like you want."

Like the men who preceded them, the women who come to the United States are
predominantly poor or working-class natives of a handful of western Mexican
states. Relatively few are middle class or professional, in deliberate pursuit
of freedom from the rules and social pressures that shaped their Mexican lives.

Magdalena Grijalva, 30, was of the minority. A former army nurse from the state
capital of Oaxaca, she said she had gone to Los Angeles "fleeing" her former
husband, an army doctor.

"Once we got married, he wanted me to stop working and dedicate myself to him,"
she said. "I always thought it was important to have a profession."

A survey of 718 women crossing into the United States from Tijuana found that
only 10 percent said they were going to join their families; 67 percent said
they were seeking jobs. "The fact that they are going to work tells you a lot
about what has changed in Mexican society," said Ofelia Woo, a fellow at the
College of the Northern Border, the research institute just south of Tijuana
that conducted the study.

Men's Machismo Stays Strong

In many traditional villages, as the contribution of women to the family economy
has grown, their submissiveness has eroded; the men's machismo, their masculine
pride, generally has not. Orlando Centeno, a machinist from the western state of
Nayarit, summarized the situation while waiting to cross with his wife through a
remote canyon at Tijuana's edge: "The woman in Mexico does what the man says."

Men's migration to the United States has often been understood as an expression
of that balance of powers. Yet social scientists who have studied migrant
communities say the prolonged absences of so many men have in fact turned some
of those villages into a locus of change.

In the western state of Michoacan, the arrival of strawberry-packing plants in
the mid-1960's opened up jobs to young women whose fathers or husbands often
were not around to object, said Gail Mummert, an anthropologist who has studied
women's migration from the state. In northern Michoacan, women have gone into
the hog-raising industry. In other places, they now work as agricultural day
laborers.

"Now, single women working are just generally accepted," Dr. Mummert said of the
village she studied. She added that for the strawberry packers, for the young
women who qualify as "spinsters" by staying unmarried past their early 20's, and
for women whose autonomy has surged in their husbands' absence, the thought of
seeking jobs in Los Angeles or Chicago, if not the obvious step, is far less
radical than it might have been for their mothers or older sisters.

Standing along the Tijuana-San Ysidro barrier late one night, Griselda Nava
Hernandez, 17, described the change in her Michoacan family. Her four sisters
"think differently," she said. "They have husbands."

In San Miguel Acuexcomac, a town near the city of Puebla, the shift appears to
have somewhat less to do with women's independent action. Unlike the earlier
generations of men who traveled alone to Los Angeles, young San Miguel men now
"steal" girlfriends, as the local saying goes, and take them along.

In the past, Mexican men have typically objected to the presence of their wives
or girlfriends in the United States. Part of what has changed, researchers said,
is that as more women have settled in the United States, they have constituted
networks of support for the new immigrants.

Novel as it may be for women to lend each other money for the trip, lobby one
another's husbands for their assent, or find each other jobs, such obstacles
often pale against that of the border itself.

Dr. Rodrigo A. Munoz, a psychiatrist at the University of California, San Diego
School of Medicine, who has treated some 200 immigrant women, said about half
suffered from depression and nearly a fourth from post traumatic stress
disorder. That diagnosis is perhaps most familiar to Americans from veterans of
the Vietnam War.

Dr. Munoz said his patients were usually reacting to having been beaten or raped
by their own smugglers or by bandits, or having been stuffed for hours in the
trunks of cars. "The image I got is of a war zone with many victims," he said,
describing southern San Diego County.

2 Women Are Lured Into Bondage in U.S.

In a Tijuana shelter, Araceli Lopez, 19, told how two Mexican-American women
that she and her mother had met there had lured them to San Diego with a promise
of well-paid jobs as maids. But after having entered the United States on a
nightmarish journey through a sewer pipe, Miss Lopez said, the women virtually
enslaved her and her mother as unpaid servants. "We were very afraid," she said,
"but we could not find anyone to help us."

On a shopping trip, Miss Lopez said, she and her mother bolted from the women
and, mistaking a mall security guard for an immigration agent, tried to have the
man arrest them. Finally, they hitched a ride to the border and walked back
across.

Estela Munoz, 29, who sat on the Tijuana River levee with her friend Esther
Alvarez, said that though she had crossed the border once before, she was no
less terrified the second time. But having been abandoned by her husband and
with four children to feed, she said she saw no alternative.

"I never thought I would be doing something like this," she said. "But I
believed that man."

Mrs. Alvarez looked across the levee at the crowd gathering before the tall,
black metal fence. "I don't know what's there," she said. "But it has to be
something better than here."

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A mother and child joined other Mexicans in Tijuana as they
awaited nightfall to slip over the border. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times) (pg.
1); The number of Mexican women crossing into the United States has risen
sharply in recent years. On a levee in Tijuana, a group of Mexicans waited for
nightfall before trying to slip across the border into the U.S. (Jim Wilson/The
New York Times) (pg. 18)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 28, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Mexico Is Now Acting to Protect Border Migrants From Robbery and Abuse

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1195 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico


Just a few years ago, the desolate canyons that wind down from Tijuana's last
cinder-block barrios to the subdivisions of San Ysidro, Calif., became a symbol
of the border as a no man's land.

Undocumented migrants were robbed, assaulted and raped there almost routinely;
one was slain about every month. As their numbers rebounded after the 1986
immigration-reform law, complaints of abuse against them by American Border
Patrol agents and the San Diego police multiplied. And in Mexico, officials now
acknowledge, the police were part of the extortion rackets and did almost
nothing to stop the violence.

Human rights groups still say Border Patrol agents commit serious abuses with
impunity. In a recent report, Americas Watch called the agents' treatment of
illegal immigrants "appalling" and compared their respect for human rights with
that of the police in parts of the third world.

But the story told of the Mexican side of the border is largely one of change.

Mexico Sets Up a Program

After years of virtually ignoring the plight of the millions of Mexicans who
travel surreptitiously to the United States, the Mexican Government has begun
trying to protect them. Mexican officials have set up a program to inform both
legal and illegal immigrants of their rights in the United States, and they are
pressing for changes to improve American treatment of the migrants.

In Tijuana, a small, innovative police unit commanded by a former psychologist
has turned aggressively on the border assailants, even when they have been other
Mexican policemen. And with trust growing between Mexican and American
law-enforcement agencies, forces that had sometimes shot at each other now
constantly coordinate their border operations.

In its evolution, the Tijuana-San Diego border -- by some measures the busiest
international crossing in the world -- has become an unusual window on the
changing relationship between Mexico and the United States.

Leaving aside their fundamental differences over whether the Mexican migrants
are workers the United States badly needs or criminals it does not want,
officials on both sides say they have found ways to manage the 2,000-mile
border's conflicts more effectively and much more quietly.

"It is very important for us that it not be a point of conflict," Mexico's Under
Secretary of Government for Immigration, Miguel Limon Rojas, said of the border,
"both for the protection of our own people and so that it does not damage our
good relations with the United States."

Trying to Change an Image

Problems are still commonplace. But as the two Governments have pursued a North
American Free Trade Agreement with Canada, Mexican officials have begun trying
to change the way Americans see their country. And no longer, they say, can they
afford the images of lawlessness fed by the border situation, nor the stigma
attached to millions of Mexican workers who enter the United States illegally.

"When North Americans look toward Mexico," a Mexican diplomat said, "that is
what they see first."

[A notable break from the new tone of relations followed the United States
Supreme Court ruling on June 15 that it had been legal for American drug
enforcement agents to have a doctor kidnapped from Mexico to stand trial in Los
Angeles. Outraged Mexican officials, arguing that the abduction of Dr. Humberto
Alvarez Machain was not an isolated case, cited a half-dozen recent cases in
which they had protested violations of the border by American agents pursuing
criminal suspects.]

The shift in the two countries' treatment of the border problem began in 1990,
after a series of violent clashes in the Tijuana-San Diego area.

The year before -- even with reported robberies, rapes and killings of migrants
all on the rise -- border-crime units from both countries were disbanded.
Mexico's Border Inspection Group was dissolved because of constant complaints
about its corruption. The San Diego Police Department's Border Crime Prevention
Unit, a successor to the Border Alien Robbery Force described in Joseph
Wambaugh's 1991 book "Lines and Shadows," was shut down after controversial
actions that included the 1989 shootings of two Mexican suspects who witnesses
said were handcuffed.

Ex-Psychology Professor Sent

To deal with his side of the problem, Mr. Limon sent Javier Valenzuela Malagon,
a soft-spoken ex-professor of psychology who had worked for him in Mexico's
Indian-protection agency.

Coordinating efforts with the Border Patrol and a new San Diego Police border
unit, Mr. Valenzuela and three other officials began dressing up in serapes and
ratty tennis shoes, tucking radios into backpacks and going out among the
migrants who wait each night to rush across the border.

The bandits and smugglers, when arrested, unsuccessfully offered what they
described as the standard bribes to be left alone, Mr. Valenzuela said. And when
the agents encountered other Mexican policemen, it was often not on friendly
terms.

"A lot of law-enforcement agents or former agents or pseudo-agents took
advantage of the impunity to commit crimes, mostly extortion," said Commander
Valenzuela.

In the succeeding months, Commander Valenzuela formed the Grupo Beta, or Beta
Team, with about 40 officers drawn from the federal immigration police, the Baja
California state judicial police and the Tijuana Municipal Police.

The Beta officers are trained in part by the San Diego police and are paid
roughly $1,000 a month, more than double the average police salary. Mr.
Valenzuela said they are held to higher standards, and a few of them have been
dismissed for suspected corruption.

The team is still not much appreciated by Tijuana's other policemen, a handful
of whom it has arrested or filed complaints against while breaking up the
business of border robbery.

Big Drop in Crime Is Cited

"They have reduced crime by 85 to 90 percent by the bandits," said Roberto
Martinez of the American Friends Service Committee's border program in San
Diego, an immigrant-rights monitoring group. "We used to get 8 to 10 cases a
month of migrants robbed, raped, beaten up. Now it's down to practically
nothing."

Mexican and American immigration, law enforcement, and diplomatic officials cite
similar figures. Another measure of the change, some Mexican officials say, is
the fact that human rights advocates who have recently assessed the border
violence have narrowed their focus to the actions of the United States Border
Patrol.

The Border Patrol characterizes the advocates' reports as largely rehashings of
old complaints that have been investigated and determined to be unfounded.

Mr. Limon, the Mexican Under Secretary for immigration issues, said that
contrary to the tone of the Americas Watch report, he believed that incidents of
abuse by Border Patrol agents had declined in recent months. But he and other
senior Mexican officials said they still thought it necessary to change what
they characterized as a siege mentality on the agents' part -- a feeling
sharpened by their increasing emphasis on the interdiction of illegal drugs --
and to prosecute abusive agents more rigorously.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: After years of virtually ignoring the plight of those who cross
illegally into the United States, Mexico has taken measures, including
establishing a border police group called Beta Team, to keep migrants from being
victimized. Often at odds in the past, U.S. Border Patrol agents now cooperate
with their Mexican counterparts. Two agents talked with a Beta Team member near
Tijuana last month. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

Map of U.S.-Mexico border, indicating Tijuana.

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 8, 1992, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Still Makes America What It Is;
Invisibility Counts

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 245 words


To the Editor:

In "Bar the Door" (Op-Ed, July 25), Daniel James argues that illegal aliens
"provided the tinder for rioting in Los Angeles and the Washington Heights
section of New York City."

He continues: "About 45 percent of South-Central Los Angeles is Hispanic, the
Census Bureau says, and many of the newcomers participated in the riots."

The day Mr. James's article appeared, the broadcast media identified street
gangs as the main participants in the Los Angeles riots. It makes no sense that
an illegal alien would engage in activities that could potentially bring him to
the attention of the authorities -- any authority.

If asked, an illegal alien would agree that invisibility is an intrinsic part of
his existence. Visibility via another illegal act could bring the unwanted
attention of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the Border Patrol, the
National Guard, the Army or other real and imagined adversaries an illegal alien
fears.

Mr. James's xenophobia provides a simplistic explanation of the Los Angeles
riots. Illegal aliens are helpless scapegoats. Though subject to every kind of
harassment, they are legally unable to claim discrimination, physical abuse,
victimization by misguided legislation, unemployment or any of the other
substantive causes that led to the events in Los Angeles. Mr. James should have
the courage to examine the legal population of his own country.

LOURDES LOPEZ
New York, July 29, 1992


LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 8, 1992, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Still Makes America What It Is;
Sophisticated Crossings

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 325 words


To the Editor:

"Bar the Door" by David James (Op-Ed, July 25) urges that we fortify and
militarize our southern border so as to seal it against entry by "illegal
aliens." Like so many advocates of sterner measures, he may have underestimated
the amount of leakage through official border checkpoints.

People interested in solving the "illegal alien" problem would do well to talk
to typical undocumented migrants, both in Mexico and in this country. As a
matter of human interest, I have listened to many describe their experiences.
Most appear to be from poor families. Some survive on handouts or have odd jobs
or seasonal work in Mexico, but they make job-seeking trips to the United States
to earn extra money for their impoverished families in Mexico.

Novices try sneaking across the border at night and often have to make several
tries before they make it. Experienced migrants usually have friends on the
American side who can lend them I.D.'s with photos of legal residents whom they
resemble. Their friends drive to Tijuana, for example, meet the migrant, coach
him on what to say in answer to questions that might be asked by immigration
officials and smuggle him in. Any guess as to how many migrants enter using this
and other stratagems is just that -- a guess.

If we have millions of illegal aliens in our country, we ought to consider every
practical option for knowing who they are and for monitoring their presence
here. The best option I am aware of is the proposal to legalize short-term entry
for prescreened Mexicans. They would be required to present certificates from
their home communities that they do not have police records. They would get
photo I.D.'s showing their place of residence in Mexico and their nearest
relatives. The I.D. would have an expiration date requiring return to Mexico
before that time or subject to extension under certain circumstances.

E. MANNING GILES
San Antonio, July 26, 1992

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 19, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

A Voyage Halfway Around the World Ends in Vain

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 657 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 18


When 151 Chinese men came ashore on Haiti's southwest coast before dawn on
Sunday, startling residents at a beach resort, they had sailed for more than a
month from port to port halfway around the world in a small fishing boat, an
American immigration official said today.

Their ordeal was described by the official, Bruce J. Nicholl of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service's anti-smuggling unit, as the first convincing
evidence of a new pattern in a multi-million dollar business of trafficking
illegal immigrants by gangs operating in Hong Kong and major American cities.

Hundreds of illegal Chinese immigrants have been found by the immigration
service to have been taken over the last year to Hawaii and the West Coast,
where they then disappear into American cities. A large part of the problem is
that small detention centers at airports and seaports are often overcrowded.

The appearance of the shipload of migrants in Haiti has convinced officials that
the trade is now shifting to the American East Coast, where it may be easier to
slip large numbers of illegal immigrants undetected into busy port cities.

Halfway Around the World

No less startling, the officials traced the journey of the ship from China to
Mauritius in the Indian Ocean and then to Cape Town, from where it sailed across
the South Atlantic to Brazil and finally to Haiti.

"Trafficking in human beings is turning out to be as profitable as drug
trafficking," Mr. Nicholl said. "If the gangs continue to be successful, we're
going to have a very serious problem."

He said that many of the illegal Chinese immigrants, who pay exorbitant fees for
the risky voyage, are provided with fraudulent papers after they land allowing
them to seek political asylum under an order President Bush issued three years
ago after the repression of the democracy movement. The order, intended to cover
students and others who might be at risk if they returned, allows Chinese in the
United States on that date to remain through 1993.

"Up to 80,000 illegal immigrants could benefit from this," Mr. Nicholl said.
"One of the first things many of them do when they arrive is pick up phony
documents, saying they were here before June 5, 1989, the date of the
Presidential order."

Pickup Off Chinese Coast

American officials said they began tracking the ship that dropped 151 Chinese
men off in Haiti soon after it entered the Taiwan Straits off the coast of
China's Fujian Province, where the men were apparently picked up.

"It was a Taiwanese trawler, 100 to 150 feet long," Mr. Nicholl said. "It was a
oceangoing ship, but not for these human conditions." Haitians fleeing their
island homeland for the United States sometimes cram the same number of people
onto a boat half that size, but the voyage they face is often very brief because
Coast Guard cutters patrol the area off Haiti, 600 miles from Florida.

The Taiwanese trawler sailed into the Indian Ocean instead of across the
Pacific, and headed for Mauritius, where the crew tried unsuccessfully to buy
food and water for their human cargo, Mr. Nicholl said. He said the Mauritius
Government planned to take the Chinese into custody and send them home, but the
ship sailed away.

The trawler stopped next in Cape Town, and again tried to take on supplies. It
then crossed the South Atlantic to Brazil, where, Mr. Nicholl said, it was
provisioned just north of Rio de Janeiro. At that point, he added, it was also
refueled at sea by a tanker apparently leased by the smuggling gang -- an
indication that the group had a significant amount of money to spend.

From Rio, the trawler apparently made its way to the Haitian coast. By then the
151 Chinese had been at sea in cramped conditions for between 35 and 40 days,
Mr. Nicholl said. He added that informants all along the route had provided
American officials with the information they needed to piece together the story
of the voyage.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A 10,000-mile voyage for 151 Chinese men bent on being smuggled
into the United States ended over the weekend -- on a beach in Haiti. Their
sponsors, Hong Kong gangs that traffic in people desperate to get into the U.S.,
gave up their bid to smuggle them into an American East Coast port after more
than 40 days at sea. The refugees, housed in a school in Jacmel, are a curiosity
to passers-by. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 30, 1992, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Choice for Young Illegal Aliens: Long Detentions or Deportation

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1406 words

DATELINE: LOS FRESNOS, Tex.


In the darkness of the Rio Grande Valley, the beam of a flashlight captured the
face of a frightened, skinny 15-year-old, clutching a sack with all his
belongings: an extra shirt and pair of pants.

"Where are you from?" the United States Border Patrol officer asked.

"Guatemala," came the answer in a shaky voice.

Detention, Not Freedom

In a thousand-mile journey from home, the boy had hopped freight trains, hitched
rides in cars, walked for days and finally waded across the Rio Grande. He had
gone long stretches without food and had been beaten by robbers angry that his
pockets were empty.

Like hundreds of other juvenile illegal aliens -- some much younger than him --
he is now here in a detention center for minors, and has been since his capture
on Oct. 25.

Adults apprehended by the Border Patrol can be released on bail, but in most
cases the Immigration and Naturalization Service does not release minors to
anyone but a relative, a guardian appointed by a parent or a child-care center
where access is controlled.

For children without any family in the United States, this can mean months in
detention during deportation proceedings. The boredom and the institutional
rigors become so wearisome that some opt for voluntary deportation.

A case now before the Supreme Court will decide whether the detention policy
also violates the constitutional rights of young illegal aliens.

Trail of Court Case

"Open-ended confinement of children raises serious constitutional questions"
like due process, said Carlos Holguin, an immigration rights lawyer who recently
argued the case before the Supreme Court.

A Federal District Court in Los Angeles ruled in 1988 that the immigration
service, whenever appropriate, should place children with a "responsible adult"
who was not a family member, like adults sponsored by a church group. That
ruling was upheld by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit,
in San Francisco, in 1991.

The immigration service appealed to the Supreme Court, arguing that it is not
the mandate of the agency to determine child placement and that the agency does
not want that charge.

"Who is a 'responsible adult'? " asked Duke Austin, a spokesman for the
immigration service. "The advocacy groups suggest that anyone who comes forward
is kind and benevolent. And that's just not the case."

Mr. Austin said the immigration service would be liable in such cases. "Until
the last 10 years, we rarely saw unaccompanied minors coming across the border,"
he said. "Believe me, this is a problem we don't want."

Mr. Holguin noted, however, that the immigration service released juveniles to
non-family members until 1984, when the director for the Western region, Howard
Ezell, changed the policy because of concerns about liability.

No case of child abuse by a non-family member had been documented, Mr. Holguin
said.

"Nothing bars the I.N.S. from exercising discretion to deny release to persons
it deems unable to care for a child or produce him or her to deportation
hearings," Mr. Holguin said. "In the final analysis, this case has far less to
do with protecting the children than with enabling the I.N.S. to avoid the
administrative inconvenience."

Mostly Central Americans

Virtually all the illegal alien youths held in detention in the United States
are Central Americans, most from Guatemala and Honduras. Mexican youths are
taken to the closest Mexican consulate.

Groups that monitor child welfare say the detention policy has been wasteful as
well as unwise.

"We could place these children in foster care for half what it costs to lock
them up," said Julie C. Macdonald, a program director with the Lutheran
Immigration and Refugee Service in New York.

The immigration service spends $189.8 million a year on deportation and
confinement; it does not break down the figures for youths, except to say that
they represent a tiny portion of the budget. But Mr. Holguin said the agency
spent up to $100 a day to house young illegal aliens.

The Federal Government estimates that about 1,000 unaccompanied aliens under the
age of 18 spend time in a detention center each year. The majority have
relatives in the United States and are eventually sent to live with them while
pursuing asylum.

With the end of war in Nicaragua, the number of youths crossing the border has
dropped by about 50 percent in recent years, Mr. Austin said. As a result, the
Los Fresnos detention center is the only one of the three Texas centers that is
still open.

Illegal aliens will be deported unless they demonstrate a "well-founded fear of
persecution" if they are sent home, and the vast majority do not gain asylum.
After being deported, many try again to sneak back into the United States, and
many of those will succeed. Immigration experts say the Border Patrol catches
fewer than half the illegal aliens coming into the country.

In the last few years, immigration officials said, policy has been eased to
reflect the new order on releasing youths. But the detention center in this
small town near Harlingen releases only a fraction of the juveniles under its
supervision. The center is holding 28 boys, including one who has been here for
six months; only four girls and three boys have been placed in foster care.

The Los Fresnos center, run by a private company on contract to the immigration
agency, is a house behind a seven-foot brick wall. It has a swimming pool and
soccer goal posts.

"This is not a jail," said Jesse Villareal, an official with the managing
company, International Education Services. "It's more like a college dormitory."

A teacher holds classes during the week, and youths go on field trips to places
like a zoo or a mall at least once a week, Mr. Villareal said. In addition, the
youngsters are taken to a park two or three times a week for recreation.

The youths are assigned regular chores, from mopping the floor to cleaning
toilets. They receive points for good behavior and get a $5 weekly allowance if
they have enough points. A television in the house is often tuned to a
Spanish-language station.

Bedrooms with bunk beds are stark, the walls blank except for a beer poster, an
illustration of Jesus and a Clinton-Gore campaign sticker. Except for a few
narrow slits, the windows are boarded over.

Bullies for Roommates

The 15-year-old Guatemalan boy (in allowing the interviews, the immigration
service would not let the youth's name be used) said restrictions sometimes made
the center seem like a jail. He also complained that three older and bigger boys
had punched him three times, had stolen some of the clothes the center gave him
and had taken his allowance, which was hidden in a shoe.

Mr. Villareal acknowledged that there were some bullies who had given the boy a
hard time, but he said the Guatemalan boy had not been beaten but "picked on."

The boy said he felt so intimidated by the older boys -- "they humiliate you" --
that he recently told an immigration judge that he would accept deportation.

He has not yet been sent back because the authorities often wait until they have
a planeload of deportees, and in the days since his decision, the boy, who left
Guatemala after receiving a draft notice, has started to dwell on what a return
home means.

The Army knows he has left his village, he said, and "if I go back, they will
think I joined the guerrillas. My life will be up for sale."

Advocates for illegal aliens say the boy's case illustrates the dangers of
detention. If he had been placed in a foster home -- which he said he would have
preferred -- he might have felt comfortable enough to wait out his deportation
hearings. Instead, they say, he made a decision largely based on his fear in the
center.

"These kids think day to day," said Lisa Bennett, a paralegal with Proyecto
Libertad, or Project Freedom, which gives legal advice to the young illegal
aliens. "They don't fully understand the process. And a kid like this might not
have realized what he had done."

Ms. Bennett said that once a youth accepted deportation his case would be almost
impossible to reverse "unless there is a very strong case for asylum."

Regelio Nunez, another Proyecto Libertad worker, added: "As a practical matter,
it's a rare kid who will put up with a year of detention to get a case of
political asylum heard. After three or four months, a kid will say: 'I've had
enough. I give up.' "


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hundreds of juvenile illegal aliens apprehended by the border
patrol are being held in a detention center for minors in Los Fresnos, Tex.
Unlike adults, who can be released on bail, children without any family in the
United States can be held for months during deportation proceedings. (Hart van
Denburg for The New York Times) (pg. A12)

Map of Texas highlighting the location of Los Fresnos. (pg. A12)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 22, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

SETTLING IN: AROUND THE NATION;
Much Outrage, Little Sympathy On Main Street

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1304 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Friday, Jan. 22


Behind the counter at a pet store in a middle-class Washington suburb, Carolyn
Williford had drawn herself up in outrage at the notion that Zoe Baird might
become Attorney General after hiring illegal immigrants to care for her toddler.

"She thought she could do something illegal and get away with it," said the
45-year-old assistant manager at Doctor's Pet Center in Hyattsville, Md. "I
don't think it's fair. I raised my kids while I was working. I worked days. My
husband worked nights at the post office. Our in-laws filled in when they had
to. This makes me mad."

Ms. Baird removed herself from consideration as Attorney General early this
morning, amid swelling opposition to her nomination. Ms. Baird's household
arrangements, and her failure to pay Social Security taxes for her Peruvian
employees, had struck a nerve on Capitol Hill as well as across America. Her
defenders had insisted that hers was a sin of good intentions motivated by
nothing more sinister than a desire for good child care -- a venial
transgression for which a sincere apology and penalty payments should have been
sufficient atonement. But Main Street seemed impatient with moral relativism.

The Sounds of Anger

The anger across the country had come in varied tones, like a musical chord. The
dominant note was one of class, of resentment over what seemed like a double
standard that favored the rich.

But other notes filled out the theme: the anger of well-to-do people who
wrestled quarterly with the Internal Revenue Service household tax forms that
one person called "infuriating and outrageous"; the anger of people who thought
that "she was just being greedy" and not paying her workers enough, whatever
their legal status; the conviction of some people that she should have let
President Clinton begin his Administration without having to defend her.

And while voices were raised in her defense, questioning the law or the
country's preoccupation with moral purity, the major women's groups were largely
silent, leaving unanswered the angry chorus that finally drowned out support for
the first woman ever nominated to be Attorney General.

In a recent poll by the Gallup Organization, a majority of the public had
expressed some concern when told "that Bill Clinton's nominee for Attorney
General, Zoe Baird, hired illegal aliens to work in her home in violation of the
law." Fifty-one percent of the 754 adults interviewed Monday and Tuesday said
that was a "major concern" to them.

Another 33 percent had said it was a "minor concern," while 15 percent had said
it was "not a concern at all." The national telephone poll, which Gallup
conducted for CNN and USA Today, had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus
four percentage points.

Diane Rehm, hostess of "The Diane Rehm Show" on WAMU-FM in Washington, said a
solid majority of callers had asked Ms. Baird to step aside. "There were
feelings that the people did not want Mr. Clinton to start his new
Administration with this as a potential problem hanging around his neck," she
said.

"There were also feelings that this was a so-called 'yuppie crime.' That people
in positions of power and money were feeling that they could do whatever they
wanted, and to hell with the rest of the country. And that surely, surely, if
this woman is as bright as they say she is, she should have known better.

"There was very little sympathy for her," she added. "Very little sympathy."

In San Diego County this week, an attorney for a woman accused in Federal Court
of transporting illegal aliens moved for dismissal on the basis of selective
prosecution. The grounds: Zoe Baird had not been prosecuted.

Some Can Understand

Yet a sympathetic strain arose, from suburban Delaware to downtown San
Francisco. While many people viewed the issue as a simple matter of right and
wrong, others reacted with dismissive forgiveness.

Audrey Scott, a 30-year-old computer programmer who had just bought seedless
grapes at Stiles market on Ninth Avenue in Manhattan, said she had children and
had found it difficult to find help. "I don't think Zoe Baird did anything
wrong," she said. "She gave some people a job."

Papusa Molina, 41, single, director of the University of Iowa's Women's Resource
Action Center, said: "I'm sure hundreds of thousands of 'regular' citizens end
up employing undocumented immigrants. She wasn't so out of line. It's something
many middle- and upper-middle-class citizens do.

"Perhaps I'm cynical," said the Mexican-born woman, who earns $33,000 a year,
"but in Mexico we believe no one is a saint. Private lives here become such an
issue when a person enters public life. If everyone's background was so
scrutinized, we wouldn't be able to elect anybody to public office."

Some Sawee No Excuse

Shirley Ellis, a 54-year-old laborer in Chicago, said that, as the mother of
three children, she empathized with Ms. Baird. "I don't like to wink at things
that are truly illegal, but I think she probably put the priority of her child
first," Ms. Ellis said. "I can't condemn her for that."

But the murmurs of sympathy by Ms. Ellis, Ms. Molina, Ms. Scott and others were
drowned out by the cries of outrage. The sin a Wall Street Journal headline
called "Boomer Blind Spot" may be widespread, but it is not publicly condoned.

Shelley Gates, an associate director at a women's organization in Chicago and
the mother of two small children, said Ms. Baird's action's were inexcusable.

"Average working mothers don't make nearly what she makes, and yet we are
obligated to follow the law," Ms. Gates said. "It's kind of unfair. This
certainly diminishes her credibility."

Above the Law?

Daniel Williams, a Philadelphia computer programmer with four children said that
the issue was that Ms. Baird wanted to represent the law of the land, but that
she had knowingly broken that law.

"If you don't like the law, you should work to get it changed," Mr. Williams
said. "She had the contacts and the wherewithal to do that. I respect her
talents, her experience, and I think her appointment would have been great, but
I'm very uncomfortable with her placing herself above the law she is sworn to
represent."

And James Rogers, an economist and investor in Manhattan who said he lived by
the book, said, "Having had to fill out lots of forms, infuriating and
outrageous forms, I don't know why I had to do it and she didn't."

But while the anger was palpable, both random interviews and the rate of mail
into Congressional offices made Ms. Baird's case seem different from other
high-profile character examinations in Washington.

While mail and phone calls ran heavily against Ms. Baird in Congressional
offices, the overall volume of reaction did not compare with the reactions
provoked by the October 1991 hearings on Judge Clarence Thomas's nomination to
the Supreme Court, and his confrontation with Anita F. Hill, or the 1987
confirmation hearings on Robert H. Bork's nomination to the High Court.

True, some radio hosts were deluged with calls when they raised the issue. But
others, like Jan Mickelson, who has a morning show on WHO in Des Moines, got
little reaction.

James Blackburn, 47, a computer manager for an aircraft-leasing firm from San
Francisco, said he felt that Ms. Baird's difficulties during the hearings
"reflect badly on the Administration. I believe we should have more women in
government. They contribute a fresh approach, but I don't think we should
sacrifice principles or the rule of law to get them."

Back in Hyattsville, one of Mrs. Williford's co-workers in the pet store was
puzzled at the outrage that preceded Ms. Baird's withdrawal. Michelle Reaves,
23, whose 2-year-old daughter is cared for by her grandmother, said: "I know the
law is the law. But sometimes you have to bend it."


LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 23, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

The Lesson of Zoe Baird

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 591 words


They didn't understand, the powerful who lead the country. Bill Clinton and his
advisers, who promised a departure from the old ways of go-along Washington,
didn't get it. Neither did Joseph Biden Jr., chairman of the Senate Judiciary
Committee. Separated by some invisible shield from the feelings of everyday
Americans, they were unprepared for the angry public reaction to Zoe Baird's
revelation that she knowingly violated the law by hiring illegal immigrants.
Astonishingly, neither Mr. Clinton nor his talent scouts understood just how
seriously Americans took his promise to hold his appointees to the highest
standards.

If they had anticipated the country's outrage, they might have prevented the
public humiliation of a talented lawyer who, her grave errors notwithstanding,
surely did not deserve the painful ordeal of the last week. And the country
would have been spared the spectacle of its leaders tripping once again on their
own insensitivity.

The history of the Baird nomination is telling. She told the Clinton transition
team that she had employed two illegal immigrants to work as baby sitter and
driver, and hadn't paid their Social Security taxes. Mr. Clinton named Ms. Baird
anyway, as if being blessed by him provided a pass through the ethical
checkpoints ignored by the two previous Administrations.

She told Mr. Biden on Jan. 5, two weeks before the Judiciary Committee began
confirmation hearings on her nomination. Once again the Delaware Democrat was
asleep at the wheel, having learned nothing from the Anita Hill-Clarence Thomas
debacle. His desultory response then, after Ms. Hill complained about Judge
Thomas, led to slapdash hearings and the appointment of an underqualified
Supreme Court Justice.

If Mr. Biden had recognized the devastating symbolism of the prospective
Attorney General deliberately breaking a law -- a law she would have to
administer -- he could have alerted the Democratic President-elect, the
Judiciary Committee and the public. If he had sounded the alarm, perhaps Mr.
Clinton would have reconsidered.

Mr. Clinton finally realized he had to drop Ms. Baird only after a public outcry
against the easy law-breaking of someone so wealthy. Ultimately the new
President, self-professed expert on the pulse of populism, heard the anger. But
where were his antennae -- and everybody else's?

The argument that hiring illegal immigrants is just a technical violation didn't
wash with a public frustrated by those who seem to put themselves above the law.
Neither did the excuse that everybody does it. Ms. Baird, to her credit, made no
excuses, apologized candidly and demonstrated admirable goals for the Justice
Department.

She might still be a candidate for a government job -- but not the one for which
she was nominated. There must be a natural fit between a job and the ethics,
background, finances and talents of a nominee. Ms. Baird had the competence to
be attorney general, but her error in legal judgment made that job a bad choice.

As he searches for a new nominee, the President has an obligation to find
someone with unimpeachable credentials to run a Justice Department weakened
during the Bush and Reagan years. The Baird failure does not free him from his
commitment to seek a qualified woman. The problem last time was not the goal,
but the sloppy way the Clinton team went about meeting it.

Perhaps by now Mr. Clinton has learned that promising to impose high ethical
standards on Washington isn't good enough. He has to deliver, even when it
hurts.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 23, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

G.O.P. Candidates Say They Hired Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 859 words

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 22


Two candidates for the Republican nomination for Governor of New Jersey said
today that they had employed undocumented aliens.

Christine Todd Whitman said that she and her husband, John, employed two
undocumented Portuguese citizens to care for their two children for three and a
half years.

Her admission prompted Cary Edwards, the former state Attorney General, to
disclose that he, too, had employed a Portuguese citizen, but he said that she
quit after he insisted that taxes had to be paid. He said he would pay any
necessary taxes. Mr. Edwards has already begun his campaign for Governor.

Mrs. Whitman, who plans to announce her candidacy for the Republican nomination
for Governor on Wednesday, said that she had failed to pay taxes for the workers
but that she would pay any outstanding taxes.

The two announcements threw a new and potentially volatile development into the
Governor's race. They came less than 24 hours after Zoe Baird withdrew herself
from consideration as Attorney General in the Clinton Administration. Ms. Baird
withdrew after she was cricitized for employing two illegal immigrants from Peru
to care for her child.

Mrs. Whitman said in a statement that the two unidentified Portuguese nationals
received resident alien status from the Immigration and Naturalization Service
in April 1991. But from December 1986 until July 1990, "these same people were
employed by us prior to receiving their legal residency," her statement said.

"During that period, and during the period April 1991 to July 1991, no taxes
were paid on their wages, as they had no authorization for employment," she
said.

Mrs. Whitman said she began discussions with a lawyer on Monday "to take the
necessary steps to pay the outstanding taxes on unreported wages."

"This will be done as quickly as possible," she said.

There was no comment from the Whitmans on what legal liability they might have.

Mr. Edwards, in a one-page statement distributed tonight, said he that hired a
Portuguese citizen after the death of his father-in-law, who had first employed
the woman, in 1989. Mr. Edwards said he knew the woman was an illegal alien when
his father-in-law hired her, and that he arranged for a lawyer to represent her
before the Immigration and Naturalization Service. During the time she was in
his employ, the statement said, she insisted that she was not subject to
withholding taxes.

The woman returned to Portugal, where she eventually was granted legal resident
status in the United States. When she returned, still insisting that taxes not
be withheld from her salary, Mr. Edwards's statement said, he took the issue up
with her on his accountant's advice, and "she resigned from my employ."

"I have not heard from her since," the statement said.

In a phone interview tonight, Mr. Edwards said, "If it is determined there are
taxes owed, I will pay them, absolutely, of course."

Jeffrey Michaels, Mr. Edwards's campaign manager, said the issue in the Edwards
case differed from that in Mrs. Whitman's case. "Everything he did was the right
thing," Mr. Michaels said.

David Marziale, chief spokesman for Mrs. Whitman, said today that she was not
available for comment beyond her statement and declined to assess the possible
damage the revelation would do to her campaign. He refused to identify the
couple or say how much they had been paid.

In her written statement, Mrs. Whitman said that "from the moment they came into
our employ, we worked with an immigration lawyer to diligently pursue obtaining
legal status for them."

"When it became apparent that the process was not going quickly to result in
granting them legal status we sponsored their return to Portugal, their native
country, until such time as they could return legally."

Mrs. Whitman did not say why she chose that particular time to return the couple
to Portugal, but the date, according to her statement, was in June 1990, in the
middle of Mrs. Whitman's campaign for the Senate against Bill Bradley.

To Prominence

Her near-upset of Mr. Bradley in that race propelled her to prominence in the
Republican Party. Before then, she had had limited political and governmental
experience as a Somerset County Freeholder and as chairwoman of the Board of
Public Utilities in the administration of Gov. Thomas H. Kean.

In many ways Mrs. Whitman's statement echoed the explanation Ms. Baird had
offered.

"The situation occurred after many attempts to hire legal residents were
unsuccessful," Mrs. Whitman's statement said, "including advertisements for help
which were placed in several New Jersey newspapers."

"At the time," the statement continued, "I was clearly acting more like a parent
in search of capable child care than as a candidate for elective office."

She also said, "I fully acknowledge that the hiring of this couple before they
received their legal residency and the delinquency in filing tax payments on
their wages was a serious mistake and one which I deeply regret."

"I would be less than candid," she said, "if I did not acknowledge that the
events of this past week reminded me of this outstanding transgression."

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cary Edwards and Christine Todd Whitman, who are likely to be
opponents in the Republican primary race for Governor in New Jersey, have each
admitted to having employed illegal aliens. (Photographs by Associated Press)
(pg. 27)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 24, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Increasingly, 2-Career Family Means Illegal Immigrant Help

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1593 words


The hiring of illegal household workers appears to be so commonplace that
licensed employment agencies in an immigrant haven like New York routinely
violate the law by recommending undocumented immigrants for hire, usually at
lower wages than legal workers would be paid.

Even the controversy over Zoe Baird's employment of illegal immigrants, which
led to her withdrawal Friday as President Clinton's nominee for Attorney
General, did not push employment agents to hide their practices last week.
Thirteen of 18 agents who were called acknowledged without hesitation that they
represented both legal and illegal immigrants, with illegal workers earning as
little as $175 a week and legal ones as much as $600.

"It's just a reality of life that without the illegal girls, there wouldn't be
any nannies, and the mommies would have to stay home and mind their own kids,"
said the owner of a Manhattan nanny agency, who, like many others, spoke on the
condition of anonymity since he regularly places illegal immigrants.

Furtive Encounters Not Needed

The employment agents' matter-of-fact admissions about illegal activity clearly
indicate that this part of the country's growing underground economy does not
depend on furtive encounters or discreet advertisements. Rather, the public
spotlight on Ms. Baird's household situation has brought to light a pervasive
phenomenon: the pragmatic, above-ground relationship that links illegal
immigrants and middle-class homes in gateway cities across the country for
decades. Caribbean women gravitated to the New York area, and Latin American
women to Miami and the West Coast. In the 1980's, as more American women with
young children moved into the workplace, the demand for housekeepers increased
exponentially, satisfied by greater numbers of West Indians and Latin Americans
and by new illegal migration from the Philippines, China, Ireland and Poland.

As this informal economic network grew more entrenched, Congress passed a law in
1986, aimed at large companies, that created penalties for employers who
knowingly hired illegal immigrants. But the web of relationships was so
established and the law so sporadically enforced that the illegal housekeeper
and child-care business, which employs hundreds of thousands of immigrant women,
continued to thrive.

Since immigration officials did not check employment agency records or raid the
apartments of professional couples, parents continued to hire illegal
immigrants, who they said were easier to find, less expensive, and, in some
cases, more loyal. And they continued to pay their household workers cash,
regardless of their immigration status.

"It all comes down to money," said Nedra Kleinman, who runs the All Home
Services Agency on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. "No matter how you slice
it, the reason that people hire immigrants without papers is that they're
looking to save. If they want legal, they can get it, but it costs."

Families with incomes like that of Ms. Baird and her husband -- $600,000 a year
-- tend to pay the extra money for legal workers since they like having the
option of taking their nannies on trips abroad, many agents said.

Slave Job to Most Americans

And rarely does an American-born worker apply for a nanny job, they added.

"These days, most Americans see it as some kind of slavery," said Dorothea
Grant, a Jamaican nanny who received a green card last summer after seven years
without working papers.

Mrs. Grant's career has followed a typical path, a hierarchy of household jobs.
When she arrived from the town of Ocho Rios, she started by working as a baby
sitter for her cousin, a legal nanny. The cousin later recommended Mrs. Grant
for her first live-in job, where she earned $125 a week. With two references,
Mrs. Grant next found a Brooklyn Heights couple who paid her $200 a week and
sponsored her for legal residency. In early January, green card in hand, she
gave notice to the Brooklyn couple, who could not match the $500-a-week salary
she was offered for a live-out job on Park Avenue.

"Now I will be my own master," Mrs. Grant said Friday morning, bragging to the
other baby sitters, almost all illegal, in a Brooklyn Heights playground.

Most Rely on Network

Most families in the New York area do not find their baby sitters through
agencies, which charge about $600 to $1,250. Instead, they rely on the nanny
network, collecting names from friends' employees, or on the nanny shopper, the
nickname given The Irish Echo, a New York weekly.

Susan Serota, a tax lawyer who has two teen-age sons, placed one of the rare ads
in The Irish Echo that specify "U.S.A. citizen or green card only."

"My husband and I are both lawyers, and we never wanted to do something that
might come back and haunt us," she said.

Professor Moss predicted, only half-jokingly, that hiring an illegal baby sitter
would become the young professionals' new sin, and that sinners by the score
would come forth with public confessions. "Now that sex and drugs have become
acceptable, yuppies will be judged by the immigration status of their baby
sitters," he said.

In fact, two candidates for the Republican nomination for New Jersey governor,
Christine Todd Whitman and Cary Edwards, disclosed on Friday that they, too, had
employed illegal aliens in their homes and failed to pay their Social Security
taxes.

Baird Couple Faces Hearing

After her nomination for Attorney General, Ms. Baird paid a $2,900 fine to the
immigration agency and $8,000 in back taxes and interest. The agency then
declared its intention to deport Victor and Lillian Cordero, the Peruvian couple
who used to work for her.

Mr. Cordero has gone into hiding, but Helene A. Pepe, his lawyer, said yesterday
that he would try to stay in the United States. "He doesn't understand why he's
being singled out," said Ms. Pepe, an immigration lawyer in Stamford, Conn. The
Corderos have separated, and it could not be determined where Mrs. Cordera was.

Critics of the new sanctions against employers, like Michael Fix of the Urban
Institute, argue that the law is largely symbolic of a tough stance against
illegal immigration, but has done little to control it. Many say, at the least,
that household employers should be exempt, or that household workers should get
a special visa.

"A law that forces thousands of illegal immigrants and middle-class families to
engage in criminal activity desperately needs to be reformed," said Philip
Kasinitz, a sociologist at Williams College and an authority on Caribbean
culture in New York.

Most household employers rarely thought about breaking the law or getting caught
until Ms. Baird was forced to withdraw. Some said they would start paying Social
Security taxes this year, although they feared creating a paper trail leading to
their illegal housekeepers. Other said they would not change the way they lived.


Housekeeper Before Politics

"After Zoe Baird, my husband and I discussed whether it was now an issue for us,
and decided that neither of us will ever run for office," said an Upper West
Side mother of three, who said she would continue to employ an illegal Peruvian
housekeeper.

Despite the controversy, a woman in Floral Park, Queens, said she was
specifically looking to hire a newly arrived, illegal immigrant to care for her
newborn triplets. "I want someone who cannot leave the country, who doesn't know
anyone in New York, who basically does not have a life," the woman said. "I want
someone who is completely dependent on me and loyal to my family."

Many agencies describe their illegal immigrants euphemistically, as "girls
looking for sponsorship situations." Like Ms. Baird, some employers agree to
sponsor immigrants for legal residency, but the process now takes up to a decade
and the employees remain in an illegal status during that time. Some illegal
immigrants say they feel like indentured servants during that period.

One such housekeeper, a Guyanese woman who live and works in Woodmere, L.I.,
said she paid a lawyer $2,500 to file her application for residency six years
ago. Meanwhile, she earns $200 a week and is expected to be available around the
clock to the family sponsoring her.

"You're trapped in this situtation, very trapped," the woman said.

But Naomi Victor, a Haitian immigrant, said she had thrived in the years she
worked for a family that was sponsoring her. "Yes, there are vicious people out
there," she said. "But there are also women like my Blossom Unger, who taught me
to speak proper English, and sent me to school for word processing and found me
a $275-a-month apartment on Amsterdam and 94th."

Jon Lukomnik, who hires only legal baby sitters "for peace of mind" and because
he is the Assistant Commisioner of New York City's Department of Finance, called
the required government paperwork a disincentive to those who want to abide by
the law. After securing a fFederal tax identification number and completing an
I-9 immigration application proving the worker's legal status, household
employers must file 28 other forms a year, four of them yearly and six
quarterly.

Ms. Kleinman of All Home Services noted that the Government never once checked
the immigration records she had meticulously kept for six years. She said it was
lonely being a "goody-two-shoes."

"You have no idea, the frustration, sitting here, knocking your head against the
wall, trying to do what's right," she said. "And then you have a Zoe Baird who
exposes the fact that everybody else is breaking the law."

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Naomi Victor is a Haitian immigrant who thrived for years as an
illegal domestic. Recently legalized, Ms. Victor has been able to apply to take
in her nephew, Vladimir Francois, as a foster son. She voiced thanks for "women
like my Blossom Unger, who taught me to speak proper English, and sent me to
school for word processing and found me a $275-a-month apartment on Amsterdam
and 94th." (Lee Romero/The New York Times) (pg. 32)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 25, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Anger at Illegal Help Threatens 2 in G.O.P.

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 781 words

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 24


Political professionals vary in their assessments of the damage to the
Republican Party's two candidates for Governor in the wake of their admissions
that they both hired illegal immigrants, but the judgment of the voters appears
more severe: those who violate such laws are not qualified to hold office.

"I wouldn't trust them," said Denise D'Amato, 37, of Nutley, who was having
lunch at the Willowbrook Mall in Wayne on Saturday with her three children,
Kyle, 6, Courtney, 4 and Craig, 2.

"I don't think I would hire somebody to take care of my children, and even if I
did, I wouldn't hire an illegal alien," she said. "If they're going to do
something like that, what other illegal things would they do?"

The views of shoppers and strollers questioned at the mall seemed to parallel
the depth of feeling about the case of Zoe Baird. She withdrew her name from
consideration as United States Attorney General last week amid a firestorm of
protest over her admission that she had hired an illegal Peruvian couple to take
care of her children and had failed to pay Social Security taxes for the two.

Whitman and Edwards, Too

Soon after Ms. Baird's withdrawal, both Republican candidates for Governor of
New Jersey, Christine Todd Whitman and Cary Edwards, admitted that they too had
hired illegal immigrants. Mrs. Whitman said an undocumented Portuguese couple
worked for her for nearly four years caring for her two children, and Mr.
Edwards said he had employed a Portuguese immigrant for about 18 months as a
housekeeper.

The announcements on Friday stunned the Republicans, who until now were jubilant
at the prospect of seizing the governorship from Jim Florio, a Democrat still
suffering from the record tax increase he pushed through in 1990. Now it is the
Democrats who are jubilant. The state Democratic chairman, Raymond J. Lesniak,
predicts that neither Republican can win, and says that both should drop out of
the race.

And even the state Republican chairwoman, Virginia Littell, while maintaining
that the issue was "moot," conceded that the damage to the two candidates could
draw some other Republican into the race.

With the primary still more than four months away, the two Republicans are
unlikely to raise the issue, since both have the same liability.

Edwards Says He Doesn't Owe

Like Ms. Baird, both Mrs. Whitman and Mr. Edwards acknowledged that they acted
without full regard to the consequences, having failed to withhold taxes because
there was no mechanism to do so, while insisting they tried to correct the
illegality. Mrs. Whitman said she sent the Portuguese couple back home until
they obtained legal status, and Mr. Edwards said his housekeeper refused to
allow taxes to be withheld and quit when he insisted.

Mrs. Whitman said she would pay the back taxes. Mr. Edwards, a former state
Attorney General, says his illegal housekeeper insisted she was an "independent
contractor," which he says means he does not owe any back taxes. But he says he
will pay up if the Government insists.

Only one person among the dozen or so New Jersey residents interviewed suggested
that criticism of Mrs. Whitman and Mr. Edwards was overblown.

"It doesn't bother me a bit," said John Shelburne, 30, of Wayne, who was at the
mall with wife, Alison, and 4-year-old son, Brent. "What are they going to,
start a witch hunt now?"

'Did Indeed Break the Law'

But most at the Willowbrook Mall shared the views expressed by Chris Gould of
Wayne, a 31-year-old advertising executive shopping with his wife, Kathy, and
1-year-old daughter, Kelley.

"What it boils down to is they did indeed break the law," said Mr. Gould, who
added he would not vote for either of them.

Edward Powers, 36, a New York City lawyer who lives in Caldwell, and his wife,
Leslie, 35, admitted to "mixed feelings." The couple has three children.

"We hired somebody to take care of our kids," Mr. Powers said. "She wasn't an
illegal alien, and we did pay the Social Security tax, which is a real
headache."

'Even if It Is a Headache'

Both said that knowing a public official had hired an illegal immigrant would
keep them from voting for him or her.

"Someone who is going to be in public life, who knows they are going to be under
a microscope, would take pains to make sure they comply with the law, even if it
is a headache," Mr. Powers said.

Josip Pilopovic, a Clifton resident and software engineer who emigrated from
Croatia five years ago, said he was strongly against the hiring of illegal
immigrants, particularly by officeholders.

"They have to show us by example what to do and what not to do," he said. "You
have to respect the rules."


LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: "It doesn't bother me a bit," said John Shelburne of Wayne,
N.J., shown at the Willowbrook Mall with his wife, Alison and son, Brent, when
asked about the hiring of illegal immigrants by gubernatorial candidates; Josip
Pilopovic of Clifton, a Croatian immigrant, said the candidates "have to show us
by example what to do and what not to do." He held his 4-month-old daughter,
Paula, while waiting in line with his wife, Anita. (Photographs by Norman Y.
Lono for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 5, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Candidate Pays For Illegal Help

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 192 words

DATELINE: TRENTON, Feb. 4


The Immigration and Naturalization Service fined Christine Todd Whitman $2,205
today for hiring illegal immigrants. Lawyers for Mrs. Whitman, a Republican
gubernatorial candidate, paid the fine this afternoon, her campaign said.

Another Republican candidate for governor, Cary Edwards, may be fined early next
week for employing an illegal immigrant, an immigration official said today. Mr.
Edwards has said that he acted properly, based on what his housekeeper had told
him, and that she resigned as soon as he insisted on the proper forms.

Last week Mrs. Whitman and Mr. Edwards paid back taxes for hiring undocumented
workers -- an issue that torpedoed Zoe Baird's appointment as United States
Attorney General and has dogged both candidates early in their campaigns.

John Gershkoff, who heads the New Jersey region's investigations unit for the
Federal immigration agency, said Mrs. Whitman was fined $1,375 for knowingly
hiring two illegal immigrants for three and a half years and $830 for not
filling out forms proving they were American citizens.

Last week Mrs. Whitman paid $22,694 in Federal and state taxes for the workers.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 6, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

JUDGE WITHDRAWS FROM CLINTON LIST FOR JUSTICE POST

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1473 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 5


Judge Kimba M. Wood withdrew today from consideration for Attorney General after
the White House learned she had employed an illegal immigrant as a baby sitter
before it became illegal to do so.

That stunning setback left President Clinton scrambling for the third time to
fill the post.

There was no evidence that Judge Wood, who sits on the Federal District Court in
New York, did anything illegal, but White House officials said they told her to
withdraw because they feared the kind of public outcry that struck down the
Administration's first choice for Attorney General, Zoe Baird, who had employed
two illegal aliens for household work.

A Blank List

White House officials said they were angry at Judge Wood because she had not
told Mr. Clinton and other officials about her baby sitter, even when she had
been directly asked. In her statement, however, Judge Wood said she had not
misled the White House.

After the hasty search for a first nominee, then the rush to replace Ms. Baird,
the Clinton Administration was forced by Judge Wood's withdrawal to start
virtually from the beginning in looking for the nation's top law-enforcement
official.

"They have nobody on their list now, period," said a Democratic Senator who is
close to the White House. "They've got to start from scratch."

As late as Thursday evening, White House officials confidently said Mr. Clinton
planned to announce Judge Wood's selection as soon as background checks were
completed. But what the officials viewed as a done deal disintegrated later that
night as officials questioned Judge Wood and studied documents she had
submitted.

Trained to Be Playboy Bunny

The sudden turnabout on Judge Wood is a blow to Mr. Clinton, who two weeks ago
withdrew Ms. Baird's name after she admitted she had hired the illegal
immigrants and had knowingly neglected to pay the required taxes for household
employees.

Tonight the White House issued a statement on behalf of Mr. Clinton. "I
understand and respect Judge Wood's decision not to proceed further with the
possibility of being nominated as Attorney General," it said. "I was greatly
impressed with her as a lawyer, a judge and a person. I respect her legal
talents, judicial record and integrity. I wish her well."

The White House officials said they had also recently discovered that Judge Wood
had briefly trained as a Playboy bunny years ago when she was a student in
London and that they feared that that might become the source of jokes.

In the statement issued by her lawyer's office in New York, Judge Wood did not
cite her stint as a Playboy trainee but said the issue was her hiring of an
illegal immigrant from Trinidad, who worked for her for seven years. Judge Wood
said she did not act illegally because her baby sitter was hired in March 1986,
several months before the enactment of a Federal law making hiring of illegal
aliens unlawful. The baby sitter obtained legal residency in December 1987, she
said.

"On Jan. 29, I met with the President at the White House to discuss the
possibility of my appointment," she wrote. "In the course of a wide-ranging
discussion of policy issues, I was asked if I had a 'Zoe Baird' problem. I said
I did not. And I do not."

Judge Wood went on to say: "I have fulfilled every legal requirement with
respect to the employment of our babysitter. Nevertheless, and after further
consultations, I have concluded that in the current political environment,
proceeding further with the possibility of my nomination would be
inappropriate."

Problems With Backups

Complicating the matter is that the President is not ready to name a substitute
candidate. Officials had initially said that if Judge Wood did not pass the
background checks they would probably turn to Charles F. C. Ruff, a Washington
lawyer and former senior Justice Department official, or former Gov. Gerald L.
Baliles of Virginia. But today, they said that questions had been raised about
whether Mr. Ruff had employed an illegal alien and that the President was not
ready to pick Mr. Baliles.

George Stephanopoulos, the White House communications director, sought in an
interview tonight to play down any implication that the Administration was at
fault. He said Judge Wood was asked about the issue of illegal aliens once by
the President and twice by Bernard W. Nussbaum, the White House chief counsel.

"The White House search process discovered the problem," Mr. Stephanopoulos
said. "Judge Wood was asked about this matter twice before she interviewed with
the President and once in her interview with the President. As the process moved
forward, the White House did discover it because she delivered financial records
that she had hired a baby sitter who was in the country illegally. After this
information was discovered, and after consultation with the White House, Judge
Wood decided to withdraw."

Asked about the disclosure that she had trained to be a Playboy bunny, Mr.
Stephanopoulos said, "I just don't know anything about it."

Officials close to the White House said the trouble developed in part because
President Clinton, pressed by his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, insisted on
finding a woman for Attorney General, which limited the field of Democratic
contenders with a law-enforcement background. The problem with Judge Wood, they
said, was that although she is a respected jurist, she lacked the
law-enforcement and managerial credentials for the post. So when the disclosures
arose, there was no great desire by Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Delaware
Democrat who is chairman of the Judiciary Commitee, or other influential players
to press her case.

A Lark in London

Judge Wood is 49 years old and was appointed to the court by President Ronald
Reagan in 1988. She had no experience with criminal cases before her appointment
and had never conducted a trial before a jury. But she has earned the respect of
other judges and lawyers who have come before her, and the President and Mrs.
Clinton are said to have been favorably impressed when each interviewed her last
week.

People close to the situation said Mr. Nussbaum contacted Judge Wood on Thursday
to tell her that he had heard a rumor that she had put herself through the
London School of Economics as a Playboy bunny.

According to people familiar with the conversation, Judge Wood told Mr. Nussbaum
that in 1966 she was a student in London and that on a lark she had signed up
for the bunny trainee program for the Playboy Club there. She told him she quit
after five days, before actually being employed by the club or drawing a
paycheck.

Mr. Nussbaum is said to have told Judge Wood that the episode would not
disqualify her.

Even after the disclosures were made, officials said, Judge Wood wanted the
White House to press ahead, as did some Administration officials. But the White
House backed down, they said, after learning that Mr. Biden and others had
serious reservations about the nomination.

As early as Thursday night, the White House struggled to contain the political
fallout. Hours after some Administration officials told reporters an
announcement on Judge Wood would be forthcoming as long as background checks did
not turn up anything serious, officials called reporters at home after midnight
to urge them to back off the story. At the time, they did not say there were
developments that had diminished Judge Wood's prospects.

'They Want Squeaky Clean'

By this morning, White House officials said Judge Wood's selection was in grave
doubt, and as the day wore on and rumors flew through the capital it looked
increasingly likely that her candidacy might not last the day.

Administration officials said Judge Wood and her husband, Michael Kramer, a
political columnist for Time magazine, spent much of the day closeted with
Administration officials in the hope of salvaging the nomination.

Officials involved in the background checks said the White House was being far
more cautious than in the checks of Ms. Baird. They said officials were not only
concerned about finding instances of illegality but anything that could raise
any appearance of impropriety. "They want squeaky clean," said one official
involved in the process. "They're worried about how all this will play in
Peoria."

Another official who was deeply involved in examining Judge Wood's background
expressed sympathy for the judge and said: "Under any other circumstances, this
would have been totally ignored. But we can't afford the battle right now. It's
a perception problem."

Fellow judges who serve with Judge Wood in the Federal Courthouse in lower
Manhattan also expressed sympathy for her.

"I'm very, deeply disappointed for her sake," said Judge Thomas P. Griesa. "I
think she would have made an outstanding Attorney General. "I'm really
disappointed."

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Judge Kimba M. Wood (The New York Times)(pg. 8)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 8, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

JUDGE WOOD BACKS WHITE HOUSE STAND ON WHAT SHE TOLD

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1068 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 7


Judge Kimba M. Wood today supported White House assertions that before President
Clinton settled on her as Attorney General, she never explicitly told officials
that she had once hired an illegal immigrant as a baby sitter.

In a letter to The New York Times, Judge Wood said she wanted to "correct the
impression conveyed" in a front-page account the newspaper published today. That
article quoted a person close to Judge Wood as saying she had told White House
officials in detail about the baby sitter more than a week ago, when she was
first approached about the Cabinet job.

Answered in General Terms

Judge Wood said today that when she was asked if she had a "Zoe Baird problem,"
she answered only in general terms, saying she had broken no law. She said she
did not mention the illegal immigrant who worked for her as a baby sitter in
1986, when there was no penalty for hiring an illegal alien. Ms. Baird's
nomination as Attorney General was withdrawn two weeks ago because, unlike Judge
Wood, she knowingly hired illegal immigrants as household workers after it
became illegal.

In an interview on Saturday, the person close to Judge Wood -- who was involved
in her White House discussions and said she had authorized him to represent her,
although he insisted on anonymity -- said that references to Ms. Baird came up
repeatedly in a series of meetings.

"She was asked if she had a 'Zoe Baird problem,' and she told them, 'No, I've
paid all the taxes and done everything required,' " the person said. Asked later
for clarification of the assertion that she had done everything required in
employing the immigrant, he said that she had notified the immigration service
that the employee had "overstayed her visa."

After Judge Wood objected today to the account, the person supported her
statement. He said he had not meant to leave the impression that she had
actually given those details to the White House, as The Times reported.

The person who was interviewed for the Sunday article clearly seemed intent on
conveying the impression that Judge Wood had been entirely forthcoming in her
conversations with White House officials. But he was not asked specifically
whether she had given them the details of her employment of the immigrant in
response to the "Zoe Baird" question.

No Further Obligation

Despite the confusion over the circumstances in which White House officials
instructed Judge Wood to withdraw from consideration late Friday, her statement
today made it clear that because she had concluded that her actions were legal,
she decided that she did not have any further obligation to tell the White House
about them.

It appeared from Judge Wood's statement either that she did not see that there
was a political problem involved or that she did not take such considerations
into account. Some White House officials contend that Judge Wood, who sits on
the Federal District Court in New York, deliberately withheld the information.

Though it provided greater detail, her statement today was largely consistent
with one she released when she withdrew on Friday.

The controversy over domestic help that led to the withdrawals of Judge Wood and
Ms. Baird continued to trouble the Clinton Adminstration today, as Ronald H.
Brown, the Secretary of Commerce, acknowledged in a television interview that he
had failed to pay taxes for a maid.

Mr. Brown said he was not asked about domestic help during the confirmation
process but came forward and paid the overdue Social Security tax and late fees
in January after Ms. Baird was forced to withdraw.

In her statement today, Judge Wood said she had had no disagreement with Bernard
W. Nussbaum, the White House counsel. Ms. Wood's husband, Michael Kramer, a
political columnist for Time magazine, also sent a copy to the White House,
which released it to other news organizations.

George Stephanopoulos, the White House communications director, said of Judge
Wood's statement: "It shows that what we've been saying is true. Judge Wood did
not provide details of her household employment situation to the White House
when first asked. These details were not discovered until after a review of her
financial records. It shows quite clearly that the account in The Sunday New
York Times is simply not true."

A misunderstanding may have occurred in the interview on Saturday when, after
being told that Judge Wood had "paid all the taxes and done everything
required," the reporter did not then specifically ask whether that meant that in
the initial discussions, Judge Wood had said she had employed an illegal alien.

The person interviewed also said that Judge Wood had offered to give White House
officials documents about her baby sitter at a meeting on Jan. 29, but that they
said they did not need the papers right away.

In her letter, Judge Wood said she had brought the documents to the meeting but
had not given them to White House officials because they never asked her for
them.

Judge Wood wrote that on Jan. 28 and Jan. 29, "I was not asked for any further
details regarding my baby sitter and I thus did not explain her employment in
detail, beyond assuring my questioners that I had fully complied with the laws
and paid all required taxes."

Vice President Al Gore also made clear today that Judge Wood did not break any
laws. But he suggested what White House officials have argued privately: that
there was a lack of candor on her part for not alerting officials that her
hiring of the baby sitter could create political, if not legal, problems.

"The job of Attorney General is not a privilege that anybody has until some
crime is proven, thus taking it away," Mr. Gore said on the ABC News program,
"This Week." Had Judge Wood been more forthcoming in responding to questions
early on, Mr. Gore said, that "would have had an impact" on the selection
process.

Some White House officials said the Attorney General had to be held to higher
standards than other Cabinet members. "There's obviously a different standard at
the Department of Justice," said one official involved in the search for an
Attorney General. "Particularly the Attorney General has to be the cleanest
person."

Two other Cabinet members -- Mickey Kantor, the United States Trade
Representative, and Robert B. Reich, the Labor Secretary -- said in television
interviews that they did not have a problem with household help.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 18, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Albany Ordered to Keep Custody of Aliens

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 705 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, Feb. 18


Placing further strains on New York State's overburdened prison system, a judge
has ruled that the Federal Government has no obligation to take custody of more
than 3,000 undocumented aliens in the state's prisons who have served their
minimum sentences.

The decision means that New York State will have to continue spending more than
$65 million a year to house and supervise the prisoners, said Thomas A. Coughlin
3d, Commissioner of the State Correctional Services Department. Mr. Coughlin
said the state planned to appeal.

If the ruling is upheld, its impact could reverberate in other states, like
California, Texas and Florida, that are in similar situations and have been
seeking to have the Federal Government take custody of the undocumented aliens
in their prisons, or at least finance the cost of their incarceration. Although
the states are in different judicial jurisdictions, they have been watching the
New York case closely.

'Certainly Sympathetic'

In California, said Craig Brown, Under Secretary of the state's Youth and Adult
Correctional Agency, there are more than 15,000 undocumented aliens in the state
prison system, at an annual cost of about $330 million. "We are certainly
sympathetic to what is going on in New York," Mr. Brown said.

Federal law requires the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service to
take custody of, and begin deportation proceedings against, undocumented aliens
who have been convicted of violent felonies, who have served their minimum
sentences and who are therefore eligible for early release into supervised
custody.

But Judge Frederick J. Scullin Jr. of Federal District Court for the Northern
District ruled that the Government had no obligation to assume custody of those
prisoners, based on the legal differences between state and Federal sentencing
guidelines. Because of those differences, he said, prisoners could be elgible
for release earlier than they would be if sentenced in Federal court.

Work-Release Programs

New York had argued that the immigration service was obligated to take custody
of undocumented prisoners who had served their minimum sentences and thus were
eligible for parole or work-release programs.

Because the prisoners are subject to deportation, the state prison system
retains custody of them instead of releasing them, which would enable them to
elude the immigration service.

New York, whose prison system now holds 62,877 inmates, or 129 percent of its
capacity, said that having the Federal Government take over the
undocumented-alien prisoners would greatly ease its overcrowding situation. The
state has been trying to find other ways to reduce crowding in its prison system
by easing sentencing guidelines and placing parole violators in local jails
rather than state prisons.

In that context, Commissioner Coughlin said, New York should not have to
continue providing services to inmates who are the Federal Government's
responsibility. "Why should the state of New York spend $26,000 or $27,000 a
year to house an illegal alien?" he asked. "It's a Federal crime to enter the
country illegally, and the Federal Government has the responsibility to take
that person and send him back to where he came from."

Violent Crimes

But officials at the immigration service that the cash-poor state was merely
trying to shirk its responsibility to incarcerate prisoners who had committed
violent crimes. They said that under New York's scenario, an undocumented-alien
murderer could receive a slap on the wrist and a plane ticket out of the
country, while a naturalized citizen would have to serve a full sentence.

"They would have the I.N.S. be responsible for every alien criminal in every
state," said Duke Austin, a spokesman for the service. "Underlying this
assumption is that when an illegal alien commits a crime, he can be prosecuted
and sentenced and then should be deported because it costs money to incarcerate
him."

But Mr. Coughlin said that it was the Federal Government that was trying to
slough off its own duties. "It's a resource issue from their perspective," he
said. "If they had the money, I'm sure the I.N.S. would do the right thing, but
they don't have the money."

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 21, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Women's Work -- It Doesn't Pay

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 141 words


To the Editor:

Lawrence E. Harrison's comments ("If Domestic Work Paid Well . . .," Viewpoints,
Jan. 31) that the presence of illegal immigrants drives down the wages of
domestic workers are so far off base that they would be funny, if the truth
weren't so pathetic.

I hired a woman to care for my young son when I got an excellent job at a large
regional magazine. (As associate editor, I earned more than most managing
editors in the Western United States.) I paid her half of what I earned --
meaning that I went back to work not to earn but to spend my time at an
interesting job.

Her pay (and consequently my real pay) barely made minimum wage.

The problem is not that illegal immigrants will work for less than minimum wage.
The problem is that women work for absurdly low wages.

VICTORIA HAY
Phoenix, Feb. 2

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 27, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Review/Television;
For Immigrants of Today, A Welcome or a Crackdown

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 5; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 299 words


This edition of "The Brokaw Report" makes an earnest attempt to present a
balanced view of the impact on the United States of the surge of new immigrants,
legal and illegal. An hour is too short for much more than a sketch of so
many-sided a subject, but it does get across the tension between the old ideal
of America as a welcoming port for the needy and the increasing pressure to
crack down on illegal aliens and restrict legal immigration, too.

Tom Brokaw finds examples of newcomers making it American-style in Chicago,
where Koreans and Russians are generating new life in run-down neighborhoods.
The glimpse of Washington Heights, with its thousands of Dominicans, is less
bright; the too-familiar ingredients are poverty, welfare, violence and drugs.
And in Storm Lake, Iowa, residents express hostility to recently arrived
Laotians who have taken low-paid jobs in the town's big meat-packing plant. To
old-time Iowans it seems like exploitation and union-busting; to the newcomers,
it is a step up.

The hour ends with a rather rushed discussion of whether and how to crack down
on illegal immigrants, who, the program shows, keep slipping in by land, sea and
air. Senator Alan K. Simpson, a Wyoming Republican and member of the Senate
subcommittee on immigration, says most claims for asylum are phony and calls for
a national identification card for workers that would prevent employers from
using the aliens as a low-wage labor pool. Arguments for and against are
cursory, but the fact that such a proposal is being seriously advanced confirms
the political potency of the issue.

The Brokaw Report
Immigration: The Good, the Bad, the Illegal
NBC, tomorrow night at 7 (Channel 4 in New York)

Janet Pearce, senior producer; Paul Greenberg, executive producer.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 7, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

COMPANY NEWS;
DISNEYLAND FINED $395,000 FOR IMMIGRATION VIOLATIONS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 136 words


Disneyland has been ordered to pay nearly $395,000 by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service -- the largest fine ever by the agency -- for paperwork
violations. Robert Reed, a special agent for the Immigration Service, said
Wednesday that investigators discovered 1,156 paperwork violations during a
review of Disneyland employee records. The review found about 150 employees with
questionable work papers. Of those, 55 were found to be using counterfeit
documents and were dismissed. Disneyland said it would contest the fine; it has
until May 22 to demand a hearing before an administrative law judge. A spokesman
for the Walt Disney Company, John McClintock, called the violations technical
and added: "We're proud of our hiring record. There is no evidence of the
intentional hiring of any illegal aliens."

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 2, 1992, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

78 Illegal Workers Found at Belmont

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 4; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 77 words


Seventy-eight people were arrested by United States Immigration agents yesterday
for working without legal papers at Belmont Park.

A 3 A.M. raid on a dormitory at the track was conducted by 60 agents with the
"cooperation and permission of the New York Racing Association," said Charles
Troy, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Many of the illegal aliens worked at the track as grooms, hot walkers, exercise
riders and guards.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 26, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Border Patrol Plans to Curb Car Chases Because of Safety

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 125 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 25


Under criticism in Southern California for allowing its agents to engage in
high-speed auto chases that frequently spill over into residential
neighborhoods, the Border Patrol plans to restrict such chases, the Immigration
and Naturalization Service said Friday.

Under the plan, agents who want to engage in a high-speed chase will have to
radio state and local law-enforcement agencies, request assistance from police
aircraft and get permission from their supervisor. Currently, Border Patrol
agents use their own judgment on beginning a chase if they are unable to contact
supervisors.

The new plan stems in part from the pursuit of a smuggler of illegal aliens in
Temecula, Calif., on June 2. Six people were killed in that chase.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 30, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

How to Repel Immigrants' Threat

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 17; Column 6; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 374 words


The generally supportive and approving tones describing the local front in the
third-world invasion of the United States ["Hispanic Influx Being Felt on East
End," July 12] is reprehensible. With the left-wing political culture doing
everything it can to discourage assimilation, promote bilingualism and cheapen
the value of American citizenship, no one on Long Island or in the nation can
afford to be apathetic, let alone passively supportive, of the breakdown of
national soverignty which characterizes United States immigration policy.

In an age of increasing technological sophistication, the United States can not
afford to continually accept massive immigration by slash-and-burn third-world
peasants. The overload of non-Western immigrants threatens the cultural and
political traditions which created this republic and made it the envy of the
world.

The dangers posed by growing communities of illegal immigrants was graphically
exposed by the fact that one-third of the rioters in South-Central Los Angeles
were illegal aliens, and the Washington Heights riots were orchestrated by drug
gangs manned primarily by illegal aliens. The argument that these people are
needed is contradicted by good evidence that over the last 20 years immigrants,
especially from Latin America, extract more wealth in social services than they
create in labor. With unemployment as high as it is among blacks, college and
high-school students, it is doubtful that these people are as necessary as some
businesspeople contend -- though no doubt they may be cheaper.

The failure of the Suffolk County government to take steps to aid in repelling
this invasion of our nation is more than disconcerting. It is despicable. For a
Town Councilman to state that "we have no choice but to welcome them" is an
admission of governmental and moral bankruptcy. You don't welcome people who
have violated our law and threaten our national cohesion and institutions. The
correct response for governmental leaders, and indeed all citizens, is to inform
the I.N.S. whenever these people are identified, so they may receive the only
benefit they have any claim to -- a fast return trip to their country of origin.


H. F. HAZELBAKER
Huntington Station

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 11, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Trade Pact Won't Cut Illegal Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 363 words


To the Editor:

In "We Gain. Mexico Gains. Canada Gains." (Op-Ed, Aug. 14), Michael Boskin
expresses the widely held view that improving the Mexican economy through a Free
Trade Agreement would reduce pressures for Mexican illegal immigration across
our southern border.

That view ignores the driving force behind illegal immigration from Mexico --
the explosive growth of its population and labor force.

Mexico's population of more than 88 million is growing at a 2.3 percent annual
rate, thus adding about two million a year to its numbers. If this rate
continues, its population will double in 30 years, to 176 million.

Mexico's 33 million labor force is growing even more rapidly, about 3.1 percent
annually, throwing roughly one million new jobseekers into the labor market each
year. Mexico must therefore create at least one million jobs a year just to keep
pace with the growth of its labor force.

But roughly 16 million people -- 40 percent to 50 percent of the work force --
are unemployed or underemployed, according to most reliable estimates. It is
extremely unlikely that Mexico can maintain an economic growth rate that will
let it create jobs for the one million new entrants into the labor force each
year, much less make a dent in the 16 million unemployed and underemployed.

It is very clear therefore that the pressures that drive millions of Mexicans
across our southern border illegally each year in search of jobs will continue
for the foreseeable future.

Our immigration policy should be based on realistic analysis, not on wishful
thinking. We are simply deluding ourselves if we believe that improved economic
conditions in the immigrant-sending countries will solve the problem of illegal
immigration. That may eventually happen, but the process is likely to be
measured, not even in decades, but in centuries.

Until now our Federal Government has done little to halt illegal immigration.
That deplorable situation is contrary to our national interest, and must not
continue. I would urge the Presidential candidates to address this vital issue.

DONALD MANN
 Pres., Negative Population Growth
 Teaneck, N.J., Aug. 27, 1992

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 21, 1992, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Winds Free 40 Aliens, Stirring Second Storm

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1108 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 20


Thousands of volunteers from all over the world have come to South Florida to
help the victims of Hurricane Andrew. But about 40 illegal aliens who were both
victims and volunteers ended up with the sweetest reward of all: their freedom.

The 40 were being detained at the Krome Avenue Detention Center, awaiting asylum
hearings or final deportation back to the countries from which they had come,
when the storm hit. The center, in a rural part of Dade County, lost power and
phone service.

Soon after the storm, most of the 200 men and women at Krome were transferred to
county jails so the center could be cleaned up and used to house local residents
and Immigration and Naturalization Service employees who had lost their homes.

But officials kept behind about 40 men from India, Pakistan, Nicaragua, Haiti
and other countries to help clean up. Then, before any of the rest of the
detainees were brought back, the workers were allowed to leave the center,
although their status as illegal aliens remained unchanged.

Not a Simple Ending

Normally, that would seem to be a happy ending to a complicated story, but when
it comes to immigration, almost nothing is as it seems. Lawyers representing the
men who were released said that while they were glad their clients were free, at
least temporarily, the action showed how arbitrary immigration regulations can
be.

Over the last decade, Krome has come to be a symbol of frustration or injustice,
depending on how people view immigration. Many Haitian boat people who made it
past Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, are held there but Chinese, Indians, Pakistanis and
others also spend more than a year behind the fence waiting for asylum or
deportation. Officials stress that Krome is a detention center, not a prison,
but advocates for ethnic groups say the distinction is meaningless.

Officials from the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which runs Krome,
denied that the men had been paroled in compensation for volunteering to work.
They said that the detainees had been paid for their work (the normal rate is $1
a day) and that if some of them had been paroled, it was part of a normal
process.

"No one was paroled because they stayed behind to work," said Wayne L. Joy,
acting deputy district director for the Immigration and Naturalization Service
in Florida. "We parole people every day from Krome."

Mr. Joy's explanation contradicts those given by several immigration lawyers, a
representative of the Haitian community and some of the men who were released.

"An officer told me and the other men that if we stayed and worked they would
let us out in two weeks," said Luder St. Val, a 23-year-old Haitian man who was
held at Krome since he arrived in a boat on March 19. He was interviewed at the
office of his lawyer, William J. Sanchez.

Mr. St. Val said he and the other men worked for about eight hours a day cutting
fallen tree limbs and cleaning up the grounds of the detention center. Then on
Sept. 4 he said he and the other men were driven to Miami International Airport
and released.

His papers indicate that he was released on humanitarian grounds, even though a
similar appeal had been denied in April. His request for asylum had also been
denied.

Parole is a sore point between lawyers and the immigration service, and this
incident seems certain to make things worse.

"This shows that they can grant parole when they want to and when it is
convenient for them," said Candace L. Jean, an immigration lawyer in Miami who
represented three men who were released. She said one client had been detained
in Krome 20 months while his plea for asylum made its way through immigration
courts. She said he was facing a final order of deportation when he was paroled
after working on the storm cleanup crew.

Final Order Still Pending

That final order is still pending, she said, but now that the man has been
released he has a great deal more freedom to pursue his defense. He can make
phone calls, write for documents and consult with friends and family in a way
that would have been impossible while he was detained.

"The whole world opens up to you if you're released from Krome," Ms. Jean said.

Although no one will say so for the record, it is understood that a foreigner
who is released from Krome has gained his freedom because he is effectively
beyond the reach of the constantly swamped immigration agency.

Immigration lawyers representing these people repeatedly press the immigration
service to release their clients from the detention center, which is surrounded
by a fence and in which detainees wear prison-like uniforms.

But the lawyers say the Federal officials act arbitrarily in making decisions
about parole on humanitarian grounds, which unfairly punishes the foreigners.

"The criteria they use for parole at Krome have fluctuated so much in the last
two years that no one knows what they are," Mr. Sanchez said. "Over and over
again, different people are released for different reasons."

'Each Case Is Individual'

Mr. Joy, the district director for the immigration service, said normal
standards were used to make parole decisions for the 40 volunteers, but he could
not say what they were because "each case is individual."

Besides the issue of the men's release, the post-hurricane evacuation of Krome
has raised other complaints. When they were taken out of the Krome center, the
detainees were brought to county jails. This has upset some people who maintain
that these foreigners have not committed any crimes.

"We're talking about people who were seeking refuge," said Rolande Dorancy,
executive director of the Haitian Refugee Center in Miami. "They're not
criminals."

For the two weeks while the detainees were being held elsewhere, their families
and lawyers had difficulty finding out where they were or how to reach them.
Although immigration officials say that any relative who called was told where
the detainee was sent, Joan Friedland, an immigration lawyer in Miami, said it
took her 10 days to find where her clients had been taken.

The 200 detainees who were transferred are now being returned to Krome. Mr. Joy
said they would all be back by the end of this week. He has refused to allow
reporters into the center until all the detainees are back.

Ms. Friedland said the problems at Krome were just the latest sign that the
immigration service was unresponsive and unfair. "They can do this because they
never have to explain, never have to answer for what they do," she said. "The
next time something like this comes around, and we ask for parole for clients,
they'll pretend this never happened."


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: After Hurricane Andrew damaged the Krome Avenue Detention Center
in Miami, most of the 200 illegal aliens held there were transferred to county
jails throughout South Florida. Those who stayed behind to help clean up were
then freed. Haitian immigrants spoke with other detainees through a fence in
1990; Luder St. Val of Haiti was released from the detention center. (Susan
Greenwood for The New York Times)

Map showing the location of Krome Ave. Detention Center.

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 6, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Where to Place Blame For Latin Misery

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 23; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 298 words


"Immigrants Grab a Toehold of American Dream" [Nov. 15] is one of a series of
reports the Long Island Weekly has written concerning illegal aliens on Long
Island. We are told of their poverty and working two or more jobs or of being
unemployed. We are told Some cannot go on welfare, and most are exploited by
Long Island businesses and landlords. We are told that many came from El
Salvador, fleeing from war. We are told of our obligations and the illegal
aliens' rights to medical care and education.

What we are not told of is these people's responsibilities. We are not told how
they came to this country knowing they were entering illegally. We are not told
that having a fake Social Security card is a crime. We are not told of many
illegals who have jobs, are paid in cash and pay no taxes. We are not told how
much it costs us in taxes to pay welfare for these people, how much for special
education and bilingual teachers. We are not told how hospitals must provide
medical care for free and how they shift those costs to those of us with
insurance. We are not told that the wars in El Salvador and Nicaragua have ended
long ago.

We are not told that the United States admits more legal immigrants than any
other country, of those who wait years to legally come to this country. Why do
American citizens, who joyfully help those who come here legally, have
obligations to those who have criminally entered this country? We citizens must
say enough. Our resources are not limitless. We must demand rights of our own;
rights to secure borders; rights to end exploitation of these illegals in jobs,
which, in turn, causes depressed wages for United States citizens, the right to
not pay for people who come here against our laws.

ROBERT F. LA PORTA
Dix Hills

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 22, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Let the Refugee Children Out of Prison

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 377 words


To the Editor:

"Choice for Young Illegal Aliens: Long Detentions, or Deportation" (front page,
Nov. 30), on the detention of Central American refugee children by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, calls attention to an abuse of
governmental power that is too little known.

It is even worse than you depict, while more effective and humane means for
dealing with the children are available. The attempt of the immigration agency
to paint these children as violent because some of them have dented the walls
with their fists ignores the impossible conditions, the frustrations, boredom
and the anxieties they are forced to live with for long periods while in
detention. Punching the wall, fighting and, in some cases, bullying, should be
recognized as normal responses to the setting the agency has created for them,
with its insensitive treatment and dismal future prospects.

Their meager allowances are docked for trivial violations, leaving them unable
to buy even a soft drink, and they are often denied the occasional field trips
as punishment as well. A counselor sometimes appears briefly, giving most of the
children little counseling, or even greeting.

For the officials who run the Los Fresnos, Tex., Center to describe this
insufferable regimen as "like a college dorm" is a depressing deception.

Concerned groups around the country are eager to help place these juveniles with
group and foster families to await their hearings, but as you report, the agency
refuses to allow this. In Madison, a long way from the border, we have an active
Border Support Group, and similar concerned groups are working in other places.
Child welfare organizations are willing to help refugee minors find qualified
homes. The Center for Human Rights and Constitutional Law, which argued the case
for minors in detention before the Supreme Court last October, maintains a safe,
supportive shelter for minors, in accord with child welfare principles, rather
than on a detention model.

All we need is a rational and humane policy.

MURRAY EDELMAN
BACIA EDELMAN
Madison, Wis., Dec. 2, 1992

The writers are, respectively, emeritus professor, political science, U. of
Wisconsin, and a member of the Madison Border Support Group.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 5, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Accused of Abuse Of Haitians at a Center

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 995 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 4


Haitians who are interned at a detention center operated by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service here are being "abused, harassed and intimidated" by
security guards and officials at the compound, say refugee-advocacy groups and
immigration lawyers.

Affidavits collected from detainees by the Haitian Refugee Center, an advocacy
group here, say that at least two Haitians have been "badly beaten" by guard
since Saturday, when a fire broke out at the center, the Krome Detention
Facility.

The immigration agency denies that there have been abuses at the center.

The center, whose normal population is about 450, is the main holding camp in
Florida for foreigners whose immigration status is unclear. Officials say that
the population was reduced by about 100 people after the fire, and the lawyers
say the center's population includes about 250 Haitians.

Strip Searches Described

The group also asserted in a report compiled from the accounts of detainees that
at an inspection at the camp last weekend, male detainees were ordered to strip
"and told to jump up and down."

The document also says detainees are being routinely "awakened around 4 A.M. to
perform such tasks as scrubbing the toilets and walls with their bare hands" and
picking up cigarette butts in the dark. Guards have justified that treatment,
the document says, by telling the Haitians that "you are all H.I.V.-positive
anyway" and that they do not deserve to be paid for the labor.

"The detainees have been forbidden to gather together in small groups even to
pray together, and their Bibles have been confiscated," said Candace L. Jean, a
Miami lawyer who is representing several people in the camp in immigration
proceedings. "Some detainees have had the Bibles taken right from their hands
and thrown in the trash right before their eyes."

Rolande Dorancy, director of the Haitian Refugee Center, said it was hard to
determine the extent of the abuses because the agency had begun making access to
the camp difficult for outsiders. As part of the crackdown, she said, Haitian
detainees "have been denied access to counsel and family members and use of the
telephone" by camp officials.

Impossible to Verify

It was impossible to independently verify whether what lawyers described as
violations of immigration law and international human rights agreements have
actually occurred. On Wednesday, guards at the center turned away a reporter
even though other officials had granted permission to attend deportation
hearings at the Federal Immigration Court inside the compound.

Richard Smith, the district director of the immigration agency, denied that any
abuses had occurred, describing the complaints of the refugee center and
immigration lawyers as "outlandish allegations that have no basis in fact."
Refugee advocates make such charges "every time they want to incite something,"
he said, and have done so now in order to "create a disturbance at Krome" that
will force the Federal Government to release the detainees.

Mr. Smith did acknowledge, however, that Haitian internees had been stripped and
searched to see if they had matches and lighters, an action that he said was
necessary because "I was not about to allow anybody to burn down another
building." Bibles and other books were confiscated, he said, because he had
ordered guards to "remove any combustible materials" from the detainees.

Tradition of Tension

Relations between agency guards and detainees from many nations have
traditionally been tense. The latest episode flared on May 28, after a
22-year-old Haitian, Edser Altemira, collapsed and died. Haitian detainees have
told their lawyers that camp officials were slow to summon medical care because
they thought Mr. Altemira was shirking his work and that the officials later
told other detainees that he had died of AIDS.

Mr. Smith said the man had a heart condition and had recently been operated on
at a Government hospital in Virginia. He said the man had received immediate
medical attention after his collapse.

In protests against Mr. Altemira's treatment and the reports of taunts that they
are AIDS carriers, Haitian detainees then began a prayer vigil and fast. Lawyers
also said the refugees were meeting with a camp supervisor on Saturday outside a
dormitory when the fire broke out, causing an estimated $3 million in damages,
and thus could not have set the blaze, which the authorities say may have been
caused by arson.

More than 37,000 Haitians have fled their Caribbean island homeland since the
country's elected President, Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, was overthrown in a
military coup last September. On May 24, President Bush, reversing his earlier
policy, ordered Coast Guard vessels to return all Haitians intercepted at sea to
Haiti without allowing them to apply for asylum.

Repatriation Under Way

Last week, the Administration announced it would also close a refugee center for
Haitians at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba that has been sheltering Haitian refugees and
processing their political-asylum applications since the coup. Some 12,000
Haitian refugees who had been living in tents on the military base are now being
repatriated.

The Haitian Refugee Center and lawyers representing detainees asserted that the
measures being imposed at the detention center were retribution for the fire.

Lawyers and advocacy groups are calling for an investigation into the death of
Mr. Altemira and said they were considering filing a suit against the
immigration agency. They also said an immediate evacuation of Haitian detainees
from Krome was in order.

"At the present time, the detention center is not suitable for human
habitation," Ms. Jean said. "They should release these people to their relatives
here or to the many churches that are willing to sponsor them. At a time that
Haitians are most in need of humane treatment, this country is taking the
opposite approach, and that is shameful."

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 3, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. SAYS 3 TRIED TO SMUGGLE ALIENS

BYLINE: By RONALD SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 368 words


An attempt to smuggle Chinese aliens into New York was broken up in September
when the Coast Guard responded to a distress signal from a fishing trawler off
the North Carolina coast and discovered 150 people crowded in the hold,
immigration officials said yesterday.

In a complaint filed yesterday in Federal District Court in Manhattan, two New
York businessmen, George Huang and William Chen, were charged by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service with masterminding the smuggling attempt.

The Taiwanese vessel's captain, Ho-Hsin Fan, was also charged. He is being held
in Atlanta.

The Federal officials said the aliens had each paid the smugglers from $20,000
to $30,000. The smugglers were trying to open a East Coast entry for illegal
Chinese aliens, the officials said.

Breakdown at Sea

Before the trawler, the Chin Wing, was halted by the Coast Guard in early
September, it had been detained in August in Jacmel, Haiti, where it had arrived
after sailing from the Fujian Province in China.

But a legal technicality allowed the release of the vessel. With its 150
passengers jammed below decks, it steamed up the East Coast for New York City.

But the vessel broke down at sea on Sept. 7., and when it sent a distress call,
a Coast Guard cutter discovered the aliens below deck. Everyone aboard was taken
to Atlanta and jailed.

The complaint filed yesterday charged that Mr. Huang, 42 years old, of Elmhurst,
Queens, and Mr. Chen, 45, of Plainview, L.I., had conspired with partners in
China to smuggle aliens.  The complaint said the defendants, sailing westward
from China, had traveled to Durban, South Africa, and to Haiti to pay for ship
repairs and provisions.

But Federal authorities said yesterday that conditions aboard the vessel had
been inhuman and dangerous, with only one bathroom for the 150 passengers and
not enough life jackets to go around.

The immigration service's district director, William S. Slattery, described the
ring as a "$4 to $5 million operation" which "subjected its human cargoes to
inhuman conditions and untold suffering."

Immigration officials said most of the illegal aliens were seeking jobs in
businesses in Chinatown in Manhattan.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 15, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Laws Often Disregarded for Household Workers

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

SECTION: Section B; Page 16; Column 3; National Desk; Law Page

LENGTH: 1049 words


While President-Elect Clinton promised a Cabinet that looks like America, Zoe
Baird, his nominee for Attorney General, apparently behaved a bit too much like
America: she hired, in this country illegally, a Peruvian couple as a
baby-sitter and driver and she failed to pay the required Social Security taxes.

Accountants and lawyers say the system for reporting income paid to domestic
workers is so cumbersome, and the supply of household workers so saturated with
illegal aliens, that hundreds of thousands of Americans, and maybe millions, are
probably flouting the law.

These lawbreakers include not only affluent two-earner couples with full-time
help, like Ms. Baird and her husband, but less wealthy Americans who have weekly
arrangements with cleaning women or baby-sitters. Experts say they believe that
most of these Americans are fully aware they are breaking the law, but not all.

"I'd be willing to bet there are men in very high Government positions who are
in exactly the same situation as Zoe Baird, but don't know it because it's their
wives who deal with the domestic help," said Patricia McConnell, who writes an
accounting and tax newsletter at Bear, Stearns & Company.

Exception Was Defeated

In 1985, when Congress was considering immigration legislation, which made it
illegal to hire an undocumented alien, there was talk of a "Beverly Hills
exception," exempting people with three or fewer employees.

But the exception was dropped after it was argued that the provision would be
unfair to small-business owners, who are subject to many of the same burdens as
household employers but who would not have been covered by the exemption. In
addition, some members of Congress argued that it might subvert the goal of
stopping the flow of people coming to this country illegally in quest of jobs.

The passage of the law did spur some people to find household workers who were
in this country legally, and to start paying all the taxes that are due, experts
said. But many others chose to ignore the law, and as a practical matter, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service has almost never prosecuted people who
employ illegal aliens in their homes.

"Only about 3 percent of the employed mothers of children under five use in-home
care by a nonrelative, because it's the most expensive form of care, but among
those who do, it's very common to hire illegal aliens off the books," said Ellen
Galinsky, a co-president of the Families and Work Institute. "I don't think
anyone knows exactly how widespread it is."

Taxes in All Cases

To comply with the law, employers must find domestic workers who can legally
work in the United States, and they must pay social security taxes and
unemployment taxes for any worker paid more than $50 in a three-month period.
These taxes are due regardless of whether the employee is in the country legally
or illegally.

For those who do not have a social security number, employers are supposed to
set up an account for the payments, which come to 15.3 percent of the worker's
pay. Half of the payments are made by the employer and half comes form the
worker's wages.

"It's not the right thing to do, but I know of a number of cases in which the
employer wanted to pay social security, but decided against it because the
child-care worker resisted," Ms. Galinsky said. "The real problem is that child
care is so poorly paid that when you take money out, there isn't much left."

A Manhattan father who has hired three baby-sitters in six years explained
yesterday that although he and his wife, both lawyers, have tried hard to comply
with the law, they found it impossible in their last two searches.

Avoiding Taxes

"The first time around, we interviewed 23 people, 18 of whom were illegal, and
we hired one who was legal," he said. "When she left, we interviewed 14 people,
not one of whom was legal, including the ones sent from the most elite
employment agency. This last time, we interviewed 10 people, and offered the job
to the one legal person who applied, but she didn't take it, in part, I think,
because she wanted an off-the-books job where she'd take home more. So we're
back to an illegal person. It worries me, because what we're really doing is
avoiding our tax obligation."

Government officials and some accountants stress that however common the
practice has become, avoiding taxes is precisely what many household employers
are doing. Furthermore, they said, they are cheating their employees out of
future social security benefits. And those who hire illegal aliens, many said,
could find American workers if they were willing to pay higher wages.

Many working mothers hire illegal aliens as housekeepers or baby-sitters and
sponsor them for a "green card," actually, a permanent residency visa that
allows the alien to live and work in this country indefinitely.

But the process requires many years before the immigrant is legally allowed to
work. And some families find the vagaries of immigration law surprising.

'A Crazy System'

"My wonderful baby-sitter, who was illegal and off the books, wanted me to
sponsor her, so I went to a lawyer, who told me that to get a green card for
her, I had to sign a letter telling the Labor Department that I was, in effect,
breaking the law by employing an illegal alien," said a woman in Washington.
"The lawyer said that was okay, because the Labor Department doesn't give the
information to the Immigration and Naturalization Service. It seems like a crazy
system."

After a four-year wait, that woman's baby-sitter got her green card and, as
frequently happens, immediately quit for a more lucrative one.

Immigration lawyers say the number of domestic workers applying for permanent
residency has dropped in recent years, largely because the process now takes as
much as eight years after the Labor Department certifies that there is a
shortage of Americans to fill a particular job.

"The immigration law doesn't reflect any sympathy for families that need help,
either live-in or by the day, to operate their households," said Frances Berger,
a New York immigration lawyer. "The fact that the Labor Department certifies
that there are no lawful U.S. workers to do these jobs indicates the need for
immigrants."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: An Analysis

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 24, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

2 Candidates Begin Trying To Defuse Aliens Issue

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 732 words

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 24


Strategists for New Jersey's Republican gubernatorial candidates, Christine Todd
Whitman and W. Cary Edwards, huddled today to assess and control the damage from
their admissions yesterday that they had employed illegal aliens and failed to
pay taxes on their wages.

The candidates and their aides, as well as outside observers, concluded that
unlike Zoe Baird, whose confirmation as President Clinton's Attorney General was
derailed by a similar revelation, Mrs. Whitman and Mr. Edwards would survive to
run in the Republican primary, but not without a struggle.

On Friday, hours after Ms. Baird withdrew, Mrs. Whitman issued a statement in
which she said she had employed two illegal aliens for nearly four years but had
not withheld or paid their Social Security and income taxes. She said she would
do so.

Second Revelation

Later Friday, Stephen A. Salmore, a political consultant to Mr. Edwards, who was
Attorney General under Gov. Thomas H. Kean and now practices with one of New
Jersey's prestigious firms, said that the Baird matter had been discussed with
Mr. Edwards and that the candidate was "clear" of any problem.

But at about 10 P.M., Mr. Edwards, issued a statement acknowledging that he had
employed a Portuguese national as a housekeeper in 1989 and 1990, when he was
New Jersey's chief law-enforcement official, and had not paid her taxes.

In his statement and in a telephone interview, Mr. Edwards said the illegal
alien, whom he declined to identify, had worked for his father-in-law and that
he had hired her after his father-in-law's death. He said she insisted she was
"an independent contractor," and that meant he was not responsible for her
taxes.

Mr. Edwards said that on the advice of his accountant, he told the woman that
taxes should be withheld from her wages. He said that when he presented tax
documents to her, the woman "continued to insist she was an independent
contractor.

"That position was not acceptable to me, and she resigned" early in 1991, Mr.
Edwards said.

Mr. Edwards said he had acted properly and did not feel that he owed any back
taxes. But he said that if the Federal Government insists that taxes be paid, "I
will pay them, absolutely, of course."

Contrite Candidate

Mrs. Whitman was more contrite.

She said that the couple she hired, Emma and Antonio Franco, had answered
newspaper ads she and her husband placed in 1986, seeking someone to care for
their two children and to chauffeur family members. She said she "didn't ask"
the Francos about their citizenship. "I was looking for someone who was
competent and caring," Ms. Whitman said, "and that was all that mattered.
Clearly that was a mistake."

"We paid them $25,000 a year, with full room and board and access to a car when
it was needed," she said.

Mrs. Whitman said that she and her husband tried for three years to help the
Francos obtain a green card. But, she said, the process dragged on until June
1990, when they paid the couple's air fare to Portugal. At the time, Mrs.
Whitman was in the midst of a campaign to unseat Bill Bradley for the United
States Senate.

Asked if the couple returned to Portugal because of fear that the Bradley
campaign would learn of their illegal status, she said, "Absolutely not, not in
any way, shape or form."

The Francos got legal resident alien status in April 1991. They returned to the
United States and resumed working for the Whitmans. Mrs. Whitman acknowledged
that no taxes were paid during their earlier employment, nor from April 1991,
until July 1991.

She said her accountant was calculating how much she owed in back taxes, and the
amount would be paid "by Tuesday noon at the latest." She said she plans to
announce her campaign for the Republican gubernatorial nomination on Wednesday.

As to damage to her campaign or that of Mr. Edwards, she said, "The voters of
N.J. will have to decide that on June 8," the date of the Republican primary.

Not surprisingly, the state's Democratic and Republican party leaders differed
on the impact of the issue.

State Senator Raymond Lesniak, chairman of the New Jersey Democratic Party,
predicted that other Republicans would enter the primary and that the matter
would hurt the Republicans in the general election. His Republican counterpart,
Gennie Littell, called the issue "moot" and predicted it would play no part in
the fall election.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 26, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Challenger to Florio Will Pay Back Taxes for Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 496 words

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 25


Christine Todd Whitman will pay back taxes totaling about $25,000 for two
illegal aliens she employed to care for her children for about four years,
according to a supporter involved in settling the matter.

The supporter, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said Mrs. Whitman or her
representative would pay the back taxes to the Internal Revenue Service on
Tuesday. The next day, she plans to announce her candidacy for the Republican
nomination for Governor.

The formal start of her campaign had been scheduled before her announcement last
Friday that she had employed illegal aliens, an announcement that came less than
24 hours after Zoe Baird withdrew from consideration as Attorney General in the
Clinton Administration after being criticized for employing illegal immigrants.

Taxes Not Withheld

Mrs. Whitman acknowledged that she had employed a Portuguese couple for nearly
four years before they obtained legal resident status in June 1991, and had not
withheld and paid Federal income taxes or Social Security assessments during
that time. After they obtained legal status, she began withholding the required
taxes and Social Security, she said.

Mrs. Whitman said she paid the couple $25,000 a year for the two of them, plus
room and board and the use of a car when needed, during the nearly four years
they were employed without legal status.

The supporter would not discuss whether the $25,000 figure she will pay to the
I.R.S. included any penalties or interest, but such payments for back taxes
customarily do.

Mrs. Whitman's opponent for the Republican nomination, W. Cary Edwards, a former
New Jersey Attorney General, announced late Friday that he, too, had employed an
illegal alien, also a Portuguese national, as a housekeeper for about 18 months
in 1989 and 1990, and had not withheld and paid taxes. He said the woman
resigned when he insisted, on his accountant's advice, that the taxes be
withheld and paid.

Considering Paying

Mr. Edwards said he did not feel that he owed back taxes because the woman had
insisted that she was an independent contractor who only worked part time, but
said he would pay back taxes if was determined that any were owed.

However, an aide to the campaign, speaking on the condition that his name not be
used, said Mr. Edwards was now considering paying the taxes voluntarily, on
total wages of a little more than $10,000 over the 18 months, rather than let
the matter drag on as he campaigns.

Bob Thompson, Mr. Edwards's press secretary, said that the campaign was
"investigating whether there is any tax liability." He said that he did not know
the exact amount that was paid to the housekeeper.

After the disclosures on Friday by Mrs. Whitman and Mr. Edwards, Jon Shure,
director of communications for Gov. Jim Florio, said in response to an inquiry
that he had asked Mr. Florio if he or his wife, Lucinda, had ever employed
illegal aliens in any capacity, "and the answer is no."

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 7, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Looking for an Attorney General: The Reaction;
Women Are Frustrated By Failed Nominations

BYLINE: By CATHERINE S. MANEGOLD

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1445 words


Women across the country yesterday reacted with immense frustration at what they
perceived as a growing double standard for men and women being considered for
the Clinton Cabinet.

Many said they understood and agreed with Mr. Clinton's decision to accept the
withdrawal of his first nominee for Attorney General, Zoe Baird, after it was
learned that she had broken the law by employing an illegal alien. But they said
they were astounded that Kimba M. Wood, a strong candidate who had not violated
the law, should also be forced out of competition because she once hired an
illegal alien to care for her young son. That hiring was legal, since it
occurred before immigration laws were tightened, and Judge Wood insisted in a
statement Friday that she "fulfilled every legal requirement" regarding that
employee.

"Kimba Wood got caught in the wave created by the Zoe Baird situation," said
Susan Estrich, a law professor at the University of Southern California and an
outspoken feminist. "I didn't have a lot of sympathy for Zoe Baird. She
knowingly broke the law though she had the financial resources to do otherwise.
But what is disconcerting here is that we seem to have created an atmosphere
where someone who did not break the law is nonetheless barred from serving."

A Double Standard?

Although it was impossible yesterday to determine precisely how the majority of
Americans felt about Judge Wood and her fate, it was clear that many women in
and out of politics felt that the judge was being treated unfairly because of
the President's political calculations, even though Mr. Clinton was seen as
insistent that a woman be named to the post.

Abby Ginzberg, a lawyer at the American Bar Association's midwinter meeting in
Boston, said she fears all female candidates will now be suspect. She said she
had wholly supported Judge Wood's candidacy. "If she can't pass the test, nobody
can."

Women's distress over the matter seemed to cross party lines. "I've been talking
to friends of mine all day long," said Tanya Melich, a Republican political
consultant, "and I don't think that there was one of them who thought she was
treated fairly. I can only say it's more sexism. We have one standard for the
boys and another for the girls."

Many men, however, saw the issue instead as a case of political necessity.
Several political strategists said the Baird case had so alarmed the White House
that it could not affort a trace of repetition.

"The logical, rational argument is that these situations were entirely
different," said William A. Carrick, a Democratic strategist who worked with
Senator Dianne Feinstein's campaign in California. "But on a political level, I
think it would have been almost impossible to differentiate."

Yet he may have been wrong. Joann Sanicola, a sales clerk who was shoveling snow
outside the east Bronx jewelry store where she works, said she did not believe
that Judge Wood's nomination should have been sidetracked. "She should have
continued pursuit of the office," said Ms. Sanicola, who described herself as a
member of the "overworked, hard-working, average middle-class." Ms. Sanicola
said her own understanding was that "She was paying taxes. There was nothing
that she did that was illegal."

It was precisely that point that so angered many professional women around the
country. Scores stressed their general sense that women were being held to a
higher standard than men in the appointment process and were subject to an
additional layer of questioning that men have never had to endure.

"For every man who has ever been confirmed to a Cabinet position there has never
been the notion of disclosure of his housekeeping arrangement, much less how
much time he spent with his child," said Kathleen Brown, the treasurer of the
State of California. "It has never been on anyone's mind. It just doesn't come
up for male nominees to think about their pattern of child care as a matter for
political disclosure or an F.B.I. search."

More Problems for Clinton

That is already changing. Sources within the Clinton Administration said Friday
that Charles F. C. Ruff, one of two other potential nominees for Attorney
General, was out of the running because of questions about whether he had
employed an illegal alien. That seemed to mark the first time that the issue had
been raised about a man.

Despite the apparent rejection of Mr. Ruff, many women hammered their contention
that a potential cabinet appointee who was also a father is far less likely to
stumble on the same minefield. Many said they were also angered that the White
House had publicized what Clinton officials perceived as Judge Wood's second
liability, that she had trained -- for five days two decades ago -- to work at a
Playboy club in London while attending the London School of Economics. They said
they were outraged by suggestions that that brief stint could have subjected her
to ridicule.

Stressing that the work would have involved nothing illegal, they pointed out
that women in the 1960's often had to take demeaning jobs to finance their
higher education.

"How old is this woman?" asked Marika Caruana, 32, of Riverdale. "You're talking
about something that was done 28 years ago? I think it's ridiculous."

'Brought It Upon Herself'

Gloria Steinem, who once worked as a Playboy bunny and has written of her
experiences, said she believed some of the reaction to both candidates is simply
a caustic backlash against powerful women. "Having been a bunny," she said, "I
can tell you that it is incredibly hard work and very underpaid and very
exploitative."

Men and women interviewed yesterday consistently saw the issue differently. At
the entrance to the American Museum of Natural History in Manhattan, a husband
and wife fell into immediate disagreement when asked about the case. "I don't
see a double standard," said a man who would not identify himself.

"That's because you're not a woman," his wife retorted. "If it were a man they
never would have asked."

Not far away, Mike Benson, another museum visitor, disputed the notion of a
double standard. "Zoe Baird brought it upon herself," he said. "If a male had
done the same thing, they would have asked him the same questions."


Problems Facing Women

Representative Patricia Schroeder, a Colorado Democrat, said she empathized with
women who had to juggle careers and family life. Noting that both Ms. Baird and
Judge Wood had significant financial resources, Ms. Schroeder said their
back-to-back withdrawals should clarify the need for better child care.

"We have a tremendous problem in this country," she said. "This shows how deeply
we need the family leave act and other legislation."

That reaction was heard across the New York metropolitan area yesterday. At the
Pretty Please Hair Salon in Riverdale, the Bronx, Ruth Hass, who manages a New
York City tour guide agency, wondered: "Is it only the mother responsible for
hiring an illegal alien? I have a feeling Clinton is not going to be able to get
any Attorney General in this country who has young children, male or female, if
that is the criteria."

In Manhattan, Felicity Frisbie, 41, a mother who was chasing her son around the
dinosaur exhibit at the American Museum of Natural History, said: "This is a
problem that society denies we have. There are women who need child care and
there are immigrant women who need work."

Ann F. Lewis, a Democratic analyst, agreed. "If a car breaks down you have no
trouble saying to your boss that you will be in late," Ms. Lewis said. "But if
your child gets sick it is seen as a problem. In this society it is O.K. to
worry about your car, but it is not O.K. to worry about your child."

By late yesterday afternoon, some groups were already preparing organized
objections to the way the two candidates for Attorney General were treated.

In Memphis, where leaders of the National Organization for Women were holding a
board meeting, they agreed to begin an orchestrated fax, telephone and mailgram
campaign to highlight the different treatment during the confirmation process,
said Patricia Ireland, the group's president. "What we want to know is what
arrangements all the men in the cabinet have made for their child care," she
said.

Some men couldn't have agreed more. "I'm pro-women's-lib," said Anthony Serrano,
a taxi driver in New York. "I don't think this subject would have come up if it
were men. There are guys sitting there with their butts in those chairs asking
questions who don't know what's going on at home. Be honest, how many men that
applied for this position have ever been asked this question."

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Would Zoe Baird's husband have been allowed to be Attorney
General?" said Ruth Hass, who manages a tour-guide agency in New York City. "The
family hired the illegal alien. It wasn't just Zoe. She's just one of the
parents. Is it only the mother responsible for hiring an illegal alien?"
(Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 7, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Looking for an Attorney General: The Dispute;
THE WHITE HOUSE AND JUDGE'S ALLIES CLASH OVER HIRING

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1434 words


The White House and people close to Judge Kimba M. Wood gave contradictory
accounts yesterday of the extent and timing of the information she supplied the
Clinton Administration about her hiring of an illegal alien, the issue that
forced her withdrawal from consideration as Attorney General.

Judge Wood herself, who sits on the Federal District Court in Manhattan,
declined yesterday to amplify her Friday statement announcing her withdrawal.
But one person familiar with her version of the events and her dealings with the
White House said yesterday that she had given the White House full details of
her seven-year employment of an illegal immigrant as her baby sitter, first
orally more than a week ago and later in documents and records that she said
made it clear that she had done nothing illegal.

This person, who spoke on the condition of anonymity in defending Judge Wood,
said that she did not mislead the White House but was rejected out of fear over
the possible reaction on Capitol Hill and ridicule on radio and television talk
shows, and out of concern that the public would not be able to understand the
distinctions between Judge Wood's case and that of Zoe Baird, who admitted that
she had violated laws by not paying taxes for two illegal aliens she employed as
household help.

Statement Contradicted

But the White House offers a distinctly different version of the events.

George Stephanopoulos, the White House communications director, said on Friday
and again yesterday that advisers had not discovered the problem until Judge
Wood gave them financial records late in the week. He denied that Judge Wood had
offered details about her employment of the alien a week ago and said that it
was doubtful that she would have been considered if such details had been known.

"When counsel questioned Judge Wood about this matter prior to her interview
with the President, there was no discussion of any details," he said. "She was
asked if she had a problem related to illegal aliens and she said no."

Another White House official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, was even
more definitive. This official said Judge Wood, asked a week ago by the
President and his counsel if she had illegal-alien, immigration or tax problems,
had not even mentioned her employment of an illegal alien. The official said it
was not until late Thursday that lawyers vetting the judge's background for the
White House had learned of the alien in documents she had provided.

But the person familiar with Judge Wood's role said that in interviews with
President Clinton on Jan. 29 and with his chief counsel, Bernard W. Nussbaum, by
telephone on Jan. 28, when she was vacationing in Colorado, and at the White
House on Jan. 29, she was asked, in almost identical phrases, if she had "a Zoe
Baird problem."

On each occasion, this person said Judge Wood responded by explaining the
employment of the baby sitter in detail and indicated that she had done nothing
illegal, saying she had paid all the necessary taxes for the baby sitter and had
even notified the Immigration and Naturalization Service that the woman who
worked for her had a visa that had expired.

In addition to details given in these interviews, the person familiar with her
role said, Judge Wood voluntarily brought to the White House on Aug. 29 six
boxes of income tax records and other documents relating to the baby sitter and
other matters, but when she offered to leave them was told to keep them until
the vetting process began in detail.

On Wednesday, this person said, the White House asked for the records and she
sent them by Federal Express. The records, this person said, were in the hands
of the White House vetters Thursday morning, 10 to 12 hours before the
Administration let it be known that the President had chosen Judge Wood but
would not announce her selection until background checks were completed. The
White House suggested at the time that the selection process was moving with
extreme caution, but it appeared at least in part to be putting out the Judge's
name to test public reaction.

No more information was provided and there were no further consultations with
Judge Wood. The only consultations were among the President and his advisers,
who concluded that the political cost of fighting for the nomination would be
greater that the embarrassment of dropping it, the person familiar with the
Judge's role said.

Worried About Talk Shows

On Friday, Judge Wood was told by Mr. Nussbaum that even though the White House
knew she had done nothing illegal, she would have to withdraw because President
Clinton and his top aides "were skittish about Capitol Hill and worried that the
talk shows would have a field day," the person familiar with her role in the
events said.

This person said Judge Wood then told Mr. Nussbaum that she was willing to go
before the Senate Judiciary Committee, which conducts hearings on Attorney
General nominees, to explain her role in the immigrant's employment and fight
for the nomination, but she was told that it was a dead issue.

"Basically, the White House concluded that the distinctions between Judge Wood's
case and Zoe Barid's were too complicated to explain in a 30-second sound bite
and that they were not going to expend any political capital doing it," said the
person close to her role in the events.

The White House official who spoke on the condition of anonymity gave a sharply
different version of the week's events. The official acknowledged that Judge
Wood had spoken by telephone to Mr. Nussbaum on Jan. 28 and had been interviewed
by Mr. Nussbaum and by the President at the White House on Jan. 29.

But the official said the judge, in responding to questions by Mr. Nussbaum,
said she had no immigration, illegal-alien or tax problems in her background,
but had not gone into any detail and had not even mentioned her employment of an
illegal alien.

"She stated that she had no such problems," the official said. "She never stated
that she had provided immigration authorities with information that a person
with an expired visa was residing in her home. And she never stated that she had
records that we could look at if we wished. She said she had paid all taxes and
she said she violated no laws with respect to any domestic help."

The official said Judge Wood had similarly not raised any red flags in her later
interview with the President, and added that Mr. Nussbaum and other White House
officials were unaware of any problems until 6 P.M. Thursday, when lawyers
poring over the records she had supplied called to say she had employed an
illegal alien.

White House officials acknowledged that while Judge Wood had done nothing
illegal, they believed it would be difficult to explain adequately to the
public. Some reports said there were divisions in the White House over whether
her nomination could survive the disclosure, with some arguing that she should
not be forced out.

But it was the judgment of others, including Bruce Lindsey, the White House
personnel director and a confidant of the President, and Ronald Klein, a deputy
counsel, that she had to withdraw immediately. Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., the
Delaware Democrat who is chairman of the Judiciary Committee, was said to have
concurred. Other White House officials denied there were divisions and said
Senator Biden was consulted as a courtesy only after a decision had been made.

On Friday, after the decision to remove her from consideration, Judge Wood and
her husband, Michael Kramer, a political columnist for Time magazine, met in
Washington with Mr. Nussbaum and a number of lawyers who had participated in the
vetting, the official said.

The official noted that there were differences between Mr. Nussbaum and Judge
Wood over how the questions put to the judge in the interviews were worded. The
official said Mr. Nussbaum's recollection was that he had asked if she had any
immigration, illegal-alien or tax problems.

"I don't remember you quite using those words," Judge Wood said, according to
the official. "The way I remember it you asked of there were any Zoe Baird
problems, and even if you did use those words the answer would be the same --
no, I have no immigration, illegal-alien or tax problems."

Mr. Nussbaum, according to the White House official, then asked: "Wouldn't it
have been better if you had elaborated?

"She said, 'I really didn't believe it was necessary because I interpreted your
question as meaning, Were there any legal problems?' and there were no legal
problems. Elaboration wasn't necessary."

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 8, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
It's Gender, Stupid

BYLINE: BY Anthony Lewis

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 717 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Can anyone still doubt that underlying the troubles of President Clinton's first
two choices for Attorney General was the attitude of a male-dominated society
toward women? Can anyone doubt that the politics of the business is steeped in
hypocrisy?

Judge Kimba M. Wood was forced to withdraw because she employed an undocumented
alien for child care when it was legal to do so. Judge Wood paid all taxes due
and filled out all the forms required. But after the Zoe Baird flap her entirely
lawful actions were deemed politically dangerous.

That standard punishes an entire generation of professional women. Because,
gentlemen, a woman with children who has been successful enough in the law to be
considered for Attorney General had to have help with child care along the way.
And the chances are good that she used an undocumented alien at some point.

Why? Because it is very hard to find Americans who want to do live-in child care
and will make a long-term commitment. That is true now, and it has been for a
long time.

Twenty years ago it was learned that the then-Deputy Attorney General, William
Ruckelshaus, had an alien woman with an improper visa working in his home. The
arrangement was attributed to his wife, Jill, and the story quickly died.

Child care is the issue. It makes life much tougher for women who want to be
professionals. And now they are told that on top of the extra burden they
already bear, they are to be punished for doing what a mother -- and father --
should do: finding the best person to help with a child.

And it is not just highly paid professional women with live-in help who are
involved. What about the millions of working women who leave their children with
neighbors or relatively informal day care arrangements -- are those Social
Security taxes all nicely paid? Please be serious.

And how about the men who are so censorious toward Judge Wood, the politicians
and the commentators: Have they paid the Social Security taxes due for every
person they have hired to mow lawns or shovel snow or paint the house?

When Judge Wood was forced to withdraw, the male politicians involved also put
it out that when she was a student in London years ago she trained for five days
as a Playboy bunny. That was said to be a political burden because people would
giggle at the thought.

Can anyone doubt the gender tilt in that excuse for dumping Judge Wood? If so,
let us now question every male nominee for a top legal job about whether he was
ever in a Playboy Club, or saw a pornographic movie.

Then the leakers came up with another excuse: Judge Wood had never been a
criminal lawyer. That is the lamest reason of the year. Edward Levi had been
dean of the University of Chicago Law School and president of the university.
Robert Jackson was a great Solicitor General, a lawyer's lawyer, and then
Attorney General. Greatness in the job does not require criminal law practice,
and no one would think of demanding it of a man.

Senate Judiciary Committee members were said to be worried about confirming
Judge Wood. Worried about their own necks, you mean. Not one of them has the
courage to say to his or her constituents that the arguments raised against
Kimba Wood are irrelevant and disgraceful.

Yes, female Senators were no better. Dianne Feinstein of California lectured Zoe
Baird instead of, perhaps, explaining to the men what life is like for a
professional woman.

And where is the women's movement? Its organizations were silent during the
Baird affair. Are they going to wake up and understand that what is happening is
a way to disqualify huge numbers of women from high government service?

It is time for all sensible people to wake up and stop this witch hunt. It is
time to focus on the real problem: the laws that make it so hard to find good
and legal child care. It is time to stop snickering about the politics of all
this and understand the real issue, bias against women.

Judge Douglas Ginsburg paid a high price when he was found to have smoked
marijuana: withdrawal of his nomination to the Supreme Court. Americans grew up
after that and understood that smoking pot a few times is not important. Let us
hope that Kimba Wood's loss -- our loss in her -- will do the same to the
non-issue of aliens and child care.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 9, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

CLINTON NOMINEES WILL BE SCREENED FOR ILLEGAL HIRING

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 2677 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 8


All candidates for the hundreds of Government jobs subject to Senate
confirmation are now being asked if they had hired illegal aliens or violated
tax laws on household workers, Clinton Administration officials said today, and
at least a dozen people have been dropped from consideration over those issues.

Use of the new questions follows an uproar over the nomination of Zoe Baird to
be Attorney General and the withdrawal of another candidate for the same job,
Federal District Judge Kimba M. Wood of New York. George Stephanopoulos, the
White House spokesman, said that in view of those events candidates for
Presidential appointments in the Clinton Administration would probably be
disqualified if they had hired illegal aliens in the last six years.

New Standards Imposed

The hiring of illegal aliens was prohibited by a law adopted in November 1986.
Asked if President Clinton would appoint any people who have employed illegal
aliens since then, Mr. Stephanopoulos said, "I think it would make it very
difficult, and it would probably be disqualifying, yes." Administration
officials said Mr. Clinton would probably not nominate individuals who hired
illegal aliens before November 1986 because people would find it difficult to
distinguish between the two situations in political debate.

The White House imposed the new standards three weeks after it had said that Ms.
Baird's employment of illegal immigrants as household help should not disqualify
her from becoming Attorney General. Mr. Clinton later withdrew the nomination
under pressure from Capitol Hill and public opinion.

It is not clear how the new standards will apply to people already in office.
Current officeholders are being urged to comply with all relevant laws, Mr.
Stephanopoulos said. He went on to say there was no reason for Commerce
Secretary Ronald H. Brown to step down, even though Mr. Brown had said he failed
to pay Social Security taxes for a household worker.

Under Criticism by Women

Announcing the new test today, the White House seemed eager to rebut criticism
of its decision to drop two women considered for Attorney General. The White
House was also trying to counter accusations by women's groups like the National
Organization for Women that it had been unfairly harsh on Ms. Baird and Judge
Wood, or that there was a double standard working against women.

The more rigid standards -- routinely violated by hundreds of thousands of
families and enforced only sporadically by the Government -- apply to candidates
for hundreds of powerful posts, most notably the assistant secretaries who run
Cabinet agencies day to day.

More than 1,100 Presidential appointments are subject to Senate confirmation,
with about 680 being for full-time jobs. The rest are for boards and
commissions.

Mr. Stephanopoulos did not say whether these candidates would automatically be
disqualified if they had failed to pay Social Security taxes for household
workers. But White House officials said questions about compliance with
immigration and tax laws were now being routinely asked of all candidates for
Cabinet and sub-Cabinet positions.

So far, White House officials said, at least a dozen people have been dropped
from consideration because their answers were deemed unsatisfactory. White House
officials refused to identify the candidates, but said they had been considered
for jobs at the Interior Department, the Treasury and the Commerce Department.

President Clinton said today that he had not used a double standard in
disqualifying Judge Wood.

"I think Judge Wood has been somewhat unfairly treated inasmuch as what happened
to her happened in the ordinary course of the vetting process," Mr. Clinton
said. "It's happened to many other people in the months that we have been
working on this." He said all other nominations were being handled in an
"even-handed" manner.

Differences Are Noted

Even as the White House announced the new standard, it was somewhat imprecise
about the effect of the new rules. Mr. Stephanopoulos said the cases of Mr.
Brown and Judge Wood "aren't comparable in any way."

In describing his situation on Sunday on the NBC program "Meet the Press," Mr.
Brown said, "I never employed any illegal aliens." But he said he did not pay
Social Security taxes for a household employee until last month, when he said
"most people found out that there was an obligation" to make such payments. The
employee, he said, cleaned his home for three hours a week over the last four or
five years.

Ms. Baird, who employed two illegal aliens as household workers and failed to
pay their Social Security taxes, asked the President to withdraw her nomination
as Attorney General after a public furor. Judge Wood, who was on the verge of
being nominated for the same job, was pressured into withdrawing after the White
House learned that she had hired an illegal alien as a baby sitter in March
1986, although that was not illegal at the time.

What is the distinction between Mr. Brown and Judge Wood? In the screening
process for Presidential nominees, Mr. Brown was not asked about his compliance
with immigration and tax laws. By contrast, Judge Wood was asked several times,
and "she was not completely forthcoming," Mr. Stephanopoulos said.

Judge Wood said that she was asked if she had a "Zoe Baird problem" and that she
interpreted that to mean had she ever hired an illegal alien when it was against
the law and not paid Social Security and other taxes for that worker, as Ms.
Baird had. She said she had replied truthfully that she had not.

'Everybody Complies With It'

Mr. Stephanopoulos said the new test was being applied impartially to all
candidates of both sexes. "All people who are nominees now are being asked the
question," he said. "Since we became aware of this situation, we are insuring
that everybody complies with it."

In deciding that the questions are relevant to all high-level Government
positions, the Administration is going far beyond the criteria that the White
House and Congress used in Ms. Baird's case.

Critics of Ms. Baird said that violating the law disqualified her to be Attorney
General, the nation's highest law enforcement officer, and that the hiring of an
illegal alien was relevant because the Attorney General supervises the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. But Ms. Baird committed only civil
offenses, not a crime.

Donald D. Roberts, a spokesman for the Internal Revenue Service, estimated that
75 percent, or 1.5 million, of the 2 million households that employ domestic
workers fail to pay the required taxes.

Some of those 1.5 million households include those of members of Congress.
Representative David E. Skaggs, Democrat of Colorado, said: "After the Baird
case, I was amazed to learn that parents owe Social Security taxes whenever they
pay a baby sitter more than $50 in three months. This means I should have paid
Social Security taxes on occasional baby-sitting for which I've paid, on
average, a few hundred dollars a year. I'm in the process of computing the taxes
and interest I owe and will pay that amount promptly."

A 34-year-old White House aide said he thought he was coming to Washington to
work on the President's domestic policy, but found to his dismay that he was
spending more time answering questions about his own "domestics policy."

Astrid E. Merget, chairwoman of the National Academy of Public Administration, a
Congressionally chartered group of 350 government scholars, said the new test
was "an overreaction in the wake of the Zoe Baird phenomenon."

Underground Child Care

"Given the particular situation of most professional women and professional
couples, it's probably common for people to hire child-care workers through the
underground economy and not pay Social Security taxes," said Ms. Merget, a
professor of public policy and management at Ohio State University, in Columbus.
"That practice is troubling but common, and symptomatic of the problem of child
care for working professionals."

Mr. Stephanopoulos said he did not know if Clinton appointees had complied with
all tax and immigration laws in the past, but he promised that President Clinton
would enforce compliance in the future. "The policy of the White House is very
clear," he said. "All the Cabinet officers are supposed to comply with the law."

G. Calvin Mackenzie, a professor of government at Colby College in Waterville,
Me., who has studied the Presidential appointment process for many years, said
he saw nothing inherently unreasonable in the new test.

"It is reasonable to ask people if they've obeyed the law," he said. "But there
is no objective standard of reasonableness here. Presidents live in a political
world, and they have to play within the parameters of that world."

"The reason the Senate has a role in this process is that the people who wrote
the Constitution could not write an objective standard," said Mr. Mackenzie.
"They left the Senate to be the judge of fitness. Nowadays that means that if
you have domestic help, you better pay their Social Security taxes."

Edward R. Meyers, program director of Citizens for Tax Justice, a coalition of
labor unions and public interest groups, said: "It is not outrageous to expect
people to abide by the law. Until the law is changed, people should comply with
it."

Mr. Stephanopoulos said people who belatedly paid taxes for their maids might
still, in some cases, qualify for Government jobs. "A lot of people were not
aware of all the implications of the law relating to Social Security taxes prior
to the Zoe Baird case," he said. "But now we are aware of it, and Cabinet
officials are expected to comply."

In response to inquiries by The New York Times, Clinton Administration officials
and members of Congress generally said they had not knowingly hired illegal
aliens in recent years. Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bensten "has never knowingly
hired any illegal aliens," said his spokesman, H. Christopher Peacock.

Many Say They Complied

Henry G. Cisneros, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, said he "did
have occasional household help over the years." But he said, "We made sure they
were properly documented and paid Social Security."

Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt said he had felt a special obligation to obey
tax and immigration laws because he was Attorney General of Arizona as well as
its Governor.

Carol M. Browner, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, said she had
never employed undocumented aliens, "never had any regular household help" and
sent her 5-year-old son to community day-care centers.

Donna E. Shalala, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, never had occasion
to violate the law, an aide said, because her housing and household workers were
provided to her by her last two employers: the University of Wisconsin at
Madison, where she was chancellor, and Hunter College in New York, where she was
president.

Sam Bernsen, a lawyer who worked at the Immigration and Naturalization Service
from 1939 to 1977, said tonight: "If an undocumented alien was hired before Nov.
6, 1986, clearly there was no violation of the law by the employer. It was not
illegal, immoral or unethical. If the hiring occurred after Nov. 6, 1986, it was
a violation of the law."

"But this law is making lawbreakers out of hundreds of thousands of people who
are otherwise law-abiding citizens," said Mr. Bernsen.



CONGRESS AND ITS HOUSEHOLD HELP



SENATE:


Of 100 Senators, 89 responded through either their press secretaries or other
aides to questions asked by the New York Times.

 89 said the Senator had not employed any illegal alien since 1986.

 88 said the Senator had never employed anyone without paying Social Security
tax for the worker. The remaining Senator, Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington,
said she had used numerous baby sitters over the years without paying Social
Security taxes for them.


 Senate offices refused to answer the questions:

Jeff Bingaman, New Mexico

Dale Bumpers, Arizona

Carl Levin, Michigan

Ted Stevens, Alaska


 Senate offices did not returned several calls:

Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California

Alphonse A. D'Amato, Republican of New York

Lauch Faircloth, Republican of North Carolina

Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina

John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts

Barbara A. Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland

Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES:


Of 435 Representatives, 406 responded to questionnaires, mainly through press
secretaries or other spokesmen.


 406 said the Representative had not employed any illegal alien since 1986.


 398 said the Representative had never employed anyone without paying Social
Security taxes for the worker.

8 said 'Yes,' 'Don't know' or a qualified 'no' to the question of paying Social
Security taxes:

Tom Bevill, Democrat of Alabama: "Don't know." "Impossible to answer because
over the years people have cut his grass or done yard work or baby sat for his
children. Is the question addressed to these circumstances?"

Elizabeth Furse, Democrat of Oregon: "Yes." She has a small farm and hires two
'contract' grape workers each year for two days; they take care of their own
taxes.

Nancy L. Johnson, Republican of Connecticut: "Yes." She employed someone who
cleaned her house once every two weeks.

Pete Peterson, Democrat of Florida: "Yes." Domestic help.

J.J. Pickle, Democrat of Texas: "Yes." Occasionally he hires a housecleaner and
is not sure if this exceeds the $50-a-quarter limit. He does not pay Social
Security taxes on these wages.

David E. Skaggs, Democrat of Colorado: "Yes." Mr. Skaggs faxed the following
response: "After the Baird case, I was amazed to learn that parents owe Social
Security taxes whenever they pay a baby sitter more than $50 in three months.
This means I should have paid Social Security taxes on occasional baby sitting
for which I've paid on average a few hundred dollars a year. I'm in the process
of computing the taxes and interest I owe and will pay that amount promptly."

Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine: "No." She has hired 'LBJ' interns without
withholding Social Security taxes, but she did not think this was a violation of
House rules.

Maxine Waters, Democrat of California: "Yes." "Twenty-five or 30 years ago when
I had kids my neighbors worked as baby sitters"


 9 Representatives' offices refused, for various reasons, to answer the
questions:

Peter Hoagland, Democrat of Nebraska: "We don't respond to surveys."

David L. Hobson, Republican of Ohio: Refusal

Paul E. Kanjorski, Democrat of Pennsylvania: "We don't do surveys of any kind."

John W. Olver, Democrat of Massachusetts: 'We don't participate in polls from
organizations outside our district."

David R. Obey, Democrat of Wisconsin: Usually does not participate in surveys.

Nydia M. Velazquez, Democrat of New York: Refusal

Robert S. Walker, Republican of Pennsylvania: Office policy is not to respond to
polls.

Craig Washington, Democrat of Texas: "I don't think that's anyone's business
even if I did. That's not the way the nation is governed."

Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California: Does not participate in surveys.


 18 offices have not responded:

Herbert H. Bateman, Republican of Virginia

Xavier Becerra, Democrat of California

Anthony C. Beilenson, Democrat of California

George E. Brown Jr., Democrat of California

Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois

Bob Filner, Democrat of California

Richard A. Gephardt, Democrat of Missouri

Henry B. Gonzalez, Democrat of Texas

Bill Gradison, Republican of Ohio

Ralph M. Hall, Democrat of Texas

Alcee L. Hastings, Democrat of Florida

William J. Jefferson, Democrat of Louisiana

Jay C. Kim, Republican of California

William O. Lipinski, Democrat of Illinois

William H. Natcher, Democrat of Kentucky

Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California

Bill Thomas, Republican of California

Sidney R. Yates, Democrat of Illinois


2 House seats are open.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 10, 1993, Wednesday

CORRECTION:

Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about the screening of Clinton
Administration job candidates to determine if they had hired illegal immigrants
or violated household employment tax laws referred incompletely in some copies
to the most recent candidate for Attorney General. She is Judge Kimba M. Wood.

Because of another editing error, the article also referred ambiguously to Judge
Wood's tax history. She did pay such taxes for her domestic help.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown in Washington yesterday. He
said Sunday that he had failed to pay Social Security taxes for a household
worker. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A18)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 12, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Washington Memo;
Household Hiring Is Trickier With New Broom in Capital

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KELLY,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1269 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 11


It hangs low over the city like heavy weather, blighting the bureaucracy,
fraying the nerves of Democrats and, in tornado-like fits of arbitrary
destruction, wrecking careers. It's the first collective angst of the Clinton
years, the unintended consequence of an unexpected job standard. It's a mess.
It's Nannygate.

For scores of prospective appointees to the Clinton Administration, suddenly and
surprisingly, the ambitions of a lifetime rest on the question, not of
education, or experience, or connections, but of practices in hiring household
help.

What began with a clear, if common, case of lawbreaking -- Zoe Baird's knowing
employment of illegal immigrants -- has evolved by accident and miscalculation
into the newest mortal sin of politics, an ill defined and barely understood
offense that is nevertheless damning.

Better Come Clean

"If you ever knowingly hired an illegal alien, that's a killer," says a White
House official. "If you hired someone who was legal but didn't pay Social
Security taxes, you're probably O.K., but only if you come clean and pay the
back taxes."

Mr. Clinton's rule that propriety in household help is a requirement is the
sometimes amused, sometimes outraged talk of the town.

At the Internal Revenue Service and at the offices of private tax lawyers, the
telephones are ringing with such esoteric inquiries as whether a teen-age baby
sitter is considered an employee or a contractor. On Capitol Hill, Senate
Foreign Relations Committee staff members note they are still waiting for the
nominating papers of half a dozen top State Department officials.

At the White House, a bemused offical who regards the President's new litmus
test as something that "in six months will be seen as a joke" was quick to note
that, right now, questions about past household hiring practices rank "just a
notch below" questions about past drug use.

"What next?" muttered a man waiting for the telephone to ring with a call to
work at the State Department. "What happens if I take the tag off the bottom of
my armchair? Will that be the next job-killer?"

'I'm Squeaky Clean'

A woman waiting for a similar call from another agency answered the telephone
with a statement of semi-joking defense. "I want you to know my baby sitter was
born in North Carolina and I have paid taxes on day one," she said. "I'm squeaky
clean."

Their remarks underscore what seems to be a widespread feeling in Washington
that the Clinton Administration has followed, as a Senate Foreign Relations
Committee aide put it, "a progression of ridiculousness" in following the path
from Zoe Baird to Kimba M. Wood and beyond.

To briefly recap:

Mr. Clinton was determined to appoint a woman to be Attorney General. Limited to
the small pool of applicants among Democrats, Mr. Clinton nominated Ms. Baird, a
40-year-old corporate lawyer. It was soon revealed that she had broken the law
by hiring illegal Peruvian aliens, and by failing to pay Social Security taxes
for them. In the face of public outrage, Mr. Clinton withdrew her nomination in
the middle of the night.

The President next focused on Judge Wood, 49, of Federal District Court in New
York, and on Feb. 4 White House aides informed reporters that she was all but
certain to be nominated. The next day, Judge Wood, acting in accordance with Mr.
Clinton's wishes, withdrew. She had, it turned out, hired a baby sitter who was
an illegal alien.

In Good Company

But while Ms. Baird had broken the law, Judge Wood had hired her household help
before it became illegal under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.
Moreover, she had been careful to apprise the authorities and to pay all
necessary taxes.

The descending standard of wrongdoing represented in the progression from Ms.
Baird to Judge Wood made almost everyone suddenly a sinner; 1991 Census Bureau
data showed that only 1 in 4 people who were supposed to pay Social Security for
their household help did so.

But the White House was serious, and proved it on Saturday, when it said it had
ruled out one of the few men considered for Attorney General, the noted
Washington lawyer Charles F. C. Ruff.

Mr. Ruff, who uses a wheelchair because of an illness contracted while teaching
law in Africa, had for years employed a woman to clean his house. He had not
withheld Social Security taxes from her wages, nor paid his matching share of
those taxes, in violation of the law that requires employers to pay Social
Security taxes for any worker paid more than $50 a quarter.

Others Are Questioned

After Mr. Ruff came the deluge. Appearing on the NBC program "Meet the Press" on
Sunday morning, Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown acknowledged that he had
failed to pay taxes for a maid. Mickey Kantor, the United States Trade
Representative, and Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich were questioned, too, and
said they were clean.

On Monday, the White House communications director, George Stephanopoulos, made
the law of Nannygate official, with a pronouncement that henceforth the past
hiring of an illegal alien would "probably be disqualifying" for anyone seeking
one of the 1,100 Presidential appointments subject to Senate confirmation.

In other, increasingly surreal, developments:

Transportation Secretary Federico Pena said he would pay more than $100 in back
taxes owed on the wage of a part-time baby sitter.

Barry Zigas, a Washington housing advocate, was reportedly dropped for
consideration as an assistant secretary of Housing and Urban Development.

Secretary of State Warren Christopher said he had asked a lawyer and an
accountant to review his household records.

Mr. Reich acknowledged that he had hired baby sitters and was likewise checking
his records.

'Dreadfully Serious'

Mr. Stephanopoulos, confronted by a rumor that he had failed to pay taxes for a
house cleaner, told reporters that the person had not been his employee but that
of a cleaning company, and that he had turned over his records to Bernard
Nussbaum, the White House counsel.

"This is becoming dreadfully serious," said the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee staff member who, like others, spoke only on the condition that he not
be named. "Of the dozen or so State Department nominees we are waiting for,
there are at least four for whom this issue has raised questions, and the issue
has slowed the entire process. And it is all very bizarre and unseemly. Can you
imagine how this is being regarded in the salons of Paris and London?"

A Clinton Administration official who is still waiting to proceed from temporary
to permanent employment said, "Before the explosion of Nannygate, I would have
expected to be appointed this week, but now, with people being knocked out or
put on hold while they are re-examined, everything has slowed."

Several analysts close to the Administration spoke, as one put it, of "people
who had been already semi-vetted now being sent back to dredge up their
household files, while everything is put on hold."

The affair makes no one angrier than those caught in endlessly parsed questions.

"People generally feel it was one thing with Zoe Baird, who knowingly broke the
law, but with Kimba Wood, there's a real feeling that she was made a scapegoat,"
said the Administration official waiting for permanent status. "And there's real
resentment that because the Administration allowed the two cases to be
considered morally equivalent, everyone else is now being asked these
questions."

Said the man waiting for the State Department to call, "The whole thing makes me
sorry I didn't vote for Rush Limbaugh."

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 20, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

THE NEW PRESIDENCY: Attorney General;
BAIRD APOLOGIZES TO SENATE PANEL FOR ILLEGAL HIRING

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1162 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 19


Zoe Baird apologized today for hiring two illegal aliens to work in her house,
telling the Senate Judiciary Committee, which is holding hearings on her
nomination as Attorney General, that she had known she was violating the law.

Her apology seemed to satisfy some Senators, but most expressed cautious support
or remained noncommittal, although that did not appear to undermine the
likelihood of her eventual confirmation.

The hearing offered a striking set of tableaux, including the confessions of an
ambitious woman trying to balance career and motherhood and the political
high-wire acts of lawmakers weighing Ms. Baird's credentials against calls and
letters questioning her ethics. The hearing also showcased the debut of the
first two women to serve on the committee, which had infuriated many women with
its heated questioning of Anita F. Hill.

'Forced Into This Dilemma'

Disclosures that Ms. Baird, a 40-year-old corporate lawyer, had knowingly broken
the immigration laws she will have to enforce have placed the judiciary panel in
its most awkward and public position since it held confirmation hearings on the
nomination of Clarence Thomas to the Supreme Court in October 1991. Widely
criticized for their treatment of Ms. Hill, the law professor who accused Judge
Thomas of sexual harassment, Republican and Democratic committee members treated
Ms. Baird with courtesy even as they criticized her conduct.

For her part, Ms. Baird said she accepted full responsibility for deliberately
breaking the law by hiring a Peruvian couple living in the United States
illegally to care for her 3-year-old son, Julian. She said that despite the
advice of a lawyer, she did not pay Social Security taxes until after her
selection by President-elect Bill Clinton.

"I was forced into this dilemma to care for my child," she said. But she also
declared: "People are fairly questioning if there are classes of individuals who
hold themselves above the law. I do not."

Oddly, the most persistent questioning of Ms. Baird came from Democrats, while
Republicans rushed to her defense.

Public interest groups have criticized positions she took while a corporate
lawyer, most recently senior vice president for Aetna Life and Casualty . In
particular, some Democrats are uncomfortable with her activities on behalf of
Vice President Dan Quayle's efforts to limit civil damage suits and her efforts
to weaken Federal protection for whistle blowers.

But these same positions make her attractive to Republicans, and Senator Orrin
G. Hatch of Utah, the ranking Republican on the committee, was profuse in his
compliments. "You are indeed a very competent and qualified candidate," he said,
dismissing her hiring of the Peruvian couple as "an honest mistake."

That was too much for Senator Joseph R. Biden, the Delaware Democrat who is the
committee chairman. He interrupted Mr. Hatch to insist that the violation was no
mere technicality.

"Everybody does not do it," Mr. Biden said. He even said he would have opposed
Ms. Baird's confirmation had she not taken full responsibility, admitted to a
deliberate violation of the law, and promised to work to regain public trust.

Some Senators and aides said their offices had been deluged with calls and
letters criticizing Ms. Baird. They said the criticism came from both men and
women, especially working class women who noted that they had had to pursue
their jobs without the opportunity to hire illegal labor that Ms. Baird's much
higher income had given her.

Consuming Half the Time

Ms. Baird's employment practices consumed about half the five-hour hearing, with
the rest devoted to more conventional Justice Department matters like
law-enforcement and civil rights.

Ms. Baird said she favored the death penalty and pledged to reinvigorate the
efforts of the Justice Department to enforce civil rights laws.

"While there will be partisan issues," Ms. Baird said, the Justice Department
"should not be a partisan department. The department's purpose is to use law to
protect the American people and to use law to enforce the rights of the American
people -- their civil rights, their rights to economic fairness, their rights to
a cleaner environment, their rights to security from crime."

Ms. Baird promised to coordinate her work closely with the Environmental
Protection Agency, to enforce regulations on corporate misconduct tightly and to
restrict appeals in capital cases without jeopardizing the rights of inmates.
She also said, "I want the single urban mother who fears for her children in
school every day because of violent gangs and the elderly widow who is afraid to
go to the supermarket after dark to know that they will have a friend in the
Attorney General."

Scolding by Thurmond

But the defining moments of the hearing came in the pointed questioning of
Senators of Ms. Baird's illegal employment of the Peruvian driver and
baby-sitter.

At one point, Senator Strom Thurmond, Republican of South Carolina, admonished
Ms. Baird like a scolding father.

"You admit you did wrong?" he asked.

"Yes," she replied sheepishly.

"You're sorry you did wrong?"

"Absolutely."

"You're repentant for doing wrong?"

"Yes, sir."

Contrast With Earlier Efforts

Ms. Baird's confession today contrasted with earlier efforts by Clinton aides to
sidestep the issue. When Ms. Baird's infraction was first disclosed in news
reports last week, Clinton transition officials said Ms. Baird had believed she
was acting within the law since she was sponsoring the Peruvian couple's
application for citizenship.

"In my hope to find appropriate child care for my son," she said today, "I gave
too little emphasis to what was described to me as a technical violation of
law." Explaining that she and her husband had hoped to make their employment of
the couple legal by sponsoring them for eventual naturalization, she added, "I
allowed myself to think that the processes set up by the Labor Department and
the Immigration and Naturalization Service gave tacit approval to this sort of
situation."

Under the immigration law, applicants for citizenship cannot be legally employed
until they receive a visa and work permit, which the Peruvian couple did not
have. Federal law requires employers must verify the citizenship status of
people before hiring them. For disobeying this statute, Ms. Baird and her
husband, Paul D. Gewirtz, have paid a fine of $2,900 plus $8,000 in Social
Security taxes and interest. Mr. Gewirtz is a constitutional law scholar who
teaches at Yale University.

At various times in the hearing, senior members sought to highlight the arrival
on the committee of Senators Carol Moseley Braun of Illinois and Dianne
Feinstein of California, in the hope that the two new members will help the
committee overcome assertion that it had not displayed sensitivity to the
concerns of women. While introducing them, Mr. Biden said, "You have no idea how
happy I am."


NAME: Zoe Baird

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Zoe Baird appearing yesterday before the Senate Judiciary
Committee. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 3, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

5 Are Killed in Crash Of a Chased Vehicle

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 171 words

DATELINE: TEMECULA, Calif., June 2


Five people were killed and about a dozen injured today when a stolen utility
vehicle fleeing the Border Patrol collided with a car near a high school in this
town 80 miles southeast of Los Angeles.

Four of the dead were students who were on their way to classes at the school
when the crash occurred about 7:30 A.M. Two of them were pedestrians, and the
two others were passengers in the car, whose driver was also killed when the
collision ripped the car in half.

The injured were about 12 people, described by the Border Patrol as illegal
aliens, who were crammed into the utility vehicle, a Chevrolet Suburban that was
reported stolen in nearby Orange County last week. The Border Patrol did not
identify this vehicle's driver but said he had been engaged in smuggling aliens
from Mexico.

Agents began pursuing the vehicle when it circumvented the Border Patrol station
here about 70 miles north of the Mexican border. In addition to patrolling the
border, the Border Patrol maintains checkpoints north of it.



LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 17, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

California Sees Insurance Fraud In Deliberate Highway Collisions

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 448 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 16


The California authorities say they are cracking down on a kind of insurance
fraud in which automobile drivers purposely collide with tractor-trailers on
freeways.

Organizers of such scams pay illegal aliens as little as $25 to cause the
crashes, the authorities say. Other aliens are paid similar amounts to act as
passengers in the car, and at least one has been killed.

State investigators say they believe doctors and lawyers are among the people
behind such fraud rings, which hope to gain thousands of dollars in legal
settlements from these collisions.

Setting Up Collisions

Keith Miller, assistant chief of the California Highway Patrol, said the
authorities had investigated 347 staged collisions in the last year, half of
them in Los Angeles County.

The hired drivers are ordered to make targets of tractor-trailers because the
rigs are generally well insured and because crashes involving them would
probably produce large injury awards or settlements.

A truck driver who is made a target for a collision is typically locked into his
lane, unable to swerve, by as many as seven vehicles alongside and in front of
him. In one scenario, the driver of the car immediately in front of the truck
slams on his brakes when another car participating in the scam swerves in front
of the first one. The truck then slams into the rear of the first car.

The cars hit by the trucks usually carry many passengers, to produce multiple
insurance claims, said Daniel E. Lungren, the California Attorney General.

"This is crazy, this is dangerous," he said at a news conference on Wednesday as
he stood beside a mangled Pontiac Firebird at a towing yard in Sun Valley, a Los
Angeles suburb.

Murder Charges

The authorities say the Firebird's driver deliberately swerved in front of a big
rig on busy Interstate 5 in the San Fernando Valley last month, causing a
collision that killed one of the car's passengers and injured several others.
Four men, including the driver, have been charged with murder.

Mr. Lungren said that an undercover investigation of three such fraud rings in
the Los Angeles area had led to 20 arrests and that as many as 70 more arrests
were expected.

Mr. Lungren said that files related to such crashes were seized last month from
the offices of three lawyers and that the Highway Patrol was investigating a
fourth lawyer to determine whether he had a role in the fatal crash last month.

Mr. Lungren said he hoped to prosecute lawyers and doctors who might have helped
arrange the accidents or file the claims, but he was not optimistic. "What we
have to show is knowing participation," he said, "and that is very hard to
prove."


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 29, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Trenton Requires Citizen Proof for Drivers

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 872 words

DATELINE: TRENTON, July 28


New Jersey today resumed requiring applicants for driver's licenses to provide
proof of United States citizenship, after a nearly four-week interlude in which
licenses might have been issued to thousands of illegal aliens.

Within hours, two lawyers from Princeton, Bruce I. Afran and Roger C.
Martindell, filed a lawsuit taking the state to court.

"Illegal aliens are here and they are not going to leave because they can't get
a driver's license," Mr. Afran said. "This law is not going to achieve any
practical purpose except to make poor people's lives more miserable then they
already are."

The policy switch came a day after Attorney General Robert J. Del Tufo advised
the Division of Motor Vehicles that he believed the practice was legal and
defensible in court.

Legislative Action Urged

"This matter demands legislative clarification as to what information Motor
Vehicle Services can and should be asking people to supply upon seeking a
license," Mr. Del Tufo said. "The issues are delicate, human and far-reaching,
and should appropriately be considered by the Legislature."

Most states, including New York and Connecticut, require applicants for driver's
licenses to provide documents to prove their identity and age.Only New Jersey
and Colorado place restrictions on undocumented individuals or foreigners, Mr.
Afran said.

The lawsuit was filed on behalf of a dozen individuals and organizations,
including six people listed as illegal aliens but not identified by name.

"The state under the United States Constitution has no right to set immigration
policy," Mr. Afran said. "If the United States Government can't do it or won't
do it, then the state has to accept it.

"Also, under the 14th Amendment, each person is entitled to equal protection of
the law. It does not say each citizen or each resident; it says each person."

Fake Documents Confiscated

There were long lines at dozens of Motor Vehicle Services offices when they
opened for business today, and officials at some offices said they had
confiscated an usually large number of fake documents, including Social Security
cards and passports, from people applying for licenses.

Legal Services of New Jersey, a nonprofit group that provides legal
representation to low-income people, said it was disappointed with the state's
decision to resume the documentation policy, whose legality the group
questioned.

"The Division of Motor Vehicles is not an authority on immigration law," said
Dawn Miller, a lawyer with Legal Services. "Alienage is not a proxy for safe
driving, and there is no reason for the Division of Motor Vehicles to treat
aliens differently from others who seek to demonstrate their ability to drive
safely."

The threat of a lawsuit by Legal Services in December prompted the Division of
Motor Vehicles to rethink the policy. The division's officials asked state
lawyers to give an opinion.

"We were advised in June that we would have to change our policy, that we could
no longer require people to provide proof that they were legally in the
country," Michael A. Santaniello, deputy director of the Division of Motor
Vehicles, said today.

Mr. Afran said he and Mr. Martindell had prepared a lawsuit in early June
challenging the D.M.V. policy, but they withheld their complaint after meeting
with Mr. Santaniello and being told that the state intended to end the practice.

The new directive required applicants for a driver's license to provide only
documents proving identity and age, not legal status in the United States. The
policy took effect on July 1, the first day of a fiscal year that already
promised long lines because of budget cuts that forced motor vehicle agencies to
suspend late-night and weekend services.

As word spread of the policy change, lines at motor vehicle stations grew by the
hundreds, and many patrons were forced to wait up to four hours for service.
Unable to cope with the flood of applicants, dozens of stations were forced to
close at 1 P.M., which only worsened the problem on successive days.

"We did not agree with the position by the Division of Law, and we continued to
solicit the Attorney General for a direct review," Mr. Santaniello said.

Mr. Del Tufo, the Attorney General, issued his opinion on Monday, directing the
D.M.V. to resume the previous policy.

"There was sound legal support for the July 1 policy change," Mr. Del Tufo said.
"However, there are compelling arguments as well that people illegally in this
country have no right to licensure."

Accused of Reneging

Charging that the D.M.V. had reneged on its promise, Mr. Afran went to State
Superior Court today to file suit against the state and the D.M.V.

Mr. Santaniello said that his division had no way of knowing exactly how many
learner's permits or driver's licenses might have been issued to illegal aliens
between July 1 and July 27, but that it was probably in the thousands. He based
that estimate on the number of applicants who showed up without Social Security
numbers, which had been required on New Jersey driver's licenses.

In June, there were 39 applicants for licenses who did not have Social Security
numbers. Since July 1, there have been more than 9,000, he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: New Jersey resumed requiring applicants for driver's licenses to
provide proof of United States citizenship. A woman took the written test
yesterday in the Lawrenceville, N.J., Motor Vehicles office. (Laura Pedrick for
The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 14, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Britain and Sweden Ask Iraq To Free 5 Westerners in Jail

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 134 words

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Oct. 13


Britain and Sweden have filed appeals in a Baghdad court seeking the release of
two Britons and three Swedes serving long prison terms for illegally entering
Iraq, diplomats said today.

Iraq has faced growing pressure to free detained foreigners since last week,
when its seizure of an American munitions expert on the Kuwaiti side of its
border drew protests from the United States. Two days later Iraq released the
American, tacitly admitting that its forces had made a mistake.

The appeals were filed on Friday, said Gleb Dessiatnikov, a Russian diplomat
looking after British interests.

The Swedes -- Christer Stromgren, Stefan Wihlborg and Leif Westerberg -- are
serving seven-year sentences, as is Paul Ride, a Briton. Michael Wainwright, the
other Briton, is serving a 10-year term.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 15, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Anti-Immigrant Attitude Starts in Washington;
Plenty Here Already

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 237 words


To the Editor:

"Canada's policies will still be more liberal than those of the United States,"
you state in your Dec. 22 report on Canada's new immigration law, and "Canada
assesses applicants on the basis of professional, educational and financial
backgrounds." But our Federal laws reserve relatively small numbers for
professionals and the highly skilled.

Most United States immigrant visas go to the immediate relatives of people
already here, without regard to job skills or educational level -- we welcome
the semiliterate and illiterate, the uneducated and the unskilled. Then we
wonder why, during the Los Angeles riots -- which the news media depicted as an
uprising by blacks because of the Rodney King verdict -- most of those arrested
for looting were poor immigrant Latinos, a good portion of them here illegally.

Our sentimental and unenforced immigration laws, by welcoming individuals who
because of language problems and lack of skills have almost no chance of
achieving the American dream, are sowing the seeds of discontent, especially in
places like Los Angeles, Miami and Dallas. In 1991 alone, 1.8 million immigrants
were legalized. Such a huge influx may have been appropriate when America was
still being built and there was a vast continent to be settled. But America is
already settled, and there are plenty of people here already.

GEORGE TYNDALL
Los Angeles, Dec. 29, 1992

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 26, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Helping the Bidders for Soviet Scientists

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 179 words


To the Editor:

"World-Class Research for a Song" (Business Day, Jan. 11), on Russian
scientists, fails to mention the Soviet Scientists Immigration Act of 1992,
signed into law by President Bush last Oct. 24.

Although the Immigration and Naturalization Service has issued neither interim
nor final regulations implementing the act, it will provide 750 immigrant visas
(permanent residence) to scientists from the former Soviet Union. In particular,
the act encompasses all of the former Soviet Union, not only Russia.

The act also allows the qualifying scientist and immediate family to immigrate
without the necessity of having to obtain an offer of employment from a United
States company or of having to go through the demanding and sometimes tedious
labor certification process.

It would seem that not only will certain United States companies be able to hire
these talented scientists with lower salaries, but they will also be able to
bring them to the United States as immigrants on an expedited basis.

DAVID J. HART
Miami, Jan. 11, 1993


LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 8, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Good Enough to Fight, But Not for Citizenship

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 889 words


Although his eyes have grown dimmer, the slight, white-haired Filipino veteran
vividly remembers taking an oath of allegiance to the United States of America,
half a century ago in the mountains of Sara on Iloilo island in the Philippines.

The former second lieutenant, Uldarico D. Dumdum, now 74 years old, proudly
displays a pile of yellowed, dog-eared military records, from induction
documents to benefits papers, showing that he served three years under the
United States Armed Forces in the Far East.

Mr. Dumdum was therefore shattered to learn that his petition for United States
citizenship had been rejected because his name could not be found in the
Department of the Army's records in St. Louis. It is a story of rejection that
has become familiar to Filipino veterans who won permission to apply for
citizenship under provisions of the 1990 Immigration Act and then found that
their applications were rejected because the Army did not have records of their
service.

"My father wept when he received the denial because he had served the United
States armed forces loyally with dignity," said his son, Rex Dumdum, a Ph.D.
candidate at SUNY Binghamton. It was "this act of injustice" that persuaded the
Dumdums to do what other Filipinos have done: take their struggle to court.

Wants to Show Documents

On Dec. 29, Uldarico Dumdum filed a suit in Federal District Court in
Binghamton, charging that the Immigration and Naturalization Service has
"arbitrarily and capriciously" denied his right to become a United States
citizen. The suit names the Immigration and Naturalization Service and John J.
Ingham, the agency's district director in Buffalo, as defendants. A hearing is
scheduled for the end of April.

"Mr. Dumdum is asking the Judge to look at his documents or at least instruct
the I.N.S. to verify his military record and not rely on the Army's inaccurate
roster," said his lawyer, Hillary T. Fraser. "If they just examine his documents
-- some of them were issued by American authorities in the Philippines -- they
will see he has an impressive case."

Under the 1942 Second War Powers Act, Congress provided naturalization benefits
to all aliens serving under United States command. But the Philippines, then
under Japanese occupation, was excluded. After the war, there were only limited
naturalizations because the Philippine Government feared mass emigration of
able-bodied men.

Then in the 1990 Immigration Act, Filipinos were declared eligible for
naturalization if they had served in the United States Armed Forces in the Far
East, the Philippine Army, the Philippine Scouts or a recognized guerrilla unit
between Sept. 1, 1939, and Dec. 31, 1946.

About 50 Percent Denied

Thus far, 23,900 Filipino veterans have applied for verification of service,
said Joyce Wiesner, a spokeswoman at the Army Reserve Personnel Center in St.
Louis. She said she could not say how many applications had been rejected
because the Philippines Army Section "only verifies or doesn't verify the names
submitted."

In Washington, Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said this week that 10,000 Filipino veterans have been naturalized
under the 1990 law and that 7,550 have been approved pending final interviews.
He expects an additional 50,000 veterans may become citizens, especially now
that naturalization no longer requires a trip to the United States.

But Philip D. Abramowitz, a lawyer in Encino, Calif., who represents more than
100 Filipino veterans, said this week that about 50 percent of the veterans
applying for naturalization are denied because the Army cannot verify their
service, even those who have United States military documents issued in the
Philippines.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is appealing a decision last fall by
a Federal judge in California to grant naturalization to five Filipino veterans,
who possessed Philippine military records, but whose names were not on the Army
list. At the hearing, Col. Edwin Ramsey testified that only half of his 50,000
Filipino soldiers were included on the Army's roster out of a concern that
benefits be limited and money saved.

Enchanted by America

These complications are far from what Mr. Dumdum expected when news of the
legislation reached the Philippines and he decided to fulfill a boyhood dream.
On two earlier visits to see his son and his wife and their daughter in
Binghamton, Mr. Dumdum had been enchanted with American organization,
efficiency, sports, "even hot dogs and cracker jacks," the son said.

Thinking that the naturalization process would go faster if he applied in the
United States, Mr. Dumdum arrived in the United States in April 1991. With help
from the American Civic Association, a nonprofit group in Binghamton, he sent in
his application the following month, then waited.

Nearly one year later, the Immigration and Naturalization Service office in
Albany denied his petition.

At the end of November, suffering from heart problems and sorely missing his
wife, Mr. Dumdum went home to Davao in the Philippines.

His son said he would pursue the campaign and expressed cautious optimism that
the Clinton Administration would change the policies. "Let's hope my dad gets
citizenship before he dies," he said lightly, but his voice choked.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 3, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Court Is Asked to Back Haitians' Return

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1072 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 2


The Clinton Administration argued in the Supreme Court today for the right to
continue picking up fleeing Haitians at sea and returning them to their country
without asylum hearings, a Bush Administration policy that President Clinton had
denounced as "cruel" and illegal when he was running for President last year.

In the absence of both an Attorney General and a Solicitor General, the White
House had to rely on a staff lawyer in the solicitor general's office in its
appeal. Last summer, a Federal appeals court ruled that the policy on Haitians
violated rights guaranteed to refugees by the country's basic immigration law.

Maureen E. Mahoney, a deputy solicitor general, told the Justices that the
President had emergency powers under the immigration law to carry out a policy
to avert a "humanitarian tragedy at sea."

"The President is determined that in order to prevent a mass migration and the
loss of hundreds or thousands of lives at sea, the policy of direct repatriation
must continue," Ms. Mahoney told the Court.

Clinton Concedes a Point

Harold Hongju Koh, a professor of law at Yale University, arguing on behalf of a
group of Haitians affected by the policy that President George Bush issued last
May, told the Justices, "The fact that the new policy is effective and has
terrified people so they won't leave does not make it legal."

President Clinton himself, at a White House picture-taking session today, said
that "maybe I was too harsh in my criticism" of Mr. Bush.

"But I still think there's a big difference between what we're doing in Haiti
and what they were doing in Haiti," Mr. Clinton said. "You know, something that
was never brought up before but is now painfully apparent is, that if we did
what the plaintiffs in the court case want, we would be consigning a very large
number of Haitians in all probability to some sort of death warrant."

Professor Koh said the Government could not invoke the immigration laws as the
authority to pick up refugees on the high seas without also being bound by the
restraints contained in those laws. "They want the power without the restraint,"
he said. "They can't have it both ways."

Timing Is Awkward

The case arrived on the Court's calendar at a most awkward time for Mr. Clinton,
who is simultaneously trying to develop both a policy toward Haiti and an
Administration to carry it out. Last summer, he praised the appeals court
decision that invalidated the repatriation program. The Supreme Court granted
the Bush Administration a stay of the appeals court's ruling, while agreeing in
October to hear the appeal. Briefs were filed before Inauguration Day.

The case has become a cause celebre at Mr. Clinton's alma mater, Yale Law
School, where the team of professors and students who brought the original
lawsuit have been highly critical of the President.

At the White House today, George Stephanopoulos, the communications director,
said the policy of intercepting the Haitians at sea was "a policy for
exceptional circumstances," made necessary to "avert a humanitarian tragedy that
could result from a large boat exodus." Meanwhile, Mr. Stephanopoulos said, the
Administration is speeding up review of requests for asylum made by Haitians to
the United States Embassy in Port-au-Prince. He said Mr. Clinton would meet on
March 16 with President Jean-Bertrand Aristide of Haiti, whose overthrow in a
military coup in 1991 led to the crisis.

Former Clerks Face Off

The unusual politics of the situation were not readily apparent in the courtroom
today, as two former Supreme Court law clerks presented well-prepared arguments.
Ms. Mahoney clerked for Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist during the Court's
1979 term, when he was an Associate Justice, and Mr. Koh clerked for Justice
Harry A. Blackmun two years later.

The Justices paid close attention during the hourlong argument but gave little
evidence of how they would rule. At one point, Justice Antonin Scalia
interrupted Ms. Mahoney's description of the humanitarian basis of the policy to
say: "None of this has anything to do with the legal issue in front of us. Maybe
we can talk about that."

Despite that display of impatience, Justice Scalia appeared equally skeptical
toward parts of Mr. Koh's argument. When Mr. Koh said that under the logic of
the Administration's case, President Aristide himself could be returned, Justice
Scalia commented that simply because something was "horrible" did not mean that
"there's a law against it."

There are several legal arguments in the case. One central issue is whether
foreigners seeking asylum who have not yet reached United States territory have
the same legal protection against forcible return that applies to those seeking
asylum within the country.

A 1952 Law Is Basis

The Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, the basic immigration law, simply
authorized the Attorney General to "withhold deportation of any alien within the
United States" if the alien's life or freedom would be in peril in his home
country.

In 1980, Congress amended that section of the law to provide that the Attorney
General "shall not deport or return any alien" under those circumstances. The
change was made to conform domestic law to a United Nations protocol on refugees
that the United States signed in 1968.

Mr. Koh argued successfully before the United States Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit, in New York, that the 1980 amendment extended the law's original
protections to aliens not yet in the United States. "This statute effectuates an
international human rights norm," he said today. He said it was "the plain
language of the statute and treaty" that "you don't send people back."

Ms. Mahoney said that in agreeing to the United Nations refugee treaty neither
the United States nor any other country could be thought to have given up its
ability to stop a "mass invasion by foreigners."

Mr. Koh said his position would not require the United States to accept all
Haitian immigrants. He said there were other islands the Haitians might reach if
they were not prevented from leaving by a "floating Berlin wall."

For 10 years until last May, United States policy was to intercept Haitians at
sea and not to send them back without first giving them a chance to show that
they were entitled to asylum. Under the new policy, that determination can be
made only by American officials in Haiti.


LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 25, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

PLEAS FOR ASYLUM INUNDATE SYSTEM FOR IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2164 words


Barely two years after it was altered to abolish harsh and arbitrary procedures,
the American system of political asylum cannot cope with the growing crowds of
people at the nation's gates, immigration officials say.

Nationwide, more than 250,000 foreigners are waiting in line to see one of only
150 asylum officers. Some have been waiting for years. All say they fear
persecution at home, and immigration officials estimate that tens of thousands
really are running for their lives. Under the law, most are allowed into the
United States immediately, physically on free soil, but legally in limbo.

Because of the backup, half have no hope of a hearing in the foreseeable future
and thus no resolution of their cases.

Compassion and Control

"Our twin goals are compassion and control, said Gregg A. Beyer, director of
asylum at the Immigration and Naturalization Service. "For half the people
applying for asylum, we are giving neither."

Many of those who apply for asylum are abusing the system, officials say, using
it as a way to better their lives rather than to flee repression. More than a
few frauds and felons are among them, and the overwhelmed asylum system cannot
tell the terrorist from the terrified.

Congress, after learning that a suspect in the World Trade Center bombing
entered the nation by pleading for asylum, will begin hearings this week on
proposals to put thousands of arriving asylum-seekers on the next flight out.

'So Easy to Defeat the System'

"Our national philosophy is to accept people fleeing persecution," said Verne
Jervis, an immigration agency spokesman. "We don't want to turn them away. There
are good people who deserve asylum, no question about it. But it's so easy to
defeat the system, a 10-year-old could do it. There are bad people who show up
and say, 'I'll be killed if you send me back.' And we have no choice but to
admit them."

Immigration officials and immigrants' advocates agree that the system is not
working, but disagree as to why. I.N.S. officials say that legal reforms
intended to insure that asylum-seekers are treated with justice force them to
admit the bad with the good. But critics of the agency say it has so few asylum
officers trained to uphold those rights and root out wrongdoers that the system
cannot help but fail.

Each day the ideal of political asylum confronts reality at places like Newark,
where last year 23 regional officers faced 23,743 people who sought asylum, and
at Kennedy International Airport, where dozens of asylum-seekers with false
travel documents, or no documents at all, enter the United States each week.
Immigration officers say an international grapevine has identified Kennedy as an
easy target.

"I've been here 17 years and I've never seen anything like it," said John
Mirandona, the ranking I.N.S. enforcement officer at Kennedy. "If all of these
claims were valid, I'd let them all in. That's what this country's all about.
But 9,000 people came through here last year looking for asylum. It's my job to
identify them, and sometimes I don't have a clue."

Last year, 103,447 people from 154 nations sought political asylum in the United
States. The greatest numbers came from Guatemala, El Salvador, the former Soviet
Union, the former Yugoslavia, China, Cuba, India and Pakistan. By September,
330,000 people will be waiting for hearings. If the nation sealed its borders,
the last of them would not be heard until well after the turn of the century.

The asylum problems reflect those of the nation's immigration system as a whole,
which each year tries to control millions of people seeking to enter the
country, legally and illegally. Many arrive on tourist visas and overstay the
legal limit; some are smuggled in or otherwise cross the borders illegally.

Nearly one million foreigners applied for citizenship last year. One in ten
asked for asylum; one in seven were refugees selected abroad for resettlement in
the United States by the State Department.

New Corps Redefines A Cold-War System

America's asylum officers were hired in 1991 to reform a cold-war system that
was often cruel and capricious. No Federal asylum law existed until 1980, and no
regulations defined the law until 1990. In their absence, the process was
politicized.

"People fleeing from communism had an open door, but people fleeing death squads
run by our friends could not enter," said, Maurice Roberts, a senior immigration
official for 25 years.

In the 1980's, thousands seeking asylum from El Salvador and Guatemala were
jailed and deported. These were "years of seemingly purposeful blindness" at the
agency, Justice Harry Blackmun of the Supreme Court wrote in a 1987 case that
said the agency had violated basic asylum standards.

Roger P. Winter, the former director of the United States Office of Refugee
Resettlement, said: "People wound up in jail for years. Asylum became a real
battleground, a stunning example of how arbitrary a system can be."

With the collapse of the Soviet Union, a system that had been set up largely for
people fleeing communism was forced to redefine itself.  The immigration agency
created the asylum officer corps to supplant agency enforcers who were, in
effect, police officers acting as judges. The new corps has won praise from many
quarters for fairness.

But as the system gained a measure of compassion, it may have lost a measure of
control. It has become less abusive, but more abused by people seeking to
defraud it. An immigrant can arrive at an airport, having destroyed his travel
documents, plead for asylum and leave with only a tentative court date in 1995.

The fledgling corps of 150 asylum officers is far smaller than its counterparts
in Australia, France, Germany, Holland, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland or Britain.
Of those, only Germany has more people waiting for asylum than the United
States.

One consequence is fraud. "It's an invitation to abuse," said Michael Maggio, an
immigration lawyer in Washington. "But if you're a bona fide refugee, the
system's a horror."

Muzaffar Chishti, who heads the National Immigration Forum, a coalition of legal
and church groups, said he and his fellow advocates contributed to the problems.
"We reformed the system to address the awful practices of the past," he said.
"The reforms were well intended, thoughtful, humane. But they led to a
considerable amount of fraud."

In 1991, said Mr. Chishti, immigrants began "shopping for airports. J.F.K. was
seen as particularly porous. There are asylum-seekers from all over the world
there whose claims are fraudulent. So we have a mess."

The mess confronts William S. Slattery, the immigration service's district
director for New York, as he paces in the agency's pastel holding room at
Kennedy International Airport, where 25 asylum-seekers arrive on an average day.
He said Congress must change the law to allow him to send most of them packing
after a quick hearing at Kennedy.

Where Compassion And Control Collide

"The issue is: Who's going to control the borders of the United States?" he
said. "The aliens have taken control. The third world has packed its bags and
it's moving."

The immigration service holding room at Kennedy is where the ideals of
compassion and control collide. Cathy Bryant, an inspector for the agency, is
talking with Wang Ke Jia from Fuzhou, China. He is 43 years old, wearing a
nervous smile and a cheap suit. Its pockets hold no visa, no passport. The
immigration service has no idea what flight he came in on.

Mr. Wang said he paid a smuggler $18,000 to help him escape his homeland. He
wants refuge from China's birth-control edicts, taking a side street to asylum
opened by the Bush Administration. He has four children; the limit is two. He
lost his job for breaking the rules, he said.

"I always heard there is plenty of opportunity here," he told Ms. Bryant.

Mr. Wang will be released for now. The immigration service will not force
asylum-seekers to return to China. But it may return Mr. Wang to the country he
came in from, if it can figure out where that was.

Next case: Yonis Elime Okiye, 28 years old, a handsome Somali in a blue blazer
and elegant Italian shoes. In perfect English he tells a moving story of
imprisonment and torture at the hands of warlords in Mogadishu, of fleeing to
Yemen, then to Milan, where he bought a fake Ethiopian passport and visa for
$1,000. He destroyed them over the Atlantic.

"It is my hope and I do expect that the American Government will assist me out
of a sense of humanity," he said.

Mr. Mirandona, the immigration agency's port director at Kennedy, is skeptical
of Mr. Okiye and his soft shoes. "This guy, he knows the score," he said. Most
of the visas Mr. Mirandona he sees from asylum-seekers are altered or false.
That confronts him with a moral and bureaucratic problem.

"The fact that you present a bad document does not mean in and of itself that
you are bad," he said. "It's logical that someone fleeing from a bad place has a
bad document. Sure, it's a bad document, but is the claim real? What happens the
first time I send someone back to -- it may not be a death squad, but
imprisonment?"

Mr. Mirandona hews to a system of sorts: when aliens seek political asylum, the
immigration agency takes down their histories and tells them they have rights to
a hearing and a lawyer. They may be jailed, but the agency's 400 beds in New
York usually are filled. In most cases, they are free to go, to seek a temporary
work permit, and to wait for a hearing.

Some immigration enforcement officers take a dim view of the process; rather
than give every asylum-seeker a hearing, they want fewer applicants with fewer
rights.

For the Oppressed, 'Cities of Refuge'

Many of those rights are based on Federal and international laws that say people
with "a well-founded fear of persecution" will not be refused asylum. In a world
where, according to Amnesty International, 142 nations torture, kill or
arbitrarily jail their citizens, said Mr. Winter, "political asylum rests on the
idea that if you run from your government, we will not send you back."

The idea is found in the Old Testament's Book of Numbers, where God commands
Moses to build "cities of refuge . . . both for the children of Israel, and for
the stranger, and for the sojourner among them." And it is woven in the lines of
Emma Lazarus's 1883 sonnet, "The New Colossus," written for Russian refugees
fleeing pogroms and inscribed on a tablet beneath the Statue of Liberty:

 Give me your tired, your poor,
 Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free,
 The wretched refuse of your teeming shore
 Send these, the homeless, tempest-tost, to me
 I lift my lamp beside the golden door.

To Dan Stein, director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, the
nation's leading anti-immigrant lobby, Lazarus's lines are a sentimental vestige
of a bygone America. "Forget about the lamp and the door," Mr. Stein said. "No
more standing in front of the statue welcoming the world. We cannot accommodate
even a fraction of the people who want to move here."

Mr. Stein has won attention in Congress by underlining the fact that Ramzi Ahmed
Yousef, the missing suspect in the World Trade Center bombing, entered the
United States without a visa in September by pleading for political asylum. He
wants to replace the asylum laws with a system of summary exclusion, by which
nearly everyone seeking asylum could be turned away.

"Unless the system changes, we're going to have a bloody battle and it's either
going to be settled by effective political leadership or it's going to be
settled in the street," Mr. Stein said.

'It Struck a Chord; Frankly, It's Fear'

Both houses of Congress will hold hearings this week on bills to restrict asylum
through summary exclusion, to put immigration service inspectors in
international airports, and to expel asylum-seekers whose papers are not in
order. Some staff members for the Senate Judiciary Committee also are talking
about doubling the asylum officer corps, but they predict some form of summary
exclusion will be enacted. They say Mr. Stein's call has been heard loud and
clear.

"It struck a chord," one said. "Frankly, it's fear -- fear that we're being
inundated by people we don't know anything about."

Fear is no rationale for law, said Demetrios G. Papademetriou, director of
immigration policy at the Department of Labor from 1988 to 1992. "You need a
system that is going to be true to the highest possible standards," he said.

"The fall of communism took away the political glue" that held asylum policy
together, he said. "Now far too many people may be willing to say we should
eliminate the asylum system. We have a responsibility to protect people. A
humane, compassionate but tough system has got to make hard, hard political
decisions. Are Soviet Jews people that need to be protected? Are Cubans? These
are questions that people die over."

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nationally more than 250,000 foreigners are waiting to see one
of only 150 asylum officers. Cathy Bryant, left, an inspector at Kennedy
International Airport for the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
interviewed two immigrants from the People's Republic of China seeking political
asylum. Xuan Kieu Nguyen, right, and her brother Phuc Dinh, Vietnamese refugees
who had been processed as legal immigrants through a program of the United
States State Department, filed papers with Harold Rose, an inspector for the
I.N.S. (Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) (pg. 50)

Graph/Table: "IMMIGRATION: Seeking Asylum in the U.S." - Graph tracks asylum
applications filed with the Immigration and Naturalization Service in each
fiscal year, 1980-1992; table lists top 10 countries of origin of asylum
applicants in 1992 (Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service) (pg. 50)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 10, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

No Room for Sentiment on Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 204 words


To the Editor:

Re your inclusion of Emma Lazarus's "New Colossus" in "Pleas for Asylum Inundate
System for Immigration" (front page, April 25), to whose sentiments some
Americans might still adhere: the bitter reality is that we are not the same
country we were in 1883.

At the time of the poem there were still vast areas of undeveloped land as well
as seemingly inexhaustible natural resources. As much as we might like to think
that our immigration policy then was based on America's magnanimous character,
is it not more likely it was our insatiable appetite for cheap labor that drove
open-door immigration policies?.

Now that the United States has entered middle age, it is time for us to
acknowledge our inability to continue to absorb an endless stream of immigrants.
We can no longer base immigration laws on lofty sentiments. Given our economic
problems (most notably the protracted unemployment), we've got to make some
possibly harsh decisions on immigration.

The World Trade Center bombing highlights another reason not to tolerate a lax
immigration system: the unchecked entry of dangerous individuals harboring
deadly anti-American agendas.

STEVEN A. JENSEN
Brooklyn, April 29, 1993

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 15, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Don't Make Asylum Seekers Hysteria Victims;
Suspicious Policy Shift

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 427 words


To the Editor:

Having been interviewed at length for your April 25 front-page article on the
asylum system, I was surprised by its one-sided reliance on Immigration and
Naturalization Service officials and the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, the anti-immigrant group.

* You overstate the undocumented asylum seekers arriving at Kennedy
International Airport. At the present rate, 7,000 such applicants will arrive at
Kennedy this year, 22 percent fewer than in fiscal year 1992. These airport
cases in no way add to the overburdened asylum system, as none of them are heard
by the 150 asylum officers you mention.

All are referred directly to immigration judges. Hearings are scheduled four
months from arrival, not for "sometime in 1995." Employment authorization is far
from automatic, but requires a determination by the immigration agency that the
asylum claim is "nonfrivolous," and it is terminated on an applicant's failure
to appear for a hearing or on denial of the application.

* Blame is wrongly assigned to asylum advocates in pressing for reforms that
invite fraud. I initiated meetings with immigration agency asylum officials on
the national and local level to discuss punitive actions against lawyers and
unauthorized representatives who assist asylum fraud. While these officials have
identified the offenders and are committed to taking action, the enforcement
branches of the immigration agency have remained unresponsive.

* You give the false impression that the Immigration and Naturalization Service
has no choice but to release all asylum seekers at the airport because of
insufficient detention space. Having represented hundreds of asylum seekers
since 1989, I can state that before 1991 the agency detained all airport asylum
seekers, partly by transferring aliens to detention facilities in other parts of
this country and by using motels near the airport. The detained aliens faced
expedited hearings, and few were released before having been granted asylum.
Aliens were rerouting to avoid arrival in New York.

You failed to question why this model of efficiency became the most porous
United States port of entry overnight. The sudden policy shift has created a
"crisis," which will likely lead to legislation dangerously curtailing the right
to asylum. Less drastic administrative changes could remedy most risks without
threatening the protection of legitimate refugees.

JEFFREY S. CHASE
Co-Chairman, Asylum and Refugee Committee, American Immigration Lawyers
Association
New York, May 4, 1993

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 15, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Don't Make Asylum Seekers Hysteria Victims

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 252 words


To the Editor:

Concern about refugees is growing in the aftermath of the World Trade Center
bombing, but criticisms of asylum procedures are misdirected. The law allows the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to detain those suspected of being
criminals and national security risks to prevent entry into the United States.
The solution to the anomalous situations in the bombing case is not to change
immigration laws, but better coordination among Federal agencies and better
administration of laws by the immigration agency and State Department.

To change a law that does not need changing, Senator Alan Simpson and
Representative Bill McCollum have introduced bills to turn back asylum
applicants arriving at airports who lack travel documents. These bills would
preclude women and children from Bosnia who have been victims of rape, torture
and ethnic cleansing from seeking refuge in the United States. They would have
life-and-death consequences for a Somali refugee who managed to escape from
prison where he was being held without trial and repeatedly tortured.

What the Simpson and McCollum bills ignore is that asylum seekers often cannot
obtain travel documents. It is preposterous to expect those who are being
persecuted by their governments to ask for a passport to flee their countries.
The proposed legislation would remove refugee protection.

JAMES J. HAGGERTY
Chmn., Immigration and Nationality Law Committee, Assn. of the Bar of the City
of New York
New York, May 6, 1993

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 31, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Noncitizens and Right to Vote;
Advocates for Immigrants Explore Opening Up Balloting

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1310 words


They are, by most measures, typical New Yorkers who pay taxes, endure the
subways, send their children to city schools and complain about rents, crime and
alternate-side-of-the-street parking. But one thing sets them apart.

As legal immigrants who are not United States citizens, one million New Yorkers
cannot vote in city elections. One-eighth of the population, they are, in the
traditional political sense, powerless. But that could change.

Increasingly, advocates for immigrants here -- as in Washington, Los Angeles and
several smaller cities across the nation -- have begun exploring the sensitive
issue of securing voting privileges for immigrants who are not citizens.

"It is said that immigrants' rights are the civil rights of the 1990's," said
Jamin Raskin, an American University law professor who is the intellectual
author of this grass-roots drive. "By that logic, noncitizen voting is the
suffrage movement of the decade."

If noncitizens were given a voice in local politics, proponents say, they would
not feel the impotence that occasionally spills over into the kind of street
violence that recently erupted in the Dominican neighborhood of Washington
Heights. But opponents counter that the right to vote should be earned, not
given away; it is a prize that many citizens fought to obtain.

There are about 10 million legal immigrants who are not United States citizens.
Some are not yet eligible because they only recently arrived or earned legal
status; others are unwilling, for personal and financial reasons, to renounce
their homelands. In number at least, they represent a potential political force
of some diversity and dimension, particularly in such cities as New York.

That, in part, is why this issue is so threatening to some and so appealing to
others. But equally important to many critics is that, in their eyes, the
concept of voting rights tinkers with the very notion of what it means to be a
United States citizen.

"No one should be given the franchise without taking the Pledge of Allegiance,"
said Daniel Stein, executive director of the Federation of American Immigration
Reform, a Washington-based group that supports stricter immigration controls.
"If you divorce citizenship and voting, citizenship stops having any meaning at
all."

Ethnic Tensions Fanned

In cities where legislation was drafted to give noncitizens the vote, ethnic
political tensions have been quickly fanned, particularly between blacks and
Latinos. In others, even discussion of such efforts has elicited anti-immigrant
sentiments. And so far this year, only the suburban town of Takoma Park, Md.,
has succeeded in granting noncitizen immigrants the right to vote.

Most state legislatures -- which the United States Constitution charges with
defining the electorate -- are chronically reluctant to make election law
changes. Nonetheless, the debate is gaining energy.

In New York, for example, the recent protests and rioting in the Dominican
community of Washington Heights gave fresh momentum to a noncitizen
voting-rights drive. The New York State Assembly's 24-member Task Force on New
Americans plans to introduce a bill this summer that will enable municipalities
to extend the vote to immigrants who are residents but not citizens.

Until World War I, nearly half of the states in the country allowed immigrants
to vote at one time or another, even in Presidential elections. Aliens enjoyed
voting rights that many citizens -- blacks and women -- did not.

After World War I, at a moment of high military nationalism, state after state
purged their constitutions of alien suffrage provisions, although the nation has
continued to draft immigrants at times of war. Many states, New York among them,
now specify that voters must be citizens. Others, such as Maryland, leave voter
criteria up to the localities.

Five Maryland suburbs, in fact, have been allowing aliens to vote for decades
without controversy but they are primarily members of the diplomatic community.

'Taxpayers and Neighbors'

What happened in Takoma Park, population 17,000, was different. Ideology was
involved.

The suburb provided sanctuary to Salvadoran and Guatemalan refugees in the
1980's; some 2,000 noncitizen immigrants, mostly Central Americans, now live
there. When it came time to draw up new voting wards, equal in population, based
on 1990 Census numbers, an injustice manifested itself, said Professor Raskin, a
Takoma Park resident. Those wards with immigrant populations had fewer voters.

"They may be aliens from a national or international perspective, but locally
they are taxpayers, neighbors and parents of kids in schools," Professor Raskin
said. "No taxation without representation, remember?"

The Takoma Park "Share the Vote" campaign, which succeeded last November by the
slimmest of margins, made one dark argument amid its idealism: People without
access to normal channels of political participation will find other ways,
perhaps violent ways, to make their grievances understood. Look at Mount
Pleasant, advocates said.

In Mount Pleasant, a neighborhood in Washington, Central Americans rioted in the
spring of 1991 after police officers wounded a Salvadoran man they said was
wielding a knife. As in Washington Heights, the immigrants took to the streets
to vent frustrations that they said were never paid any heed -- because no
politician was beholden to them.

Buoyed by the success of the campaign in Takoma Park and sobered by a visit to
El Salvador, the Washington City Council member who represents Mount Pleasant
sponsored his own bill for noncitizens. But when community leaders, especially
blacks, protested the very concept, Councilman Frank Smith Jr., who is black,
shrunk his measure to apply only to immigrants who have formally applied for
citizenship, a relatively small group. The bill comes up for a hearing in
September.

"The Latino versus African-American issue is not an issue of political power at
this point; it's an issue of economics," Mr. Smith said. "Some folks say I'm
encouraging people to stay here and compete with us. But they're going to stay
here anyway. "

Also this spring, in Los Angeles, Leticia Quezada, the first Latina president of
the school board, formally proposed allowing noncitizen parents to vote in
school board elections. Her "parent empowerment" proposal, interpreted by
opponents as a masked attempt to expand her constituency, particularly angered
black educators. A school board vote was postponed, even as Latino parents
threatened to pull their children out of school in protest.

"Unfortunately, the temperament of this state, particularly in a recession, is
significantly anti-immigrant," Ms. Quezada said. "But even if this is something
that cannot be done immediately, I believe we are at the infancy stage of a new
movement."

The ethnic dynamics may prove to be different in New York than they were in
Washington and Los Angeles. In New York, the immigrant population is more
diverse, with large numbers of non-Latino black Caribbean immigrants.

"You'll have certain populations resentful, but possibly it won't be the
African-Americans here, but the old-line whites," said Dennis Walcott, president
of the New York Urban League.

If history is any lesson, perhaps even the idea will be less controversial in
New York, particularly in the city.

In the late 1960's, a radical move in New York City went largely unnoticed. With
the decentralization of the New York City schools, all parents -- illegal and
legal immigrants included -- were awarded the right to vote in the 32 community
school board elections.

Although a very local privilege, it has been used in some neighborhoods to
reshape community politics. In Washington Heights, an active parent registration
drive in 1986 brought in 10,000 parent voters, most of them immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 26, 1992, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 40 words


Because of an editing error, an article on Thursday about the effectiveness of
the 1986 immigration law misstated a provision in some copies. Farmers with
fewer than 10 employees do not have to comply with Federal health and safety
laws.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 9, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Official Is Accused of Bribery

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 190 words


An examiner for the Immigration and Naturalization Service was charged yesterday
with soliciting cash bribes and sexual favors from women who were seeking
Employment Authorization Cards.

The examiner was identified as Allen William Grant, 42 years old, of Staten
Island, who worked in a Manhattan office of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service's Legalization Center. He was named in a criminal complaint filed in
Federal District Court in Manhattan.

The United States Attorney's office announced that Mr. Grant was charged with
"soliciting sexual favors from women who were applying for Employment
Authorization Cards" as well as from women who were working to assist others in
applying for the work permits.

On several occasions, the prosecutor's office continued, Mr. Grant arranged to
meet female applicants outside his I.N.S. office building and took some of them
to a Manhattan hotel.

He was also charged with receiving $19,000 in cash from a woman who was employed
in assisting applicants. Federal authorities said the woman had spurned his
sexual requests but had paid him $1,000 each for his approval of 19 cards.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 31, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

It's 1993, and Europe Still Has Borders

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING;  ALAN RIDING is Paris bureau chief of The New York
Times.

SECTION: Section 5; Page 6; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1216 words


SO often carried away by its dreams of regional unity, the European Community
had at least agreed on one thing: on Jan. 1, 1993, immigration controls inside
the 12-nation zone would be removed. People entering the perimeter of the
community from, say, New York or Lagos would still be checked. But, once inside,
travelers -- community citizens or not -- could hop from London to Athens or
drive from Berlin to Lisbon without ever showing a passport.

That was the plan -- and it may still happen. In fact, it may even begin to
happen later this year. But it certainly did not happen on Jan. 1. The simplest
explanation is that everything is complicated in Europe these days. But
Europeans have good reason to feel disappointed. The community is now a
customs-free market in which goods, services and capital can move freely. People
cannot.

The plan to eliminate passport controls was in fact in trouble soon after it was
written into a treaty seven years ago. Britain, ever ambivalent about being part
of Europe, said it was not about to allow drug traffickers, terrorists and
illegal immigrants to come traipsing in from the Continent. Ireland was forced
to adopt London's stance because it has a special travel arrangement with
Britain: At present, the Irish can enter Britain without showing a passport, but
they would have to do so if Ireland opened its doors to the rest of Europe. And
Denmark, itself unsure of its European vocation, added its own reservations.

So the other community members decided to make their own arrangements. Signing
something known as the Schengen Agreement in 1991, Germany, France, Belgium, the
Netherlands and Luxembourg decided to remove immigration officers from their
common borders by Jan. 1 this year. They were later joined by Italy, Spain,
Portugal and Greece. But even these nine failed to meet the deadline.

Here, the reasons were practical rather than philosophical. To insure that
people considered undesirable by one country did not enter the travel-free zone
through another country, they have had to create a computerized name-checking
system. And this will not be ready until mid-1993. To keep out unwanted
immigrants, they have also had to draw up a common list of countries (not the
United States) whose citizens will need visas to enter the zone. If internal
borders were to be removed, they concluded, the external fence had to be
strengthened.

THEN there was the special problem of airports. At present, as Americans will
have noticed enviously, European airports provide a "fast-lane" immigration
booth for community citizens (who must nonetheless show their passports or
travel documents). But before passport checks can be eliminated for all
travelers arriving from inside the community, international terminals will have
to find a way of separating those coming from outside the region. And this will
take reorganization and money and time. The plan now is for this system to be in
place -- for the Nine -- by the end of this year.

So what has changed for travelers since Jan. 1? In reality, little, at least at
airports. Anyone landing in a community country from anywhere abroad must still
show a passport or an identity card issued by a community member. Community
citizens continue to enjoy a "fast lane," and it often suffices for them to hold
up their travel document, but they are nonetheless subject to controls.

The removal of customs barriers between all 12 community states has added a new
complication because duty-free shops will continue to operate in the region's
airports until 1999. Since the rules say goods can move freely if taxes have
been paid in their country of origin, this clearly does not apply to duty-free
purchases. Yet there are no longer customs checks upon arrival in another
community country. So why not stock up?

The solution here has been to pass the burden of control to the duty-free shops.
In exchange for staying in business for a few more years, they now limit what
can be sold to each passenger -- community citizen or not -- holding a boarding
pass to another destination inside the community. And the sale is recorded on
the boarding pass. In contrast, for destinations outside the community, nothing
has changed. There is still no limit on purchases and it is up to the customs
authorities at the other end to do the checking.

The situation on land borders is much more relaxed. For some years now,
travelers have moved freely between Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg,
while frontier posts between France and Germany are often not manned. France has
tended to be stricter along its borders with Italy and Spain (to discourage
illegal immigrants from North Africa), but even this is changing. If everything
goes according to plan, the Nine will surrender their right to ask for passports
at their internal borders by June or July this year.

But that still leaves Britain, Ireland and Denmark on the outside. And since
they want to be able to check anyone entering their territory, Britons, Irish
and Danes will in turn have to show their passports when they enter, say, France
or Germany. Similarly, Americans and other noncommunity citizens will also have
to do so when they first enter the nine-nation free-travel zone -- even if they
are coming from Britain, Ireland and Denmark.

Paradoxically, of course, these three countries do belong to the 12-nation
customs-free area. This means that, since Jan. 1, cross-Channel ferries have
been crowded with Britons coming over for the day to cash in on the lower price
of wine and beer in France ("all for personal use, mate," they explain dutifully
as they weigh down their cars).

If community citizens are confused, non-Europeans are understandably still more
perplexed. Yet 1993 is essentially a year of transition. With luck, nine
countries should still create a free-travel area by next Christmas. But, in the
meantime, expect a lot of improvisation. Some airports will be ready before
others, so travelers may have to show a passport when they leave one country but
not when they arrive in the next.

For the moment, the tip is to keep your passport handy. European unity is still
a thing of tomorrow.



THE LIMITS

Although customs barriers inside the European Community were removed on Jan. 1,
1993, limited duty-free purchases by travelers flying between community
countries are still permitted. In the past, each country was responsible for
checking those arriving. Now, duty-free shops may not sell more than a specific
amount to every traveler bound for a community country, with the purchase
stamped on boarding passes. (Those traveling outside the community are subject
only to the limits or duties imposed at their destinations.)

While they may be subject to change, the current limits are these:

Alcohol: One liter of spirits and three standard-sized bottles of wine or
champagne, or two liters of fortified wine and three bottles of wine or three
bottles of champagne. or five bottles of wine, or five bottles of champagne.

Tobacco: 200 cigarettes or 100 cigarillos or 50 cigars or 200 grams of pipe
tobacco.

Perfumes: 250 milliliters (about eight and a half ounces) of eau de toilette or
50 milliliters (about an ounce and three-quarters) of perfume or $300 worth of
cosmetics.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Customs signs put up at Dover in preparation for Jan. 1.
(Jonathan Player)(pg. 6); Two Britons loading beer outside a supermarket in
Calais. (Jonathan Player)(pg. 32)

Map of Europe. (pg. 6)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 2, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

ANTI-WOMAN BIAS MAY BRING ASYLUM

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 841 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, Feb. 1


Canada has announced that it will consider granting refugee status to women who
are persecuted because of their sex.

In connection with what is seen here as a landmark change in Canada's
immigration rules, the Government said on Friday that it had given permission
for a Saudi woman to remain in Canada after she said she would be in grave
danger if she returned to Saudi Arabia because of her views on the status of
women there.

The woman told immigration officials that she had tried to go without a veil in
Saudi Arabia, to travel alone and to pursue a university education in a field of
her choice, but was threatened with punishment if she persisted, her lawyer
said.

The woman's name has not been published. Her lawyer asked that she not be
identified because of fears of reprisal against her parents, who are still in
Saudi Arabia.

Saudi Sees No Danger

A spokesman for the Saudi Embassy in Ottawa said he did not think it was
"dangerous" for the woman to live in Saudi Arabia, adding that not all Saudi
women wear veils.

The woman did not respond to a request for an interview. But she told The
Canadian Press that she was "excited and happy and relieved" at the decision.
She also said she was happy that Canada was looking at the whole issue of
refugee women.

The Immigration and Refugee Board had turned down her first request for asylum,
and she has been in hiding in Montreal for 21 months.

The changes in refugee standards, announced by Bernard Valcourt, the Minister
for Education and Immigration, were also welcomed by feminists and human-rights
groups, which have sought such action for years.

"Canada may be leading the world in finally realizing that women suffer
violations on the basis of their sex and that the well-founded fear of those
violations constitutes grounds for asylum," said Dorothy Q. Thomas, director of
the Women's Rights Project of Human Rights Watch in Washington.

Janice Stein, a political science professor and specialist on the Middle East at
the University of Toronto, said the implications were "staggering."

"If taken literally, the decision could mean that any woman who leaves Saudi
Arabia is a potential refugee," she said. Many other Islamic countries impose
the kind of restrictions on women that Saudi Arabia does.

Precedent on Homosexuals

Ed Broadbent, president of the International Center for Human Rights and
Democratic Development in Montreal, called Canada's action "a clear move in the
right direction," adding, "There is no turning back on the principle that our
refugee policy must recognize the full equality of men and women."

A year ago Canada broke ground with a similar action regarding homosexuals: A
gay man fearing persecution in his homeland, Argentina, because of his sexual
preference was granted asylum.

United States law lays out categories under which people suffering well-founded
fears of persecution may be admitted. But sex is not a category. The tendency
has been to admit women on the traditional basis of persecution for their
political views.

European nations do not recognize sex-based persecution as grounds for asylum.
In a case last year, for example, France rejected a petition from a woman from
Mali who fled her family and country rather than undergo a clitoridectomy, the
removal of the clitoris and inner labia, which is a widespread ritual. The
Government finally gave her a residence permit but declined to recognize that
she was being persecuted on the basis of her sex.

Broadening the Term 'Refugee'

In his statement, Mr. Valcourt noted that new guidelines, which are to be
developed within a month, would represent "appropriate responses to the complex
and interrelated issues of state-sanctioned abuse abroad, conjugal violence
against women and assistance to female refugees in times of world crises."

The Immigration and Refugee Board has reportedly produced a draft recommendation
that the word "refugee" include women who can demonstrate that their countries
do not provide adequate protection from sexual abuse, domestic violence, genital
mutilation and other torture.

But there is another way to proceed legally, Canadian officials said: to
classify women protesting sex-based persecution as a "particular social group"
under the United Nations Refugee Convention of 1951, which sets general rules
for refugees.

European and U.N. Guidelines

If such new rules were accepted, women who transgress social customs, for
example, by refusing arranged marriages, could claim they were part of a
particular group that fears persecution.

In 1984 the European Parliament determined that women fearing cruel or inhuman
treatment as a result of violating social customs should be considered such a
group.

The next year Canada endorsed a similar resolution of the United Nations High
Commission for Refugees, which indentified "women asylum-seekers who face harsh
or inhumane treatment due to their having transgressed the social mores of the
society in which they live" as a "particular social group."

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 6, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Text of Statements by Clinton and Wood

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 503 words


Following are statements by Judge Kimba M. Wood of Federal District Court in New
York, who withdrew her name yesterday from consideration for the post of United
States Attorney General, and by President Clinton:



Wood's Statement

After consultation with the White House, I have decided to withdraw my name from
consideration by the President for nomination to the post of Attorney General.
The reasons for this decision are as follows:

On January 29, I met with the President at the White House to discuss the
possibility of my appointment. In the course of a wide-ranging discussion of
policy issues, I was asked if I had a "Zoe Baird" problem. I said I did not, and
I do not.

First, since I hired my babysitter in March 1986, I have submitted all required
forms and paid all required taxes on her behalf. Second, I complied fully with
all immigration laws and made all filings and disclosures that should be made in
compliance with the immigration laws. My hiring of my babysitter was legal in
March 1986 (prior to the Fall 1986 enactment of the Immigration Reform and
Control ("IRCA") which rendered hiring illegal aliens unlawful if they were
hired after IRCA's passage), and my employment of her continued to be legal
after the passage of IRCA, because IRCA explicitly excluded from its provisions
employers whose employees were hired prior to its passage.

In March 1986, it was lawful to openly employ aliens who were in the country,
like my babysitter, on an expired visa, as long as the required taxes and forms
were filed. However, although all of these acts were lawful, my babysitter, like
anyone pursing legalization, was not legally in this country from 1980 until she
obtained legal residency in December 1987 through the IRCA amnesty program.

I maintained and provided seven years of records with respect to my babysitter
and other household help. These records included my federal social security,
FUTA and W-2 filings and payments, and my State unemployment compensation,
disability insurance and workers' compensation filings and payments, as well as
the files I kept relating to my babysitter's immigration status, including my
Application for Labor Certification and her application for federal amnesty
pursuant to IRCA.

In sum, I maintained appropriate records and made all required filings and
payments for the seven years that my babysitter has been in my employ.

Thus, I have fulfilled every legal requirement with respect to the employment of
our babysitter. Nevertheless, and after further consultations, I have concluded
that in the current political environment, proceeding further with the
possibility of my nomination would be inappropriate.



Clinton's Statement

I understand and respect Judge Wood's decision not to proceed further with the
possibility of being nominated as Attorney General.

I was greatly impressed with her as a lawyer, a judge and a person. I respect
her legal talents, judicial record and integrity. I wish her well.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 10, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Yes, Immigration Law Reaches Into Your Home;
It Needs Changing

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 179 words


To the Editor:

Zoe Baird was not sponsoring her Peruvian household workers for citizenship. An
applicant for citizenship is already a permanent resident of the United States
and thus entitled to work. She was sponsoring them for legal permanent
residence.

If Ms. Baird had obtained a certification from the Department of Labor, she
would have had to advertise the position in a newspaper and found no willing or
qualified worker, thus establishing a shortage of these workers. Why not permit
employment at this stage and reflect the reality facing two-income families who
need a live-in nanny?

Congress should take another look at these regulations and permit a worker whose
job has been determined not to displace a United States worker to obtain work
authorization. In most of these cases if the United States employer waits until
the alien obtains a green card. the children have grown up and no longer need a
nanny's services. This is a law in need of change.

TANIA M. ALVAREZ
San Francisco, Jan. 29, 1993
The writer is an immigration lawyer.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 21, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

POLITICAL NOTES;
Clinton Classmate May Head I.N.S.

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 448 words


Bruce A. Morrison, the former Congressman from Connecticut and the Democratic
Party's nominee for governor in 1990, is being prominently mentioned on the list
of candidates to be the next director of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, officials in Washington and Connecticut say.

Mr. Morrison is no stranger either to immigration law or to President Clinton.
In Congress, he was the chairman of the House Judiciary subcommittee on
Immigration, Refugees and International Law, and he wrote much of the overhaul
of Federal immigration law that took effect in 1990. He also worked with Hillary
Rodham Clinton in the 1970's when he was director of New Haven Legal Services
and she was chairwoman of the board of the national Legal Services Corporation.
Last but not least, he was in Mr. Clinton's 1973 graduating class at Yale
University Law School.

Mr. Morrison, who now has a private legal practice in New Haven, said in an
interview that he had sent "materials" to Washington, but he declined to say
whether sponsorship of his nomination was coming from the White House or
Congress, although he said, "People have recommended me on the Hill."

The outcome is far from certain. Mr. Clinton's nominee to be Attorney General,
Janet Reno, would oversee the I.N.S. if she is confirmed, and no names for the
Justice Department's lesser posts are being formally submitted by the White
House until an Attorney General is sworn in and can be consulted.

Alien Issue Hits Florio Aide

One of Gov. Jim Florio's top advisers, his policy and planning chief, Brenda
Bacon, has joined the growing list of officeholders and candidates who admit
they employed foreign workers as domestic help and did not, until recently, pay
the workers' taxes.

Ms. Bacon, who is a longtime friend and adviser to the Governor on health-policy
issues, said this week that for nearly three years she employed a woman from
Barbados as live-in domestic help to care for her children. Ms. Bacon said she
hired the woman in April of 1990, and that two months later the employee and her
husband applied for and were granted work certification from the United States
Department of Labor. Work authorization was granted by the I.N.S. in 1991.

Ms. Bacon did not pay the woman's Social Security and Federal and state taxes.
However, she said she put them into an escrow account pending the granting of a
Social Security account number. None has yet been granted, but Ms. Bacon earlier
this month paid $7,333 in back taxes.

Last month two Republican candidates for Governor, Christine Todd Whitman and
Cary Edwards, said they had employed undocumented workers and had failed to pay
the workers' taxes.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 7, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE TWIN TOWERS;
Rahman Errors Admitted

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 234 words


The State Department has acknowledged that Government officials twice acted in
error in giving Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman permission to enter and remain in the
United States.

In first granting Sheik Rahman a tourist visa in 1990, the United States Embassy
in Khartoum, Sudan, apparently overlooked the fact that he had already been
placed on a lookout list because of his role in fomenting violence in Egypt, a
department spokesman said last week.

Even after that visa was revoked, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
office in Newark mistakenly granted Sheik Rahman permanent resident status, or a
green card, in April 1991, the spokesman, Richard Boucher, said.

After a trip abroad, Sheik Rahman was detained by airport immigration officials
on his return in August 1991, said Barbara Nelson, Sheik Rahman's lawyer. The
officials apparently spotted his name on the lookout list and began proceedings
to rescind his residency status, she said. But they allowed him to re-enter the
United States anyway, since he had the right to fight the move, Ms. Nelson said.

Sheik Rahman did not do so, and his green card was revoked on March 6, 1992, Ms.
Nelson said.

Federal officials said that the sheik then requested that the United States
grant him political asylum. A hearing on the matter was held in Newark on Jan.
20, but the Government has not yet announced its decision in that case.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 22, 1992, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Millard A. Ring, 76, Immigration Lawyer

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 194 words


Millard A. Ring, a retired immigration and customs lawyer who represented many
foreign artists and performers, died on Wednesday at his home in Glen Cove, L.I.
He was 76 years old.

He died of a stroke, his family said.

Among his clients for immigration and visas were the Bolshoi, Moiseyev and Royal
Ballet dance companies, opera stars, the painter Marc Chagall, the actress
Vanessa Redgrave and performers brought to the United States by the impresario
Sol Hurok.

Mr. Ring also handled customs proceedings for importing Mr. Chagall's paintings
for Lincoln Center and sets and costumes for performers.

Born in Wilmington, Del., Mr. Ring grew up in Brooklyn. He graduated from St.
John's University and earned his law degree there in 1937.

He began working for a customs brokerage, then expanded to immigration law,
practicing in lower Manhattan until his retirement two years ago.

Surviving are his wife of 55 years, the former Sylvia Abrams; two sons, Alan, of
Plainview, L.I., and Stuart, of Toronto; a daughter, Victoria Rich, of East
Meadow, L.I.; a brother, Malvin, of Rochester; a sister, Deena Dunn, of Los
Angeles, and seven grandchildren.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 31, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Fair Haven for Haitian Refugees

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 393 words


The Bush Administration's heartless policy of turning back Haitians on the high
seas has mercifully been reversed by a Federal appeals court. The decision ought
to persuade the Administration to reconsider the cruelty and unfairness of its
actions.

The huge tide of Haitians fleeing the chaos and terror after last September's
coup caused the U.S. to abandon normal principles of political asylum. At first,
many Haitians were forcibly returned. Then the Administration allowed people
picked up in leaky boats to be processed at the Guantanamo Bay naval base.

But in May, contending that the base had reached capacity, Mr. Bush ordered the
Coast Guard to intercept all refugee boats and turn them back without screening
any of the passengers.

A coalition of civil rights and immigrants' rights groups sued, charging that
the order violated the 1980 Immigration and Nationality Act, which was meant to
conform to United Nations protocols governing refugee protection. A Federal
district judge in Brooklyn called the Administration's treatment of Haitians
"unconscionable," but reluctantly concluded that the 1980 act did not apply to
refugees who had not landed in the U.S.

Now, by a 2-to-1 vote, a panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit disagrees. Judges Jon Newman and George Pratt find that the 1980 act
prohibits deporting or returning any alien who would be subject to political
persecution. They say the law applies even to aliens intercepted in
international waters.

They also conclude that the law is meant to conform to the international
principle of non-refoulement. That principle holds that a refugee should not be
returned to a place of danger, regardless of where the refugee is being returned
from. That clearly applies to many Haitians, who faced retaliation, abuse and
terror on their return.

Judge John Walker, Mr. Bush's cousin and appointee, argued in dissent that the
law did not apply to aliens who were not physically within U.S. territory.

The Bush Administration is appealing the decision to the Supreme Court, where it
may yet prevail.  Whatever the outcome, the Second Circuit majority has exposed
the Administration's shabby and shameful treatment of Haitians. The real and
continuing danger faced by these refugees underscores the need for a policy that
is fair and humane.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 6, 1992, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

F.B.I. Takes Second Look At Evidence In Conviction

BYLINE: By CRAIG WOLFF

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 838 words


The Justice Department has ordered the F.B.I. to take a new look at evidence
used to convict a former immigration official imprisoned for conducting illegal
searches of Hispanic-owned businesses in Washington Heights, senior
law-enforcement officials in New York said.

The order, to reinterview at least a dozen witnesses, is the latest twist in an
unusual legal case involving the former official, Joseph Occhipinti, who was
convicted in June 1991 of violating the rights of shopkeepers during searches
for illegal aliens who might be involved in the drug trade.

Some witnesses testified that search warrants were never presented, and some who
could not speak English said that Mr. Occhipinti ordered them to sign forms
written in English that said they had agreed to the searches.

37-Month Sentence

The jury found the searches illegal but acquitted Mr. Occhipinti, 42 years old,
on charges that he stole money from the merchants. He began serving a 37-month
jail sentence in May after losing an appeal before a Federal court in New York.

Amy Kasner, a Justice Department spokeswoman, yesterday declined to comment on
the case.

Mr. Occhipinti's conviction drew strong criticism from the Staten Island Borough
President, Guy V. Molinari, a frequent supporter of the police who said he had
evidence that several witnesses in the trial had committed perjury. Two months
ago, Mr. Molinari, a Republican and a longtime political associate of President
Bush, resigned as a super delegate and adviser to the President's re-election
campaign, saying he was incensed by the Justice Department's refusal to reopen
the case.

To many residents of Washington Heights, Mr. Occhipinti, once a highly decorated
veteran of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, represents the harassment
they say is a part of their lives. To drug agents and police officers --
hundreds of whom held demonstrations in his support outside the Federal
courthouse in Manhattan -- he is a martyr who was just doing his job
aggressively, trying to root out drugs.

Reluctant Investigation

The senior law-enforcement officials said that they were told recently to
reinterview the witnesses in response to the charges made by Mr. Molinari and
that in the last few weeks they had begun doing so. The officials, who insisted
on anonymity, said that the F.B.I. was proceeding reluctantly, in the face of
what they called the "politicizing" of a closed case.

Tony Mitchell, the deputy press secretary for the Bush campaign, declined to
comment on the case.

James M. Fox, the head of the New York office of the F.B.I., also declined to
discuss the case. He said that it would be very unusual for the Justice
Department to look into an investigation that has resulted in a conviction and
has been affirmed on appeal.

"It would normally take new evidence of significant weight to bring the
department to that point," he said.

Mr. Molinari said that he had affidavits from witnesses saying they committed
perjury and that many of the witnesses were involved in drug dealing.

A Possible Return

Mr. Molinari declined yesterday to comment on the status of the case or whether
his concerns had been met. Asked about his relationship to the Bush campaign he
said: "I'm hopeful that in the near future I can rejoin the campaign. I've been
wrestling with my own conscience since I resigned. Why should I take out on the
President whatever problems I had with the Justice Department?"

The officials said that under pressure from Mr. Molinari, the Justice Department
took a cursory look at the case a few months ago, interviewing the prosecutors
and defense lawyers, but did not proceed any further.

Otto G. Obermaier, the United States Attorney in Manhattan, who tried the case,
declined to comment.

Jeh Johnson, a former assistant attorney under Mr. Obermaier, who is now at the
law firm of Paul Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, confirmed that F.B.I.
investigators had questioned him about the case and that they indicated that
they also planned to reinterview witnesses in response to Mr. Molinari's charges
that they committed perjury.

"Occhipinti and his supporters have been making this bogus claim for over a
year," Mr. Johnson said. "But they have never presented these witnesses to the
judge who tried the case or the United States Attorney."

In response to the charge that many of the witnesses were drug dealers who
doubled as bodega owners, Mr. Johnson said: "That's pure nonsense put out by the
Occhipinti propaganda machine."

He said that none of the witnesses had any convictions for narcotics, and that,
in any case, 7 of the 36 witnesses called by the prosecution were
law-enforcement officers who testified that Mr. Occhipinti had denied the store
owners their civil rights.

The charges against Mr. Occhipinti centered on his actions during the course of
Project Bodega, an operation devised to investigate allegations that a Dominican
drug cartel was using bodegas in Washington Heights to smuggle in aliens.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 8, 1992, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

The File of a Refugee: One Haitian's Account

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1674 words


In a Manhattan law office, Angelot Cyriac rifled through an accordion folder,
the only possession he carried aboard a leaky sailboat for his journey last
April from Haiti to the United States. From its folds, he brought forth
laminated identification cards, membership certificates, diplomas and
photographs -- a paper trail of the political ties that landed him in a Coney
Island apartment, on the lam from the Haitian military.

By the standards of refugees seeking political asylum, this folder was gold.
Many Haitian refugees tell United States immigration authorities of relatives
slain by soldiers, of their own torture in prison, of their ardent support for
the deposed President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide. And the authorities say:
Where is the body? Where is the scar? Where is the proof of persecution?

"What this man has is some evidence," said James DeBrosse, a lawyer who
represents many Haitians looking for asylum here.

A Man, Not Numbers

What this man has is the vivid account of an immigrant's odyssey, the kind of
account that usually gets lost in the public debate over the fate of Haitian
refugees. Federal judges, politicians and lawyers rarely speak of the
individuals who have left Haiti since the military coup that deposed President
Aristide last fall. Instead, they talk in numbers: the 38,000 intercepted at
sea, the 27,000 repatriated, the 11,o00 admitted to the United States to apply
for asylum.

But behind those statistics lies a thicket of human drama.

And behind the closed doors of hundreds of New York apartments, the newest
Haitian refugees, like Mr. Cyriac, struggle with a future that is by no means
assured. They have only been provisionally allowed into the United States, where
they are concentrated in South Florida, the New York area, Boston and Los
Angeles. They have to fight for the right to stay, and history would suggest the
odds are against them. Between 1983 and 1991, only about 2 percent of Haitian
applicants were granted political asylum.

In a Coney Island apartment, Mr. Cyriac, who arrived a month ago, spends his
days watching the television in his sister's apartment. He watches anything and
everything, listlessly, not understanding the English. The life of Angelot
Cyriac (pronounced ahn-je-LOW see-ree-AK) is not here, on the seventh floor of a
Neptune Avenue apartment building. His life, for the moment, still lies in the
accordion folder whose contents tell his tale.

Mr. Cyriac rifled through the papers.

Here was a photo of Mr. Cyriac in uniform, a baby-faced soldier, before he got
in trouble with the men who protected the former President for Life, Jean-Claude
Duvalier. Here was a membership card in the anti-Duvalier association of former
military men. Here was Mr. Cyriac at work in what he says are the archives of
the National Palace, before President Aristide was overthrown last fall.

And here was a family portrait, Mr. Cyriac and the wife and children he left
behind -- his wife doe-eyed and serious, his little girl in ruffles and bows,
his little boy in a starched white shirt.

"We have had virtually no love life or home life for years," said Mr. Cyriac,
who is 28 years old. "I never stay in one place for long enough."

The Bush Administration maintains that the majority of Haitians fleeing by boat
are economic migrants, not political refugees. Advocates for Haitians, however,
claim there are many more Haitians fleeing political persecution than the
Government acknowledges.

Sergeant Cyriac

While Mr. Cyriac's story is by no means generic, it is not unique. Like many
passionately political Haitian men, Mr. Cyriac boarded a boat, he said, to save
his life. He has no desire to settle in the United States, he said. He is only
seeking temporary haven.

"I didn't fight for Haiti all these years to live abroad," he said. "I fought to
live at home."

Raised in Maissade, a town in the Artibonite Valley where his mother cultivated
rice and cotton, Mr. Cyriac enjoyed local fame as a high-scoring soccer forward.
His prowess caught the eye of an army lieutenant who recruited him at age 16 to
beef up an army team. Mr. Cyriac said he thought, naively, that he could learn
woodworking in the Haitian Army.

By the time that Jean-Claude Duvalier held a referendum in 1985 to endorse
himself as President for Life, Mr. Cyriac, then Sergeant Cyriac, knew that
things were rotten in Haiti. When President Duvalier visited Mr. Cyriac's army
post and gave him a wad of cash to insure that the voting went smoothly, Mr.
Cyriac took the money -- and voted against Mr. Duvalier, he said. He told the
peasants who asked him how to vote to "vote their conscience, like I was doing,"
he said.

By Duvalier's count, 99.9 percent of Haitians approved his presidency for life.
But in Sergeant Cyriac's district, the vote was heavily negative. That was the
beginning of his troubles. He was seized by military men, blindfolded and flown
to Port-au-Prince, where he was imprisoned and tortured, he said.

"I felt I was going to be a martyr, like Dessalines," he said, referring to
Jean-Jacques Dessalines, the hero of Haiti's independence struggle.

But his torturer also opposed Duvalier, so he survived, Mr. Cyriac said. And
after two and a half months, Dr. Roger Lafontant, then the Minister of the
Interior, freed 275 soldiers in prison, handing them $25 each and attempting to
secure himself a loyal cadre, Mr. Cyriac said.

Dangerous Activism

The former soldiers banded together in an anti-Duvalier association, which
provoked a showdown with the Tontons Macoute, Duvalier's agents.  Mr. Cyriac's
house was burned to the ground, and he and his neighbors, in turn, surrounded 10
Tontons Macoute, placed tires around their necks and set the tires on fire, he
said.

Then began a life of political activism on the run, of imprisonment and escape,
of attacks and retaliation. In the 1987 elections, he said, he was working at
the Ecole Argentine de Bellegarde polling place where 34 people were shot and
hacked to death. Before the violence began, he was arrested, stuffed in the
trunk of a car and taken to prison, from which he escaped.

"Every time I was beaten, I would wash my wounds in the ocean and then rub them
down with limes, and I was good as new," he said.

In 1990, he worked as a security guard for the electoral council executives
organizing the elections that brought Father Aristide to power, he said. Even
though he was "apolitical" as an election official, he was a "marked man" again,
he said. Once Father Aristide was elected, however, he was given a job in the
election archives in the basement of the National Palace, Mr. Cyriac said.

"It was like taking a bath and starting life again, clean," he said.

After the coup d'etat, Mr. Cyriac was imprisoned by his former enemies and
released after a few months by an old army buddy, who also told him to keep on
the move, he said. He traveled northward, gathering the photos and documents for
his folder with the help of friends and relatives. When he got to La Gonave, the
island that most boats left from, the sailboat Victoria was departing. And, just
like that, he said, he jumped on and headed to America. It was April 21.

'Where Else Could I Go?'

"I prayed to God and to all the saints and spirits to save me, because where
else could I go?" he said. "If we died, well, we would be dust returning to
dust."

The seas were pitching, the sky black and blue and some 250 Haitians were
crushed against each other in the leaky sailboat. One man decided that evil
spirits were chasing him, endangering the others on his boat. So, Mr. Cyriac
said, the man jumped overboard to his death.

And then, Mr. Cyriac said, the seas calmed. And, within two weeks, Victoria
sailed into Guantanamo Bay, where the United States Coast Guard met them and
transported them to the tent city for Haitian refugees at the United States
Naval Base in Cuba.

Most of the other passengers on Mr. Cyriac's boat were eventually returned,
against their will, to Haiti.

"Alas," he said. "I think of them and imagine some are already dead."

The government agents believed that Mr. Cyriac had a credible fear of
persecution, so he was flown through Miami to New York, where his sister works
as a nurse's aide.

Two Granted Asylum

In this country, like thousands of others arriving from Guantanamo, he will tell
his story to immigration authorities, who are overwhelmed by a backlog of
political-asylum applications.

Of 2,000 applications filed so far by the Catholic Legal Immigration Network,
the Immigration and Naturalization Service has granted asylum to 2 Haitians and
sent letters of intent to deny asylum to about 30 others. All other cases are
pending. (The Catholic immigration clinic is representing and resettling about
60 percent of the Haitians.)

And the wait makes the Haitians nervous, said the Rev. Thomas Wenski of the
Haitian-Catholic Center in Miami -- particularly as the Supreme Court prepares
to rule on whether the Bush Administration is within its rights to halt Haitians
at sea and forcibly return them to their homeland.

"The back and forth of the courts makes their position, their future feel more
precarious," Father Wenski said.

And while their cases are on hold, the Haitians live in a state of limbo, torn
between their troubled homeland and their troubles here.

"They're pretty down," said Marie Cerat, who runs English and literacy classes
for the refugees at the St. Francis of Assisi-St. Blaise Church on Maple Street
in Flatbush, Brooklyn. "I don't think they knew what they'd be facing. All they
knew was that they wanted out."

All the Haitian refugees received a one-time grant of $600 from the Federal
Government, along with the authorization to work. But Mr. Cyriac, like many
others, has had no luck finding a job. In fact, the Haitian political activist,
who, by his account, has withstood seven years of threats against his life,
rarely leaves his sister's Brooklyn apartment.

"I'm afraid of getting lost," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Angelot Cyriac, a Haitian, holding documents and photographs
that he says show he fled Haiti out of fear of political persecution. (Fred R.
Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Photographs from the portfolio Angelot Cyriac
managed to prepare and carry with him from Haiti, show him in Haiti with his
wife, Hermance, left; Mr. Cyriac in a Haitian Army uniform, above, and a family
portrait of Mr. Cyriac with his wife and two children, who remain in Haiti. (pg.
24)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 3, 1992, Thursday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

3 Haitians With H.I.V. Are Allowed to Enter U.S.

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 669 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 2


Waiving regulations that bar foreigners with the virus that causes AIDS from
entering the United States, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization
has allowed three infected Haitians held at the United States Navy base at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to come to American hospitals for treatment.

The decision to grant the Haitians "humanitarian parole" is the first breach in
a wall of rules, policies and court decisions that have combined to trap nearly
300 Haitians at Guantanamo because either they or a family member on whom they
depend has tested positive for H.I.V.

All these Haitians were initially determined to be eligible to enter the United
States to apply for asylum because they had demonstrated a plausible fear of
persecution in immigration interviews. Haitian refugees who could not
demonstrate such a threat have been returned.

But because these Haitians tested H.I.V. positive, they were left behind when
others were moved to Miami to apply for asylum.

The Haitians at Guantanamo are becoming increasingly restive. They have staged
three demonstrations since mid-July, two of them violent. In the most recent one
on Saturday, buildings were destroyed by a mob trying to free fellow refugees
who had been detained and quarantined for earlier acts of violence.

A 1987 rule that bars entry into the United States to foreigners who have tested
positive for H.I.V. has drawn wide criticism and recently led to the shift of a
conference on AIDS to Amsterdam from Boston when some participants were not
granted visas.

The three Haitians for whom the rule was waived include a man sent to Bethesda
Naval Hospital for the treatment of an eye fungus about 10 days ago and a mother
and baby evacuated to a children's hospital in Norfolk, Va., on Tuesday night
because the child had pneumonia and needed a respirator. They are expected to
remain in the United States. Once on American soil, they have the right to legal
counsel.

More than 37,000 Haitians were intercepted at sea by the Coast Guard as they
fled Haiti after the September 1991 coup that overthrew the elected Government
of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. More than a quarter of them, 10,736 people,
were able to convince immigration officials who interviewed them aboard ships at
sea or at Guantanamo that they could face persecution if returned.

This extremely high proportion of Haitians qualifying for formal asylum
hearings, which must take place on United States territory, was widely seen as a
contradiction of arguments by the Bush Administration that most were economic
migrants looking for a better life.

Some Administration officials apparently accused the Immigration service of
being too lenient.

On May 24, President Bush directed that all Haitians picked up at sea be sent
back to Port-au-Prince, the capital, without a hearing.

The first parole order issued on humanitarian grounds by the I.N.S.
Commissioner, Gene McNary, was for Rigaud Milenette, 26 years old. The request
to move him was made several weeks ago by the Navy, which sought specialist
treatment for his eye condition.

Mr. Milenette was treated at Bethesda Naval Hospital, then moved to the Varick
Street immigration detention center in Manhattan, where he is expected to apply
for asylum. The still-unidentified woman and child are at the Children's
Hospital of the King's Daughters in Norfolk, Va.

Arthur C. Helton, refugee project director for the Lawyers' Committee for Human
Rights, which is trying to arrange legal counsel for Mr. Milenette, said: "While
it may be politically awkward for the Administration, the decision to parole the
H.I.V. Haitians is an appropriate humanitarian response It perhaps signals a
willingness by the I.N.S. to respond to the plight of these Haitians in a humane
fashion."

The Milenette case is seen as a test by lawyers who believe that other Haitians
who are H.I.V. positive may develop full-scale AIDS or may have other medical
problems for which they need treatment in American hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 5, 1992, Saturday

CORRECTION:

An article on Thursday about an Immigration and Naturalization Service decision
to grant visas to three Haitian refugees with the virus that causes AIDS
misstated the reason why a recent international conference on the disease was
moved from Boston to Amsterdam. It was because the United States had rejected a
blanket request from conference organizers to change its policy barring
H.I.V.-positive people from entering the country, not because some conference
participants were denied visas.


                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 6, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Fine the Employers Of the Exploited

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 21; Column 6; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 169 words


The injustices to the Hispanics on the East End cannot be condoned, but we have
never had a decent immigration policy and for the most part new arrivals have
always been resented. ["Hispanic Influx Being Felt on East End," July 12]

I cannot understand why the employers have not been fined or brought up on any
charges. When I hire anyone I have to fill out an IS9 form and have proper
documentation or run the risk of being fined. How do they get away without this
form? Perhaps if the employer not just the employee had to answer to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and were fined or audited when they call
on one of the immigrants there would be a different attitude.

Obviously a lot of people are looking the other way.

As a child of immigrants I am forever thankful to be in this country and not in
my parents' homeland, but, I do know how they were exploited. It can only happen
when all laws (civil and moral) are tossed aside for the sake of the dollar.

LILA CHARNEY
Flushing

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 16, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Foreigners Didn't Cause German Violence;
No Immigration Law

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 194 words


To the Editor:

Your Sept. 2 front page report on Germany refers to Germany's "immigration law."
Germany does not have an immigration law. That is one cause of its problems with
the hundreds of thousands of refugees coming in, mainly from Eastern Europe and
the former Soviet Union, and the often violent opposition to them.

Germany's constitution (Article 16) guarantees an unqualified right to political
asylum. The refugees coming in try to claim they are politically persecuted, not
unlike the United States situation with refugees from Haiti. Only Germany is
smaller, and the numbers claiming asylum much bigger. Germany's "foreigners law"
prescribes procedures for determinations on political asylum. It is the
Constitution's Article 16 that is soon likely to be tightened.

German Government leaders insist theirs is not a country for immigration, though
almost five million of the foreign-born now live there. Without a change in
attitude, Germany is not likely ever to have a law on immigration.

ROBERT GERALD LIVINGSTON
Director, American Institute for Contemporary German Studies
Johns Hopkins University
Washington, Sept. 4, 1992


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 9, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Double Standard on Refugees

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 399 words


Hundreds of Cubans have been landing in Florida in recent months, escaping the
repressive Castro regime and economic privation. Under streamlined procedures,
the new arrivals have been allowed to remain in the U.S. as legal immigrants and
political refugees, receiving help from relatives and volunteer agencies.

Contrast this benign welcome with the harsh treatment of Haitian refugees, also
fleeing a repressive and impoverished land. Many have been intercepted at sea
and forcibly returned to Haiti, where they risk violent retaliation.

The U.S. cannot accept all the refugees who want to come here. That's why it's
important to respond to those displaced by crises with flexibility, generosity
and fairness.

The Cuban Adjustment Act, a relic of cold war hostility to Fidel Castro, accords
special privileges to Cuban refugees. The act allows them to settle and work in
the U.S., after a background check by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
for previous criminal or undesirable activity. After a year they can apply for
permanent resident status. For budgetary and policy reasons, the Immigration
Service has now streamlined the application process, making it still easier for
Cubans to enter.  The special treatment has been an inducement to individuals on
leaky boats and to smugglers who transport large groups. And it is politically
popular among the anti-Castro Cubans in Florida. But it's often hard to
distinguish between those escaping persecution, who are thus entitled to
admission as political refugees, and those seeking a better life, who would not
be except for the special law.

The Haitian refugees, meanwhile, are not even getting a fair chance to make
their cases. They have suffered from chronic poverty and political turmoil, and
ever larger numbers began fleeing oppression after the overthrow of the
democratic Government of Jean-Bertrand Aristide in September 1991. But since May
the Administration has stopped trying to distinguish which are political and
which are economic refugees. Instead it cruelly turns them all back on the high
seas, before they can make their claims for political asylum.

The legality of that policy will be reviewed by the Supreme Court within the
year. Its immorality is already clear. The preferential treatment given Cubans
is difficult to defend. The excessively harsh treatment of Haitians is
impossible.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 1, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

24 Foreigners, Accused of No Crime, Are Detained

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 485 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Oct. 31


On Oct. 21, a tour group of 24 Malaysians arrived at Logan International Airport
here on a flight from Paris. Although accused of no crime, they have spent all
of the 10 days since then either in jail or in a Federal courtroom, detained as
material witnesses in a case involving the tour group's leader, who is charged
by the Government with trying to smuggle two of them into the country.

The detention of the tourists, 18 women and 6 men, is apparently entirely legal.
Asked about the case tonight, Verne Jervis, chief spokesman for the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, said Federal law allowed the authorities to detain
material witnesses in an immigration case indefinitely.

But the treatment of the Malaysians, some of whom have tuberculosis and at least
one of whom is pregnant, has outraged immigration lawyers and civil rights
advocates here. It has also brought expressions of shocked dismay from officials
of Malaysia's embassy in Washington and its consulate in New York, who say they
were never notified by the immigration service that the tourists were being
detained.

Shackles and a Surgical Mask

The detainees appeared in court for the first time on Thursday, more than a week
after they had been taken into custody. At their next hearing, on Friday, they
spent two hours in the sweltering courtroom while shackled with plastic
handcuffs that prevented them from removing their winter coats. One of the
women, Lee Ling Ng, was wearing a surgical mask; the Government says she is one
of those who have tested positive for tuberculosis.

The case involving the Malaysians was first reported today by The Boston Globe,
which quoted John Roberts, executive director of the Massachusetts Civil
Liberties Union, as saying: "I don't know who is accountable for this, but it
really is incredible. It is almost as if someone sat down and said, 'What are
the ultimate indignities we can visit upon these people?' Why were they
handcuffed in court? I mean, where are they going to run?"

Officials at the United States Attorney's office here could not be reached for
comment today, and Mr. Jervis, the immigration service's spokesman in
Washington, said he was not familiar with the details of the case.

The Malaysians' troubles began when their passports were examined at the
airport, where immigration officers determined that on a previous visit to the
United States, Ms. Ng and another member of the group, Chee Men Lee, had stayed
for several years beyond the six months allowed by their visas.

After immigration officials had interviewed the group, the Government charged
the tour leader, Chee Kheong Choong, with trying to smuggle Ms. Ng and Ms. Lee
into the country. That has meant the detention of the entire tour group, because
the Government wants some of the tourists to testify against Mr. Choong, while
Mr. Choong's lawyers want the others to testify in his behalf.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 2, 1992, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Legal Tangle Puts 24 Malaysians in Boston Jails

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 738 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Nov. 1


They came as tourists, but they ended up in jail. Twenty-four Malaysians in the
middle of a world tour have been detained for 11 days here in a painful and
perplexing legal tangle, held as witnesses while the Federal Government
prosecutes their tour leader on charges of trying to smuggle two of them into
the country.

Malaysian Government officials and lawyers for the tourists -- 18 men and 6
women -- have expressed outrage at the detentions. They say a number of the
tourists have been threatened by agents for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service and kept from speaking to Malaysian consular officials.

The detentions are being defended by American officials. All the tourists are
ethnic Chinese, and in recent years the Government has been concerned by an
influx of illegal Chinese immigrants.

Verne Jervis, the chief spokesman for the immigration service, said on Saturday
that Federal law allowed the authorities to detain material witnesses in an
immigration case indefinitely.

In an interview in The Boston Globe today, A. John Pappalardo, the United States
Attorney in Boston, was quoted as saying, "I have reviewed this case, and I am
entirely comfortable with the current posture of it." He did not return calls to
his office today.

'If They Were White . . .'

But Charles W. Rankin, a court-appointed lawyer for one tourist, said the
Malaysians had been "treated in a racist manner" by the immigration service. "If
they were white Europeans, they would have been released immediately," he said.

Michael Altman, a lawyer for Chee Kheong Choong, the 39-year-old tour leader,
said, "If this happened to a group of 25 Americans in Malaysia, there would
probably be a plan to send in the Marines."

Lawyers for the witnesses said their clients had not even had legal
representation for eight days, until they were brought into court and lawyers
were appointed for them.

The incident began Oct. 21, when the group arrived in Boston on a flight from
Paris. It was their first stop on the American leg of a $2,400 eight-city tour
that was to have ended this week with a visit to Washington.

According to Mr. Altman, an immigration inspector noticed that one of the
tourists had been in the United States before and might have overstayed her
six-month tourist visa. The inspector then decided to question the entire group,
holding the visitors in a jail in the Coast Guard station in Boston, Mr. Altman
said. They are now being held in county jails.

Handcuffs in the Courtroom

The Government has asked that seven members of the tour group be held as
witnesses against Mr. Choong, an employee of Chan Brothers, a travel agency in
Kuala Lumpur. Mr. Altman has asked in United States District Court here that the
other members of the group be held so he can question them.

He told Magistrate-Judge Marianne B. Bowler on Friday that he had no objection
to their being released from jail, since the Immigration Service has confiscated
their passports. But late Friday afternoon Judge Bowler ordered that all 24 be
held over the weekend, pending a further hearing on Tuesday.

At a hearing before Judge Bowler on Thursday, the tourists were brought into the
courtroom in plastic handcuffs, their lawyers said. Asked to take an oath, they
were unable to raise their right hands, and although it was hot in the
courtroom, the marshals refused to cut off the handcuffs so they could take off
their overcoats.

Several immigration lawyers said today that when the immigration services
suspects that a visa has been overstayed, it normally simply deports the
visitor. But in this case, immigration agents questioned the tourists and Mr.
Choong.

Tourists Who Stayed

Two of the women, Lee Ling Ng and Chee Men Lee, told the agents they had been in
the country before and had stayed several years beyond the six-month limit,
according to testimony by an immigration service agent, Kevin Jarvis. He said
Miss Ng and Miss Lee told Mr. Choong they wanted to stay in the United States to
work.

Lawyers say the detained tourists, who include a pregnant woman and a couple on
their honeymoon, all have valid visas.

The Malaysian Ambassador, Abdul Majid, said in a telephone interview from
Washington that his only information about the case had come from reporters. He
called the incident "quite serious" but added that he would not take any further
action until he knew more about it.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 3, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Plans to Release 5 Tourists It Detained

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 379 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Nov. 2


Five of 24 Malaysians jailed without criminal charges last month by Federal
immigration officials will be allowed to return home as soon as arrangements can
be made, a judge ruled today, but the fate of the other 19 was unclear.

The 19 Malaysians remained entangled in a legal case against their tour guide
charged with smuggling 2 people into the country.

In a hearing today in Federal District Court, an assistant United States
Attorney, Carole Schwartz, suggested that the remaining group may have to remain
in jail or in the Boston area at their own expense until the trial of the guide,
Chee Kheong Choong, because they may be needed as witnesses.

The 24 Malaysians were detained by immigration officials on Oct. 21 after an
inspector became concerned about possible visa violations, defense lawyers said.
Some of the lawyers, who say they are outraged by the detentions, also said
their clients were jailed for more than eight days without being appointed
counsel.

While the Immigration and Naturalization Service has powers to detain aliens
indefinitely, it is supposed to provide detainees with access to consular
officials and lawyers if requested, the lawyers said. The issue of whether the
delay in appointing counsel was improper will be taken up at a detention hearing
on Tuesday.

Magistrate-Judge Marianne B. Bowler refused to dismiss the case against Mr.
Choong, but said she was concerned by the "humanitarian considerations" for
those detained, and warned prosecutors to speed up pre-trial work. "I must say I
am very bothered by the possibility of holding these people in incarceration
until the trial," she said.

Some defense lawyers said they were led to believe that their clients would be
allowed to leave the country after making videotaped depositions in the case
this week. But at today's hearing, Ms. Schwartz said that because Mr. Choong's
lawyer had refused to agree to allow the videotapes as evidence in the trial,
the witnesses might have to stay until the end of the case.

"This is getting to be something out of Kafka," said Peter T. Elikann, one of
the defense lawyers. Mr. Elikann said his client had been promised immunity in
exchange for her videotaped testimony, but that only one deposition had taken
place so far.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 4, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

FOREIGN TOURISTS TO REMAIN IN JAIL

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 378 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Nov. 3


Fifteen Malaysians deemed witnesses to a Federal smuggling case are still behind
bars tonight after a detention hearing to resolve their plight was recessed by a
judge.

The 15 are part group of 24 Malaysian tourists detained by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service on Oct. 21, when their tour guide was held on suspicion
of smuggling two Malaysians into the country. They were detained because either
the Government or the defense wanted them as witnesses.

Some of the tourists were released on Monday, and at today's hearing Judge
Marianne B. Bowler ordered five more released into the custody of immigration
officials so they could return home. The judge ruled after prosecutors and the
lawyer for Chee Kheong Choong, the tour guide, agreed to their release.

Assertions of Threats

In what some defense lawyers said was an unusual move, one woman was freed under
the condition that she return to Boston at the Government's expense for the
trial if necessary.

In addition, some defense lawyers said today that their clients had made
statements to immigration agents only after being threatened with continued
imprisonment. In a letter to assistant United States Attorney Carole Schwartz,
one lawyer, John Wall, said his client had been told by two I.N.S. agents that
"if she talked, they would let her go back to the airplane right away and return
to Malaysia," adding, "she talked."

Another lawyer said his client, Lai Wan Cheng, had made a statement that she
might stay in the United States if she found work, but had done so only after
being threatened with indefinite imprisonment.

In testimony at today's hearing, an I.N.S. inspector, Kevin W. Jarvis, denied
that immigration officials ever made such threats.

At the Malaysian Embassy in Washington, M. Santhananaban, the Deputy Chief of
Mission, said that the Malaysian Government did not find out about the detention
of the 24 Malaysians and their tour guide until nine days after the group was
detained, and then only indirectly through Malaysians in New York.

A spokesman for the I.N.S., Duke Austin, said 21 of the 24 members of the tour
had overstayed previous visas issued to them. To have that many people in one
tour group with such a record is "somewhat suspect," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 24, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Policy on Haitian Refugees Blurs in Political Transition

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 824 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 23


A freighter carrying 62 Haitian refugees sailed into downtown Miami early today,
forcing a test of immigration policy at a time when Washington is sending mixed
signals about its intentions toward boat people from the troubled Caribbean
nation.

Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service here said the refugees,
43 men and 19 women found in two concealed compartments, had requested political
asylum after the cargo ship was intercepted by United States Customs inspectors.

The refugees were expected to spend the night at a detention facility on the
outskirts of Miami, where thousands of other Haitians have been taken. But what
happens to them after that is unclear.

The refugees' arrival comes amid a growing, increasingly partisan, debate in
Washington over American policy toward Haitian boat people, 40,000 of whom have
been intercepted on their way to Florida since President Jean-Bertrand Aristide
was ousted in a coup on Sept. 30, 1991. The Bush Administration and aides to
President-elect Bill Clinton have advanced substantially different approaches to
the problem, and against that backdrop, immigration lawyers and advocacy groups
say, Government agencies are dealing with each new arrival in seemingly
contradictory ways.

No Consistent Policy

Today's landing marks the third time this month that Haitian vessels have
entered American territorial waters off South Florida with large groups of
refugees on board. Officials said only that today's group would be detained
until a decision had been made about their future. But in the two previous
November cases the refugee groups were accorded different treatments.

On the night of Nov. 6, 28 Haitians aboard a 35-foot sailboat came ashore at
Hollywood Beach, just south of Fort Lauderdale, and were taken into custody by
police officers, who handed them over to the immigration service.

Despite protests by advocacy groups, immigration lawyers and Haitian residents
here, the refugees were sent to a detention center in Laredo, Tex., where they
remained today.

Three days later, a Coast Guard cutter intercepted a sailboat off Miami and
brought its 70 passengers ashore. They, too, were handed over to the immigration
service. Those refugees, however, were quickly freed and were allowed to move in
with relatives here or in New York, in both cases remaining free to consult with
lawyers about filing claims for political asylum.

Freedom's Invisible Border

Steven Forester, supervising lawyer at the Haitian Refugee Center here, said
Coast Guard officials had initially told him the sailboat was intercepted in
international waters. That would have allowed United States officials to return
the Haitians to their homeland, in keeping with American policy since President
Bush issued an executive order in May.

But hours later, the Coast Guard announced that the passengers would not be
forcibly repatriated because their vessel had actually been stopped inside the
12-mile limit. Being apprehended in United States territorial waters gave them
the right to a hearing at which they could apply for political asylum.

When it was determined that the Haitian vessel had been inside the 12-mile
limit, Coast Guard officials here said, their headquarters in Washington was
notified and was asked to make a decision on how to proceed. After Coast Guard
officials there consulted the State and Justice Departments, they said, the
Haitians were brought ashore.

No Detention Space

Carol Chasse, the acting district director for the immigration service here,
said the release of the second group did not represent a change in policy but
came about mostly because "we didn't have detention space." Duke Austin, a
spokesman for the agency in Washington said local officials have authority to
take such actions, taking into account other factors as well, like the presence
of relatives and the plausibility of claims for asylum.

Ms. Chasse said she had not decided how today's group would be processed. "I
don't want to convey the impression to Haiti that it's 'olly olly oxen free,' "
she said.

Since Mr. Clinton was elected earlier this month, there have been several news
reports, based in part on leaked intelligence reports, that Haitians are
preparing for a mass exodus as soon as Mr. Clinton is sworn in. That prospect
has caused concern here, and Democratic officials in Miami privately accuse the
Bush Administration of trying to create a scare.

At the same time, immigration lawyers and Government officials say, the Bush
Administration is reluctant to take any action that would allow Mr. Clinton to
assert later that he inherited a Haitian refugee problem. As a result, they
said, it is unlikely there will be any further releases of large groups of
Haitian boat people that could encourage further immigration.

The captain of the vessel and three crew members were being held today while an
investigation was conducted.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 25, 1992, Wednesday

CORRECTION:

A map yesterday with an article about the Miami landing of a freighter carrying
Haitian refugees showed its route incorrectly. A corrected map appears today on
page A16.


GRAPHIC: Map of Miami showing route of Haitian ship.

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 27, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Reform Holds Key to Economy

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 456 words


To the Editor:

There is a striking omission in "How to Lift the Poor" (news analysis, Nov. 10),
your overview of the Clinton Administration's agenda to aid those in need:
immigration reform. Over the last decade, the United States has received the
largest number of immigrants in our history -- close to 10 million people. In
the recessionary year 1991, more than 1.8 million people were granted permanent
resident status -- also the highest number in our history.

More than one-third of the annual growth in the labor force comes from this
collective source (that is, legal immigrants, illegal immigrants, refugees,
asylum seekers and foreign nationals who are legally permitted to be employed as
nonimmigrant workers). The preponderance of the immigrant flow has been into
urban areas, especially to central cities.

This human infusion has been disproportionately characterized by people who are
unskilled, poorly educated and often not English-speaking. Not only have many
such immigrants added to the magnitude of the country's poverty population, but
they have also contributed, through increased competition, to a worsening of
employment and income experiences for needy citizens.

What sense does it make to have an inflexible immigration policy that admits
record numbers of people who must find jobs to survive without any regard to the
state of the domestic economy? What is the justification for a policy that
admits (or permits in the case of illegal immigration) mass entry of people
whose human capital attributes most closely match those of citizens who are
themselves experiencing the highest incidences of poverty and unemployment?

What is the logic of a policy that annually pours hundreds of thousands of such
people into the central cities, which are already overburdened with chronic
shortages of jobs, training opportunities, health services and affordable
housing?

Immigration reform is not a panacea. But unless our immigration policy is
changed, any urban programs are doomed to failure that seek to raise the rewards
of working for the urban poor; to reduce the magnitude of adult illiteracy; to
improve the quality and retention power of urban school systems -- to name only
a few laudable goals.

Immigration reform, the omitted option among the urban reforms that you describe
as being under discussion, would be the least costly to implement and the
quickest to produce beneficial results. Moreover, such action would greatly
improve the prospects for other elements of the proposed urban agenda to make a
difference in the quality of life in our cities.1

VERNON M. BRIGGS JR.
Professor, N.Y.S. School of Industrial
and Labor Relations, Cornell U.
Ithaca, N.Y., Nov. 11, 1992

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 15, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Judge Clears Mexican in Agent's Killing

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 958 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 14


Halting an extraordinary adventure in the projection of American legal power, a
Federal judge today threw out charges against a Mexican doctor who was kidnapped
from his country in 1990 to stand trial here in the torture and murder of a
United States drug agent.

Judge Edward Rafeedie of United States District Court said the evidence
presented during two weeks of testimony against the doctor, Humberto Alvarez
Machain, had been based on "hunches" and the "wildest speculation" and had
failed to support the charges that he had participated in the torture of the
drug agent, Enrique Camarena Salazar.

Dr. Alvarez had planned to fly home to Guadalajara immediately. Instead, he
remained in a Federal detention center in Los Angeles this evening. Officials
from the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service said they were
going to question him about his immigration status, and that this would delay
his release.

"This is a case where we need to examine the particulars more closely," said
Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for the immigration service's Western Regional
Office, Virginia Kice. "It's a means of buying time."

It was not clear this evening whether the Government would contest the judge's
action.

The case has strained United States-Mexico relations and caused anger in other
nations over the United States' self-proclaimed right to seize their citizens at
will.

In High Places

The Camarena case also offered a glimpse of the high reach of the drug trade in
Mexican society. One of those indicted was the brother-in-law of a former
president; another, a former head of the Federal investigations police. And
prosecution witnesses testified that other ranking Mexican officials were
present when Mr. Camarena was tortured in February 1985.

Dr. Alvarez, a gynecologist, was accused of helping to revive Mr. Camarena
during his torture so that his interrogation could proceed. But the Government
failed to produce witnesses who saw the doctor inject Mr. Camarena with the pain
reliever Lidocaine, as prosecutors contended he had done.

Last June the United States Supreme Court upheld the right of the Government to
arrest foreigners abroad without following procedures set out in extradition
treaties.

In Mexico, Dr. Alvarez's abduction, and the High Court's ruling, came to
symbolize what many people see as an arrogant and unbridled exercise of American
power. "What right does one country have to kidnap a Mexican?" Sergio Aguayo, a
political scientist in Mexico City, said today.

The doctor was kidnapped from Guadalajara by bounty hunters and delivered to the
Drug Enforcement Administration in El Paso.

Paul Hoffman, legal director for the American Civil Liberties Union Foundation
of Southern California, who argued the doctor's case before the Supreme Court,
said today: "What the Supreme Court did was authorize lawless behavior. Now it
turns out the Government also didn't have a case against him."

Robert C. Bonner, the drug agency's Administrator, tried to put a positive
interpretation on an outcome that represented a deep embarrassment for the
Government. In a statement today, he said, "D.E.A.'s goal in this case of
investigating and bringing Dr. Alvarez Machain before a competent court of
justice for trial was achieved."

'We Do Not Agree'

In the past, top law enforcement officials, including Mr. Bonner, seemed so
fiercely determined to bring the killers of Mr. Camarena to justice that they
defended the unusual bounty-hunter operation that brought Dr. Alvarez to the
United States.

Today, Mr. Bonner said, "We do not agree with the district court's ruling." He
went on, "The court's decision will not deter the D.E.A.'s commitment to
investigate all those responsible for the kidnap and murder of special agent
Enrique Camarena."

Future Charges Unlikely

Mr. Hoffman said that Dr. Alvarez currently faces no charges in Mexico and that
today's ruling makes it improbable that any future charges will be brought
against him there. In the United States, he had faced a possible sentence of
life in prison on charges including conspiracy to kidnap a Federal agent,
kidnapping a Federal agent and murder.

Dr. Alvarez's lawyer, Alan Rubin, said he would "make sure he goes back in a
much better way than he came." But Judge Rafeedie denied Mr. Rubin's request
that the United States Government pay his return air fare, assuming that Dr.
Alvarez is released.

The judge earlier refused to set aside charges against Dr. Alvarez's
co-defendant, Ruben Zuno Arce, who was not abducted abroad.

Mr. Zuno, a businessman, was convicted in 1990 of conspiracy and other charges
in connection with the abduction and murder of Mr. Camarena, who was seized in
Guadalajara on Feb. 7, 1985, as he left the United States consulate. Judge
Rafeedie overturned that conviction and granted a new trial, ruling that some of
the testimony had been tainted.

A Critical 1990 Ruling

In 1990 Judge Rafeedie also dismissed charges against Dr. Alvarez, saying his
kidnapping violated international law. The dismissal led to the Supreme Court's
decision after an appeals court upheld his ruling.

During the current trial, several witnesses placed Dr. Alvarez at the scene of
the torture and interrogation, and one told of seeing him washing hypodermic
needles.

In arguing last week that "this is a case that cries out to go to the jury,"
Assistant United States Attorney John L. Carlton said: "We know Alvarez Machain
had the skill to do that. We know he was sitting there in the kitchen cleaning
his syringes."

But Judge Rafeedie told the prosecutors today, "There has to be stronger
evidence than you have offered to find that a man is guilty of kidnapping,
murder and torture."

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Humberto Alvarez Machain, a Mexican doctor who was acquitted in
the torture and murder of an American drug agent. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 18, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Stimulates the Economy

SECTION: Section A; Page 38; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 452 words


To the Editor:

In "Immigration Reform Holds Key to Economy" (letter, Nov. 27) Prof. Vernon M.
Briggs Jr. of Cornell University's New York State School of Industrial and Labor
Relations uses a Nov. 10 news analysis, "How to Lift the Poor," as a springboard
from which to promote his own anti-immigrant agenda.

In the process, he confuses the issues and misleads readers by asserting,
without offering any evidence, that our immigration policy fosters poverty and
urban blight.

The contrary is true. A 1989 Department of Labor study found that "neither
United States workers in complementary jobs, nor most minority workers, appear
to be adversely affected by immigration."

This finding is supported by many other studies, including those by the Rand
Corporation, the University of Maryland, the United States Council of Economic
Advisers and the National Research Council, all of which indicate that
immigrants in the United States, both legal and undocumented, do not have a
negative effect on the earnings and employment opportunities of native-born
Americans.

You concluded on this topic two years ago in "So Much for Assumptions About
Immigrants and Jobs" (The Week in Review, April 14, 1990) that "the conventional
economic wisdom pitting American poor against the immigrant poor is crumbling."
In a recent poll of 38 of the country's top economists, 68 percent favored
increased immigration, while none favored less.

These studies also show that immigrants pay more than $90 billion in taxes
annually, that they are not a drain on the economy and they contribute far more
than what they receive. As the studies show, immigrants create jobs for both
citizens and other immigrants and, contrary to Mr. Briggs's assertion, are
revitalizing many cities by starting businesses and generating jobs in the
communities in which they settle.

Indeed, the policies Mr. Briggs advocates will have the effect of worsening
urban problems by creating a class of people especially vulnerable to
exploitation, by depressing wages and by causing widespread discrimination and
intolerance that will affect all. For example, a 1990 study by Congress's
General Accounting Office found that the 1986 law penalizing employers who hire
undocumented aliens has led to widespread discrimination against citizens and
authorized workers.

Urban reform is a difficult and complicated issue that cannot be intelligently
addressed by advancing simplistic and xenophobic ideas such as those expounded
by Mr. Briggs. A sound policy attacks poverty; it does not groundlessly make
scapegoats of immigrants.

LUCAS GUTTENTAG
Director, Immigrants' Rights Project
American Civil Liberties Union
New York, Dec. 2, 1992

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 22, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

CANADA TIGHTENS IMMIGRATION LAW

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 822 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, Dec. 18


Long considered a model of generosity in granting asylum to the world's
persecuted, Canada is making its immigration procedures more restrictive in the
biggest change in Canadian immigration law in 16 years.

After a long period of economic hard times, and with unemployment well over 10
percent, the new law responds to a decline in Canadian tolerance toward
immigrants, among other reasons, because they are seen as competitors in the
labor force.

The law, which received final approval on Thursday, has drawn criticism from
refugee and civil liberties groups. Asylum approvals have been on the decline,
from 76 percent of the applicants in 1989 to 57 percent this year, and the law
is expected to lower the rate further.

Still a Refuge

But Canada's policies will still be more liberal than those of the United
States. For instance, Canada has no country quotas; instead, Canada assesses
applicants on the basis of professional, educational and financial backgrounds,
a process that is further developed in the new law.

Howard Greenberg, chairman of the national immigration section of the Canadian
Bar Association, said that under the new law, "applying to Canada will be like
applying to law school: The Government will collect applications worldwide and
assess them as against one another, and select the cream of the crop for
processing."

The main restrictions relate to refugees. "We're concerned that this new
legislation will restrict the number of people who get to Canada to make a
refugee claim," said Fay Sims, refugee coordinator for Amnesty International's
Canadian Section.

Spread of Xenophobia

A recent survey by the Immigration Department demonstrated that Canada is not
isolated from the wave of xenophobia rolling over Europe. More than 40 percent
of Canadians, according to the poll, say their country admits too many
immigrants. One-third say they want to "keep out people who are different from
most Canadians."

But Greg James, president of the Refugee Lawyers Assocation, challenge the
general perception that Canada receives more than its fair share of refugees.
Thirty thousand people sought asylum in Canada last year, he said, compared with
256,000 in Germany, 46,000 in France, 45,000 in Britain, 41,000 in Switzerland,
27,000 in Austria, 27,000 in Sweden and 26,000 in Italy. According to data from
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the United States accepted nearly
500,000 refugee applications last year.

Some critics argue that the law is part of the positioning of Prime Minister
Brian Mulroney's Progressive Conservative Government for elections next year.
The measure is seen as stealing thunder from the Reform Party, which has been
taking votes from Tories in western Canada and which has long called for
immigration curbs.

To Employment and Immigration Minister Bernard Valcourt, the measure meets the
"new realities" of the 1990's: according to his figures, 80 million people are
on the move worldwide in search of a new homeland. He feels that many would
circumvent Canada's immigration laws, if given the chance.

Possible Abuse of Power

Refugee advocates have serious reservations about a provision that gives border
guards the right to determine who is entitled to make a refugee claim, without
any recourse for appeal.

"We're concerned about that," said Mr. James, the lawyer, "because it will be
done in the context of a simple interview in which the claimant may not have
counsel or a qualified person to assist him."

Since most refugees come from the United States, a high rejection rate would put
a bigger burden on such centers as Vive Inc., in Buffalo, a church-funded way
station for refugees from New York City. Of 234 refugees that it bedded and fed
last month on their way north, nearly half were from Somalia. The Rev. John
Long, Vive's director, worries that his facilities, in an old Roman Catholic
school in Buffalo, will be swamped.

A 'Militarized Border'?

Nancy Worsfold, executive director of the Canadian Council for Refugees, which
represents about 130 church, community and organizations, said the measure could
have a major impact on the border region.

It "creates the incentive to make an illegal border crossing," she said, and
Canada could well respond by creating a "militarized border."

Under current law, a refugee who makes it to a border point is automatically
given the right to a hearing before the Government and independent adjudicators.

According to immigration records, more than 90 percent of the refugees are
initially able to show a credible basis for staying and thus qualify for a
second hearing. The Government wants to change the procedure, it says, to cut
costs and promote efficiency.

Powers to deport have been broadened, and deportation will be possible not only
of a person engaged in illegal activities, but also of a member of any
organization linked with illegal activities.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 4, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Tide of Migrant Labor Tells of a Law's Failure

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1612 words

DATELINE: CONKLIN, Mich.


At dusk, the migrant workers trudge in from the orchards to the dusty courtyard
of the farmer's labor camp, where they live in aged, rust-pocked trailers. From
straps on their shoulders, they carry galvanized buckets with canvas bottoms so
the apples they pick will not bruise. The workers get 50 cents each time they
fill a bucket.

Every year, an estimated 45,000 of these men and women, nearly all originally
from Mexico, spend one to six months in western Michigan. With its wide variety
of fruit and vegetable crops, including asparagus in the spring and apples in
the fall, the region is one of the nation's leading employers of migrant labor.

But it is harder than ever for workers to find a job here or, having found one,
to make a living. This year, like last, farmers report that they have been
turning people away. A sign on the packing shed of one farmer, Fritz E. Umlor,
says "No help wanted" in foot-high letters. Mr. Umlor said that most of his 12
workers returned year after year and that he had to turn away three carloads of
job seekers during one week in October.

The Government once thought it could prevent an overflow of such job seekers.
Six years ago, Congress passed the Immigration Reform and Control Act, under
which three million illegal immigrants, including one million migrant farm
workers, were granted amnesty and permitted to remain in the United States. The
law tried to prevent any further illegal immigration by imposing sanctions on
employers who hired subsequent arrivals.

By making it harder for illegal immigrants to come here and work, the law was
intended to alter the economics of migrant labor. Employers, having to compete
harder to lure a stable or shrinking supply of legal workers, would improve
workers' wages and working conditions.

But this month, the Commission on Agriculture Workers, which Congress created
with the immigration act to assess the effects of the law, disclosed that
illegal immigration continues largely unchecked. An overabundance of farmworkers
is crowding the job market and holding down wages. State officials say the
average migrant family of four in Michigan, legal and illegal, made $7,200 last
year, just over half the $13,924 the Government says the family needed to escape
poverty. The $7,200 salary represents no real improvement in a decade,
farmworker advocates say.

The law's impotence is easily seen here: Among the people coming in from the
orchard are a 25-year-old man whose wife and two children are in Mexico, and
another man, 45, with a wife and six children there. About 3,300 agents of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service patrol the 2,000-mile border between
Mexico and the United States, 100 more agents than six years ago, but the two
farmworkers here got past the authorities and into Brownsville, Tex.,
uneventfully.

"We just crossed the bridge when it was busy," said the older man, who along
with the 25-year-old man spoke on the condition that they not be identified for
fear of deportation.

From Texas they caught a ride to Florida. In Tampa, they said, they each paid
$900 for phony identification documents -- a Social Security card and a resident
alien card -- and hitched a ride to the Midwest.

Passing Boss's Scrutiny

The younger man took out his papers. His resident alien card is a copy of a new,
ostensibly fraud-resistant version. It is plastic-coated, with personal data, a
fingerprint and his picture in profile; all like the real thing except that the
picture is blurry. He said his papers readily passed the boss's scrutiny.

He also said he believed the cards looked good enough to let him cross the
border at will. "Soon the winter will come," he said. "There's no work, so no
money to pay for rent and food. I will go back to Mexico then."

No one knows how many of the farmworkers in Michigan are illegal. Rick Kessler,
a lawyer in Grand Rapids who specializes in migrant worker cases, gives an
estimate of 30 percent. Mr. Kessler said the total number of workers does not
change much here, despite the apparent rise in illegal immigration. He said many
who come looking for work find none, so they go back to their bases in Florida
and Texas.

Because of the threat of sanctions, employers ask for two pieces of
identification. But no one expects employers to be forensic technicians; if the
documents look authentic, the employer is off the hook. The authorities say the
law has given rise to a growing counterfeit-document industry.

Still, the people working illegally in the fields and orchards here might have
been apprehended if not for another failing of the law. To raid farms of illegal
workers, Congress required that the immigration service get search warrants
specifying a cause for a search, the fields where the immigrants would be
working and the identity of the landowner. Because the workers move from field
to field day to day, the information is hard to get, Duke Austin, a spokesman
for the service said. "That dramatically deterred our ability to do
enforcement," he said.

More Legalized Workers

In western Michigan, Manuel Gonzalez, head of the Governor's Interagency Migrant
Services Committee, said the immigration law did seem to be contributing to a
slow improvement in working conditions. With help from advocates like Mr.
Kessler and the Michigan Migrant Legal Assistance Project in Grand Rapids, he
said workers can demand more of farmers.

But Mr. Gonzalez also said the law was paradoxically encouraging more
immigration. The reason is that more workers sought amnesty than expected,
partly because many were able to qualify with falsified documents. More
legalized workers meant more legalized spouses, who could also work.

Under its immigration policies, the Government tries not to split up families.
So if the wife and children of a newly legalized worker could show that they
were in the country before the law was enacted, the immigration service
permitted them to stay.

Michael C. Hyde, a lawyer with the legal assistance project, said workers'
living conditions were improving somewhat in the state, but not because farmers
had to compete harder to attract workers. The state has enacted new laws
requiring that farmers provide drinking water and portable toilets in their
fields and better housing.

11 People Live in One Room

Yet enforcement of these requirements is lax, because of budget cuts in Federal
and state agencies. Mr. Gonzalez, who coordinates state services to migrant
workers, said his office had been reduced from six workers to one -- himself. He
said a state program that subsidizes farmers who build better housing had been
sharply cut, from $600,000 three years ago to $75,000, a minuscule amount in a
state with 900 labor camps on its farms.

The state public health agency, which licenses the camps, has just nine
inspectors. Marvin Johansen, chief of the agency's migrant labor housing office,
said inspectors get to most of the camps before they open in the spring and make
random checks later.

But the later checks are so rare that farmers do not seem compelled to maintain
the camps through the summer. At one camp here, a large old barn had been
converted to a three-story apartment house. In one ground-level, one-room
apartment, four children, aged 8 to 16, cooked an early supper while their
parents and older relatives worked.

The room is quite large, about 600 square feet, with a concrete floor. The
children say 11 people live in it. It is midday, but the room is dark. One side
of the room has been sliced from the rest by a barrier of sheets. The sheets
hide a row of double beds, aligned side by side, mattress to mattress.

The 8-year-old, a boy, proposes a tour of the camp. "Want to see the bathroom?"
he says. There are no toilets in the barn, so the farmer provides separate
cinder-block community outhouses for men and women. The men's outhouse is dark
and dank and layered with mildew and scum. It is acrid.

A narrow aisle, about two feet wide, separates five toilet stalls that face five
shower stalls. State law requires provisions for privacy. But hardly anything
remains of the plastic curtains the farmer has hung in front of the stalls.
Visits to five camps in and around Conklin suggest that the condition of the
outhouse is not unusual.

Few Regulators Seen

Federal regulators are not often seen on the farms. The wage and hour division
of the Federal Department of Labor enforces regulations governing child labor
and the $4.25-an-hour minimum wage. Over 15 years, its investigative staff in
Michigan has been cut from about 50 to 20, in line with cuts in other states.

So, rather than seek out abuses, the Labor Department can only react to
complaints, and a department official said it had a backlog of them in Michigan.
As a result, farmworker advocates say violations of the child labor laws are
common.

With enforcement lax, conditions on the farms here depend largely on the
attitudes of the farmer. Bill Rasch, probably the biggest apple grower in the
area, has a well-ordered, well-swept camp close to his home. Mr. Rasch, father
of 14 children, says his workers are based in Florida and that each winter he
visits them there.

Much of Mr. Rasch's camp, though tidy, is old and worn, and Mr. Johansen says
his office has urged Mr. Rasch to replace the housing. Still, Mr. Rasch's
community outhouse is, relatively speaking, a model of comfort and hygiene. It
is clean, dry, well lighted and freshly painted white. There are plywood doors
enclosing the toilets and new curtains for the showers.

"They are human beings," Mr. Rash said of the workers. "They are proud people.
And we need them."


LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The overabundance of migrant farmworkers has made a precarious
way of life actually dangerous for some, but on the farm of Bill Rasch in
western Michigan, seasonal workers like Carmen O. Mares, above, are recruited
from Florida yearly and have well-maintained housing. (Deb Kik for The New York
Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 1, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

AFTER THE STORM;
In a Migrant Labor Camp, Relief Is Slow and Chaotic

BYLINE: By CATHERINE S. MANEGOLD,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1048 words

DATELINE: FLORIDA CITY, Aug. 31


For a week, the migrant workers and field hands in the spartan Everglades Labor
Camp four miles west of this farming center found themselves at the end of the
relief lines, ignored and isolated as they battled hunger, thirst and then the
weekend's rains.

Time and again, an ambulance or police car would stop, residents said today,
scan quickly for life-threatening emergencies, then drive on again to tend to
other problems, leaving the impoverished community to fend for itself.

By Sunday, the several hundred workers and their children who remained in the
devastated camp had turned to cooking rancid food atop a makeshift barbeque. It
was a costly mistake that left the camp with nine cases of food poisoning to add
to a long catalogue of other ills.

The winds of Hurricane Andrew demolished much of the camp, where 4,000 farm
workers once made their homes in trailers. By today only about 200 were left.
Many residents were unaccounted for. Some were feared dead.

Scores had walked away from the devastation, hitching rides out of town to work
in the fields of Texas, Georgia or elsewhere. Others were believed to be hiding
in the area, confused and afraid that, lacking proper working papers, they would
be picked up by immigration officials and deported or jailed.

Near-Total Isolation

Several residents said immigration officials had appeared at the camp early last
week saying they wanted to distribute food and water. "We did not believe them,"
said Maria Leon, a 40-year-old immigrant from Mexico who has lived in the camp
for eight years and works at a local plant nursery. "Many were frightened and
they ran away. Most of them still do not have their papers."

Air Force and police officials who began coordinating relief efforts at the camp
today denied that migrant workers, many of whom are illegal aliens, would be
dealt with differently than other survivers of the disaster. Yet, their
near-total isolation in the week after the hurricane seemed to tell a different
story.

"There would be a Navy ambulance come here for 20 minutes and then just leave,"
said Patrick Ewers, a captain with the Apollo Beach Rescue Squad, a Broward
County unit that has been volunteering its services in areas most heavily
damaged by the hurricane. "It was incredible. This is a disaster.

"People keep sending clothes," he added. "We don't need clothes. We need
communications, we need food and we need generators."

Help From Air Rescue Unit

Some help arrived late Sunday when a unit with the 41st Air Rescue Service from
Patrick Air Force Base in Cocoa Beach, Fla., came to establish a round-the-clock
presence at the camp.

"When we got here it was pretty rough," said Tech. Sgt. Daniel Lee Inch, 35, the
commander at the site. "There were a lot of people who thought they were in
charge. But no one was really in charge. People came and went. Because it's so
remote, because it's known as rough, blah, blah, nobody wanted to come in here
and set up a 24-hour medical service. Instead, they just passed through."

For those who stayed in the camp last week, the worst privations came as they
waited for some kind of organized relief efforts.

Sanitary conditions deteriorated in the heat and rain, said Jose Luis Elias, a
doctor with the East Coast Migrant Health Project, a federally financed group
established to help migrant workers. Water supplies fell short and there were 10
cases of dehydration, countless skin rashes and at least one occurance of
impetigo, a skin disease that can result from infected insect bites.

"There was no organization," said Dr. Elias, who arrived at the camp late
Sunday. "There was no coordination and no clear plan."

Spoiled and Sodden Supplies

Poorly devised relief efforts in some cases actually made life in the camp
harder than it might have been, residents and military officials said. Piles of
food and clothing were brought to the camp's concrete schoolhouse and dumped on
the ground. With no one at the camp in charge of distributing the supplies, much
of the food spoiled or was ruined in the rain, and the clothes became sodden and
soiled.

By Sunday night, almost 2,000 square feet of supplies lay in a block-long pile
outside the schoolhouse. Unusable and in the way, the pile was finally burned.

Describing the site as "total chaos," Mr. Ewers of the Apollo Beach Rescue Squad
unit said the supplies had become a health hazard.

"I keep hearing about 7,000 troops," he added. "But I only see 10, and this has
to be one of the worst-hit areas. I think it's disgraceful."

Relief officials at the camp complained bitterly of the lack of organization of
the relief efforts, and said isolated areas like the Everglades Labor Camp were
almost totally ignored. "All the chiefs just want to be chiefs," said one Air
Force officer. "But nobody wants to get down and actually do the dirty work."

'Here We Are Nothing'

Domingo Torres, a 29-year-old field hand who has lived in the camp since it
opened in 1973, said he was stunned by the isolation that followed the storm.
"There was no response," he said bluntly. "When it's like Russia or something,
then Bush is there right away. But here we are nothing. We just sat here Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. Nothing.

"I bet George Bush eats some of the tomatoes we pick," he continued. "But where
was he? A lot of people left because they can't handle this. I can't handle
this. But I don't have a car, so I can't leave.

By late this afternoon a sense of order seeemed to be falling into place. Trash
and debris was gathered up and burned, and the schoolhouse was a frenzy of
unpacking, stacking and cleaning up. On a propane stove in the dark and stifling
kitchen, two women from the camp were making hamburgers from food that had not
yet gone bad.

A makeshift clinic was also being set up. As residents of the camp started to
sift through the debris of what had been their dwellings, they suffered all
manner of injuries.

"What we need now are shoes," said Barbara Pentoney, a volunteer with the Apollo
Beach Rescue Squad. "We especially need children's shoes because they are
running around with nothing on their feet, and they are getting cut and we are
worrying about tetanus. Which reminds me -- we need tetanus vaccine, too."

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: "A lot of people left because they can't handle this," said
Domingo Torres, left, a field hand who lived in the Everglades Labor Camp
outside Florida City that was destroyed by the storm. "I can't handle this. But
I don't have a car, so I can't leave." He watched a military helicopter land at
the camp with his son Domingo Jr. and his wife, Mirella, while pausing from
repairing the roof of their house.; Many of the residents of the labor camp are
still unaccounted for and are feared dead. Members of an Air Force search team
looked for bodies. (Photographs by Lee Romero/The New York Times)

Chart: "The Storm's Impact in South Florida"

18 deaths directly related to storm, 12 indirectly related.

85,000 homes damagfed, including 13,000 destroyed and 18,000 with major damage.

250,000 homeless, including 100,000 staying with family or friends.

250,000 homes and businesses still without power out of 833,000 total in Dade
County.

3,300 electric utility workers on the job from Florida, Georgia, Alabama and
South Carolina.

20,339 troops in place: 13,839 Federal, 6,500 National Guard.

430 additional police officers on duty in south Dade County.

550 Federal emergency employees in place.

12,331 applications for Federal disaster benefits.

11 field kitchens established capable of serving 12,200 meals a day.

974,600 prepackaged meals served through yesterday:
638,600 from the military
280,000 form the American Red Cross
56,000 form Second Harvest Food Bank of Orlando

12 tent cities.

30 Red Cross shelters still open.

49,000 capacity at Red Cross shelters.

2 field hospitals erected.

123 volunteer public health nurses form outside the county.

(Sources: American Red Cross, Florida Power & Light Co., Florida Governor's
office, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Metro Dade Police, Defense
Department Joint Military Task Force, Florida Department of Banking and Finance,
Dade County Public Works Department.)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 13, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Puerto Rico's Coastline: New York's Back Door

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1533 words

DATELINE: AGUADILLA, P.R., Dec. 8


For tens of thousands of Dominicans who dream of a better life in New York, the
long road to Washington Heights or Queens begins here on the rugged, reef-lined
shores of Puerto Rico's west coast.

With the help of smugglers, they cross the perilous Mona Passage in rickety
wooden boats called yolas, arriving under cover of darkness in groups as large
as 175, and are put ashore on isolated beaches. If they manage to evade the
United States Border Patrol agents assigned to this corner of America's
Caribbean frontier, they will make their way to San Juan. After earning enough
money for plane fare, they will try to continue on to New York.

Separated from the Dominican Republic by only the Mona Passage, a 90-mile
stretch of water, Puerto Rico is regarded by Dominicans as an increasingly
attractive route to the American mainland.

Smugglers' Back Door

Immigration officials say Dominicans have constituted the largest group of
immigrants to New York in the last decade, numbering at least 500,000 in the
metropolitan area. Many of those who have arrived in the United States illegally
since the mid-1980's entered this convenient back door.

"I don't think there is a single town in my country that doesn't have someone
who made it to New York by going through Puerto Rico," said a Dominican
construction worker in San Juan who gave his name as Wilfredo Villegas and who
said he arrived here nine months ago. "Everybody knows that this is the best way
to get there."

But the route is dangerous and costly. Dominicans typically pay $500 each to
smugglers to cross to Puerto Rico from the east coast of the Dominican Republic,
and passengers often drown or are eaten by sharks when their small and
overcrowded boats sink or when unscrupulous captains force them to jump into the
seas just offshore.

Passing for Puerto Ricans

"This time of year especially, the waters are really, really nasty," said
Michael H. Wimberley, a Border Patrol senior agent here. "This is where the
Atlantic Ocean and the Caribbean Sea collide, and 10-foot swells are common in
winter."

Dominicans are willing to take that risk because Puerto Rico offers them unique
entree to the United States. Puerto Rico's residents speak Spanish with a
similar accent and have a similar culture and racial composition but enjoy the
benefits of American citizenship. Many Dominicans feel they can pass themselves
off as native Puerto Ricans, with the right to travel to the American mainland
without a passport or the usual immigration formalities.

Estimates of how many Dominicans are living illegally at any one time on this
Caribbean island of 3.6 million people vary widely, ranging from 100,000 upwards
to 300,000. "We only know what we catch," said John A. Abriel, deputy district
director of the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service in San
Juan. "Anything else is a guess."

A Growing Presence

During the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, the immigration service and the
Border Patrol expelled 4,093 Dominicans from Puerto Rico, compared with 1,958 in
1988. But immigration officials acknowledge that those figures represent only a
fraction of the actual influx of Dominicans, and they do not include another
2,953 people whom Coast Guard vessels have intercepted in the Mona Passage this
year.

It is becoming increasingly obvious that the Dominican presence in Puerto Rico
is widespread. Some areas of San Juan, like Barrio Obrero and sections of
Santurce, are now predominantly Dominican, as demonstrated by the proliferation
of exchange houses that wire money back to relatives in Santo Domingo, merengue
clubs and even offices of the Dominican Republic's major political parties.

Dominicans account for more than 90 percent of the illegal immigrants captured
here. Immigration officials said their agents also caught "a sprinkling" of
other Latin Americans, mostly Colombians or Ecuadorans, as well as Haitians and
some Chinese, Pakistanis, Koreans and Indians.

Coordinating Efforts

Since the Border Patrol began operating here in October 1987, it has more than
tripled the number of agents assigned to Puerto Rico, from 10 to 33, and has
worked out a system of cooperation with the Customs Service and Coast Guard,
which supplies most of the information on boat movements that lead to
interceptions. In addition, the immigration service has 17 field officers
assigned to Puerto Rico, whose activities range from inspecting departing
passengers at airports to raiding neighborhoods where illegal immigrants are
believed to live.

But Gov. Rafael Hernandez Colon argues that Washington needs to do even more.
The Border Patrol presence here, he said, "is totally insufficient to limit the
entry of Dominicans." In addition to a shortage of manpower, he said that not
enough money has been devoted to halting an influx that Puerto Ricans regard
with growing irritation. The Border Patrol is expecting delivery of a new
41-foot vessel next spring that will give it more mobility on the high seas, but
while Congress approved expanding the number of the patrol's agents, it has
refused to appropriate the necessary money.

Economic and Social Ills

The Dominican presence on the island "has increased" in recent years and "is
creating problems," especially in terms of employment, Governor Hernandez Colon
said.

News commentators and community groups throughout Puerto Rico say Dominicans are
also responsible for a disproportionate amount of crime and drug trafficking on
the island, and many have called for harsher sanctions against "the usurpers."
Last year legislation was introduced in the Puerto Rican legislature to fine the
government of the Dominican Republic $1,000 for each illegal Dominican
apprehended here, and organizations like the Committee Against Foreign Migration
to Puerto Rico and Citizens United for Rapid Action have sprung up here and in
New York.

'These Are Desperate People'

But the immigrants and their defenders respond that the vast majority of
Dominicans here are hard working, honest and willing to take jobs that local
people do not want. "When you see a guy dangling from the 10th floor of a
building, you don't even need to ask his origins," said Andres Moreta Damiron,
the Dominican Consul General in San Juan. "You can be sure he is a Dominican."

Immigration officials said they, too, find the Dominicans to be unusually
tenacious. Border Patrol agents report incidents in which Dominican immigrants
have attacked them with knives, tried to seize their weapons, scaled barbed-wire
fences or kicked out bus windows trying to avoid capture.

"These are desperate people," said Joseph B. Bennett, the Border Patrol chief in
Puerto Rico. "After investing all their money in a dangerous boat ride, they
don't want to give up."

Border Patrol officials estimate that at best they capture one of every five
Dominican vessels that land here. "Our priority is to intercept them out there
on the water," said Mr. Wimberley, the Border Patrol agent, "because once the
yolas make landfall, the people disappear into the jungle or get picked up by
vans or buses before we can get there."

Timing of Capture Crucial

Once on Puerto Rican soil, the Dominicans do their best to blend in, mimicking a
Puerto Rican accent and vocabulary and adopting local names for fruits and
animals. In some cases, they are aided by criminal groups that steal blank
Puerto Rican birth certificates from government offices here, or that print
false documents of their own. The certificates are sold throughout the island
and in the New York metropolitan area.

"It's easier to catch them up when they're fresh off the yola," said Manuel
Flores, a Border Patrol agent from San Antonio who has been here for two years.
"After six months, they learn to talk just like Puerto Ricans, and it gets much
harder."

The smuggling organizations that bring Dominicans here are run by Dominicans and
Puerto Ricans, both cooperatively and independently, and some promise to get
their customers all the way to New York for prices as high as $3,000. Courts
here have convicted 165 smugglers since 1988, but immigration and Border Patrol
officers say the laws limit their ability to stop and interrogate suspected
illegal immigrants on the street.

Avoiding Rights Violations

"Since the people we are talking to are on U.S. soil, we have to be very careful
about who we question and how we question them," Mr. Abriel said.

Mr. Bennett added: "You can't just stop someone on the basis of a sixth sense.
You have to be able to articulate the reasons you think someone is here
illegally, and that gives them quite a bit of an advantage over us."

For its part, the Dominican government argues there is little it can do to halt
the flow. "We cannot prohibit the departure of our citizens," Mr. Moreta said.
"We can only discourage those departures because they cause problems with our
neighbors and contribute to the disintegration of the Dominican family.

"We do not have a naval force capable of patrolling all of the hundreds of miles
of our coast. That would require the 6th Fleet, and I do not think the United
States is going to help us that way."

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dominicans trying to make their way to the United States start
with a perilous 90-mile journey in wooden boats to the coast of Puerto Rico. A
group of Dominicans, center, was stopped in July by United States Border Patrol
agents in an inflatable raft near Aguadilla, P.R. (Rene Suarez)

Map of Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico, indicating Mona Passage.

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 24, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

DETENTION UPHELD ON ALIEN CHILDREN

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 491 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 23


The Supreme Court today upheld the policy of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to hold alien children facing deportation hearings in detention centers
if they lack a close relative or legal guardian in the United States.

The 7-to-2 decision overturned a ruling by the United States Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which had held that the policy violated
the children's constitutional right to due process.

The appeals court had ruled that each child was entitled to a hearing that must
include an inquiry into whether an unrelated adult was available to care for the
child during the time before the deportation hearing. The Bush Administration
appealed to the Supreme Court last year.

Stevens and Blackmun Dissent

Justice Antonin Scalia wrote today's majority opinion in the case, Reno v.
Flores, No. 91-905. The dissenting Justices were John Paul Stevens and Harry A.
Blackmun.

Justice Scalia wrote that the regulations provided the children with the level
of due process to which they were entitled. "Where the Government does not
intend to punish the child, and where the conditions of Governmental custody are
decent and humane," he wrote, "such custody surely does not violate the
Constitution."

The immigration service arrests thousands of children each year on suspicion of
being deportable aliens. Of the 8,500 arrested in 1990, 70 percent were not
accompanied by adults. Most were teen-age boys who entered the country on their
own from Mexico and Central America.

While adults are typically released to await their hearings, the immigration
service has long required that some person or organization be available to care
for juveniles. In the mid-1980's the service's western region adopted a policy
of releasing the children only to close relatives or legal guardians.

Held in Detention Centers

The 2,000 or so children who could not meet the requirements each year were held
in a network of detention centers. The immigration service said it had neither
the resources nor the expertise in child welfare to conduct thousands of
hearings to approve suitable caretakers.

The original class action in 1985 also challenged conditions in the detention
centers, but that issue ended with a 1987 consent decree requiring the service
to improve the conditions.

Justice Scalia said that the children were asserting an "interest in being
released into the custody of strangers," a right that he said had never been
regarded as "fundamental."

Justice Stevens, in a dissenting opinion that Justice Blackmun also signed,
defined the question in much broader terms, as "the right to be free from
Government confinement that is the very essence of the liberty protected by the
Due Process Clause." Justice Stevens said the Constitution required the
immigration service to demonstrate, in every case, why detention was better for
each child than being released to an unrelated adult.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 14, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Relief Aides Find U.S. Slow To Accept Balkan Refugees

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 648 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 13


Governments outside Europe are being asked to provide temporary housing for
thousands of civilians being released from detention camps in Bosnia and
Herzegovina, but refugee organizations say the plan is meeting resistance from
the Bush Administration.

In a letter sent to the United States and other nations outside the region on
Sept. 29, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees made an urgent
request for 1,600 places abroad to accommodate the first group of detainees. The
agency said that as many as 10,000 people may be released soon.

Refugee officials say this may help reduce tensions in European nations, where
anti-immigration feelings are running high.

At the State Department, officials say that the Administration opposes the
resettlement of Bosnians and that they should be encouraged to return to their
homes as soon as possible. Resettling them abroad would be tantamount to
accepting the de facto ethnic division of Bosnia, the officials say.

Medical Cases Only

The United States is considering only the possibility of admitting up to 100
Bosnians for medical treatment, State Department officials said, and the
Administration is contributing $6 million to refugee assistance in Europe.

"There is an illusion being created here: that if we accept any of these people
for resettlement, we are acquiescing in 'ethnic cleansing,' " said Robert P.
DeVecchi, executive director of the International Rescue Committee, a private
agency based in New York that is active in Yugoslavia. "We tell them to return
home, but these people have no homes to go to."

Mr. DeVecchi said he sees a parallel to World War II.

"This would be like saying to Jews in the ghettos: Stay there, that's really
where you belong," he said in an interview. "Instead of having them die for a
hollow principle, I'd rather try to find pragmatic ways of saving people's
lives, even if principle has to be abandoned."

Nearly 400,000 displaced people from the former Yugoslav republics are already
temporarily settled in Western Europe. Another 630,000 have found refuge in
Croatia.

In addition, nearly 1.5 million people are considered displaced within the old
borders of Yugoslavia, and more than 600,000 in the Sarajevo area are listed as
"vulnerable people" by humanitarian organizations.

Dangers for Mixed Couples

Mr. DeVecchi said people in mixed marriages face the greatest risk, not only in
the former Yugoslavia but also in refugee centers abroad. Apart from the danger
of retaliatory violence, these families would have the most difficult time
returning to "ethnically cleansed" neighborhoods and villages, even in
peacetime.

Arthur C. Helton, director of the refugee project for the Lawyers Committee for
Human Rights, said the released detainees looking for homes "can never go back,
because the atrocities against them were perpetrated by their neighbors."

"I talked to Bosnians in Hungary last month, and they were almost unanimous in
saying they could not return home, but they had no idea where they would go,"
Mr. Helton said in an interview. "We now have the chance to take the lead and
support a humanitarian solution for them."

Mr. Helton said the 1940's concept of "atrocious persecution," under which
nations agreed that Jews should not be forced to go home, should apply to
Bosnians today.

"We have provisions in our refugee act for declaring an emergency and arranging
for resettlement in the United States," he said. He added that the Lawyers
Committee had received calls from people who want to provide homes for Bosnian
children for the winter, but have found there is no way to do this.

"In the Government, budgetary considerations rather than humanitarian factors
are operating this policy," Mr. Helton said. "The United States takes the
position that it is cheaper to protect people in situ than to bring them to the
United States."

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 15, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

'People Smugglers' Send New Tide of Refugees Onto Nordic Shores

BYLINE: By HENRY KAMM,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1327 words

DATELINE: STOCKHOLM, Feb. 8


A new kind of "boat people" are landing on the shores of the Nordic countries,
especially Sweden, whose liberal asylum policies have made it a prime
destination. They are the product of a traffic in people by which smugglers are
making large profits from the refugees' desire to reach safer and more
prosperous shores.

The new refugees, mainly Iraqis but also families fleeing the fighting in the
former Yugoslavia or the devastation of Somalia, take a circuitous route by
road, rail, air and sea and pay large amounts of money to be delivered to Sweden
or other Nordic countries by "people smugglers," whose trade is centered in
Moscow.

So far, five ships, carrying a total of 614 people, mainly Kurds from Iraq but
also other Iraqis, have crossed the Baltic Sea since October from Russian,
Latvian and Estonian ports. One boatload of 150 Iraqis reached Denmark last
autumn, and last week 108 stepped ashore in Helsinki, Finland.

Somalis Smuggled to Finland

About 1,500 Somalis have been smuggled to Finland from Moscow via the ferry
across the Gulf of Finland from Tallinn, Estonia, to Helsinki.

Many others have reached Sweden by similar routes. An Ethiopian encountered in
Rinkeby, a section of Stockholm largely populated by immigrants, said he had
bought what he called "a European passport" in Khartoum, the Sudan, and
"arranged" for travel here.

Others have come from the Horn of Africa with "passports" issued by a group
calling itself the World Service Authority, which a United Nations official said
was linked to a "world citizen" movement founded by Gary Davis, an American.

Kurds Wait in Moscow

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees estimates that 5,000 to 6,000
Iraqi Kurds are now in Moscow to arrange their transport to Sweden; the Swedish
Red Cross has received even higher estimates.

The going rate, according to escapees interviewed, is $2,500 to $3,000 per adult
for the journey here from Moscow, with half fare for children.

The refugees who have arrived have requested political asylum, which under
international conventions should be sought in the first "safe" country a refugee
reaches and is contingent on justified fear of persecution in the refugees' own
country.

Because of doubts that the asylum-seekers meet these conditions and fear that if
asylum is granted, smuggling will take on far greater proportions, governments
have withheld granting refugee status. Most Western European Governments are
worried by the sudden increase in the numbers of asylum-seekers arriving across
borders and seas. Germany, where anti-foreigner violence spread last fall and
caused the deaths of several immigrants, is tightening its liberal asylum laws.

The United States is also a destination in the lucrative traffic in illegal
immigrants as a growing number of ships from China have headed there packed with
poor farmers and laborers.

The flood of refugees trying to get to Europe has also provided a flourishing
trans-shipping business for enterprising smugglers in Poland. Thousands of
ethnic Albanians from Serbia, Montenegro and Macedonia have arrived in Sweden
after buying "bus tours" costing around $500 that delivered them via Poland.

Many Hope to Follow

In interviews at the Soderby reception center near here -- where 240 passengers
who arrived from Riga, Latvia, last month in a group of 396 people are awaiting
a decision on whether Sweden will let them stay -- Iraqi Kurds and Christians
said many families from the northern Iraqi region under international protection
were planning to follow their route.

All the Iraqis said Moscow was the main staging post in their trek, because
contact with what they call "the Mafia" is made there. Those who arrange the
trips, according to the refugees, are young men from various Arab countries,
possibly students who have lived in the Soviet Union. Some also said they had
dealt with an Iraqi who now held a Swedish passport.

According to the refugees' accounts, the meetings take place in public places in
downtown Moscow, including certain subway stations and a McDonald's.

When Prime Minister Carl Bildt of Sweden paid an official visit to Moscow last
week, his unofficial calls included a subway station known as a meeting place
for refugees. Mr. Bildt called on Russia to pass laws to make effective its
agreement earlier this month to the international refugee conventions, which
would oblige Russia to accept the return of the Iraqis from Sweden for asylum
there.

Two Routes to Moscow

There are two main routes to Moscow for the Iraqi refugees -- via Turkey or
Jordan. Some migrants, like Shorash Atroshi, an 18-year-old Kurd who reached
here together with his father, his mother, his father's second wife, three
sisters and two brothers, paid about $125 a person in Iraqi dinars to be
transported by car to the Turkish side of the border. There they were hidden in
a house for six days.

After a day and a half on a train, they reached a Turkish city that the youth
thinks was Trebizond. After 12 hours in the hold of a boat on the Black Sea, the
family disembarked in the Russian Black Sea port of Sochi for the long train
ride to Moscow. The next leg of the trip was by train to Minsk, the capital of
Belarus, and then on to Riga a few days later.

Haitham Sholomon, a 22-year-old Iraqi Christian from Mosul who evaded the Iraqi
draft, bought a forged passport for $25. He fled with his mother by bus to
Amman, Jordan, in July. It took them six weeks and $1,600 to arrange for a
flight to Moscow. A "travel agent" procured a Russian visa, included in the
fare.

The wait in Moscow was four months long. They paid $5,000 for a two-week rail
trip, and paid more for stays in squalid hotels in Minsk and Riga.

A Nightmare Crossing

The refugees now in Soderby described the Baltic crossing as a nightmare. The
group of 396 spent seven days in the hold of a ship during a raging storm, with
almost no food and little water. Every now and then, an Arabic speaker, who
according to the migrants spoke with an Egyptian or Palestinian accent, advised
over a loudspeaker that the weather had prevented the crossing.

"When I see the shore of Sweden, I think it's my motherland," Mr. Sholomon said,
still rejoicing two weeks later. Mr. Atroshi said, "The day we arrived is my
birthday."

Birgit Friggebo, Sweden's Minister of Culture and Immigration, does not share
the Iraqis' joy.

"It is not acceptable that people commercialize this process," she said in an
interview. "If we can send them back, we will."

But she said some might be granted asylum after screening. To discourage the
smuggling rings, Mrs. Friggebo said, Swedish police officers have been assigned
to the Baltic countries and a similar arrangement was being concluded with
Russia.

Swedish asylum policy has aimed not only at granting shelter to persecuted
people, but also at integrating them into Swedish society as rapidly and fully
as possible.

Anti-Foreigner Feeling Feared

Like many Swedes across the political spectrum, Mrs. Friggebo said she feared
that the rush of asylum-seekers with claims that may not be justified had
heightened anti-foreigner feelings in a country that until recently had known
little antagonism to foreign workers or refugees. The wave of firebombing of
foreigners' hostels in Germany by neo-Nazis reopened old wounds and raised new
fears throughout Europe.

Between 1989 and 1991, about 30,000 people a year applied for asylum here.  Last
year, the number soared to 83,500, with 85 percent coming from the former
Yugoslav republics.

"Skinheads" in Sweden have also staged incidents directed against foreigners
over the last couple of years, usually throwing small firebombs at refugee
centers or burning crosses near them. A new party, the New Democrats, has made
the issue of foreigners seeking asylum a main plank in its platform and received
6.7 percent of the vote in the 1991 parliamentary elections.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mohammed Tofik sitting in a hallway at the United Nations
mission in Moscow. He is one of 5,000 to 6,000 Kurdish refugees from Iraq
waiting in Moscow while arranging transportation to Sweden. (Otto Pohl for The
New York Times) (pg. A1); After having paid large sums of money to "people
smugglers" for providing travel routes to Sweden, a group of Kurdish refugees
played soccer at the Soderby refugee center in Stockholm. Upon their arrival in
a "safe" country, the refugees have requested political asylum. (Associated
Press for The New York Times) (pg. A5)

Map of Europe, indicating Sweden, and showing routes people seeking aslyum there
and countries from which they come (pg. A5)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 12, 1992, Monday, Late Edition - Final

California Sees First Encounter In Senate Race

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 431 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Calif., Oct. 11


Senator John Seymour and his Democratic opponent, Dianne Feinstein, traded
personal accusations and disagreed on taxes, immigration policy and military
spending cuts on Saturday in the first debate of their Senate campaign.

But Mr. Seymour, the appointed Republican incumbent, and Ms. Feinstein, the
former Mayor of San Francisco and former candidate for Governor, did have points
of accord: they agreed on cutting Federal spending across the board,
specifically for Congress, and agreed that job creation and the economy were
their top priorities.

Mr. Seymour, a former State Senator who was appointed by Gov. Pete Wilson 20
months ago to serve the remainder of his Senate term, has been trailing Ms.
Feinstein in the polls. Analysts say his problems stem in part from the
unpopularity of President Bush and Governor Wilson in the state.

Mr. Seymour made the most pointed personal attack of the 60-minute debate,
broadcast on television and radio stations around the state, saying Ms.
Feinstein voted to release 22 murderers from state prison while serving from
1962 to 1966 on the California Board of Women's Terms and Parole.

'Issue of Character'

Ms. Feinstein did not respond directly during the debate, but later said that
parole rules were different then under an indeterminate sentence law and that "I
was regarded as one of the tougher members of that board."

During the debate, Mr. Seymour also said a lawsuit against Ms. Feinstein by the
Fair Political Practices Commission, contending that she failed to follow the
rules in disclosing the source of $8.3 million in loans and contributions to her
1990 campaign for Governor, "is an issue of character, is an issue of
integrity." Ms. Feinstein dismissed the issue as "mistakes of a bookkeeping and
clerical nature," and responded that Mr. Seymour's private real estate and
development companies had been sued 22 times by dissatisfied business associates
or customers.

On taxes, Mr. Seymour made a no-new-taxes pledge, while Ms. Feinstein repeated
that she would "not support tax increases in the below-$200,000-wage-earning
range." But she said she would support raising taxes on the wealthy because "the
very rich got a huge tax break in the 1980's."

On military spending, Mr. Seymour again endorsed a $50 billion cut over five
years, while Ms. Feinstein called for a $135 billion cut. And on immigration
policy, Mr. Seymour called for hiring 1,500 additional Border Patrol officers,
while Mr. Feinstein proposed using Army personnel returned from Europe and Asia
"as an adjunct to the Border Patrol."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 4, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

No Instant Green Cards

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Home Desk

LENGTH: 178 words


To The Home Section:

Americans are often criticized for their shortsightedness. After reading John H.
Cushman Jr.'s article ["Illegal Workers: a Long Road to Legality," Feb. 4], I
have to agree that we deserve this criticism.

In Mr. Cushman's article, there are people who suggest that we give 80,000 green
cards immediately to people who are waiting to work legally as baby sitters,
instead of making them wait up to 15 years. This supposedly to solve the
child-care shortage in this country.

What is the guarantee that these baby sitters would not look for other jobs that
pay better once they have the right to work legally and wherever they want? If
they choose to stop working and apply for welfare, are there any legal means to
force them to continue to work as child-care providers?

Have we given thought to the cost of providing health care, education and
housing for all the family members (and extended family members) of these
sitters? What would be the impact of these newcomers on the American job market?


CAROL FOX
Alameda, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 23, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

SETTLING IN: The Overview;
Clinton Concedes He Erred on Baird Nomination

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1283 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 22


President Clinton acknowledged today that he had made a mistake in rushing
through Zoe Baird's selection as Attorney General. He conceded that he had not
fully reviewed her hiring of illegal aliens, even though his aides informed him
in general of the legal violation before he announced his choice.

Responding to mounting public opposition to Ms. Baird and rapidly eroding
support for her nomination in the Senate, Mr. Clinton early this morning
withdrew her name from consideration for the highest Cabinet post he gave to a
woman. Mr. Clinton immediately began to search for a new nominee. Aides said he
would prefer another woman.

Most of today, though, was focused on political damage control at the White
House. After two days of murky and often contradictory explanations from Clinton
spokesmen about how much the President had known of Ms. Baird's legal
violations, Mr. Clinton tried to put the matter to rest. He said he did know
some details, and declared, "I'm sorry about this."

He said he had erred in pushing through Ms. Baird's announcement to meet a
Christmas deadline that he had set for assembling his Cabinet. "In retrospect,"
he said at the White House today, "what I should have done is to basically delay
the whole thing for a couple of days and look into it in greater depth. I take
full responsibility for that. This process is in no way a reflection on her."

But he said he was only vaguely aware of the details of Ms. Baird's violations,
and his aides continued to blame transition officials for not telling Mr.
Clinton how serious the legal problem was. The details of the case, though, were
rather simple: the nominee violated Federal law by hiring two Peruvian household
workers who did not have work permits and also by not paying Social Security
taxes on their wages. Mr. Clinton's spokesmen were at a loss to explain which of
these details the President did not fully understood.

Briefing of Christopher

Neither Mr. Clinton nor his aides named the transition officials who they said
were at fault. Mr. Clinton's Secretary of State, Warren M. Christopher,
sponsored Ms. Baird's nomination and oversaw Mr. Clinton's transition operation.
Officials said he would not have a role in the new selection process, which will
be overseen by the White House chief of staff, Thomas F. McLarty 3d, and the
White House personnel director, Bruce Lindsey.

Members of Ms. Baird's team of advisers said Mr. Christopher had been fully
briefed on her legal problems and nevertheless continued to support her
nomination. One said Ms. Baird had also talked to Mr. Clinton about it, but
others disputed that account. Mr. Christopher's spokesman did not return
telephone calls.

Ms. Baird is only the fifth person since 1789 to withdraw a nomination to the
Cabinet before a Senate vote, and she is the first to do so for Attorney General
since Benjamin H. Bristow, nominated by President Grant, withdrew his nomination
on Jan. 8, 1874.

As President-elect, Mr. Clinton had confined himself to women in the search for
an Attorney General. One reason he rushed to name Ms. Baird was that the first
woman he wanted for the job, Judge Patricia Wald of Federal District Court in
Washington, had turned him down. Mr. Clinton refused to accept names being
pressed on him by women's groups.

Today, Mr. Clinton's spokesman, George Stephanopoulos, said the President would
now consider men as well as women for the post. But White House officials made
clear that Mr. Clinton still wanted to name a woman, to satisfy the demands of
women's groups that a woman hold one of the top four Cabinet jobs. Ms. Baird
would have been the first woman to become Attorney General.

She withdrew her nomination early today after her violation of immigration laws
drew widespread opposition in the Senate and from the public. By Thursday
evening, 11 influential Senators had publicly announced their intention to
oppose her. Some told Mr. Clinton privately that her nomination was dead.

Relief at White House

Mr. Stephanopoulos insisted the White House had not forced Ms. Baird to ask that
her nomination be withdrawn. But the White House was clearly relieved that she
had done so and accepted the offer without hesitation.

Administration officials and legal sources said among those likely to be
considered to replace her were two black lawyers: Drew S. Days 3d, a law
professor at Yale University, and John Payton, the District of Columbia's
Corporation Counsel.

Other possible candidates include Jamie Gorelick, a Washington lawyer and former
head of the District of Columbia Bar Association, who was part of Ms. Baird's
advisory team before the Senate, and Judge Richard Arnold, a Federal appeals
judge in Little Rock who is close to the President.

One Administration official said the President would "love to" go back and try
to persuade Judge Wald.

Women's groups immediately began lobbying the President to select another woman.

"We deserve a share of the power and I certainly hope to see the appointment of
another woman," Patricia Ireland, president of the National Organization for
Women, said today on ABC's "Good Morning America."

Sandra C. Katz, vice president of the Women's Bar Association of the State of
New York said: "We think this never would have happened had it been a man,
because men don't deal with the child-care issues. If it had been a male
designee whose spouse did this, I don't think it would ever have been an issue.
I think they should appoint another qualified person, preferably a woman."

Administration officials said that it was obvious to them that the women's
groups never really rose to Ms. Baird's defense. A corporate lawyer, Ms. Baird
had no links to the traditional feminist organizations.

Women's groups were clearly not dismayed when Ms. Baird's nomination sank, and
expressed confidence that Mr. Clinton would choose another woman.

"But if it is a black male," said an Administration official, "they would have
to take it."

Aetna Life & Casualty, the Hartford-based health insurance company where Ms.
Baird works as its $500,000-a-year general counsel, expressed regret at what had
happened, but added that company officials "very much look forward" to her
continuing in her job.

The White House announced the withdrawal of Ms. Baird's nomination at 1:30 A.M.,
sending the announcement by fax machine to news organizations that had for the
most part already closed for the night. Hours earlier, Ms. Baird had concluded a
grueling day of hearings before the Senate Judiciary Committee, during which it
was evident that her chances of confirmation had evaporated.

At the lunch hour, Mr. Stephanopoulos appeared in the White House to offer a
series of vague responses at the daily news briefing, when asked if Mr. Clinton
had known about Ms. Baird's legal problems when he chose her to be the nation's
top law-enforcement officer. As it became apparent to White House officials that
Mr. Stephanopoulos' inability to answer the question was becoming an issue, they
decided that Mr. Clinton would have to say something himself.

"I feel very bad for it but I'm responsible for it," he said as he signed a
series of executive orders in the Oval Office.

Mr. Clinton's explanation of only having been been vaguely briefed on the
details contradicted earlier statements by his aides. On Jan. 15, Mr. Clinton's
press secretary, Dee Dee Myers, said Ms. Baird's hiring of illegal aliens had
been "fully disclosed" to Mr.  Clinton before she was nominated, and he "did not
think it was a problem."

Today, when asked about her earlier statement about Mr. Clinton's full
knowledge, Ms. Myers said, "I may have misspoken there."

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton presiding over the first Cabinet meeting of
his Administration yesterday morning at the White House. (Paul Hosefros/The New
York Times)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 2, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

German Labor Police Round Up Illegal Workers

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 897 words

DATELINE: FRANKFURT


Ante Kundid, a 43-year-old refugee from Croatia, thought he had landed a job as
an electrician on a housing construction site in Fechenheim on a Monday morning.

But the German labor office and the police took it away from him less than 24
hours later in a raid of a kind that is fast becoming a daily occurrence here.

"We're being encouraged to make these raids, but they usually don't turn up
much," said Bernhard Gorg, an investigator of the Frankfurt labor office in
charge of combating illegal employment.

Pressure to crack down on illegal employment is intense in a country racked by
rising joblessness, frustrated by a steady influx of foreign asylum-seekers and
refugees who are not supposed to take jobs at all, and angry at native Germans
who cheat the welfare system out of an estimated $6.2 billion every year,
politicians say.

Voters Are Angry

Many German voters are angry at their politicians for being seemingly unable to
do anything about these problems, and in local elections here in March the
right-wing Republicans, who promised more effective action, won 9.3 percent of
the vote.

So federal, state and local government authorities, following the election
returns, are cracking down on welfare abuses. The crackdown, they say, will save
the taxpayers billions of dollars that would otherwise come from income tax
increases or budget cuts, for the reconstruction of the shattered economy of the
formerly Communist eastern Germany.

But wage levels and fringe-benefit costs in Germany are among the highest in the
world, driven up by decades of welfare-state expansion comfortably protected by
the United States and other NATO allies during the cold war.

For the first two decades after World War II, Germany had a labor shortage, and
invited hundreds of thousands of Italians, Yugoslavs and Turks to come and work,
at German wage levels, as "guest workers." Recruitment stopped with the economic
slowdown of 1973, but nearly three million people from these areas still live in
Germany.

New pressures arose after the collapse of Communism and the rise of nationalism
in eastern Europe. Nearly 100,000 workers from East Europe are legally employed
in Germany, the labor authorities say, working for Romanian, Polish and
Bulgarian subcontractors in the construction industry.

These subcontractors often underbid German companies, and suspicion is
widespread that they can do it because they pay their workers less than minimum
German wages, though they are not legally allowed to.

But there are also tens of thousands more workers from East Europe who come here
ostensibly as tourists -- but who end up painting ceilings, repairing washing
machines, and doing carpentry, charging far less money than German workers
because they do not pay health or social security benefits.

Workers' Markets

There are a workers' markets in many German cities. Here in Frankfurt, it is
under a railroad bridge just past the wholesale food market, on the eastern
fringes of the city near the Main River.

Mr. Gorg and his colleagues passed it on their way to the housing construction
site -- a group of about 30 young men in jeans, waiting for people in cars to
stop and hire them at four to six marks ($2.50 to $3.75) an hour, cash, to do
gardening or repair jobs that would cost twice as much if anyone could find
Germans willing to do the work.

According to the city authorities in Frankfurt, many of them are Poles. But Mr.
Gorg was not concerned with them. His assignment was to check out the
construction site.

"We know there are Romanian subcontractors on this job, and we just want to
check the working papers of their employees to make sure they have employment
permits," he said.

Raid by Job Police

At the construction site on Konstanzer Strasse, a mile or two down the road from
the Poles, Mr. Gorg and his colleagues donned plastic helmets and walked toward
a group of men in blue overalls cleaning up debris.

"Frankfurt labor office," he addressed one of the men. "May we see your papers?"

None spoke German.

Mr. Gorg went in search of the office of the German contractor in charge of the
project. Shortly after, Mr. Kundid came in. The only identification he could
produce was a Croatian passport with no visa or work permit in it.

"Where is your work permit?" Mr. Gorg asked. "Where do you live?" Mr. Kundid did
not speak German, either.

His supervisor, another Croat, did. Which subcontractor did Mr. Kundid work for?
No clear answer emerged. Where does he live? The supervisor gave his own
address, and said Mr. Kundid lived with him.

Police Make Arrest

Two German policemen in green uniforms arrived and searched Mr. Kundid. They
found a little over 100 marks (about $60) and took him away.

"He won't be under arrest for long," Mr. Gorg said. "They'll ask him for a cash
bail deposit and tell him to go home and not to try to work again. If we can
find out which company hired him, they'll be fined."

The fine would amount to about 1,000 marks, about $600.

Daniel Cohn-Bendit, the 1960's radical who is now the city official in charge of
multicultural affairs, laughed at the labor office's raids.

"These are pathetic attempts to appear to be coming to grips with the
situation," he said. "The politicians are afraid of seeming to be incapable with
dealing with the situation, so they order actions like this."

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 26, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

METRO DIGEST

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 493 words



METRO DIGEST

MIGRANT POOR LINE UP FOR WORK

Across the New York metropolitan region, urban migrant workers -- most of them
immigrants, nearly all of them desperate -- line up for hours each day, waiting
for trucks or vans to pick them up for unskilled and bottom-dollar employment in
construction, demolition, moving, landscaping, anything. No one is certain how
many people are struggling to get by this way. A1.

NEW YORK CITY

SPOTTING THE BULGE OF A CONCEALED WEAPON

In 18 years on the New York City police force, until his resignation in 1986,
Robert T. Gallagher became renowned in police circles for an uncanny ability to
spot people carrying guns on the street. In an often harrowing record his
superior officer describes as unbelievable, Mr. Gallagher disarmed more than
1,200 gun-toting thugs. B3.

A CONVENTION IN SEARCH OF A THEME

Three little words that television viewers watching the Democratic National
Convention in July will not see behind Gov. Bill Clinton when the delegates'
votes have been counted -- assuming, as the staff planning the convention does,
that he wins the nomination -- are "we the people." The backdrop behind the
podium, which is perhaps the most valuable square footage inside Madison Square
Garden for capturing television viewers' attention, is being changed. To what,
the Democrats have not decided. Reporter's Notebook, B3.

A 9-YEAR-OLD GUNSHOT VICTIM DIES

A 9-year-old boy who was shot while playing video games on his bed died on
Sunday evening, two days after unknown assailants fired four bullets through the
door of the family's apartment in Brooklyn, the police said. B3.

REGION

REBUILDING NEIGHBORHOODS TORN BY STRIFE

In the fresh surge of attention to the plight of inner-city businesses, Katie
Selikoff may have clues to how the government can help. It was on the blocks
surrounding Mrs. Selikoff's small furniture store that the Newark riots of 1967
and 1969 left an inner city in ruin. Now, as a survivor of those tumultuous
days, she is also a beneficiary of the Urban Enterprise Zone Program, which the
state set up to help businesses prosper in the most distressed neighborhoods.
B4.

THE SOAP-BOX DERBY COMES TO TOWN

It started with the bang of a gun and a simple snap of a metal bar. At 12:45
P.M., almost an hour behind schedule, two soap-box cars, snub-nosed and only
minimally aerodynamic, started down a small wooden ramp, bumped onto the asphalt
and headed down Palisade Avenue in Englewood, N.J., with their pre-teen drivers
hunched beneath helmets and leaning into the wind. B4.

A POWERFUL TAX ADVOCATE RETIRES

Even as Irving J. Stolberg prepares to return to private life at a time of
intense anti-tax sentiment, the longtime income-tax advocate, one of
Connecticut's most powerful politicians in the 1980's, remains an unabashed
liberal and defender of public service. B4.

Our Towns by Andrew H. Malcolm B6

Chronicle B6

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Park Money" shows the amount of revenues from New York
City parks (permit fees, concessionaire contracts, zoo admissions, etc.)
(Source: N.Y.C. Department of Parks and Recreation)

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 21, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

More Children Are Employed, Often Perilously

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1530 words


After nearly disappearing from American life, child labor has re-emerged and
proliferated in the last decade. Even the recession does not seem to have
stemmed the tide, and investigators say many of the children are working in
dangerous jobs.

Federal statistics indicate that at least four million children ages 14 to 18
are legally employed. But about half that many other children work illegally,
either because businesses or family members pay them in cash to avoid taxes and
minimum wages, or, more ominously, because they work too many hours, late hours,
at hazardous jobs, or are under 14 and thus too young to be working at all
except on farms.

Children Working Everywhere

No one knows exactly how many children work illegally, but Philip J. Landrigan,
chairman of the Department of Community Medicine at Mount Sinai Medical Center
in New York, estimated the number at about 2 million. Evidence from a variety of
sources -- the Labor Department's strike force, the General Accounting Office,
states' investigations and emergency-room records -- suggests that children work
illegally in the fields, in the garment industry, in fast-food restaurants, on
construction sites and in mines, sawmills and gas stations.

On the job, they suffer amputations, burns, deep cuts and electrocutions. At
least several hundred a year are killed, according to investigators at the
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. Other children work late
on school nights, in violation of state and Federal laws, and sometimes fall
asleep in class.

Jeffrey Newman, executive director of the National Child Labor Committee, a
nonprofit organization founded in 1904, said he is seeing a return of child
labor scandals reminiscent of those that occurred at the turn of the century. "I
see the same kind of exploitation that occurred then, in sweatshops, in the
fields, in unscrupulous business practices that occur behind closed doors," he
said. "It's very sad and it doesn't speak well to our understanding and
commitment to children."

Dr. Landrigan, who organized a recent conference on child labor, laid the blame
for the growth of legal and illegal child labor on three factors:

*More and more families slipped into poverty in the 1980's and early 1990's and
needed income from their children's work;

*Immigrants flooded the nation, often from countries where child labor is
routine, providing a pool of people ripe for exploitation;

*And state and Federal governments cut their budgets for inspecting workplaces,
making the discovery of violations less likely.

Mr. Newman said that economic factors over the past decade have contributed to
the problem. "There are two times when child labor is really affected by the
economy," he said. "When the economy is really in the doldrums or in an extreme
recession, businesses often seek out young people because they can pay them less
and take advantage of them." On the other hand, he said, "When the economy is
up, child labor again begins to climb because businesses need more people and
they can hire young people at lower wages."

Historically Defies Regulation

Mr. Newman and others added, however, that a major contributing factor to the
increase in child labor has been lax enforcement of state and Federal laws.
Federal laws prohibit children under age 16 from working during school hours and
limit the number of hours they can work after school and on weekends. Certain
jobs, like mining, logging and roofing, are prohibited for anyone under age 18.
In agriculture, restrictions are less stringent; hazardous work is prohibited
until age 16.

But child labor has a long history that complicates attempts to restrict or
regulate it, said Dr. David Rosner, a historian of medicine at Baruch College in
New York. "We have very deep-seated social and cultural values that play against
serious attempts at protecting kids," Dr. Rosner said.

Many Americans are deeply ambivalent about child labor, he said. "We see work as
redemptive and as a morally legitimate method of self improvement."

The General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress, recently found
evidence in data from the United States Department of Labor that the number of
illegally employed minors had almost tripled since 1983, rising from 9,200 to
27,500 last year. But Dr. Charles Jeszeck, an economist who did the analysis,
said those numbers grossly underestimate the problem because they derive from
woefully inadequate surveillance and reporting systems.

166,000 15-Year-Olds WorkersIllegally Employed

Dr. Jeszeck and his colleagues found one indication of underreporting when their
search of 1988 census data revealed that at least 166,000 15-year-old
childrenwere working too many hours or in occupations, like construction, that
are prohibited for children that young. More than half were working in
prohibited jobs, Dr. Jeszeck said.

A recent investigation of 4,700 businesses by the Labor Department found that
nearly 5,000 minors at 1,300 businesses were working illegally.

Dr. William Halperin, the associate director for surveillance at the National
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, called the magnitude of illegal
child labor "astounding." And he said the statistics gathered so far are "the
tip of an iceberg," because there is no systematic data collection and many
injuries and even deaths are not reported.

One problem is simply discovering violators, given the relatively few inspectors
the Federal Government employs for that purpose. For example, Dr. Landrigan
said, the National Occupational Safety and Health Administration has 2,000
inspectors, and the Labor Department has another 1,000 wage-and-hour workers,
who are responsible for detecting illegal child labor as well as violations
involving adults. That combined force equals only a fourth of the 12,000
inspectors who work for the Fish and Wildlife Service.

84-Year Inspection Cycle

Jay Mazur, president of the International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union, said
that OSHA has so few inspectors that it would take 84 years to get around to
inspecting all the workplaces for which it is responsible; it would take 25
years just to visit every high-hazard workplace for a surprise inspection. With
such inadequate resources, he said, "we are fighting, to put it mildly, an
uphill battle."

New York State, which has some of the toughest laws restricting child labor,
also has the nation's only state task force to look for labor-law violations in
garment-industry sweatshops. But there are only 15 inspectors assigned to
inspect New York City's estimated 4,000 to 6,000 factories where small
contractors hire workers to sew clothing. And the inspectors say that when they
enter a building, factory owners on one floor quickly warn others in the
building, and children are hastily sent away.

Suspiciously Young Workers

Last Monday morning, while New York schools were still in session, two
inspectors checked on J. J. Fashions, a 7th floor factory on West 37th street in
Manhattan. Wires dangled from the ceiling of the room, where about 50 women and
a few men toiled at sewing machines and ironed stacks of bright orange net
jackets.

One of the inspectors, Angelo Valdevitt, thought that a few of the workers
looked suspiciously young. He approached a solemn, chubby-cheeked girl who was
nearly hidden by a rack of clothes and, speaking gently in Spanish, explained
that he was not from immigration and was not there to report her if she was an
illegal immigrant. Then he asked her name, where she was from and how old she
was. The girl, who identified herself as Patricia Flores from Mexico, said she
was too nervous to remember her birthday and that she had no identification with
her.

One recent study, by Dr. Letitia Davis, director of the Occupational Health
Surveillance Program at the Massachusetts Department of Public Health, found
that annual injury rates for child workers in Massachusetts are 3 1/2 times the
adult rate of 8 injuries per 100 full-time workers.

Almost everyone who has examined the issue of child labor has uncovered sad
stories of children who were maimed or killed.

Tales of Pain and Death

Congressman Tom Lantos of Calif., the chairman of the Employment and Housing
Subcommittee of the House Committee on Government Operations, held hearings last
year where he heard testimony from Matthew Garvey, who worked in a car wash in
Laurel, Md., when he was 13. His leg was ripped off by a blowing machine.

Mr. Lantos also heard from the parents of Michael Hucorne of East Stroudsburg,
Pa., who was killed at age 17 while working in a supermarket, illegally
operating a machine that compresses cardboard boxes. And he heard from the
parents of Kevin Curley of West Pittston, Pa., who was killed at age 15 while
working in a bakery. He was cleaning a dough mixing machine, a prohibited job,
when he was pulled inside it.

Valerie Wilk, a health specialist with the Farmworker Justice Fund, Inc., an
advocacy group, told of 14-year-old Joel Compos, who fell asleep while working
in a farmer's field in Washington State at 2:30 A.M. and was run over and killed
by a truck.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Angelo Valdevitt, an inspector with the state's task force on
labor law violations in the garment industry, talking with a worker he thought
might have been under-age at a company in the Garment District; Paul Kalka, an
investigator with the Apparel Industry Task Force of the New York State
Department of Labor for almost seven years, questioning a youthful-looking
worker in a garment center workshop in Manhattan. The recession and lax
enforcement have contributed to a rise in child labor. (Photographs by Marilynn
K. Yee/The New York Times) (pg. 22)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 7, 1992, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Alpine Journal;
Cultural Frictions of a Border Town

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 666 words

DATELINE: ALPINE, Calif.


For nearly a year, employees of the grocery store in this quiet town near the
Mexican border kept a yellow ledger titled Mexican Incident Book, which
chronicled their complaints about the migrant workers who camp across the road.

"Record all Drunks, Shoplifters, Customer Complaints, Stabbings (Ha, Ha)," read
the instructions on the book's cover.

In its log of daily irritations and minor incidents ("He laughed as he left the
store," it recorded about one suspected shoplifter) the ledger is a portrayal of
the frictions that characterize many San Diego County communities, where a
comfortable middle class brushes against the poverty that is spilling north
across the border.

Throughout the county, and elsewhere in California, homeless Hispanic day
laborers and migrant workers play an important role in the local economy but
have become the target of growing anger as their numbers increase and their
encampments become more visible.

"I realize these are people who are hungry and who come across the border to
find work," said William Logan, who owns the Alpine shopping center that
includes the grocery store, as well as the land where the immigrants make their
camp.

"But it would help if they were more respectful of our property," he said. "It
gets filthy and it looks like Tijuana."

Over the years, cultural frictions throughout the county have flared into
violence that has included beatings, shootings and, in at least one instance,
hunting down migrant workers for sport.

On the night of Oct. 1, this hillside town of 12,000 residents -- which has
become, for reasons no one seems to understand, a regional focal point for the
hiring of Hispanic day laborers -- was the scene of a particularly gruesome
incident. Half a dozen white men swinging baseball bats charged into the
workers' camp and severely beat three migrants, all of them legal residents of
the United States.

"They said we raped a woman," said Oscar Alfonso Mendoza, 33 years old, who came
to the United States 14 years ago to escape violence in his native Guatemala. "I
said it wasn't true, but they didn't believe us. I was trying to protect my
head, and then I managed to run away."

The baseball bats shattered his left arm and caused cuts requiring 55 stitches
on his arm and 18 on his head, he said as he rested at the home of a relative in
nearby National City. He also said he owed a hospital $19,400 for five days of
treatment.

Mr. Mendoza's friend Leobardo Zarco, also 33, who came here from Mexico 16 years
ago, fared worse. He slipped as he tried to run up the side of the gully, and he
remembers losing consciousness to the thudding sound of the baseball bats.

His head, arms, legs and body were battered, he has lost the hearing in his left
ear, his left knee was splintered and he can walk now only with the aid of
crutches.

Like many of the other subsistence workers who offend some residents as they
wait for work on street corners, Mr. Zarco has lived his life from day to day
and has no savings. He has been taken in for now by a well-to-do widower in San
Diego who read a newspaper account of his mistreatment.

The incident has embarrassed the residents of Alpine. The yellow log book has
been removed from the grocery store by the manager, and developments in the
town's most celebrated Mexican incident are now chronicled in local newspapers.

Sheriff's deputies have charged five men with assault, battery and commission of
a hate crime.

Officials decided not to pursue the rape accusation after they found
inconsistencies in the woman's account and because of evidence that she may have
had consensual sex with one or more of the laborers.

One of the men charged in the beating is the woman's 35-year-old husband. He has
twice been convicted of abusing his wife.

The husband has denied any connection with the beatings of the laborers, but he
was quoted by local newspapers as saying: "Good for them, whoever it was. Maybe
they'll get rid of the Mexicans down there."

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 5, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Security Council Demands Access for Red Cross to Yugoslav Camps

BYLINE: By FRANK J. PRIAL,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 473 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Aug. 4


Prodded by the United States and other members, the Security Council demanded
today that the International Red Cross and other neutral agencies be granted
access to camps, prisons and detention centers throughout the former territory
of Yugoslavia.

The council's demands were made in the form of a Presidential Statement and came
after reports that both sides in the civil war, but particularly the Serbs, are
mistreating, even torturing and killing detainees.

A Council statement must be adopted unanimously but, unlike a resolution, it has
no standing under international law.

Croatian and Muslim refugees from the fighting in Bosnia and Herzegovina assert
that the Serbs are holding some 70,000 people in 45 camps in Bosnia. Serbs say
40,000 of their people are being held by Muslims and Croats.

In its statement, the Security Council expressed deep concern "at the continuing
reports of widespread violations of international humanitarian law and in
particular reports of the imprisonment and abuse of civilians in camps, prisons
and detention centers in the territory of the former Yugoslavia and especially
in Bosnia and Herzegovina."

The statement demanded that "relevant international organizations, and in
particular, the International Red Cross, be granted continued, immediate and
unimpeded access to such places." It called on all parties to do "all in their
power to facilitate such access."

The Turkish delegate, Mustafa Aksin, speaking for the Organization of the
Islamic Conference, dismissed the Council statement as inadequate. "We don't
think weak presidential statements imploring or deploring are going to be very
effective," he said. He urged the Council to drop the arms embargo against
Yugoslavia and invoke Article 42 of the United Nations Charter -- which calls
for military action -- as more positive ways to aid Bosnia.

On Monday, a State Department spokesman in Washington said the department had
information that Serbian forces had opened detention centers in Bosnia where
civilians were tortured and killed. But the spokesman, Richard Boucher, said the
United States had no plans for responding beyond offering to assist the
International Committee of the Red Cross in seeking to relieve the suffering of
civilian victims of the fighting.

The United Nations Secretary General, Boutros Boutros-Ghali, today halted the
airlift of humanitarian aid to Sarajevo for three days. His action came after
the Sarajevo Airport came under heavy mortar and artillery fire twice earlier in
the day. The airlift began June 30. It has been halted several times because of
artillery and mortar fire from Serbian units in the hills around the city. The
Serbian guns have fired on the airport regularly over the last 35 days despite a
shaky cease-fire first signed last June 7 and mostly ignored since.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 8, 1992, Saturday

CORRECTION:

An article on Wednesday about a United Nations Security Council debate on the
Balkan war referred incorrectly to remarks by the Turkish delegate, Mustafa
Aksin. He urged the Council to lift the international arms embargo against
Bosnia and Herzegovina, not Yugoslavia.


                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 11, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Across the U.S., Immigrants Find the Land of Resentment

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2190 words


On her way home from school recently, a Chinese immigrant girl was attacked by
other teen-agers who spray-painted her face black. She and her guidance
counselors at the Seward Park High School in lower Manhattan were horrified, but
they were not shocked. Attacks on newly arrived immigrants are a routine
occurrence at their school, they said.

Similarly, a Salvadoran dishwasher, assaulted and robbed recently on his way
into a money-transfer agency in Hempstead, L.I., was frightened but not
surprised by the message of his assailants, who were black: "You steal our jobs,
we steal your money." Tensions had been building between the entrenched black
community and the Central American newcomers to the town.

And on Staten Island, when a group of junior high school students repeatedly
vandalized the house of Indian immigrants, smashing windows and splattering blue
paint on the facade, the final message, chalked on the driveway, was sadly
predictable to the family. "Indians go home," it said. "Leave or die."

Across the country, immigrants say they are feeling the brunt of a growing and
complex hostility, the same kind of antagonism that has cropped up periodically
in United States history. As their numbers increase sharply and the recession
lingers, immigrants find themselves the target of a mix of social anxieties:
economic tension, free-floating anger seeking an outlet and the volatile ethnic
discord plaguing many cities. And because most new immigrants are not white,
there are racial overtones to the friction.

Even in New York, which proudly defines itself as a haven for immigrants, the
"gorgeous mosaic" of diverse populations, as Mayor David N. Dinkins calls it,
has its chips. Some New Yorkers, particularly those down on their luck, seem to
resent the presence of so many immigrants, as if the American dream were in
danger of becoming the exclusive province of newcomers.

"Unfortunately, immigrant-bashing is no longer an unpopular activity," said
Dennis deLeon, the city's Human Rights Commissioner. "I sense that immigrants
are being scapegoated for a lot of our problems. A certain kind of xenophobic
bigotry has come out of the closet."

Most advocates for immigrants stress, however, that the United States remains
markedly tolerant compared with those Western European nations now grappling
with surging hostility and violence toward foreigners. And while they
acknowledge that the historically explosive mix of record numbers of immigrants
and a weak economy has generated undeniable frictions, immigration experts do
not anticipate a return to the vehement nativism that followed World War I, or
the overt hatred of the 1890's.

Most of the present antagonism is expressed in words, not violent acts, and most
of the words are not reported to the authorities, immigrants and their advocates
say. Rosa Perales, an immigrant from Mexico who sells flowers at an intersection
in the Bronx, said drivers routinely spit at her and tell her to return to her
country. And Sarah Benyaminova, a Russian refugee, said the antagonism she
encountered while waiting in line at a bank in Queens last week was typical.

"I was staying in the line and we had some brief discussion about the candidate
who became President," said Ms. Benyaminova, who runs the Russian Educational
Bilingual and Cultural Association. "The lady who was standing behind me said,
'You better shut up because you came to this country and everything was given
you for free.' I said: 'Oh, yeah? I'm working very hard from dawn to dawn. Could
you point me out where I could get all this free lunch?' "

It is difficult to quantify anti-immigrant sentiment. New York City's police
statistics on bias complaints do not even have a separate category for bias
against immigrants. And the line between xenophobia and ethnic or racial hatred
is a blurry one. Was the Seward Park High School student attacked because she
was Asian or because she was a vulnerable newcomer? (Probably for both reasons.)

Further, most immigrants, and particularly illegal immigrants, do not make
official complaints. For instance, M. K. Srinivasan, New York bureau chief for
The Indian-American Magazine, told of a Sikh friend who said he was followed off
a New York City bus recently by teen-agers who forcibly removed his turban and
set it on fire. But he did not call the police because he was new to the country
from India and feared they would be unreceptive.

Many advocates for immigrants believe that resentment toward immigrants built
gradually in the late 1980's as the economy began to falter and as immigration
reached its highest level since the early part of the century.

In U.S., Some Sticks, More Harsh Words

This year as many as a million new refugees and immigrants, will enter the
United States. And, if patterns from the 1980's hold, about 15 percent will
settle in the New York metropolitan area. Nationally, a majority are from Mexico
and Asian countries; in New York, the majority hails from the Caribbean and
Latin America.

"It is not a coincidence that as the immigrant pool has darkened, hostility has
grown," said Rolando T. Acosta, New York City's First Deputy Commissioner of
Human Rights.

Across the country, there are a few extreme examples of anti-immigrant
hostility. In Houston, for instance, two skinheads stomped a 15-year-old
Vietnamese boy, Hung Truong, to death in late 1990. One of the assailants --
convicted of involuntary manslaughter while his partner was convicted of murder
-- testified that Mr. Truong, dying, cried out: "God forgive me for coming to
this country. I'm so sorry."

But some experts wonder whether the current problem is being exaggerated,
whether some advocates for immigrants, shaken by the events in Germany and the
nativist oratory of some American political candidates, have become
hypersensitive to prejudicial slights that have always existed.

Nativism Used In Political Campaigns

Nonetheless, in the last year and a half, political candidates, lobbyists,
academics and writers who oppose current levels of immigration have capitalized
on the frustration of some Americans. They have not advocated violence. "It was
more a climate of hostility that was being created," said Frank Sharry,
executive director of the National Immigration, Refugee and Citizenship Forum.

Two politicians, Patrick Buchanan and David Duke, made nativism a key element of
their campaigns, with a particular concern that new immigrants would "dilute,"
as Mr. Buchanan said, the country's European character. Then this summer, a
spate of magazine articles raised questions about the value of immigrants to
American society -- questions rarely voiced publicly in this land of immigrants.

The articles not only explored the idea of restricting immigration but of
placing a moratorium on new immigrants, who were blamed for displacing Americans
from jobs, draining scarce Government resources, and even worsening the smog in
Los Angeles.

The riots in Los Angeles and Washington Heights, during which immigrants were
denounced for inciting violence, provided further fodder for such antagonism.
Advocates for immigrants steeled themselves for a public battle during the fall
Presidential race.

"We were quite concerned that the anti-immigrant drum would beat so loudly that
it might create a tide of xenophobia," said Mr. Sharry, whose organization
collected scores of examples in a "Nativism Watch" last spring and summer.

But after the party conventions, even after the Republican Party plank called
for "a barrier" -- a wall or trench -- along the border with Mexico, the issue
faded. Immigration was scarcely mentioned by either George Bush or Bill Clinton.
Those favoring a freeze on immigration were, however, not discouraged. "We
assume that this last year has been just the beginning of a wave, and in the
year to come, the justifiable backlash will solidify," said Dan Stein, executive
director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a Washington-based
group that supports a three-year freeze on most immigration.

In the metropolitan region, advocates for immigrants trace the first stirrings
of a heightened antagonism to the 1986 law that created sanctions on employers
who hire illegal immigrants.

"The sanctions became an excuse for people to discriminate under the cover of
meeting their legal obligations," said Elizabeth Aivars, director of the New
York City's Office of Immigrant Affairs.

For some New Yorkers, the employer sanctions seemed to validate their anxieties
that low-paid immigrants had been stealing their jobs after all, advocates for
immigrants said. And the recession only heightened those fears.

"At times, we feel like the community would just as soon put out a 'Not Welcome'
mat," said Cecilia Moran, director of the Center for Central American Refugees
in Hempstead, L.I. "Some people are jealous, I guess, that we are finding and
keeping work."

Occasionally immigrants are willing to fight back, especially as a group. In New
York City, three Egyptian elevator operators at the Museum Tower condominium
filed a discrimination complaint after years of being harassed by a supervisor
who called them "camel jockeys" and threatened to have them sent back to Egypt.

An administrative law judge, Linda A. Stagno, found they were subjected to a
consistent barrage of slurs, awarded them $10,000 each in damages.

Similarly, several Hispanic immigrant cleaning women working nights at office
buildings in Manhattan won damages after complaining that they were pressured to
have sex by supervisors who threatened them with deportation.

But some immigrants, tired of being harassed, try to accommodate their
offenders. Navpreet Satara, a 27-year-old immigrant from New Dehli, now avoids
conflicts by wearing a baseball cap instead of a turban to cover his hair when
he goes out on the town or to the beach. He is sick of being called "Ayatollah,"
"Saddam Hussein" or "Hare Krishna," he said.

A couple of years ago, when he was a graduate student at Temple University in
Philadelphia, he arrived late at a college basketball game and as he was
crossing the court to the bleachers a spectator rose and shouted, "Ali Baba."
Then the entire crowd rose to their feet and chanted "Ali Baba, Ali Baba," he
said.

"There is a lot of ignorance, I guess, and insecurity about all these people who
come to America and hold onto their identity with pride," Mr. Satara said.

In New York City, A Different Climate

Unlike in California, where mainstream politicians of both parties have blamed
immigrants for the state's economic woes, it remains virtually taboo for public
figures in New York to question the value of immigrants in society. There is
usually an instant uproar.

For example, Hazel N. Dukes, the New York State president of the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People, was quickly pushed to issue
an apology when she remarked in a radio interview in 1990 that black men have
lost jobs to immigrants who do not speak English.

Similarly, in 1991, the Rev. Calvin O. Butts 3d, executive minister of the
Abyssinian Baptist Church, appeared on the WABC-TV program "Tiempo" and
suggested stopping "the influx of people into this city," adding "if it must
come to this nation, send it elsewhere." But outrage began to build immediately,
and Mr. Butts was quick to praise immigrants in opinion columns for El Diario
and The Carib News.

And when City Councilman Jerome X. O'Donovan of Staten Island wrote the city's
Office of Immigrant Affairs to suggest that the Immigration and Naturalization
Service be asked to "identify and/or deport illegal aliens" who were a "strain
on the economy," Mr. Dinkins sent a stern letter in response, remarking that all
immigrants were a part of his "gorgeous mosaic."

Compared with other large city governments, the Dinkins administration takes an
unusually strong advocacy position for immigrants, which many immigrants say
sets a tone for public debate and prevents some confrontrations from escalating.
For example, when residents of Woodside, Queens, complained about the immigrant
laborers who hang out in their streets waiting for daily jobs, the city's Human
Rights Commission found a church parking lot for their pickup point and made
T-shirts for them saying "Trabajadores Unidos," or United Workers.

But public officials in New Jersey have not been so quick to defend immigrants,
advocates for immigrants say. Responding to public outrage that illegal
immigrants were allowed to obtain driver's licenses, the New Jersey Legislature
is moving to forbid them licenses. The New Jersey Legislature also recently
eliminated general assistance benefits -- $140 a month plus some medical
benefits -- to illegal immigrants.

In response to antagonism, most immigrants choose to avoid confrontation at all
costs.

"What can you do if the Americans laugh at you on the subway or look at you like
you're an animal or insult you?" said Jonathan Lee, a Vietnamese refugee and
caseworker at the New York Association for New Americans. "You must keep quiet
and get away from them fast."

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The tension between entrenched minorities and newcomers is
nearly as old as the country, but immigrants to the United States find the
hostility particularly sharp in times of economic distress. In an effort to fit
in and avoid conflict, Navpreet Satara often sheds his turban and dons a
baseball cap when he leaves his midtown leather-coat exporting business. "There
is a lot of ignorance," he said. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) (pg. B4)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 3, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Come Join the Fight

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 181 words


To the Editor:

I was distressed to see myself listed in "Calls to Restrict Immigration Come
From Many Quarters" (The Week in Review, Dec. 13) as a sponsor of a
constitutional amendment that would deny United States citizenship to
American-born children of undocumented parents.

I do not support any proposal of this sort. Last spring my name was added in
error as a co-sponsor of the amendment. On learning this, I immediately
requested that my name be removed.

Such an amendment would create a permanent underclass, born in this country but
not entitled to the same rights as citizens.

Many civil rights leaders, you maintain, are torn between their conscience and
their constituents, as African-Americans worry that immigrants are displacing
them from jobs and political power. Our job as leaders is to bring attention to
the real causes of unemployment and disenfranchisement among both groups and to
insure that they are allies in the movement for economic and social justice.

CHARLES B. RANGEL
Member of Congress, 15th Dist., N.Y.
Washington, Dec. 23, 1992

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 3, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Come Join the Fight

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 181 words


To the Editor:

I was distressed to see myself listed in "Calls to Restrict Immigration Come
From Many Quarters" (The Week in Review, Dec. 13) as a sponsor of a
constitutional amendment that would deny United States citizenship to
American-born children of undocumented parents.

I do not support any proposal of this sort. Last spring my name was added in
error as a co-sponsor of the amendment. On learning this, I immediately
requested that my name be removed.

Such an amendment would create a permanent underclass, born in this country but
not entitled to the same rights as citizens.

Many civil rights leaders, you maintain, are torn between their conscience and
their constituents, as African-Americans worry that immigrants are displacing
them from jobs and political power. Our job as leaders is to bring attention to
the real causes of unemployment and disenfranchisement among both groups and to
insure that they are allies in the movement for economic and social justice.

CHARLES B. RANGEL
Member of Congress, 15th Dist., N.Y.
Washington, Dec. 23, 1992

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 15, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Anti-Immigrant Attitude Starts in Washington;
A Vital Distinction

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 477 words


To the Editor:

In "Calls to Restrict Immigration Come From Many Quarters" (The Week in Review,
Dec. 13), you document the strong anti-immigrant sentiments of many Americans.
Statements you quote show a public failure to differentiate between immigrants
and refugees.

Immigrants come to the United States by choice. The United States is free to set
any restrictions it may choose on how many and what type of immigrants to admit.
Nearly all legal immigrants must possess skills that benefit the United States
or be a close relative of a United States citizen or permanent resident. The
numbers of each class of immigrants are limited by quotas; many aliens must wait
years for an immigrant visa.

Applicants who are criminals, security risks, health risks or likely to require
public assistance are among those denied entry under some 29 exclusion grounds.
To exclude more, the United States would have to separate husbands from wives
and mothers from their minor children or turn away skilled foreigners coming to
fill positions for which United States employers have failed to recruit American
workers.

Refugees are by definition unable to return to their countries because of a real
threat to life or liberty, based on race, religion, nationality, political
opinion or membership in a social group. Unlike immigrants, refugees have no
country to return to. A refugee must demonstrate a greater fear of persecution
than the general population of his country. The fear might arise from an act
such as speaking out against a dictator.

The United States is not free to exclude or deport refugees arbitrarily. As a
signatory to the 1967 Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees, the United
States is bound by international law to afford protections to this most
vulnerable group, including the right to apply for asylum.

America's treatment of refugees before the 1967 protocol and the adoption of our
present asylum laws in 1980 was nothing to be proud of. The strongest argument
against restricting refugees occurred during World War II, when public sentiment
opposed admission of European Jews fleeing Nazi persecution. In "Calculated
Kindness," Gil Loescher and John A. Scanlon report that only 5 percent of those
polled shortly after the news of the Holocaust emerged favored admitting Jewish
refugees, and temporary admission of 982 predominantly Jewish refugees from
Eastern Europe stirred Congressional opposition and angry editorials. This small
group was interned in an upstate New York camp until 1947.

United States lawmakers must keep immigration and refugee policies distinct, and
abide by our legal and moral obligations in excluding the refugees from any
restrictionist debate.

JEFFREY S. CHASE
Co-chairman, Asylum and Refugee
Committee, American Immigration
Lawyers Assn., New York Chapter
New York, Dec. 26, 1992

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 18, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

America's Better Self Got Lost in Aliens Law;
Do It the Canadian Way

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 295 words


To the Editor:

The legacy of Zoe Baird and Kimba Wood should not be a disqualification of
professional women with young children from high public office because of child
care needs. Recent events show the compelling need for a change in the law to
allow working parents to meet such needs.

I have proposed a workable and just solution that will allow home care
positions, for which there is a demonstrable shortage of American workers, to be
filled by qualified aliens in a speedy manner. By now almost everyone recognizes
that there is a serious shortage of American workers to fill home care positions
and that the law fails to provide any lawful way to hire qualified, willing
foreign nationals.

Not many parents with young children can wait the 16 years it takes for a home
care worker to get lawful status in this country. And what about elderly or
disabled people who also require a change in the law?

We need to adopt a two-part legislative program that allows foreign nationals to
enter the United States and begin working in a temporary status. This would be
granted after a showing (which should take no longer than 30 to 45 days) by an
employer of good-faith but unsuccessful efforts to recruit a United States
worker. The employer would be required to pay all Social Security and other
taxes and to comply with wage and working-condition requirements. After three
years the worker would qualify for permanent resident status.

This proposal mirrors the Canadian system, which by all accounts has been an
outstanding success. Let's do likewise and prevent future Zoe Bairds and Kimba
Woods from having to choose between children and careers.

THEODORE RUTHIZER
President, American
Immigration Lawyers Association
New York, Feb. 8, 1993

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 19, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Senate Opposes Immigration Of People With AIDS Virus

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 912 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 18


In a sharp rebuff to President Clinton, the Senate voted overwhelmingly today to
stop the Administration from allowing the immigration of people infected with
the virus that causes AIDS.

Although the Senate action has little chance of becoming law, the 76-to-23 vote,
in which 34 Democrats voted against the President, illustrated both the
lingering discomfort in the Senate over AIDS and immigration issues and the new
President's lack of control over the Senate. It could foreshadow trouble as Mr.
Clinton moves beyond economic issues to pursue his social agenda, which includes
support for actions long advocated by homosexual-rights groups.

The vote followed an emotional debate between Republicans, who argued that the
country could not afford to risk admitting AIDS patients, and liberal Democrats,
who said Americans should show no less compassion than other industrialized
countries that offer sanctuary to such immigrants.

Shifting the Focus

The Administration did not lobby strenuously against the Republican-sponsored
measure, fearing that it would become as intensely disputed as the President's
insistence on allowing openly homosexual people to serve in the military.

Gay-rights advocates privately expressed disappointment in the Administration's
inaction. But Senate Democrats said it was understandable that the White House
chose to focus its attention on the economic program that Mr. Clinton introduced
on Wednesday, particularly since the immigration measure will probably die in
the House. Powerful liberals there, reinforced by the Congressional Black
Caucus, are mobilizing in opposition and are given an excellent chance of
killing the amendment.

Only one Republican, Senator Mark Hatfield of Oregon, voted against the measure.

The restriction that prevents people with the AIDS virus from entering the
country is now included in regulations, and the President could simply reverse
these. The measure passed by the Senate would make the restriction a matter of
law that could be reversed only by Congress.

The current rule includes infection with H.I.V., the virus that causes acquired
immune deficiency syndrome, on a list of medical conditions that disqualify
people seeking to immigrate legally into the United States.

Haitians Are Detained

The White House announced two weeks ago that Mr. Clinton planned to eliminate
all diseases from the list except contagious tuberculosis. The action has been
delayed pending a review of policies regarding immigration from Haiti. Some 215
Haitians hoping for admission to this country have been detained at the United
States naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, because they are infected with H.I.V.

"The Senate has spoken firmly," said George Stephanopoulos, the White House
communications director. "The President has to take this vote into account as he
reviews the policy." Mr. Stephanopoulos added that the President and his aides
have not yet discussed whether Mr. Clinton would veto the bill to kill the
amendment, were it to pass both houses.

Senator Don Nickles, Republican of Oklahoma, who was a sponsor of the amendment,
estimated that every H.I.V.-infected immigrant would cost American taxpayers
$100,000 or more in medical expenses. "I do not think it is compassionate to
open up a sign that says, 'Come to America and Uncle Sam is going to take care
of your medical expenses,' " he said.

"Compassion begins at home," Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, said in
agreement.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat who led the opposition to
the measure, argued that the ban jeopardized public health by forcing infected
immigrants to go underground, since the disease could subject them to
deportation. Mr. Kennedy offered a substitute amendment that would have retained
the current ban for 90 days, then allowed the President to lift the regulation
without approval of Congress. His measure was defeated 56 to 42.

'An Outrageous Act'

Michael Ratner, a lawyer for the Center for Constitutional Rights, which
represents the Haitian refugees on the Guantanamo base, called the Senate action
"an outrageous act" comparable "to the days when we kicked kids out of high
school for having H.I.V."

The overall bill to which the immigration measure was attached was the National
Institutes of Health Reauthorization Act, and it passed the Senate today by a
vote of 93 to 4. It now goes to the House. The overall legislation died in the
Senate last year because conservatives opposed a provision that would permit
research using tissues derived from aborted fetuses. That issue was settled when
Mr. Clinton lifted the research ban with an executive order.

Of the $5.9 billion authorized in the health package for 1994, most of it is
earmarked for research into AIDS, cancer and heart and lung diseases.

The immigration prohibition dates to 1987, when a similar measure was enacted by
Congress. But Congress backtracked three years later, passing legislation that
allowed the Secretary of Health and Human Services to determine if H.I.V.
infection, like tuberculosis, should disqualify a person from entering the
country.

International Opposition

The former Health and Human Services Secretary, Dr. Louis W. Sullivan, concluded
that it should not be a bar to immigration and recommended that President George
Bush lift the ban. But Congressional conservatives lobbied successfully to
convince Mr. Bush to keep the rule in effect.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 20, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Infected With AIDS

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 704 words


Should the United States allow immigrants infected with the virus that causes
AIDS to enter the country for extended stays?

President Clinton said "yes" during the campaign. He pledged to remove the AIDS
virus from the list of diseases that automatically exclude would-be immigrants.

But the Senate gave a resounding "no" this week. It voted overwhelmingly to turn
the current ban into law, a move that would make it more difficult for the
President to honor his pledge. Now the House must decide whether to go along,
and the President must decide whether to veto any legislation that might emerge.

The White House, already battered by the struggle over whether to allow
homosexuals to serve openly in the military, showed little stomach this week for
taking on yet another contentious social issue that might distract from its
economic program.

That's not only sound politics, it's sound policy as well. Whatever their
political motives, and whatever whiff of homophobia is in the air, Senate
Republicans have raised serious cost and risk questions that need to be
addressed. Based on current information, the ban is best left in place.

Public health authorities argue that the ban should be lifted because the AIDS
virus -- unlike tuberculosis -- is not spread through casual contact. Infected
immigrants are thus not a threat to the broad public but only to those who
engage in risky behavior with them, such as unprotected sex or sharing drug
needles.

But infected immigrants would pose at least a small risk to society. Some would
inevitably spread the virus to their sexual partners or others. In coming years,
the U.S. is apt to admit more than 700,000 immigrants annually. If just 1 in
1,000 is infected, as some early estimates suggest, then some 700 infected
individuals a year would be admitted, and some unknown portion of those might
infect someone else.

That's not much on top of a million or more existing infections in the U.S. But
it's not so trivial that it can be ignored. And as AIDS continues to spread
around the world, the number of infections in the immigrant pool will rise.

The infected immigrants would also impose costs on a health care system that is
already overburdened -- especially in the urban centers to which immigrants
typically flock. At an average cost of $100,000 to treat an AIDS patient from
infection to death, the admission of 700 infected immigrants each year would
commit the nation to$70 million for their lifetime treatment. This is not a
commitment that is easy to justify at a time when the Administration is
desperately trying to contain runaway health costs.

In theory, the cost problem could be handled through a provision in the
immigration law that allows authorities to reject anybody likely to become "a
public charge." That way infected immigrants with assets or high earnings
potential could be allowed in while those apt to need publicly financed medical
care could be screened out.

But the "public charge" criterion has primarily been used to reject immigrants
who can't be supported by themselves or their families. There is little
information on how effectively it works -- or how well it might screen against
high medical costs. And although immigrants can be deported if they become
public charges within the first five years of admission, it is hard to imagine
expelling people dying of AIDS just because they can't pay their own hospital
bills.

Cost is a valid criterion, but it needs to be applied broadly. Immigrants can
come down with a wide range of costly ailments, including heart disease, cancer,
stroke and end-stage renal disease. None can be detected as readily as AIDS, but
some are more expensive to treat. Thus immigrants with any costly condition
ought to be excluded. Any decision to single out AIDS requires careful
justification.

Senators on both sides of the debate wisely called for estimates of the number
of immigrants who will be infected with the AIDS virus, the probable medical
costs and a comparison with the costs for immigrants suffering from other health
conditions. The ban should be lifted only if assessments show that the risk of
spreading disease is negligible and the costs can be readily met.


LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 4, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

We Shouldn't Exclude Immigrants With H.I.V.;
Reasonable Risks

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 263 words


To the Editor:

"Immigrants Infected With AIDS" (editorial, Feb. 20) not only supports the
Senate in upholding the ban on immigrants who test positive for H.I.V., but it
also suggests that "immigrants with any costly condition ought to be excluded."
This is a misguided and inhumane position, contrary to the intent of this
country's immigration law.

Let us remember the reasons we allow immigrants to come into the United States:
to join immediate family members (spouses, children, parents and siblings); to
fill jobs United States workers are unable or unwilling to take, and to escape
what our State Department determines to be a legitimate fear of persecution.

A reasonable screening process already exists: we don't accept terrorists,
people likely to become a public charge or those with infectious diseases that
can be spread by casual contact. In limiting our screening, we accept certain
risks; some immigrants will develop serious illnesses in their lifetimes. But we
have decided, based on the principles we hold dear, that they deserve an
opportunity to come to this country.

I believe we have an obligation to accept the reasonable risks. For every
foreign-born person with heart disease, cancer or AIDS, we are also admitting
the manufacturer who employs your neighbors, the person who cares for your
ailing parent, the scientist who may discover the cure for AIDS.

HELENE LAUFFER
New York, Feb. 24, 1993
The writer, chairwoman of the New York Immigration Coalition, is director of
Victim Services' homeless and immigrant division.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 4, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

We Shouldn't Exclude Immigrants With H.I.V.;
A Necessary Distinction

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 114 words


To the Editor:

The debate, and your editorial of Feb. 20, about admitting people to the United
States who have AIDS or who are H.I.V. positive fails to distinguish between
immigrants and visitors.

When I applied for my green card, like all other would-be immigrants, I had a
medical examination. I never bothered to ask why, but I assumed that if I was
found to have a dangerous infectious disease, I would have been excluded as a
potential public health hazard. When I had come here as a tourist or business
visitor, there was no such examination.

I hope our policy makers will distinguish between visitors and immigrants.

HUMPHREY TAYLOR
New York, Feb. 22, 1993

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 4, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

We Shouldn't Exclude Immigrants With H.I.V.;
Overruling the Experts

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 308 words


To the Editor:

Your Feb. 20 editorial supporting the ban on immigrants with H.I.V. reflects
assumptions spread by one side of this debate -- assumptions unrelated to the
real people involved.

While the Bush Administration never released the statistics, the majority of
those excluded for this reason lived in the United States for years and almost
certainly were infected here. They are being deported to their countries of
origin, with United States-acquired AIDS infection, often in horrible situations
in which families are separated and those facing major illness are deprived of
jobs, health insurance and medical care.

The figure of $100,000 cost per AIDS case, repeatedly used in this debate, is an
average total for the insured and the poor alike -- not what the Government pays
per case, nor what the Government pays per indigent. Yet this figure is
multiplied as if everyone involved had no personal resources and were charging
United States institutions that entire amount.

The Senate debated the ban as if people everywhere were lining up for Uncle
Sam's AIDS treatment. But in six years of publishing an AIDS treatment
newsletter, we have heard of only one case of a person who tried to move to the
United States to obtain AIDS care. This country has the world's most expensive
medical system; those who could afford to come here can get comparable AIDS
treatment for less money elsewhere.

In one day's debate, with no hearings or expert testimony, the Senate voted to
overrule the virtually unanimous professional judgment of public-health experts
both in the United States and worldwide, using the world's most serious epidemic
as a political football. We deserve better from our Government, and need to
insist on it.

JOHN S. JAMES
Editor and Publisher
AIDS Treatment News
San Francisco, Feb. 24, 1993

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 4, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

We Shouldn't Exclude Immigrants With H.I.V.

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 445 words


To the Editor:

"Immigrants Infected With AIDS" (editorial, Feb. 20) supports the Senate vote to
exclude immigrants infected with the human immunodeficiency virus, which causes
AIDS. You base your opinion on public health and financial cost grounds, but
never mention human rights. The burdens on human rights far outweigh the
negligible benefits to public health or cost savings.

The exclusion of immigrants who are infected with H.I.V. is based on serologic
status, not their risk to others. This form of discrimination penalizes the
great majority who will behave safely, as well as the few who will not. The
exclusionary policy affects only people who otherwise have a right to live in
the United States because of family or other close ties. The policy, therefore,
interferes with personal aspiration and family unity.

The xenophobic United States policy of excluding "outsiders" has been criticized
throughout the world and led to transfer of the 1992 international AIDS
conference sponsored by Harvard from Boston to Amsterdam.

The human rights impact of exclusion is harder on refugees and seekers of asylum
who have a well-grounded fear of persecution in their own countries. Hundreds of
Haitians confined at Guantanamo Bay fear grave harm in their home country yet
may be refused entry to the United States because of their H.I.V. status.

From a global perspective, testing and exclusion of H.I.V.-infected immigrants
is a specious public health policy. It will not reduce the reservoir of
infection in the world. Nor will it provide more resources for counseling and
education. It is ironic that the United States, which has probably exported more
cases of H.I.V. infection than any other country, should set up an exclusionary
policy.

The cost saving is also exaggerated. Federal regulations specify that immigrants
may not be a financial burden on United States services and programs. If cost
were the true reason for the policy the United States would have included all
those with chronic costly diseases such as heart disease, cancer and kidney
disease. Why single out H.I.V. infection among all illnesses on cost grounds?

President Clinton is seeking to overturn a discriminatory and ineffective
policy. The Centers for Disease Control has already advised that the policy is
not necessary to protect public health. Rather than arbitrarily restricting the
immigration of people because of their health status, we must dedicate ourselves
to the principles of justice, scientific cooperation and a global response to
the H.I.V. pandemic.

LAWRENCE O. GOSTIN
Exec. Dir., American Society
of Law, Medicine & Ethics
Boston, Feb. 21, 1993

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 12, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

House, Like Senate, Votes To Ban H.I.V. Immigrants

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 780 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11


The House followed the Senate today in voting to ban immigration into the United
States by people infected with the virus that causes AIDS.

But the House vote, while overwhelming, came on a parliamentary device of no
real authority, and it was not clear what the legislative outcome would be. The
356-to-58 vote came on a motion to instruct conferees on a medical research bill
to accept the ban the Senate voted last month.

While conferees rarely consider themselves bound by such directives, the big
House majority made it likely that some form of the ban would survive a
House-Senate conference.

President Clinton has said he wants to lift the ban, which under current policy
is imposed by regulation, not legislation. But the Clinton Administration made
no detectable efforts to lobby against the House vote, apparently regarding the
issue as lost from the start. Organizations advocating gay rights were also not
prominent in opposition, preferring to concentrate on efforts to lift the ban on
homosexuals in the armed forces.

White House Reaction

The White House appeared ready to give in. "Congress's intent on this is
becoming clear," Dee Dee Myers, the White House press secretary, said even
before the House voted. "The President has to work with Congress. He can't act
unilaterally on issues like this."

The vote on banning aliens who are H.I.V. positive from immigrant status was
even more one-sided than the vote on the underlying bill, a popular measure to
expand the authority of the National Institutes of Health, to direct it to
concentrate greater efforts on women's health issues and to put financial power
in the institute's Office of AIDS Research.

The immigration ban was supported by 185 Democrats and 171 Republicans, and
opposed by 57 Democrats and one independent. Under House rules, the immigration
ban was not considered relevant to the medical research purpose of the bill and
could not be considered; the Senate, which adopted the ban on Feb. 18, has no
rule against irrelevancy.

The bill itself, which would allow spending of up to $6.6 billion in the fiscal
year beginning next Oct. 1, was adopted on a vote of 283 to 131. It was backed
by 225 Democrats, 57 Republicans and one independent and opposed by 16 Democrats
and 115 Republicans.

Threat to Public Health

Lawmakers who support the ban on immigrants infected with the AIDS virus contend
that such aliens present a threat to public health that is easily avoidable.

"Because H.I.V. is always fatal, the public health consequences of allowing
H.I.V. individuals to immigrate is of the highest order," said Representative
Thomas J. Bliley Jr., Republican of Virginia. "We have never before permitted
immigration of those who were infected in the middle of an epidemic. We should
not start now."

Representative Robert K. Dornan, Republican of California, said admtting
immigrants with H.I.V. "is going to kill Americans, and that's stupid."

Most of those who opposed the ban contended that the Public Health Service
should be the one to decide what diseases should cause immigrants to be
excluded. "We should leave it to the health experts," said Representative
Jerrold Nadler, a freshman Democrat from Manhattan.

Seeing the futility of voting against the ban, some House leaders voted for it.
Representative Henry A. Waxman, the California Democrat who managed the bill to
expand the authority of the National Institutes of Health, said he would support
the ban so that the conferees could come up with a "reasonable proposal."

Fetal Tissue Research

The institutes measure was vetoed last year by President George Bush, who
opposed federally financed research on illnesses like Parkinson's disease and
diabetes using tissue from aborted fetuses. Mr. Bush and other abortion
opponents contended that lifting the ban on fetal tissue research would
encourage abortions.

But that issue was absent this year because Mr. Clinton lifted the ban by
executive order in the first week of his Presidency. This year's bill, like last
year's, spells out conditions for research using fetal tissue, and some abortion
opponents tried to tighten those restrictions but were defeated in a number of
amendments.

Republican opponents complained that the legislation involved "micromanagement"
of the National Institutes of Health, while Democratic supporters contended that
it was proper for Congress to set priorities like a greater emphasis on women's
health. But those provisions did little more than write into law policy changes
set by Dr. Bernardine Healy, the director of the institutes, a Bush appointee
who has been removed by the Clinton Administration.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 12, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

THE TWIN TOWERS;
After Bombing, New Scrutiny For Holes in Immigration Net

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1396 words


When Mohammed A. Salameh, one of the two main suspects in the bombing of the
World Trade Center, entered the United States as a temporary foreign visitor in
1987, he quickly slipped through a Federal immigration bureaucracy that had no
plan or hope of ever tracking him amid the nation's vast tide of illegal aliens.

He joined about 500,000 other visitors who drift from sight annually as their
visas lapse. They usually are never traced or thought of again until such a
moment as now when startled, angry Americans begin questioning whether the
United States immigration system presents a model of sanctuary or of porousness
for the global throngs seeking entry.

As mysterious as Mr. Salameh's residency and history here have been, critics of
the nation's overwhelmed immigration procedures are even more puzzled by the
immigration history of Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, the fundamentalist Islamic
cleric whose earlier calls to militant action have made him a controversial, but
far from formally accused, figure closely watched now in the bombing inquiry.

Pointing to Conflicts

Together the two cases exemplify some of the worst problems of the nation's
procedures for dealing with more than 20 million people who come to the United
States as temporary visitors each year, as well as a new boomtide of political
asylum seekers that is swamping the process.

In particular, the two cases lay bare essential conflicts between the State
Department, which handles the issue overseas, and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, which is responsible once visitors arrive in the United
States. Overseas consular officials, for example, can easily, sometimes
erroneously, in a simple administrative decision, grant a visa to someone as in
the case of Sheik Rahman, who was on the State Department screening list of
about a million names as a potential troublemaker.

But such a visitor, once challenged within America for dubious credentials, is
then entitled to a full array of hearings and appeal procedures, as the sheik is
now doing, which would allow the person to remain in the country for additional
years.

"I don't know of anybody we can deport easily or quickly if they don't want to
go voluntarily," said Duke Austin, a spokesman for the I.N.S.

Beyond the challenge of ever tracing individuals among the nation's uncounted
millions of illegal aliens, the criminal inquiry into the bombing includes a
perhaps more relevant question: How close is the cooperation between the I.N.S.
and Federal Bureau of Investigation, which is responsible for guarding against
crimes of domestic terror and watching for developing threats.

The F.B.I. has thus far given no clear indication of whether agents had
previously conducted tight surveillance of the mosque in Jersey City where some
of the sheik's fundamentalist followers sometimes congregated to hear his calls
to militancy.

Critics in Congress and elsewhere hypothesize that the bomb plot might have been
frustrated in its formative stages if Government agents, attracted to Sheik
Rahman's growing notoriety here and reputation overseas for fomenting violence,
had been investigating believers like Mr. Salameh and checking his right to be
here.

The F.B.I. declined to discuss its investigative methods, but Mr. Austin said
the I.N.S. had "no record that any Federal agency has ever contacted us" as to
whether Mr. Salameh was an illegal alien.

He noted that the F.B.I. can be understandably wary of compromising an
investigation. There have been cases where the F.B.I., after finding no basis
for criminal indictments, asked the I.N.S. to begin exclusion proceedings
against some apparently illegal aliens, but these, too, usually became drawn-out
legal cases not leading to fast deportation, according to the I.N.S.

Calls for More Diligence

"There's obviously not enough coordination," said Representative Charles E.
Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat who is conducting hearings into the bombing. "How
well the F.B.I. tracked Sheik Rahman is a big question. If they had some
suspicion he was here illegally, perhaps the two agencies should have been more
forceful."

Representative Tom Lantos, a California Democrat who is chairman of the House
subcommittee on international security, is pursuing the initial question of the
State Department's admitted mistake in having granted a visitor's visa to Sheik
Rahman in 1990. The sheik was on the department watch list because of his
militant opposition to the Egyptian Government and his trial, but eventual
acquittal, in the assassination of President Anwar el-Sadat. The list, known as
the Alien Lookout System, has about one million assorted names of foreigners
barred for entry.

State Department officials explained the mistake, saying that the sheik's name
and other information was not spelled correctly at the consulate in Khartoum
where he applied. Once Sheik Rahman was in the United States, the I.N.S. said it
committed a separate error by granting him permanent resident status as a
religious leader on April 9, 1991. The agency revoked it on March 6, 1992, when
it was finally discovered that he had a record of polygamy and check fraud that
should have barred him.

An F.B.I. investigation was required when permanent residency was first
proposed, said one official who would not comment further on what the result
was. But it is not clear why negative information did not turn up until almost a
year later.

Coordinating Visa Process

"I have trouble understanding how this so-called cleric got a visa when he is so
palpably unique in appearance and was so much in the news prior to getting the
visa," Mr. Lantos said, referring to the sheik's blindness and firebrand's
image, and the required interview. "And, once he was here, I have difficulty
understanding how an individual whose principal function was to incite,
overthrow and violence can take advantage of immigration procedures. We are not
idiots, you know."

But I.N.S. officials and immigration lawyers note that under laws liberalized in
1980, people involved in visa and residency challenges are guaranteed much the
same free-speech and legal rights as any American citizen once they are within
the country. The I.N.S. has a smaller watch list of 50,000 names that is more
rigorous because criminal records and other hard evidence is required in
domestic hearings, in contrast to the diplomatic intelligence underlying the
larger State Department watch list. Sheik Rahman was not on the I.N.S. list,
officials said.

Congressman Schumer has proposed stationing I.N.S. agents in foreign capitols to
coordinate visa procedures, and he wants more detention centers built in New
York to handle some of the 1,000 political asylum seekers who arrive each month.
At present, most of them are given hearing dates a year or more into the future
and allowed freely into the country in the meantime. Half of them never show up
for hearings, Mr. Schumer said.

Asylum petitioners like Sheik Rahman, acting under greater legal rights
guarantees, have swamped the appeals process of the I.N.S. with a 50-fold
increase in the last decade, with 100,000 new petitions submitted annually to a
backlog of hundreds of thousands of unsettled cases.

Under the law, most asylum petitioners must be allowed to enter the nation
pending judgment of their appeal because the Government lacks the resources to
detain them properly and by law can no longer simply turn back even the most
dubious cases at the border.

The more lenient asylum situation, put into effect in reaction to previous
problems of bureaucratic abuse and ideological searching, has become something
of a worldwide Siren's call to foreigners, immigration specialists say. Even
some people from such unlikely nations as France and Britain, they say, destroy
their travel documents en route here and claim asylum these days at Kennedy
International Airport as they search for a better life for themselves, more than
a different political climate. Others are in genuine flight from oppression.

Mr. Schumer concedes there is a basic tension between the sudden concern for
anti-terrorist safeguards and the need to sow the republic's future with fresh
immigration under democratic, welcoming procedures. "There doesn't have to be
some terrible trade-off," he said, insisting existing procedures can be
drastically improved.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 28, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Man Sought as Member of Drug Cartel Is Arrested

BYLINE: By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 329 words


A former Colombian police lieutenant, who fled his homeland to avoid murder,
kidnapping and drug-trafficking charges and is believed to be a high-ranking
member of the Medellin drug cartel, has been arrested on Staten Island, Federal
officals said yesterday.

The man, Pedro Fernando Chunza-Plaza, 31, of 108 Bard Avenue on Staten Island,
was arrested at his home at 8:35 P.M. on Friday, said Rosemary LaGuardia, a
spokeswoman for the New York office of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

I.N.S. officials said that he was accused of violating United States immigration
laws by using fraudulent documents to live in the country. Ms. LaGuardia said
that Mr. Chunza-Plaza, who faces deportation, was being held yesterday at the
Immigration Service processing center in lower Manhattan.

Wanted in Colombia

Mr. Chunza-Plaza, who Colombian authorities said left his job as a Medellin
police lieutenant to join the cartel headed by Pablo Escobar, is wanted in
Colombia on charges of homicide, kidnapping and drug trafficking, Ms. LaGuardia
said. Colombian officials said that when he worked for Mr. Escobar, Mr.
Chunza-Plaza headed the security detail protecting Mr. Escobar's wife and
children, The Associated Press reported.

Mr. Escobar escaped from prison with nine of his men last July during a bungled
military operation to transfer him to another jail. Seven have since turned
themselves in to the police, but Mr. Escobar and one other man remain at large.
Mr. Escobar and the cartel have been blamed for a wave of recent terrorist
attacks in Colombia.

Mr. Chunza-Plaza, who has lived in New York City since October 1990, entered the
United States by using the fraudulent documents, Ms. LaGuardia said.

In addition to Mr. Chunza-Plaza, Federal authorities arrested his wife, Claudia
Patricia Lopez-Coll, and his sister-in-law, Maria Elena Lopez, officials said.
The women also entered the country by using fraudulent documents, officials
said.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 22, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Nightmare of Torture in Ethiopia Is Relived in an Atlanta Court

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1315 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, May 21


Three years ago Edgegayehu Taye, an Ethiopian immigrant who works as a waitress
at a hotel here, thought she saw a ghost.

There, a few feet away, working as a bellman in the same hotel, was a former
Ethiopian government official -- a man she said she remembered from her
nightmarish days in an Addis Ababa jail in the late 1970's.

Ms. Taye said the man, Kelbesso Negewo, had supervised hours of interrogation
and torture while she hung upside down from a pole, hands and feet bound.

This week, at a civil trial in Federal District Court here, Ms. Taye and two
other Ethiopian immigrants accused Mr. Negewo of a long list of brutalities on
behalf of the Government of Lieut. Col. Mengistu Haile Mariam, the Ethiopian
dictator at the time: directing their torture, murdering two relatives of one of
the women, and ordering them jailed without trial or formal charges for up to
three years.

Mr. Negewo, 42, a bellman by night and an accounting and computer student by
day, acknowledged that he had been an official in the local government of Addis
Ababa but insisted that he had had nothing to do with imprisonment or torture.
He said he had never met the three women, much less tortured them.

'White Terror,' 'Red Terror'

The women are suing him under two Federal laws -- one dating from 1789, the
other from 1992 -- that allow people who say they were tortured abroad to seek
damages in United States courts.  They are seeking $10 million each in damages,
but Paul Hoffman, an American Civil Liberties Union lawyer who is representing
them, said they would be satisfied if a judgment in their favor led the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to deport Mr. Negewo.

The coincidence of Ms. Taye's and Mr. Negewo's turning up at the same Atlanta
hotel -- the Sheraton Colony Square -- is not as unlikely as it sounds. Tens of
thousands of Ethiopians fled the purges, famines and civil war of the 1970's and
80's, and 3,000 to 5,000 of them settled in Atlanta.

Woubishet Tedla, secretary of the city's Ethiopian Community Association, said
it would be hard to find an Ethiopian in Atlanta who was not affected by the
violence of the "White Terror" and "Red Terror" -- periods that followed the
1974 coup in which Colonel Mengistu and other officers overthrew Emperor Haile
Selassie.

So when Ms. Taye, who is now 33, spotted Mr. Negewo one day in 1990, she said in
a recent interview, "I wanted to push it to the back of my mind." Instead, she
got in touch with two other women -- Hirute Abebe Jira of Gloucester, Ontario,
and Elizabeth Demissie of Los Angeles -- who had suffered similarly. They came
to Atlanta, covertly looked at Mr. Negewo from a distance and concluded that Ms.
Taye was right.

With the help of the A.C.L.U., the Center for Constitutional Rights and the
Atlanta law firm Kilpatrick & Cody, they sued. The case was heard in a two-day
trial without a jury by Judge G. Ernest Tidwell. Mr. Hoffman, the A.C.L.U.
lawyer, says he hopes for a ruling in a month or so.

The 1789 law, the Alien Tort Claims Act, was originally aimed at piracy on the
high seas and the illicit slave trade. Until 1980 it was invoked only 10 times;
then the Center for Constitutional Rights cited it in a case involving American
relatives of the torture victims of a Paraguayan general.

Judge Irving Kaufman of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit, in New York, wrote in his decision, "For purposes of civil liability,
the torturer has become -- like the pirate and slave trader before him -- hostis
humanis generis, an enemy of all mankind." Since then the law has been cited in
suits against officials or former officials in a number of countries, including
the Philippines, Argentina and Haiti. A modern version, explicitly intended to
protect victims of torture, was enacted in 1992.

Before Judge Tidwell this week, the Ethiopian women told this story:

In 1978 Ms. Taye, then 18, was a newly hired clerk in the Ministry of Forestry
and Wildlife. One day, for no apparent reason, she was abducted from her
apartment by armed revolutionary guards, taken to prison, interrogated and
tortured.

She was not political, she said. But throughout the torture sessions, which she
said were directed by Mr. Negewo, there were constant attempts to link her with
dissident groups. She was imprisoned for more than three years.

Ms. Abebe Jira and Ms. Demissie, both daughters of prominent judges, described
similar experiences. Students who were barely 18 at the time, they were
imprisoned for about six months; Ms. Demissie said her sister died in the
prison, and her father was found shot in an Addis Ababa alley.

At the trial, Ms. Demissie was tearful and Ms. Taye said she felt as if she had
been in prison for 15 years. But for Ms. Abebe Jira there was a a certain
triumph.

"It felt good," she said with a rueful smile. "Before I was tied up and hanging
upside down. But this time I am standing up and facing him. I don't have to be
afraid of him. This is everybody's case, not just mine. Maybe finally he will
have to pay for making so many lives miserable."

For Mr. Negewo, the accusations brought back his own bitter memories of the
cycle of violence and retribution in which his country was knotted in those days
-- a cycle that eventually led to his own five-year imprisonment by the Mengistu
regime.

Acting as his own lawyer, he portrayed his accusers as fanatical adherents of
the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Party, which opposed Colonel Mengistu
before his ouster in 1991 and which Mr. Negewo said continued to seek revenge
against anyone remotely associated with him.

"They are still fighting for power and this is revenge against me because I had
some influence as a development official," Mr. Negewo said. "The E.P.R.P. tried
to kill me 10 times in Ethiopia, and they are now trying to get me here."

Mr. Negewo, who worked as a public health official before being elected to one
of the neighborhood committees that governed the city after the 1974 coup, said
his job was organizing residents to harvest crops in the rural areas and collect
supplies that would be sent to Ethiopian troops fighting in the war against
Somalia. There were Revolutionary Councils whose armed henchmen roamed the
neighborhood, but he insisted that he had nothing to do with their activities
and was subject to their whims.

Mr. Negewo said he was considered a rising star by the regime and was sent to
Bulgaria in 1979 to be groomed for future responsibilities. But after he
criticized some Marxist doctrine and Ethiopian policies to his Bulgarian hosts,
he was recalled to Addis Ababa and imprisoned. He was released five years later
and came to the United States in 1987.

"So you see, my own Government was trying to kill me," he said. "These women may
think it was me who did these terrible things, but they are wrong."

Mr. Negewo called no witnesses in his own behalf.

Mr. Tedla, of the Ethiopian association in Atlanta, says the trial is a source
of much discussion and great ambivalence here. On one hand, he said, it is being
used as propaganda in Ethiopia -- allowing the current Government to dwell too
much on the shortcomings of the old one, and distracting many from present
inadequacies. For some, this is tiresome old business, he said, eclipsing the
important new business of the ancient and proud nation's fragmentation into
several warring countries.

Still, he went on, many people here support the accusers. "When the suit was
first brought in 1990, Mengistu was still in power and people were too afraid to
talk about it," Mr. Tedla said.  "But now they talk about it a lot and it is
pretty much accepted that this man did the things these women say he did, and
most in the community pretty much avoid him. Many people praise these women for
going out of their way and making the sacrifices they did to bring this suit."

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hirute Abebe Jira of Gloucester, Ontario, right, and Edgegayehu
Taye, of Atlanta, center, have accused Kelbesso Negewo, left, as the man who
supervised hours of interrogation and torture in a jail in Ethiopia in the late
1970's. Mr. Negewo works as a bellman in the same hotel as Ms. Taye.
(Photographs by David Murray Jr. for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 14, 1992, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Quiet Tibetan Influx;
Devout, Exiled but Kept Out by U.S.

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1665 words


Pema Tsering's escape from Tibet began 30 years ago with a nighttime trek
through the Himalayan mountains and ended three weeks ago on an Alitalia jet to
Kennedy International Airport. With hot buttered tea and steamed beef dumplings,
New York's entire Tibetan community turned out to help him celebrate, fitting
comfortably into a small East Side restaurant.

For the 500 Tibetans in the United States, Mr. Tsering's arrival was a very big
deal, the beginning of a wave of Tibetan migration to the United States that
will ultimately quadruple their minuscule but passionate exile community. It was
made possible when Congress authorized 1,000 special visas for Tibetans.

Although Tibetans have been fleeing the Chinese occupation of their homeland for
40 years, the United States has never granted them refugee status. Like tens of
thousands of other Tibetans in India and Nepal, Mr. Tsering, who is 42 years
old, lived for decades in a refugee settlement, stuck in an odd sort of limbo
with no country to call his own.

Tibetans register only a blip in the great human drama of international
migration, but immigration experts say their story highlights just how
political, and how arbitrary, the refugee policy of the United States really is.


Working With Dalai Lama

The resettlement of the 1,000 Tibetans, scheduled to arrive over the next 3
years, also represents an unusual effort, organized and financed not by a
government but by a national network of volunteers -- a small subculture of
Tibetans and friends of Tibet working with the Dalai Lama's exile administration
in Dharamsala, India.

"I personally see the resettlement project as a fantastic gift from America to
Tibetans, which has been very late in coming," said Losang Gyatso, president of
the Tibet Association in New York. Mr. Gyatso is a senior vice president at
Lintas New York, an advertising agency, where he works as a creative director on
the Diet Coke account.

Early this month, gazing upward at "enchanting skyscrapers," Mr. Tsering stood
on a Manhattan street corner in the Murray Hill neighborhood that could be
called Little, or Tiny, Tibet. It was far from the jungly Tibetan village where
he was born, far from the mountainous Nepalese terrain where he labored on road
gangs as a boy and far from the refugee camp in India where, until last month,
he worked at a Tibetan school.

As the ever-present sirens of New York wailed, he spoke with calm about his
childhood vision of the United States, taking a metaphorical step beyond the
typical immigrant's dream of streets paved with gold.

"When I was little, in my village, we believed that America had made a spiral
staircase from the Earth reaching to the moon," Mr. Tsering said. "And each
stair was extremely wide, planted with a wild field of crops. And beyond each
stair there was another, waiting to be developed."

It was a plain, linoleum-covered staircase that Mr. Tsering climbed that first
night to the new apartment in Murray Hill he was to share with Tashi Dorjee, the
second of 18 Tibetans to arrive in cities across the country last month. The
apartment is still largely unadorned, but Mr. Tsering and Mr. Dorjee have
constructed a colorful altar to the Dalai Lama, whom Tibetans call His Holiness,
on a mud-brown bureau from the Salvation Army.

New York City's Little Tibet, where the new immigrants live, is so petite as to
be mostly invisible to others in that part of Manhattan -- the 30's between
First and Third Avenues. Besides the apartments of individual Tibetans, it
consists of two restaurants and a brownstone, which houses the Office of Tibet,
Tibet House and a bookstore. A sign on the brownstone door typifies the mellow
Tibetan style: "While opening the doors, please be gentle with the door
handles."

The 120 New York-area Tibetans, the biggest Tibetan community in the United
States, are scattered from Murray Hill through Long Island, New Jersey and
Connecticut. They get together several times a year, particularly for Tibetan
National Day on March 10, when they demonstrate for Tibetan independence at the
United Nations, and for the Dalai Lama's birthday on July 6, when they retreat
to the mountains for an extended picnic, draping their leader's portrait with
multicolored scarves.

Immigrants and Advocates

Unlike other immigrants they are not linked by churchgoing; their practice of
Tibetan Buddhism tends to be a very private affair. But they are fiercely
cohesive in their politics, and they see the new arrivals, first and foremost,
as colleagues in advocacy for a free Tibet. That is also how the new immigrants
see themselves. "Our mission here is not to get rich -- well, who doesn't want
to get rich? -- but to speak up and enlighten the American people about the
Tibetan situation," Mr. Tsering said.

The Tibetans have been displaced for decades by Chinese rule, which, they say,
has resulted in a million dead, 120,000 in settlement camps, and a population in
Tibet itself outnumbered by the Chinese, 6 million to 7.5 million. But the
United States, unlike India, Nepal, Canada and Switzerland, does not allow
Tibetans into this country as refugees.

Technically, this is because they are coming through another country -- Nepal or
India -- willing to grant them residency. Politically, it is because the United
States Government has been unwilling to offend the Chinese by acknowledging that
Tibetans could have a "well-founded fear of persecution," as refugees must under
Federal law. China claims historical sovereignty over Tibet predating its
military occupation of that country in 1950 and the Tibetan uprising, bloody and
failed, in 1959.

Mr. Tsering's group of Tibetans is being allowed into the country not as
refugees but as "qualified displaced Tibetans" under a special provision,
sponsored by United States Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of
Massachusetts, in the 1990 Immigration Act.

Fans, Gurus and Mormons

"It didn't make any difference to us what they were called, as long as they were
provided haven," Mr. Frank said in a recent interview. He described their
special status as "semantic" politics by the State Department intended to keep
China happy.

The Tibetan U.S. Resettlement Project, based in New York City, is working to
establish 19 "clusters" of Tibetans across the country, in cities including
Minneapolis, San Francisco, Salt Lake City, Ithaca, N.Y., Portland, Ore., and
Amherst, Mass. The project brings together an unusual assortment of volunteers,
from Tibetan political enthusiasts to New Age gurus to Mormons.

Some volunteers spoke of the project with political fervor, like the national
project coordinator, Tenzin Taklaj, a 26-year-old Tibetan-American in New York.
"It is up to us here in exile to preserve our culture because it's being
destroyed in Tibet right now," he said. "The more we are, the stronger we will
be."

And others sounded idealistic on a more cosmic level, like a volunteer, Jed
Miller in Amherst, Mass., a chiropractor who said he uses Buddhist meditation to
reduce his patients' stress. He referred to the value of the new immigrants'
"highly developed inner technology."

The volunteer network was constructed over the last few years, as the organizers
of the project persuaded members of Congress to support their effort. Since two
earlier intiatives had failed to earn the Tibetans refugee status, the
organizers -- Tenzin Tethong, now a minister in the exile Government of the
Dalai Lama, and Edward J. Bednar, an American friend of Tibet since discovering
the Tibetan Book of the Dead after "a near-death experience" -- decided to go
another route. They promised to bring Tibetans in at no cost to the U.S.
government, which spent about $7,000 a person to resettle Indochinese refugees.

Congress agreed to grant the Tibetans something every immigrant wants: an
instant "green card," allowing permanent residence in the United States, and
full work authorization. The 500 Tibetans already living in this country arrived
separately, on student visas or after marrying an American. The new immigrants,
when joined by their families, will quadruple, at least, the Tibetan-American
population.

"The Tibetans' situation has always been a clear illustration of the connection
between immigration and foreign policy," said David Reimers, a New York
University history professor and immigration expert. "But it also shows how
immigration policy is made up of a whole series of weird things. Someone gets
the ear of someone in Congress and these flukes happen, like instant
legalization for 100 Burmese students, or, in this case, 1,000 Tibetans."

The State Department authorized the Tibetan Central Administration of the Dalai
Lama to choose the immigrants from 47 refugee settlements in India and Nepal.
Half will be poor refugees, including those who recently left Tibet; the other
half will be more educated and considered likely to succeed in the United
States.

'Big Smiles, Open Faces'

Across the country, the Tibetans are sponsored by families with whom they live.
Volunteers find them jobs before they even arrive in the United States. The
Minneapolis coordinator, Tara Dadak, an American whose husband is a former
Tibetan Buddhist monk, said, "Tibetans come at you with big smiles, open faces
and an ultra-American work ethic very pleasing to employers."

After they adapt to life in America, which other Tibetans say won't take long,
the new arrivals will face something familiar to all Tibetan-Americans: They
will be considered exotics.

"A lot of people project onto Tibetans their own fantasies about Tibet," said
Mr. Gyatso. "Older Americans, in particular, who have known Tibet through
National Geographic and 'Lost Horizon,' see Tibet as a very special place, like
a crack in space or something. Which is terrific, in a way. But the negative
side is that they don't want to confront the reality that the paradise has been
shattered. They'd rather remember the Shangri-La."


LOAD-DATE: May 14, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ending his 30-year odyssey to freedom in New York City last
month, Pema Tsering, right, joined Tashi Dorjee outside a Tibetan restaurant in
Manhattan as the first of a group of 1,000 Tibetans who will settle in the
United States over the next three years. (Susan Harris for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 21, 1992, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Mockery of Justice

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 691 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


On one side in the lawsuit is the United States Government, represented by the
Justice Department. On the other is a group of Haitian refugees held at the U.S.
base in Guantanamo, Cuba, represented by some Yale law students, their professor
and other volunteers.

One might think that the Government would be content with those odds -- with its
great advantages in power, money and legal resources. Not so.

The Justice Department has brought heavy pressure on the volunteer lawyers,
evidently trying to intimidate them out of the case. It has made extreme,
hysterical arguments with no visible basis in fact. In its conduct in this case
-- this amazing case -- the Department has grossly abused its position. Why?
What is going on?

The plaintiffs, who fled the brutal Haitian military regime in small boats and
were picked up by the U.S. Navy, are in a special category. All of them have
been screened by the Immigration and Naturalization Service and found to have a
"credible fear" of political persecution in Haiti. By our own official finding,
then, they are likely candidates for political asylum in the United States, not
just people looking for a better economic life.

The only issue in the lawsuit is whether the refugees can talk to a lawyer
before a final determination of their asylum claim. The Yale law students want
to go to Guantanamo, at their own expense, to question and advise them. The
Government strenuously objects.

Just three months ago the Justice Department told the Supreme Court that, "under
current practice," Haitian refugees who pass the first screening would be
"brought to the United States . . . for a full adjudicatory determination" of
their asylum claim. That meant a hearing with a lawyer.

But the practice changed. And when the Yale law students sued for the right to
meet the refugees, the Justice Department responded with a sledgehammer.

The department asked the Federal courts to impose sanctions on the plaintiffs'
lawyers -- Prof. Harold Hongju Koh of Yale and Michael Ratner of the Center for
Constitutional Rights -- for bringing a "frivolous" lawsuit. It demanded that
the plaintiffs put up a bond of $10 million, the largest bond ever sought in the
New York Federal courts.

The case was heard by Judge Sterling Johnson Jr. of the Eastern District of New
York, who was appointed by President Bush last year. He fixed a bond of $5,000.
And he decided the case in favor of the refugees, ordering the Government to let
the Yale students interview them and, meanwhile, not to send any back to Haiti.

Before an appeal could be heard, the Justice Department rushed to the Supreme
Court and asked for an emergency stay of Judge Johnson's order. It claimed that
the order had "fueled a nearly 20-fold increase in the number of Haitian
migrants attempting to enter the United States illegally."

What was the basis for that extraordinary claim? All the Justice Department
offered was an unsupported statement by a State Department official that in her
"considered judgment" Judge Johnson's order had "contributed in significant part
to the increased outflow of Haitians."

The Supreme Court voted 5 to 4 to issue a stay. The case is now before the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

A lawsuit that the trial judge decided in the plaintiffs' favor could hardly be
"frivolous" but the Justice Department demand for sanctions on the lawyers is
still there.

In its Supreme Court papers Justice relied on the 1950 case of Ellen Knauff, a
war bride who was kept out of the United States as a security risk without being
told why. The Supreme Court narrowly upheld that procedure. But the case aroused
such outrage that the Attorney General changed his mind and let her in.

The Haitian refugees are asking for much less than Ellen Knauff: just the chance
to see a lawyer. But it is worth recalling Justice Robert Jackson's dissent in
the Knauff case:

"Security is like liberty in that many are the crimes committed in its name. The
menace to the security of this country . . . is as nothing compared to the
menace to free institutions inherent in procedures of this pattern."

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 31, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Rights Group Accuses U.S. Border Agents

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 254 words

DATELINE: WASHINTON, May 30


A leading human rights group asserted today that United States border patrol
agents kill, torture and rape illegal Mexican immigrants with impunity.

The group, Americas Watch, said that "beatings, rough physical treatment, and
racially motivated verbal abuse are routine" behavior for agents of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service along the Mexican border.

The immigration service conceded that isolated cases of abuse had occurred but
rejected allegations of unchecked brutality. "We don't claim that everybody in
the I.N.S. is perfect," said a spokesman for the service, Rich Kenney. But he
called the group's charges "a gross generalization."

Americas Watch said in its report that "even more serious abuses, including
unjustified shootings, torture and sexual abuse, occur."

"When they do," it said, "investigations are almost invariably perfunctory, and
the offending agents escape punishment."

The New York-based group said that the Immigration and Naturalization Service
frequently sought to cover up such incidents and that the Bush Administration's
response to complaints was "as defensive and unyielding" as that of the world's
harshest governments. The report urged the Administration to treat the thousands
of Mexicans who try to cross illegally into the United States each day more
humanely.

It said that immigration agents had shot dozens of people along the
2,000-mile-long border since 1980, killing at least 11. The report also
described several cases of sexual abuse and torture.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 31, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE NATION;
As American as Apple Pie, Dim Sum or Burritos

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 854 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Henry Luce called it the American Century, but social observers in a future time
may smile as they recall the grandiose sobriquet. They will know how the word
American was redefined by two surges of immigration, one ushering in the 20th
century and another that is ushering it out. Even national nicknames have lost
their resonance. What is a Yank? Can one be found in San Antonio's barrios? Was
Kilroy here? Or was it Nguyen?

These future observers will have the advantage of us. Three or four censuses
from now, they are likely to know what researchers are just beginning to
explore: How the Mexicans, Koreans, Cubans, Filipinos, Hmong, Haitians,
Jamaicans, Cambodians and Russian Jews fared after crossing to America.

In 1990, the researchers will note, the United States Census marked two
watersheds: It found 19.7 million foreign-born residents, the most in the
country's history. And it found that in the expanded population of
first-generation immigrants the Asian-born now outnumber the European-born.
Those from Latin America -- predominantly Mexicans -- outnumber both.

"As recently as the 1950's, two-thirds of legal immigrants to the country were
from Europe and Canada, with the bulk from Europe," said Jeffrey Passel, a
researcher with the Urban Institute, a Washington research firm. "That ceased
being true in the 1960's and it's not even close now. European and Canadian
immigration is less than 15 percent of total immigration."

The immigrant meccas also changed: as many immigrants entered California during
the 1980's as entered New York State from 1901 to 1910.

Mr. Passel and his colleague Barry Edmonston calculate that 66 percent of Asian
Americans and 41 percent of Hispanic Americans in 1990 were immigrants.  Another
21 percent of Asians and 26 percent of Hispanic residents were children of
immigrants.

If the current levels of immigration continue, the two researchers believe,
Hispanic residents will number 39 million in two decades, surpassing blacks as
the largest minority group. The number of Asians, which doubled in the last
decade to 7.3 million, will double again in 20 years' time, and will triple, to
21.5 million, by 2020, according to the Urban Institute's projections. Black
immigrants, from Africa and the Caribbean, who now number 1.1 million, will
triple their numbers by 2010.

Who will these immigrants be? Nurses, entrepreneurs, scientists, day laborers or
part of the welfare rolls? The work of another researcher, William P. O'Hare of
the Urban Research Institute at the University of Louisville, offers clues about
Asian and Hispanic populations, though he said he has not been able to study
black immigrants.

In the case of Asians, the new arrivals either stimulated the group's overall
economic performance, or, at the least, failed to hold it back. Mr. O'Hare
calculates that in 1979 the median income of Asian-American households was at
least 12 percent higher than that of white, non-Hispanic households. By 1990,
the household income of Asian-Americans, whose education levels are well above
the general population's, was 18 percent higher than that of non-Hispanic
whites.

But the news was not all good. Though median income rates were high for Asians
as a whole, poverty rates were also above average. In 1990, the poverty rate for
the Asian and Pacific Island population was 12.2, compared to 8.8 percent for
non-Hispanic whites.

Mr. O'Hare believes that the overall economic success of Asians will be
furthered by the next wave of immigrants. "I think a disproportionate share of
the new professional immigration slots will go to Asians," he said. "Asians have
come here since 1965 on the basis of their skills," agreed Dave Simcox, director
of the Center for Immigration Studies.

Mr. Simcox's characterization of the Asian groups as having "an impressive core
of well-trained people," certainly seemed true a decade ago. Then the average
Japanese-American household had a median income of $40,537 (in constant 1990
dollars); median income among Filipino households was $39,473 and it was $37,082
among Asian Indians, all in excess of median household income for whites.

Hispanics immigrants, from Latin America and the Caribbean, make up more than a
third of the foreign-born population. But this tide of immigration, Mr. Simcox
says, cannot be controlled by such legal checks as quotas or by the immigration
law's current bias toward skilled immigrants.

While the poverty rate in the country climbed for the population as a whole, it
climbed more steeply for Hispanic people in the years between 1979 and 1990. At
the beginning of the decade, 23.5 percent of them were living on incomes below
the Federally defined poverty level; in 1990 the figure was 28.1 percent.

That gloomy portrait is balanced, Mr. Passel said, by new indications that "the
recent immigrants at the end of the 1980's seem to be doing better than recent
immigrants did 10 years ago." "We tend to focus on the lower end of the income
spectrum of immigrants, and that gives a misleading picture," he said. "They are
coming in throughout the economic spectrum."

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "New Americans," shows breakdown or origins of legal immigrants
to the United States, 1981-90 (Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 19, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Mexican Police Are Said to Cross Into U.S.

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 242 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., June 18


Mexican police officers crossed onto American soil on Monday and seized at
gunpoint two men whom they had been pursuing on the Mexican side of the border,
an official of the United States Customs Service said today.

The official, Fred Lawrence, district director at the Customs Service's office
in Nogales, said such border crossings occurred once or twice a year but
generally were not publicized. In the latest case, however, the crossing
occurred on the same day that the United States Supreme Court infuriated Mexico
by ruling that American agents had the right to kidnap fugitives in foreign
countries.

But Mr. Lawrence suggested that there was no connection between the Court's
ruling and Monday's incursion.  "When you're in a hot pursuit," he said, "your
adrenaline's up. I suspect these officers didn't even realize they crossed the
border."

Mr. Lawrence said the incident began when several men who appeared to be
officers of the Mexican Federal Judicial Police followed a van as it crossed
into the border town of Douglas, Ariz., and stopped at a United States
checkpoint. Four American agents witnessed the incursion, he said, "two Customs,
two Immigration."

One of the Mexican officers approached the van with a .45-caliber pistol,
ordered two men out and took them back across the border, Mr. Lawrence said. He
said the American officers had been outgunned by the Mexicdans and had acted
sensibly in not challenging them.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 1, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

A City of Immigrants Is Pictured in Report

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 794 words


More than a quarter of the population of New York City is now foreign born as
the number of immigrants settling here has climbed to its highest level since
1940, according to a city report released yesterday.

In the report, a study of immigrants who arrived in the 1980's, a clear picture
emerges of just how dramatically the city's ethnic landscape is changing.

Just as schools in Queens and apartment buildings in northern Manhattan are
suffering overcrowding unseen for decades, declining neighborhoods are being
revitalized by the new immigrants.

Some of the changes are subtly profound: One in every four New York City blacks
is now foreign born. Puerto Ricans, long synonymous with Latin New York, now
make up only half the Hispanic population as the Dominican and Colombian
communities, in particular, grow. Little Italy is now primarily Chinese.

The most sweeping change, however, is this: While the immigants arriving in the
1940's were primarily white Europeans, the newest New Yorkers are and will
continue to be mostly Hispanic, black and, to a lesser extent, Asian, said the
report, by the city's Planning Department.

Nowhere is this more apparent than in Queens, a social laboratory of ethnic
diversity, and, in particular, on the Flushing IRT No. 7 train, variously dubbed
the Immigrants' IRT and the International Shuttle.

Rattling along on the No. 7 on Monday morning, a young couple ate a breakfast of
octopus from a plastic container, their Chinese newspaper brushing against the
Spanish-language tabloid of the next passenger. Two elderly Korean women
embraced bags filled with lemon grass, and the burly man beside them, forearm
tattooed with a Confederate flag, wore an American flag belt buckle.

"It could be seen, and is by some, in a negative light, that New York is turning
into a third world country," said Frank Sharry, executive director of the
National Immigration, Refugee and Citizenship Forum. "It could also be seen as a
wonderful experiment in the racial dynamics of pluralism."

Similar dynamics are transforming the country as a whole, as about 600,000 new
immigrants a year -- triple the number in the 1960's -- establish permanent
residency in the United States.

"In Russia, they told us we lived in the most international nation, but that was
a lie," said Olga Khey6fets, 68 years old, who recently left St. Petersburg for
Elmhurst, Queens. They city report called Elmhurst "perhaps themost ethnically
mixed community in the world," with 17,200 new immigrants from 118 countries who
arrived between 1983 and 1989 alone.

While Mexicans and Asians dominate the national picture, they are far
outnumbered in New York City by new Caribbean, Central American and South
American arrivals.

The top five countries sending immigrants to the United States are Mexico, with
the greatest number, then the Philippines, China, Vietnam and Korea. However,
less than 1 percent of Mexican immigrants settle in New York City, and only 4
percent of Filipinos.

For New York City, the top five source countries are the Dominican Republic,
substantially outpacing the others, and then Jamaica, China, Guyana and Haiti.
Sixty-one percent of all Dominican immigrants move to New York; 70 percent of
all Guyanese do so. In fact, about 8 percent of the total population of Guyana
moved to New York City in the 1980's, according to the city report.

The predominance of Caribbean and Latin American immigrants in New York shapes a
different kind of immigrant culture. For instance, far fewer Latin and Caribbean
immigrants end up seeking U.S. citizenship than do Asians, which means that New
York City's predominant immigrant groups move more slowly into American society.
In 1989, for example, the naturalization rate for Dominicans was only 18 percent
of eligible immigrants. For Filipinos, who settled in great numbers in Los
Angeles and San Francisco, the rate was 53 percent.

Many Caribbean and Latin immigrants see their national identity as more fluid,
experts say, to move back and forth between countries.

Nonetheless, the Dominicans have already elected a City Councilman, Guillermo
Linares, which suggests they will eventually move as aggressively into politics
as prior immigrant groups.

In total numbers, New York City receives more immigrants than any other city in
the country -- 685,000 between 1982 and 1989. These numbers do not include the
city's illegal immigrant population, which some immigration experts estimate at
about 200,000. They also do not give the best idea of the extent of the
immigrant population, because they do not take into account the children of the
many immigrant women of child-bearing age. The 1990 Census counted 953,000 New
Yorkers who entered the United States in the 1980's.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC:  the groups with the largest number of immigrants to New York City from
1983 to 1989 and where those groups have relocated.

                                      Number         %

1. Dominican Republic

All immigrants                      105,357      100.0
1. Washington Heights                27,805       25.7
2. Hamilton Heights                   7,363        7.0
3. Corona                             6,506        6.2
4. Inwood                             6,036        5.7
5. Chinatown                          3,577        3.4
   Williamsburg                       3,557        3.4

2. Jamaica

All immigrants                       63,226      100.0
1. East Flatbush                      5,656        8.9
2. Crown Heights                      5,469        8.6
3. Flatbush                           4,983        7.9
4. Wakefield                          4,357        6.9
5. Williamsbridge-Baychester          3,384        5.4

3. China

All immigrants                       64,184      100.0
1. Chinatown                         19,550       30.5
2. Elmhurst                           3,680        5.7
3. Flushing                           3,227        5.0
4. Sunset Park-Industry City          2,442        3.8
5. Bay Ridge                          1,805        2.8

4. Guyana

All immigrants                       46,706      100.0
1. East Flatbush                       3,425       7.3
2. Flatbush                           2,992        6.4
3. Richmond Hill                      2,979        6.4
4. Crown Heights                      2,495        5.3
5. Cypress Hills                      1,643        3.5

5. Haiti

All immigrants                       34,046      100.0
1. Flatbush                           8,303       23.0
2. Crown Heights                      5,336       14.8
3. East Flatbush                      4,056       11.3
4. Vanderveer                         1,837        5.1
5. Brownsville                        1,415        3.9


Graph: "Compare and Contrast: Two Different Immigration Pictures"
Table: "Immigration: After They Reach New York"

New York City's immigrant pool from 1982 to 1989 was drawn mostly from the
Caribbean while the U.S. as a whole drew in more Meixcan and Asian immigrants.

NEW YORK CITY

1. Dominican Republic: 16.9%
2. Jamaica: 10.6%
3. China: 10.5
4. Guyana: 7.8
5. Haiti: 6.0

Others: 48.2

Total immigrants from 1982 to 1989: 684,819

U.S.

1. Mexico: 11.3%
2. Philippines: 8.1
3. China: 7.6
4. Vietnam: 6.3
5. Korea: 5.8

Others: 61.0

Total immigrants from 1982 to 1989: 4,726,165

(Sources: New York City Planning Department analysis of census and Immigration
and Naturalization Services data) (pgs. B1 and B2)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 27, 1992, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Man With H.I.V. Challenges U.S. Entry Ban

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 230 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, July 26


A citizen of Spain who has the virus that causes AIDS challenged the ban by the
United States on admitting noncitizens infected with the virus by entering the
country through the San Francisco International Airport on Saturday.

The Spaniard, Tomas Fabregas, 34 years old, is a legal resident of the United
States who lives in Oakland, Calif. Mr. Fabregas attended the International AIDS
Conference in Amsterdam last week, where he had announced he would challenge the
ban on admitting into the country people infected with the virus or who have
AIDS.

Mr. Fabregas, who was found to have the human immunodeficiency virus in 1987,
was greeted at the airport as he returned from Amsterdam by about 40 supporters.

Karen Philis, director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service at the
airport, said Mr. Fabregas went through customs and immigration without
incident, although she declined to comment on the specific process under which
he was admitted.

Ms. Philis said that immigration officials did not question Mr. Fabregas about
his infection and that he did not "make it an issue."

David Ilchert, director of the immigration office for the San Francisco
district, said Mr. Fabregas might have been allowed to re-enter the United
States because his trip could have been classified a "casual departure." Barring
re-entry on that type of trip is not allowed.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 5, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Israel Threads the Maze Toward U.S. Loan Pact

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 971 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Aug. 4


Here is Israel's economic Catch-22 as its pursuit of billions of dollars in
United States loan guarantees moves into high gear this week:

To get the aid, as well as to assert its spending priorities, the new Government
has canceled plans for 12,000 publicly financed apartments, nearly half of them
for Jewish settlers in the occupied territories.

But by putting the brakes on future construction, the Israelis have undercut a
booming sector of their economy, one that accounts for more than half of the 6
percent growth projected for the gross national product this year.

In other words, in part to obtain American help intended ultimately to make the
economy run faster, Israel has taken measures that will probably cause it to
limp a bit for a while.

"The next two years will be difficult," Finance Minister Avraham Shohat
acknowledged, telling a parliamentary committee a few days ago that deep slices
in the country's 11.6 percent unemployment rate are not likely until 1994. But
the situation will then improve considerably, he promised.

A Political Conundrum

For Americans and other interested foreigners, the loan guarantees tend to be
seen as a political question: How badly do the Israelis want this help in
absorbing some 400,000 immigrants who have arrived over the last three years,
most of them from the former Soviet Union? Do they want it badly enough to stop
building settlements in the occupied territories, as the Bush Administration
would like?

The answer from the previous Likud-led Government was no. In turn, the
Administration told the Israelis to forget about the guarantees, which do not
involve actual loans but rather a United States pledge to back up Israel when it
enters international markets to borrow $10 billion over the next five years.

Now the new Labor-led Government of Prime Minister of Yitzhak Rabin says it will
greatly scale back future settlement-building. The Americans smile at this and
suggest that some form of loan guarantees will be approved, although important
details are still unsettled and may not be resolved before Mr. Rabin journeys to
Kennebunkport, Me., next week for two days of meetings and appreciative pats on
the back from President Bush.

These political considerations aside, the loan guarantees have become something
of a grail for Israeli economic planners. For starters, $2 billion in loans were
included in the 1992 budget that has been huffing along without them since last
January. Looking ahead, Israel's economic establishment views the guarantees as
the seal of approval it needs for favorable terms on the loans.

"The guarantees have become a symbol of the prospects for the Israeli economy,"
said Jacob Frenkel, governor of the Bank of Israel. "Whether legitimately or
not, they have become part of the economic reality. They are the key to creating
the environment for turning around the recent slowdown in immigration and the
entire mood of investment."

Mr. Frenkel left for Washington today with a new plan for economic change that
the Israelis hope will satisfy Washington's concern about the Israeli budget,
which is almost as important as its interest in curtailing settlement. While
Israeli officials insist that they are not about to accept economic dictates
from the United States, they acknowledge that they can hardly ignore American
wishes.

Last week Mr. Frenkel warned the Rabin Cabinet that "a disaster" lay ahead if it
used the borrowed money to cover budget deficits, instead of financing
investments to create jobs for Russian Jews and thus make it easier to repay the
loans.

On this score, leaders of the new Government insist there is no need to worry.
Their goal, Mr. Shohat, the Finance Minister, said in an interview, is to reduce
the inefficient, centralized economic planning that runs deep here, to sell off
state-owned companies, to encourage exports and to liberalize financial markets.

Moreover, the minister said, anyone who worries that Labor will inevitably fall
back on its familiar ways, born of an Eastern European socialism that even
Eastern Europe has abandoned, has it "totally upside down."

"We want to attract investors and create jobs," he said. "We are going to put a
lot of money in infrastructure, in communications, in research and development.
The 1993 budget will reflect this shift in priorities."

Nonetheless, there are those who worry, especially free-trade advocates like
Alvin Rabushka, an American economist who has closely studied (and criticized)
Israeli economic ways. Mr. Rabushka is not convinced that this Government, any
more than its predecessor, will use the money it hopes to borrow to strengthen
the economy. This is a country hooked on subsidies, he asserts, including the $3
billion in economic and military aid it receives from the United States each
year.

"It's the only country left in the world that's saying that if we increase the
debt of every citizen, we will somehow revitalize the economy," he said.

Other critics question whether Israel now really needs to borrow $10 billion,
for that figure was premised on having a million immigrants arrive from former
Soviet territory over five years.

With unemployment among these newcomers running to nearly 40 percent and the
sense of danger they felt in the old Soviet Union now abated, Russians more and
more are choosing to stay in Russia. Immigration has been greatly reduced, to
about 32,000 people in the first half of the year -- a high figure by historical
standards but one-third of the number forecast.

Despite this reduction, Mr. Frenkel, the bank governor, argues that $10 billion
is still needed. As for skeptics, he says the question is whether one can have
faith that the Government will "use the money correctly."

"My judgment is that conditions exist for that," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 8, 1992, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Still Makes America What It Is

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 402 words


To the Editor:

In "Bar the Door" (Op-Ed, July 25) Daniel James tries to make a case for the
closing of our borders to legal as well as undocumented immigration. The article
represents a naive and uninformed approach to this complex situation. I am an
immigration lawyer, and my insights and experience contradict Mr. James's
conclusions.

Legal immigration is not the problem he suggests. In every generation there was
a minority who felt the current wave of immigration would somehow ruin our
country. In post-revolutionary America there was a wave of German immigration.
The ethnic English Americans thought the Germans would destroy their society.
Later the ethnic English and Germans thought the Irish immigrants would ruin the
country. The nativists have always been wrong.

Between the Revolutionary War and the Civil War the population of the United
States grew 10 times, primarily through immigration, and still we maintained our
national character while growing economically, geographically and culturally.

Subsequent generations had their own minority opinion that the immigration of
Italians, Jews, Chinese and many others would somehow hurt the United States. We
took in these immigrants, and America prospered and grew in ways unimagined at
the time. The grandchildren of these immigrants continue to make the United
States the most vital society the world has known. These same people are
bringing ideas of democracy, freedom, individual equality and fair play to their
ethnic cousins all over the world, further increasing our country's security.

Mr. James's call to prevent legal immigration is ill advised and unworkable.
Restrictions on legal immigration would only bar those most likely to comply
with our laws. Now we are burdened with a complex body of immigration laws and
regulations that accomplish little and discourage compliance. Economic realities
create a magnet for poor undocumented workers. Mexicans and others who are lucky
to earn $5 a day at home will come to a country where they can earn more than
that per hour.

An enlightened United States Government policy would understand the realities of
the situation and work to harness, legalize and tax these workers. This requires
workable procedures. When it becomes more profitable to comply with the law than
to flout it, employers and alien workers will comply.

HARRY A. DE MELL
New York, July 27, 1992

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 23, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

AUGUST 16-22: A Haiti Connection;
Smuggling Chinese, Trawler Tries the East Coast

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 232 words


When 151 Chinese citizens were dropped in Jacmel on the southwest coast of Haiti
last week by a Taiwanese trawler, the residents may have been surprised, but the
United States Immigration and Naturalization Service was not. The worst fears of
officials who are trying to crack the smuggling rings slipping hundreds of
Chinese into the American West Coast were realized: The human trade now had a
new East Coast dimension.

Haiti, approached diplomatically by the United States to take a stand against
the smugglers, who may have been testing a new route to the American mainland,
acted swiftly to confine the Chinese to a schoolyard, arrest five members of the
trawler's crew and seize the vessel, the Chin Wing No. 18. The Haitian
authorities also took into custody two American citizens and two resident
foreigners from New York who officials of the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service believe are members of the gang that masterminded the
marathon voyage of the Chin Wing No. 18 and possibly countless other vessels.

Officials in Washington are convinced that as the trawler sailed from the coast
of China's Fujian Province, through the South China Sea, the Indian Ocean, the
Atlantic and finally the Caribbean, a gang leader was moving just ahead, from
port to port, arranging for the ship to be provisioned and fueled in Mauritius,
South Africa and Brazil.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 25, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Swindle Their Own, Preying on Trust;
Race, Religion and Ethnic Background Give Con Artists an Inside Track to Victims

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1827 words


When Satya Paul Gupta sold his share in a gas station in Mount Kisco, N.Y., he
knew exactly what to do with the $80,000 he netted. He turned every penny over
to Deepak Gulati, a compatriot featured as an expert on the "You and Your Money"
segment of a television program aimed at New York's Indian immigrants.

Mr. Gupta, who is 58 years old, said he had "greedy faith" that his life savings
would be safe with a fellow Indian, particularly the soft-spoken television
celebrity with an office on Madison Avenue and an offer of what amounted to 12
percent yearly interest on four-month promissory notes, or I.O.U.'s.

But he was mistaken. Unbeknownst to Mr. Gupta, he was buying into a modern
version of what Government investigators call an affinity scheme, where crooks
and victims are linked by religion, race or ethnicity. Swindling fellow
immigrants is an age-old American phenomenon, but recent fraud schemes have made
wide use of media geared toward immigrants. With new foreign-language cable TV
shows, newspapers and Yellow Pages, immigrant swindlers can reach a wider pool
of potential investors, thus rising to an ever grander level of financial
chicanery.

In the last five years, the Securities and Exchange Commission has investigated
seven fraud schemes involving immigrants lured by one of their own into a
fraudulent American dream. Swindlers have targeted Indians (twice), Poles
(twice), Salvadorans, Chinese and Vietnamese, and investor groups have lost from
$1 million to $34 million.

"The numbers are mind-boggling," said Jeffrey R. Zuckerman, an S.E.C. lawyer in
New York.

Mr. Gulati, a 43-year-old native of New Delhi, pleaded guilty last month to
defrauding fellow immigrants of at least $3.2 million. Federal prosecutors say
that about 100 Indian and Pakistani investors, including Mr. Gupta, had bought
his 12 percent promissory notes, which were not registered, insured or backed by
collateral. In a classic Ponzi, or pyramid, scheme, Mr. Gulati continually used
proceeds from new investors to pay interest to earlier investors. In such
schemes, the pyramid usually collapses when the pool of new investors dries up,
or when the swindler is caught.

'My Greedy Faith'

"He was of our kind, and he wouldn't cheat us, or so I thought," said Mr. Gupta,
who lives in Sunnyside, Queens. "But I was a damn fool, and now my wife is
cussing me. After 35 years of hard work in this country, we may have lost
everything because of my greedy faith in Deepak Gulati."

Mr. Gulati did not return telephone calls to his office and home.

The original Ponzi artist, Carlo Ponzi, engineered one of the first truly
ambitious affinity schemes of the 20th century. In the early 1920's in Boston,
Mr. Ponzi targeted his fellow Italian immigrants, including his own family
members, his parish priest and players at a local boccie court. Eventually
reaching beyond Italian immigrants, Mr. Ponzi persuaded some 20,000 investors to
give him about $10 million before his scheme collapsed and he was jailed. He
died a 66-year-old pauper in Rio de Janeiro in 1949.

Confidence Games And New Arrivals

Forty-three years after Mr. Ponzi's death, a diverse group of schemers is
following in his footsteps, preying on the trust of newcomers to the country.

Early last year, in the largest recent case, about 1,200 Eastern European
immigrants, most of them Polish, lost $34 million in a Ponzi scheme in New York
run by Eugene R. Karczewski, a prominent Polish businessman in Brooklyn, and his
son, Eugene Jr., Federal prosecutors said. Last month, the father was sentenced
to five years in prison and the son to three years. The Karczewskis, who claim
they are now virtually broke, were also fined $15 million and ordered to pay
back the immigrants they cheated. Many of them lost their life savings after
falling for advertisements on Polish television programs that promised 14
percent interest on investments supposedly secured by mortgages.

"As the economy gets tighter, those on the margin, like immigrants, tend to be
more susceptible to deals that are just too good to be true," said William R.
McLucas, director of the S.E.C.'s enforcement division in Washington. "My sense
is that there's been a definite increase in the volume of fraud based on
religious, racial and ethnic identification."

Immigrants are particularly vulnerable because they are often uncomfortable with
mainstream American banks and unaware of investment services, authorities said.
And illegal immigrants are the most easily conned -- and the most likely to lose
everything.

In Washington, D.C., Salvadoran immigrants, many of them illegal, lost more than
$7 million by handing over their savings to the Latin Investment Corporation.
Latin Investment promoted itself as a bank in the Spanish-language Yellow Pages,
S.E.C. officials said. Salvadoran immigrants appreciated the ease of doing their
banking in Spanish, without having to supply Social Security numbers.

$2 Million Is Misappropriated

What they did not know was that their bank was neither licensed nor insured.
They also did not know that the Salvadoran owner, Fernando Leonzo, and his
associates had misappropriated $2 million to buy themselves houses in the
suburbs and finance personal businesses, S.E.C. officials said.

Unlike the Salvadorans in Washington, the Indians who entrusted their money to
Mr. Gulati were legal immigrants and, for the most part, professionals. But that
did not make them more resistant to a con.

"We are a first-generation immigrant community, and people feel safer within the
confines of the community," said John Perry, editor of News India, a weekly
published in Manhattan. "Had a sales pitch similar to Gulati's come from an
American native, we would have been more naturally suspicious."

Mr. Gulati appeared every other weekend on "Vision of Asia," a variety program
on WNJU-TV, Channel 47, widely watched by Indian and Pakistani immigrants. With
a master's degree in business administration from the University of Chicago, Mr.
Gulati was the featured financial expert during a segment called "You and Your
Money." Although Mr. Gulati paid for his time on the air, the segment was never
identified as a commercial, investors said. Mr. Gulati did, however, ask viewers
to call (800) DGULATI to make reservations for the free seminars he was holding
at Indian restaurants in the metropolitan area.

"When it comes right into your living room, you tend to accept it as the truth,"
Mr. Gupta said. "I swear by God if I had not seen that guy every week on the TV
-- if I had just received a letter in the mail -- I never would have trusted
him."

Deepak Viswanath, the producer of "Vision of Asia" could not be reached for
comment.

Feeling the Sting Of a Swindle

Even a business school professor in Manhattan fell for Mr. Gulati's pitch,
investing $10,000 in the 12 percent notes.

"I usually approach things with a certain method," the professor said. "But
because he was Indian -- it influenced me. It made me not think about things I'd
usually think of, given my profession. Being swindled like this makes me feel
rather stupid."

Like most investors who were interviewed, he spoke on the condition of
anonymity.

In "Dear Client" letters, Mr. Gulati solicited investments, ranging from $5,000
to $100,000, in notes that were "fully secured, collateralized and guaranteed."
In meetings, he told clients that $150 in "liquid assets" backed every $100
invested in the notes, and that every account was insured to $500,000 by the
Securities Investor Protection Corporation, an insurance program run by the
securities industry. Those claims were false, S.E.C. officials said.

Mr. Gulati admitted to a former employee, Ravi Murarka, that there was no
collateral. "Gulati gave me a lecture on greed, fear and how Wall Street
'really' works, and explained that 'everybody' on Wall Street steals," Mr.
Murarka told investigators.

Using the Proceeds To Cover Mistakes

Mr. Gulati also told Mr. Murarka that he used proceeds from the notes to
"finance his mistakes" in other business ventures. S.E.C. officials said that
Mr. Gulati poured profits from the notes into a business he owned, Digitech
International, which sells telephone voice scramblers, tie-clip microphones, and
other spy equipment.

Mr. Gulati, who falsely told investors he had worked for Merrill Lynch, promised
that investments would be returned after four months unless a rollover, or
reinvestment, was requested, former employees said. But investments were usually
automatically rolled over, the employees said. Few clients demanded their money
back because they were receiving their interest payments. When clients did try
to reclaim their principal investment, Mr. Gulati instructed his salesmen to
pressure them to remain. If that failed, he ordered the salesmen to redouble
their efforts to sell the 12 percent notes, the former employees said.

When the S.E.C. froze Gulati & Associates' assets in February, the company owed
investors $1.9 million. It had $17,000 on deposit at Citibank.

Mr. Gulati's scheme also involved the fraudulent sale of $1.3 million in shares
in a limited partnership called Telecommunications Security Associates, the
S.E.C. said.

"I believe he was a very good con man, never really overdoing it, always very
reassuring" said a pediatrician who lost $50,000. "Myself, I'm very badly
burned. But I almost forgot my own troubles when I spoke to an elderly woman who
lost her whole life savings and is very, very depressed."

Defrauded Investors Make Their Claims

Mr. Gulati, who lives on the Upper East Side, faces up to 5 years in prison when
he is sentenced Oct. 14 in Federal District Court in Manhattan. He has already
been ordered to repay $3.2 million and pay penalties of $5.7 million in a
judgment won by the S.E.C.

The S.E.C. is trying to seize Digitech's inventory, estimated at about $800,000,
to pay back defrauded investors. But the State Bank of India, which gave Mr.
Gulati a $1 million line of credit starting in 1987, also claims the inventory
as collateral. Mr. Gulati still owes the bank about $700,000, Federal
prosecutors said. Prosecutors charged him with obtaining the credit by filing
false documents, including lies about his net worth.

"He has definitely taken down some families," said Mr. Perry, the New India
editor. "Others have lost the money for the college tuition of their children
and the forthcoming marriages of their daughters."

Many investors believed that American regulatory agencies would be too vigilant
to let something like this happen.

"In India, you certainly cannot do all these crook things, and still drive a
Cadillac," Mr. Gupta said.

Mr. Gupta had intended to retire in India, where his $80,000, plus interest,
would allow him to "live like a king."

Now he does not know what he will do. "I'm just out of luck," he said. "I don't
have a pension. I don't even have life insurance."

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: "He was of our kind, and he wouldn't cheat us, or so I thought,"
said Satya Paul Gupta, of Sunnyside, Queens. He lost $80,000 when he turned it
over to Deepak Gulati, a compatriot featured as a financial expert on a
television show. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 5, 1992, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 83 words


An article on Thursday about an Immigration and Naturalization Service decision
to grant visas to three Haitian refugees with the virus that causes AIDS
misstated the reason why a recent international conference on the disease was
moved from Boston to Amsterdam. It was because the United States had rejected a
blanket request from conference organizers to change its policy barring
H.I.V.-positive people from entering the country, not because some conference
participants were denied visas.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 13, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE NATION;
Calls to Restrict Immigration Come From Many Quarters

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1205 words


IN the last year, many politicians have sensed that the national mood --
frustration -- permitted the kind of complaints about immigrants that are
traditionally considered un-American. Senator Robert C. Byrd, for example, took
to the Senate floor last June to offer some highly public trepidations about the
changing face of America.

"I pick up the telephone and call the local garage," said Mr. Byrd, a Democrat
from West Virginia. "I can't understand the person on the other side of the
line. I'm not sure he can understand me. They're all over the place, and they
don't speak English. Do we want more of this?"

With the economy on the decline and the number of new immigrants on the rise,
the U.S. welcome mat has become somewhat worse for wear. Across the country, and
particularly in California, Americans have felt freer to voice a rude
inhospitality that at other times they might have considered racist or at least
xenophobic. Advocates for immigrants cringe and call it scapegoating but expect
a mellower tone in the coming year. Those who call for a freeze on immigration,
however, saw the sour mood of the past year as a harbinger of a new conservatism
ahead.

The question is where such talk can lead. In recent history, political
conservatives have been repeatedly unsuccessful in pushing through any measures
restricting the legal flow of immigrants. Indeed, Congress's most recent move
increased immigrant quotas by 40 percent. And advocates are skilled at playing
to the nation's sense of itself as a land of immigrants, at promoting the
benefits of diversity and discounting what they say are unproven theories that
immigrants take more than they give.

Nonetheless, in the last year and a half, in political campaign rhetoric,
magazine articles and legislative proposals, the tenor of public conversation
about immigration has changed, with emphasis shifting from romantic rhapsodies
about the melting pot to anxiety attacks about the dwindling resources of an
economically strapped nation. In such, some Americans have found a way not only
to vent their frustration but to express racist discomfort with the nation's
darkening complexion, as most immigrants are Latino and Asian.

Tenuous alliances, too, have been forged between anti-immigration groups, some
environmentalists and some civil rights advocates. In California, the Sierra
Club, concerned that immigrants are causing a population explosion harmful to
the environment, joined forces with three groups that favor immigration
restrictions to create the Coalition to Stabilize Population. And in Congress, a
proposed Constitutional amendment that would deny citizenship to the
American-born children of illegal immigrants was sponsored by 12 Republicans and
two Democrats who are civil rights advocates, Representatives Charles Rangel of
New York and Anthony C. Beilenson of Los Angeles. Many civil rights leaders are
torn between their conscience and their constituents, as American-born blacks
worry that immigrants are displacing them from jobs and political power.

It became particularly trendy in California for politicians to blame the state's
economic woes on immigrants, and especially on illegal ones. With Gov. Pete
Wilson, a Republican, claiming that immigrants were bankrupting the state by
using more in services than they pay in taxes, Los Angeles, San Diego and Orange
counties all commissioned studies to determine just how much new and illegal
immigrants cost taxpayers.

And during the campaigns there was much tough talk from Republicans and
Democrats alike about "defending the border" with Mexico. When Senator John
Seymour, a Republican, proposed hiring 1,500 additional border patrol officers,
Dianne Feinstein, the Democrat who defeated him, said she wanted to see the Army
help reinforce the border.

The New Jersey Legislature eliminated public assistance benefits to illegal
immigrants and appears to be moving swiftly to deny them the right to a driver's
license. In New York's suburban Suffolk County, the welcome of more generous
times has given way to such negativity that when a principal in Elmont, N.Y.,
reported two of his students, the children of illegal immigrants, to immigration
authorities, he was applauded by his local school board.

Advocates have been alarmed by the ugly repercussions of this attitude change,
which was exacerbated by the participation of Hispanic immigrants in the riots
in Los Angeles and Washington Heights. Bias incidents and biased comments
against immigrants multiplied, they said. And few Americans came forward to
protest President Bush's May executive order that forced the repatriation of
Haitians fleeing their country by boat.

But for Patrick Buchanan and a contingent of conservative academics and writers,
the mood was ripe for exploitation. "Look, we have to speak up when we can, when
we're least likely to face the charges of racism that are our occupational
hazard," says Dan Stein of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which
lobbies for a freeze on immigration.

Mr. Stein is usually careful to base his fear about increasing immigration on
arguments about scarce resources. He often voices concern about immigrants
displacing black and Hispanic Americans from jobs. But others, Mr. Buchanan, for
example, also resent the "dilution" of their European heritage. "If present
trends hold," Mr. Buchanan noted during the campaign, "white Americans will be a
minority by 2050."

And in "Time to Rethink Immigration?" a cover story in a June issue of The
National Review, Peter Brimelow, a senior editor at Forbes magazine, compares
the immigration service waiting room to the subway, "an underworld that is
almost entirely colored." In articles in conservative policy journals,
immigrants were portrayed, variously, as displacing Americans from jobs,
draining government resources, crowding cities with their large families,
importing drugs and disease and threatening the dominance of English.

Even Eugene McCarthy, the former Presidential candidate and Senator from
Minnesota, criticized U.S. immigration policy as a "virtual entitlement" of
"ethnic interest groups" to be "defended at all costs" in his new book, "A
Colony of the World: The United States Today," (Hippocrene Books). Mr. Stein's
group has offered to finance the book's advertising campaign.

After George Bush and Bill Clinton scarcely mentioned immigration during the
campaign, advocates hoped the national bad mood would blow over with an economic
improvement and a new President. But anti-immigrant groups foresee two
opportunities to capitalize on Americans' souring toward foreigners and
refugees: debate on the North American Free Trade Agreement and a potential
exodus from Haiti.

Still, now more than ever the United States is a multicultural society, and the
inter-ethnic clashes of the last year could be seen as growing pains. Certainly
the antagonism of the moment pales in comparison to the vehement nativism that
followed World War I, or the overt hatred of the 1850's and 1890's. And few
expect the situation to boil over into the bloody tensions and closing borders
of some European countries. Ill will is ill will, observers say, but it is not a
shut door.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 14, 1992, Monday, Late Edition - Final

System for Political Asylum Is Improving, Report Finds

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1242 words


Refugees fleeing persecution now have a better and better chance of getting a
fair hearing and winning political asylum from a system long assailed as hostile
and biased, says a Harvard Law School report being made public today.

Nonetheless, the Immigration and Naturalization Service's asylum system remains
seriously backlogged and overly influenced by foreign policy considerations,
says the report by the Harvard Law School's National Asylum Study Project. And
even in the two years since the immigration agency created a national cadre of
asylum officers, many political refugees are still throwing their fate to chance
because the quality of the officers varies drastically.

While some of the new officers, whose job is to determine whether applicants
have a "well founded fear of persecution" in their country, are sensitive and
well versed, others are hostile and poorly prepared, the report says. Some
officers lack a basic knowledge of geography, often do not understand the basic
tenets of asylum law and sometimes make careless errors like misidentifying the
applicant's nationality, according to the report.

"There has been a very significant improvement in some areas, but the whole
system still has a long way to go," said Deborah Anker, a Harvard lecturer and
research director of the project, which began a year ago.

Many Lives in Limbo

Sarah Ignatius, coordinator of the project, said the backlog of cases was
particularly striking. Only about 11,000 asylum cases were decided in the last
year. About 216,000 remain, leaving the applicants' lives in limbo. For
instance, in the four years that one 18-year-old Nicaraguan has waited for a
decision, she has graduated from high school and has seen the Sandinistas, her
father's enemies, fall from power.

The Harvard project, financed by the Ford Foundation, found the asylum system to
be markedly inefficient, with most regional offices understaffed and at least
one, the Los Angeles office, so disorganized that it routinely loses applicants'
files.

Sometimes, said Nancy Kelly, an immigration lawyer in Massachusetts, "I feel as
if I'm sending asylum files off into space."

Of the small number of asylum cases decided, the approval rate increased to
about 37 percent in the last year from about 24 percent under the old system,
according to the immigration agency.

But Gregg Beyer, the agency's director of asylum, said those statistics were not
final. The actual approval rate will end up several percentage points lower, he
said.

In contrast, Canada grants asylum to about 70 percent of all applicants.

Enforcement Mentality Seen



Throughout the 1980's the political- asylum system, which is required by law to
be neutral and nonpolitical, was under attack from advocates for refugees for
its near total compliance with State Department policy. Applicants from
countries considered enemies of the United States, including China, the former
Soviet Union and Nicaragua when it was controlled by the Sandinistas, usually
won asylum; those from countries considered friendly, like Haiti, El Salvador or
Guatemala, rarely did, even if they had been tortured or threatened with death.

"Before, the mentality was enforcement, like, 'We need to keep these people
out,' " Jonathan D. Melrod, an immigration lawyer in San Francisco, said in an
interview. "You did not have a crack at a fair hearing."

The Harvard report says that Haitians, Salvadorans and Guatemalans, in
particular, who had virtually no hope of receiving asylum before 1990, appear to
be faring markedly better. Less than 3 percent won asylum under the old system,
but 31 percent of the Haitians, 28 percent of the Salvadorans and 21 percent of
the Guatemalans won those cases decided in the last year.

Lawyers who have been representing Haitians for years, like Esther Olavarria
Cruz of Miami, say they are astounded by the new officers' improved knowledge of
Haiti and greater receptivity toward their clients.

'Basic Geography and History'

"In the old days we had to give them basic geography and history lessons,
including who was Duvalier and who were the Ton Ton Macoutes," Ms. Cruz said,
referring to the former Haitian dictator and his secret-police force. "Now I'm
seeing some officers who actually know a great deal. One guy knew all the
different Haitian radio stations and their directors."

As a result, some Haitians are winning asylum for stories that would have been
dismissed a few years ago. One Haitian man -- a follower of the Rev.
Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the deposed President -- left Haiti last year after
soldiers pursuing Aristide supporters killed his daughter. In the past asylum
officers would have attributed the killing of his daughter to the general chaos
in Haiti, lawyers said. But this year he was given asylum even though he was not
a political leader.

Still, the Harvard report expresses concern that "special foreign policy
pressures" have been influencing the cases of the approximately 10,000 Haitians
allowed to enter the United States last year from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to apply
for political asylum here.

Although very few cases have been decided, they are being expedited, scheduled
for hearing before the backlogged ones, the report said. In addition, they have
been given special scrutiny by the asylum officers' superiors at the Department
of Justice, with more than half of the officers' 33 grants of asylum reversed.

'We'll Finish in 87 1/2 Years'

Mr. Beyer of the immigration agency said the Haitian cases were no longer being
expedited. "We hear one case a day in Miami and one case a day in Newark, which
by my calculations means we'll finish in 87 1/2 years."

Mr. Beyer praised the Harvard report as comprehensive and professional, and said
the agency would use it as a guide to help the system.

In 1990, after refugees won two class-action lawsuits charging bias and
incompetence in the asylum process, the Government created an asylum branch
separate from the immigration agency's enforcement division. Last year seven new
asylum offices opened around the country -- in Los Angeles, Miami, Newark, San
Francisco, Arlington, Va., Chicago and Houston. The new branch now has about 150
officers, who receive four weeks of training.

Aliens imprisoned in detention centers who apply for political asylum as a legal
defense against deportation or exclusion go before immigration judges in a
separate system not covered by the Harvard report.

Broad Extent of Interviews

The Harvard Law School students who worked on the project helped interview 290
lawyers and legal workers across the country, asylum officers in seven regional
centers, asylum applicants from 56 countries, 13 interpreters from the Haitian
camps at Guantanamo Bay, and key officials of the immigration service. The
agency did not permit observation of the asylum interviews and did not provide
copies of any asylum decisions to the Harvard project.

Some immigration law experts believe that whatever progress can be made in the
asylum system will never be enough. The immigration agency will never resolve
its dual identity as a law-enforcement agency and a service organization, they
say.

Joan Friedland, an immigration lawyer in Miami, said, "There's a fundamental
problem with giving an enforcement agency the power to decide whether the people
it usually wants to deport should get a chance to stay, on humanitarian
grounds."


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Shifting Focus On Refugees" shows the following percentages
of those granted asylum by the U.S. from the countries with the most applicants
in fiscal year 1992.

                         1992       June '83
                                  -March '91

China                   84.8%          69.0%
Pakistan                51.9           16.4
Former U.S.S.R.         49.8           74.5
India                   41.7         Figures
                                 unavailable
Haiti                   30.6            1.8
El Salvador             28.0            2.8
Guatemala               21.0            2.0
Philipines               7.4           14.9
All applicants          36.8           23.6


(Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service 1992 statistical Yearbook)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 20, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Percentage of Foreigners in U.S. Rises Sharply

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 557 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 19


The percentage of foreign-born residents of the United States rose to 7.9
percent in 1990, up from 6.2 percent in 1980, a new Census Bureau report says.
Most of the increase came in 1985-90, when nearly five million people immigrated
to the United States.

The foreign-born population reached 19.8 million in 1990, the bureau said, a
sharp rise from 14 million in 1980 and 9.6 million in 1970, when immigrants were
only 4.7 percent of the population.

Susan J. Lapham, who prepared the report, which was released Friday, said the
percentage of foreign-born residents was well below the 13.5 percent of 1910,
when the population was much smaller.

The states with the largest numbers of immigrants are California, home to almost
one-third of all those born outside the country, New York, Florida and Texas.
Ms. Lapham said that "from every indication" the number of immigrants would
continue to grow.

Legal Status for Some

She said the data did not reveal how many of the new immigrants were in the
country illegally.

An immigration law enacted in 1986 has allowed three million aliens who were
illegally in this country at that time to acquire legal status here, mostly as a
first step toward citizenship.

Ms. Lapham said there had been no studies yet to determine whether the 1986 law
had affected Census Bureau tabulations of aliens in the country. "But
intuitively," she said, "if more people are legal it makes sense there would be
more people who would be apt to respond" to bureau surveys.

Mexico remained well ahead as the most common country of origin for foreign-born
residents, representing 21.7 percent of the total and almost doubling in numbers
to 4.3 million in 1990 from 2.2 million in 1980.

Following Mexico in the top 10 countries of origin were the Philippines at 4.6
percent; Canada, 3.8 percent; Cuba, 3.7 percent; Germany, 3.6 percent; Britain,
3.2 percent; Italy, 2.9 percent; South Korea, 2.9 percent; Vietnam, 2.7 percent
and China, 2.7 percent.

Big Jump in California

The bureau said nearly 60 percent of foreign-born residents were not United
States citizens. The percentages of non-citizens were generally low for people
from countries in Europe -- 28.1 percent for Germany and 24.2 percent for Italy
-- and high for those from Latin American countries -- 84.6 percent for El
Salvador, 84.9 percent for Nicaragua and 83.1 percent for Guatemala.

The number of foreign-born residents nearly doubled in California in the past
decade, to 6.5 million, or 21.7 percent of the state's population. Other states
with large foreign-born populations were New York with 2.8 million, or 15.9
percent, Florida with 1.7 million, or 12.9 percent, and Texas with 1.5 million,
or 9 percent.

New York City had the biggest foreign-born population, at 2 million, although
Los Angeles had a larger percentage, with 1.3 million, or 38.4 percent of its
population.

But Los Angeles ranked only 17th among cities in percent of foreign-born
residents. The highest was Hialeah City, Fla., with 70.4 percent of its 188,000
people immigrants, followed by Miami at 59.7 percent; Huntington Park, Calif.,
at 59.7 percent; Union City, N. J., at 55.1 percent, and Monterey Park, Calif.,
at 51.8 percent.

Wyoming had the smallest number of foreign-born residents, at 7,647. Mississippi
had the lowest percentage, 0.8.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 27, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration's an Effect Of Population Growth

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 132 words


To the Editor:

"Calls to Restrict Immigration Come From Many Quarters" (The Week in Review,
Dec. 13) shows immigration as the thorny issue it is, though you barely explore
the complexities of immigration and its chief cause -- global overpopulation.
Also, you incorrecly state that the Sierra Club is a member of the Coalition to
Stabilize Population. We are not.

We believe all nations, developed and developing, should act to curb their own
population growth. The United States and other developed nations have a special
responsibility because of our disproportionate per capita consumption of world
resources. Our goal in the United States should be achieving domestic population
stabilization.

CARL POPE
Executive Director, Sierra Club
San Francisco, Dec. 16, 1992

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 3, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Come Join the Fight

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 181 words


To the Editor:

I was distressed to see myself listed in "Calls to Restrict Immigration Come
From Many Quarters" (The Week in Review, Dec. 13) as a sponsor of a
constitutional amendment that would deny United States citizenship to
American-born children of undocumented parents.

I do not support any proposal of this sort. Last spring my name was added in
error as a co-sponsor of the amendment. On learning this, I immediately
requested that my name be removed.

Such an amendment would create a permanent underclass, born in this country but
not entitled to the same rights as citizens.

Many civil rights leaders, you maintain, are torn between their conscience and
their constituents, as African-Americans worry that immigrants are displacing
them from jobs and political power. Our job as leaders is to bring attention to
the real causes of unemployment and disenfranchisement among both groups and to
insure that they are allies in the movement for economic and social justice.

CHARLES B. RANGEL
Member of Congress, 15th Dist., N.Y.
Washington, Dec. 23, 1992

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 4, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Bazaar With the Feel of Bombay, Right in Queens

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1435 words


A decade ago, when V. N. Prakash began selling jewelry there, 74th Street in
Queens was a modest, unhurried shopping district -- a neighborly cluster of
delis and groceries, a tailor, a shoemaker and a stationer, and a bakery that
was, to the locals anyway, a landmark.

These days, though, this two-block street in Jackson Heights has become the
nation's largest shopping center for immigrants from India -- a bazaar that
could be in Bombay, where the smell of masalas wafts from restaurants and
groceries, and thousands of people course through store after store buying
saris, spices and jewelry and appliances to send to India.

"When I first started, everyone was laughing at me," said Mr. Prakash, a native
of Bangalore, whose store, Jewels India Jewels, was the first on the block to
sell intricate gold necklaces and rings that are fashionable in India. " 'Who
would buy this?' they said. Now, look! There are 17 jewelry stores alone. This
is like a mecca for Indian people."

Mixing Vitality and Tension

The evolution of 74th Street, which has brought new vitality and new tensions to
Jackson Heights, illustrates one way the influx of more than one million
immigrants since 1980 has changed a city that is forever shaped and reshaped by
immigration.

From the Russians in Brighton Beach to the Dominicans in Washington Heights, the
newest newcomers are transforming many of the city's shopping districts. As the
immigrants before them did, they are carving out enclaves to cater to their own
tastes, creating new versions of Main Street, U.S.A., modeled on the shopping
centers they left behind.

This time, however, these enclaves represent a breadth of diversity unparalleled
in the city's history. In Queens, a borough once exemplified by Archie Bunker
but in fact the city's most ethnically diverse, dozens of these enclaves have
appeared in the last two decades.

Some are merely clusters of stores, like the Argentine markets along Junction
Boulevard and the West Indian retailers in Jamaica. Others, though, have become
fully evolved centers of commerce. There is Little Colombia on the border of
Jackson Heights and Elmhurst; the city's second Chinatown on Main Street in
Flushing, and the concentration of dozens of Korean shops on Union Street in
Flushing.

'The Marvel of New York'

"This is the marvel of New York," said Eric A. Kober, the director of housing,
economics and infrastructure for the city's Planning Department. "The vitality
that allows these neighborhoods to grow -- it is one of the reasons one can be
optimistic about the future of the city."

Not everyone, however, agrees. For some longtime residents in Jackson Heights,
the flourishing of the Indian stores on 74th Street -- whatever its economic
benefits -- has meant the demise of the mom-and-pop shops they considered their
own.

As the new stores, and the crowds they draw, have grown, these residents have
also complained of congestion, noise and litter. Once, three years ago, they
even held a protest march down the street. And this fall, when Indian merchants
asked the city to recognize the district formally by the name many now call it
-- Little India -- their anger surfaced once again.

"This used to be an American marketplace," said Joseph Gallo, a resident near
the strip and one of 700 people who signed a petition opposing the recognition,
which the local community board is still considering. "These merchants have
taken over our neighborhood. They have invaded us. And they are just standing
there not understanding why we're complaining."

Accidental Transformation

The transformation of 74th Street, which extends from the elevated subway
station at Roosevelt Avenue north to 37th Avenue, began almost by accident
nearly 20 years ago.

In 1973, two merchants, Subhash Kapadia and Nitin Vora, opened an electronics
and appliance store, called Sam and Raj, to cater to the demand for appliances
that operate on 220 volts (not the United States standard of 110 volts) to take
or send back to India.

Mr. Vora said they chose 74th Street because it offered good space and low rent,
not to mention the advantage of being at the confluence of subway and bus lines
at Roosevelt Avenue and Broadway. Their success soon attracted other Indian
merchants, and by the mid-1980's they replaced the older merchants that closed
when their leases expired and rents increased.

There are now 82 Indian establishments on 74th Street and spilling onto 37th
Avenue and 73d Street -- including 12 restaurants, 12 groceries, 17 jewelry
stores and at least 20 clothes stores with a dizzying array of names like Sari
Palace, India Sari Palace, Taj Sari Palace, Popular Sari Palace and Prince Sari
Palace. Even the Key Food supermarket, one of the few more traditional stores on
the strip, now sells Indian beer.

The transformation has followed a pattern that has occurred around the city for
a century, revitalizing shopping strips as older immigrant groups move on, said
Frank Vardy, a demographer with the city's Planning Department. "A couple of
successful stores, a couple of theaters or restaurants," Mr. Vardy said. "That's
all it takes."

95,000 Indians in New York

More than 95,000 Indians live in the city -- 56,000 of them in Queens -- but
what distinguishes 74th Street from other shopping enclaves, Mr. Vardy said, is
that few actually live in the immediate area.

M. K. Srinivasan, the New York bureau chief of Indian American magazine, said
74th Street attracted the Indian diaspora from the suburbs and even as far away
as Massachusetts and Maryland. As an Indian shopping center, he said, it far
surpasses smaller enclaves in Chicago and Austin, Tex. "It's very important to
Indians," he said. "It gives us a flavor of home."

The other day thousands of people -- from India, Pakistan and Bangladesh --
surged over the narrow street lined by squat brick storefronts with a melange of
signs. Giri Heda, an engineer who immigrated 22 years ago, had driven to the
strip from his home in Windsor, Conn., with a friend visiting from India, Vijay
Pareek, who marveled that a part of New York City could be almost
indistinguishable from Bombay.

As he browsed in Shreeji Groceries, an airy basement store on 74th Street, Mr.
Heda explained that at least once a month he stocked up on groceries difficult
to find elsewhere: masalas, which are mixtures of spices, desserts like revdis
and rossogollas and unusual varieties of lentils and rice.

Shopping for Friends

And when he comes, his friends often ask him to pick up things for them. This
time, he shopped for five of them. "We can't get this anywhere else," he said,
holding several shopping bags. "When we come, it's one stop."

At the Menka Beauty Salon, at the corner of 37th Avenue, hairdressers colored
hair and shaped eyebrows with string using a deft technique called threading.

Suseeka Chandrasekar, who works for the Department of Defense, drove two hours
from Montville, N.J., to have her hair packed with henna mud, as a love story
called "Apradhi" ("Criminal" in Hindi) played on a television. "You can't get
this everywhere, you know," she said.

For the most part, 74th Street remains a shopping area only -- the city's
largest Hindu temple, for example, is in Flushing -- but the Jackson Heights
Merchant Association hopes to expand cultural activities. On Oct. 25, more than
1,500 people, including several members of India's Parliament and Mayor David N.
Dinkins, jammed the streets for the neighborhood's first festival celebrating
Diwali, the Indian New Year.

"My kids, they won't know Diwali," said Mr. Vora of Sam and Raj, who now serves
as the president of the merchants' association. "It's still more a commercial
place, but we want to start a tradition."

Alienation and Congestion

That effort -- including the request to designate the strip as Little India --
has once again provoked anger among some longtime residents in Jackson Heights.
The designation, they say, would increase their sense of alienation, compound
the congestion and attract more businesses to a shopping district already
saturated.

Thomas Lowenhaupt, a computer publisher who lives on 75th Street at 37th Avenue,
has watched the growth of stores with ambivalence. Unlike some residents, he
does not speak harshly of the newcomers -- he frequently eats at the restaurants
-- but he does worry about the impact, the congestion and litter, the demise of
the older mom-and-pop shops.

"I don't know where it stops," he said. "I guess there's not much I can do, but
just sit back and watch. It's evolution."

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: "This is like a mecca for Indian people," V. N. Prakash, owner
of Jewels India Jewels, said about 74th Street in Queens. (Nancy Siesel/The New
York Times) (pg. B1)

Map of Queens indicating Indian, Chinese, Korean and Colombian communities. (pg.
B10)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 6, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

352 Haitians Reach Miami, Where U.S. Detains Them

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 609 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 5


A freighter carrying 352 Haitian refugees sailed into Miami harbor early today,
and the authorities quickly took its passengers into custody. But they were not
so quick to say where the refugees would be held.

Coast Guard officials said the ship's passengers would be turned over to the
United States Immigration and Naturalization Service. But spokesmen for that
agency said today that there was no room for the latest group at the Krome
detention center, where refugees are housed.

Wayne L. Joy, the agency's acting deputy district director here, said today that
he was conferring with officials at headquarters, but he ruled out a mass
release to relatives or relief agencies.

The center still bears the scars of damage by Hurricane Andrew and by a fire set
at the start of a protest by detainees last year. And today it was the focus of
a protest begun New Year's Eve by Haitians, some of whom have been held a year
or more.

On Hunger Strike

More than 150 Haitians being held at the center have gone on a hunger strike to
protest Washington's policy of releasing Cubans who request political asylum
while seeking to deport Haitians as economic refugees, who are not entitled to
asylum. The Haitians and their supporters also say the detainees are subjected
to mistreatment.

The fast began late last week after a Cuban pilot commandeered an airliner on a
domestic flight and flew it to Miami, where he and 47 passengers asked for
political asylum on Dec. 29. The Cuban defectors were released after one night
in the detention center, and are now with relatives and friends here.

Some of the Haitians, in contrast, have spent a year or more in the Krome
detention center, waiting for claims for political asylum to be resolved. In a
letter made public through a lawyer who represents several detained Haitians,
the hunger strikers said they were protesting what they called a policy of
discrimination.

"We will continue to strike until the immigration of Miami give us our freedom,"
said the letter, written in halting English and issued in the name of the 119
men and 40 women who have been fasting. "We want our freedom like the Cubans.
Our family are waiting."

Immigration Policy

A supporter, Rolande Dorancy, director of the Haitian Refugee Center here, said
the entire group was rejecting solid foods and drinking only water. "They have
decided to die together or be freed together," she said.

Immigration officials, however, said they would not allow the hunger strike to
continue indefinitely. "Our policy is that we will not let anybody get in a
life-threatening situation," said Duke Austin, a spokesman for the agency.
"Force feeding is an option and will be used if required. We cannot be coerced
into changing our policy."

More than 31,000 Haitians fled their country in 1992. Most say they are trying
to escape the repressive military government that overthrew Haiti's elected
president 16 months ago, but the United States has continued to regard them as
economic refugees.

Parity With Cubans Sought

Supporters of the refugees and Haitian community groups here have been pressing
immigration officials to treat Haitian refugees more like Cubans, arguing that
both groups are fleeing dictatorships.

Under the Cuban Adjustment Act, passed in the mid 1960's, Cubans who arrive in
the United States are routinely released to relatives or relief agencies without
having to file asylum petitions, but that treatment is not offered to other
nationalities. In another special concession, Cubans are eligible to apply for
permanent residency after one year, whether or not they have been granted
asylum.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 6, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

CLINTON AIDES URGE FREER HAITI POLICY

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1219 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 5


President-elect Bill Clinton's top aides presented him today with a proposal for
a new policy on Haiti that would make it easier for Haitians to apply for
political asylum in the United States while at the same time discouraging a mass
exodus from the impoverished Caribbean nation, staff members said.

The proposed policy, which is to be announced before his inauguration and would
later be made formal in an executive order, would set up an enlarged system to
process asylum cases at a number of points inside Haiti, on the American
military base at Guantanamo Bay and in third countries in the region.

Over the long term, the Clinton Administration would support and bolster efforts
by the United Nations and the Organization of American States to resolve Haiti's
political crisis, which resulted from the ouster of Haiti's first freely elected
President, the Rev. Jean Bertrand Aristide, in a military coup in 1991.

Current Policy on Immigration

But Mr. Clinton, who met with his aides today to discuss the proposed policy,
would also emphasize that he will enforce current immigration policy, which
prevents Haitians escaping poverty from seeking asylum in the United States and
offers protection only to those fleeing political persecution, the aides said.

Mr. Clinton does not seem prepared to ease the standards currently applied by
the Bush Administration to decide whether an applicant has genuine fear of
persecution.

"The main goal," one transition official said, "is to keep Haitians in Haiti."

Meeting in Little Rock

The plan was discussed today in a meeting in Little Rock that included Mr.
Clinton; his Secretary of State-designate, Warren M. Christopher, the Defense
Secretary-designate, Les Aspin; the national security adviser-designate, Anthony
Lake; his deputy, Samuel Berger, and Brian Attwood, who handles liaison between
the Clinton team and the State Department.

Mr. Clinton plans to announce the new policy before he takes office -- perhaps
later this week -- in the hope of heading off a flood of Haitians seeking to
enter the United States.

Asked at a news briefing in Little Rock today whether Mr. Clinton was poised to
announce a plan on Haiti, George Stephanopoulos, his spokesman, said,
"Obviously, it's something we have to do relatively soon."

He declined to say whether the Clinton team was drawing up a plan. "The
Governor's been looking at the issue throughout the transition, as has the
entire foreign policy team, and he'll have some announcement to make soon," he
said.

Criticism of Bush

During the campaign, Mr. Clinton criticized the Bush Administration's policy of
turning back boat people without determining whether they are eligible for entry
into the United States as political refugees. Since Mr. Bush issued his
executive order last May, more than 5,000 Haitians have been returned home.

In Haiti, his words were widely interpreted as a signal that he would welcome
them to the United States and stirred many to begin preparations to leave as
soon as he takes office. The Immigration and Naturalization Service has received
reports that Haitians have already built 600 boats -- each capable of carrying
100 people -- and are building 100 more for use by would-be immigrants.

The prospect that more than 100,000 Haitians could set sail on the 600-mile trip
to southern Florida soon after Mr. Clinton takes office has prompted the
President-elect's foreign policy team to draft a policy aimed at persuading them
to stay where they are.

An Urgent Matter

The issue is of such concern that Mr. Clinton has decided to break his pledge
not to interfere in American foreign policy before he takes office.

As part of the new asylum process, the executive order will substantially
increase the number of consular and immigration officers to expedite processing
of the applications, Mr. Clinton's aides said. The order would encourage private
refugee organizations, as well as the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees, to actively participate.

In a confidential memorandum presented to the Clinton transition team and the
State Department, the High Commissioner, Sadako Ogata, and her staff announced
their intention to increase the commission's presence in Haiti, to monitor human
rights and to help find a political solution. But the memo asked that all
governments in the region, including the United States, be ready to admit asylum
seekers and establish procedures to evaluate their assertions of persecution.

Mr. Clinton's aides and representatives of private refugee organizations
acknowledge that there is no guarantee that the Clinton plan will work.

It will not relieve the country's economic desperation, a major reason for the
fears of a huge exodus, largely because it will not lift a 15-month trade
embargo that was imposed by the Organization of American States to force out
Haiti's military junta.

Lifting of Sanctions Opposed

Mr. Clinton's aides argue that lifting the sanctions would be seen as rewarding
the military-backed regime, and say they would consider moving to lift the
embargo after a process to restore the legitimate Government is under way. The
embargo has worsened the plight of Haiti's poor and in doing so, ultimately
encouraged more of the country's citizens to seek refuge in the United States.

As part of the policy, Mr. Clinton would try to boost a fledgling effort by the
United Nations to seek ways of restoring a legitimate government to Haiti. Last
month, the United Nations Secretary General, Boutros Boutros-Ghali appointed
Dante Caputo, a former foreign minister of Argentina, as his personal
representative in Haiti.

Mr. Caputo met in Haiti two weeks ago with top officials in the military-backed
government, including Prime Minister Marc Bazin and the army chief, Lieut. Gen.
Raoul Cedras, and with supporters of Father Aristide, the ousted President.

The Haitian military opposes the restoration of Father Aristide's Government,
and Mr. Caputo has no authority to negotiate a political settlement. Rather, his
mandate is simply to report back to the United Nations General Assembly. The
Assembly's recommendations, unlike those of the Security Council, are
nonbinding.

Mr. Clinton will also have to deal with the perception that the United States
has a double standard in granting political asylum and that many more Cubans who
apply as refugees are warmly welcomed, while fewer Haitians seem to qualify.

Mr. Clinton is also expected to endorse an increase in the number of human
rights monitors, particularly in the countryside, and to publicly detail and
denounce widespread human rights abuses.

These measures, and the notion of having consular officials spread through the
countryside to process asylum requests, are intended to reduce the need for
Haitians to go to a central area to seek asylum. Many Haitians fear that by
reporting to such an area, they will be identified by government officials and
punished afterward if their asylum request is rejected.

The Clinton plan was drafted by Mr. Attwood, the chief liaison between the
Clinton team and the State Department. Many of the ideas contained in today's
proposal were first presented in an options paper prepared last month by
Representative Stephen R. Solarz, Democrat of Brooklyn.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: While plans on dealing with fleeing Haitians were presented to
President-elect Bill Clinton, a freighter carrying 352 refugees sailed yesterday
into Miami. These four looked out after the ship docked. Page A2. (Associated
Press)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 9, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

German Law Won't End Immigration Problems

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 463 words


To the Editor:

In "Germany Closes the Gate" (editorial, Dec. 9) you criticize the accord
reached by Germany's major parties severely to limit entry of foreigners seeking
to escape persecution or economic hardships in their countries. Unfortunately,
this policy, once enacted into law in 1993, will not solve the problems of
illegal immigration, which will increase sharply, and of right-wing backlash.

True, Germany cannot absorb all who want to better their economic conditions,
but an immigration policy based on a quota system, as stipulated in bills
introduced in the Parliament this year by the Alternative '90 and Greens
deputies, would be a partial solution. Those bills would integrate foreigners
into German society, granting them more civil rights after five years of
residence and German citizenship for children of foreign parents born on German
soil.

Unfortunately, most Government deputies are opposed to a quota system based on
the concept that Germany should be a country of immigration; thus it is unlikely
this proposal will be implemented soon.

There is hope, however, that citizenship will be granted to foreigners more
easily. You are not correct in saying that German citizenship is denied to a
Turkish guest worker who has lived in Germany for 30 years. Any foreigner who
has resided in Germany for 15 years (and spouse and children for less time) can
apply for citizenship before January 1996, but may not have dual citizenship.
Any foreigner younger than 23 is entitled to apply for citizenship after eight
years' residence, including six years' attendance at a German school. The
procedure, however, is complex, time-consuming and costly.

Critics of limited immigration say convincingly that national solutions to
migration problems will not work without international efforts to remove the
causes of large-scale movement of poor people to wealthier countries. For the
German Government and other West European governments to try to buttress a
Fortress Europe policy will fail as long as the gap widens between the first
world (United States, Canada, Western Europe) on one side and the second world
(former Communist bloc states) and third world (most African, Asian and Latin
American states) on the other.

First world states must share more of their wealth with poorer states in order
to slow down the exodus of people. An international social charter is needed
that would provide minimum protection for workers and families in their home
countries on a global scale. Finally, wealthy states must adopt foreign policies
that would assist, rather than harm, third world states.

GERARD BRAUNTHAL
Amherst, Mass., Dec. 21, 1992

The writer retired as a professor of political science at the University of
Massachusetts.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 10, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

JAN. 3-9;
Haitians Take Clinton at His Word

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 269 words


The arrival of a record boatload of Haitian refugees and the launching of a
hunger strike by another large group of Haitians detained at an immigration
facility last week offered Miami a glimpse of what its immediate future may be
like. The consequences of Bill Clinton's campaign pledge of more lenience toward
those fleeing Haiti are already being felt.

Mr. Clinton's advisers have promised that the President-elect will make a
statement intended to preserve the principle of asylum while staving off a mass
exodus after he takes office later this month. But that was of little
consolation to officials in South Florida, who were unnerved by the sudden
appearance in Miami harbor of a rickety freighter crammed with 352 Haitians, who
claimed to have assembled for the four-day, 600-mile trip on the spur of the
moment after hearing that free passage aboard a stolen vessel was available.

Most of the arrivals were dispersed to jails around Florida, where they are
likely to remain while their petitions for political asylum are heard. But that
action, which contrasted sharply with the release on Dec. 30 of 48 Cubans who
arrived in Miami two days earlier aboard a commandeered plane, angered refugee
advocates.  American policy regards most Haitians as economic refugees but
automatically classifies those arriving from Cuba as political refugees,
eligible for asylum.

That preferential treatment led to the hunger strike on Dec. 31 by 158 Haitians
at Krone detention center. As of Saturday, some strikers were continuing their
fast, though immigration officials claimed it was essentially over.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Haitians apprehended in Miami last week. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 12, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Sailors Find End of Cold War Halts Their Flight From Russia

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1472 words

DATELINE: LEESBURG, Va.


Raised on tales of Soviet defectors embraced by the United States, Aleksei
Bazhenov and four other Russian seamen expected a warm welcome when they jumped
ship in Puerto Rico during the July Fourth tall-ships regatta. But not long
after they proudly requested political asylum at police stations in San Juan,
they began to realize that times have changed.

The five young sailors were sent to a maximum-security prison in Maryland, where
it gradually occurred to them that asylum seekers from the former Soviet
republics might be losing the special status they had during the cold war. And
indeed, on Dec. 16, immigration authorities tried to deport them.

But the men resisted boarding the plane at Dulles International Airport outside
Washington, shouting to a gathering crowd that America was shipping them to
their deaths. Federal agents and state police officers shackled and arrested the
struggling sailors, but they finally gave up trying to put them on the plane.

With the breakup of the Soviet Union, the reigning presumption about its asylum
seekers -- that anyone fleeing there is fleeing persecution -- has vanished. At
the same time, ever greater numbers of ordinary people are able to make their
way here to request asylum. In the past, some Presidents, Richard M. Nixon for
one, insisted that they be personally advised of all defections. And advocates
for refugees fleeing repressive governments like those in Guatemala and Haiti
complained about the special treatment given those fleeing Communist nations.

No Longer a Sure Thing

But now, with the growing alliance between the United States and Russia in
particular, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has begun processing
people from the former Soviet Union routinely. For the first time, such asylum
seekers have to prove persecution individually, which leaves them at the mercy
of the sometimes inefficient, arbitrary and unsympathetic system other refugees
face.

About 9,000 asylum cases from the former Soviet Union were pending near the end
of 1992, most of them filed that year. Only about 700 were decided. But those
few decisions indicate a clear break with the past. About half of the former
Soviet citizens whose cases were decided last year were denied asylum. Even
Soviet Jews have been denied refuge by officials who cite State Department
reports that anti-Semitism is no longer institutionalized.

Nonetheless, the system changes slowly. Some 50,000 former Soviets -- mostly
high-level dissidents, Jews, evangelical Christians and those with close ties to
the United States -- qualified for refugee status last year, more than from any
other region. Refugees differ from asylum seekers in that they usually apply in
their home country; some immigration experts believe that they are not as keenly
scrutinized.

Furthermore, asylum seekers from the former Soviet republics -- those who flee
their homeland without guarantees -- still are much more likely to be approved
than are Haitians, Guatemalans and El Salvadorans.

Months Without a Lawyer

And, in what some immigration experts see as the legacy of their special
treatment during the cold war, those fleeing the former Soviet Union rarely end
up imprisoned here or deported.

That is why the case of the seamen who tried to defect in Puerto Rico stands
out, and why it is turning into a cause celebre for Russian-immigrant groups and
a concern for refugee advocates in New York and Washington.

"I don't want to make a stink, even though I'd like to bite off the head of
anyone doing this to a Russian," said Mikhail Makarenko, a former Soviet
political prisoner. "All I want is for these sailors' stories to be fully
heard."

If the sailors are deported, they will be among the very few non-criminals from
the former Soviet Union -- perhaps even the first -- to have been forced out
since the fall of Communism. Eric R. Bowman, a Virginia lawyer hired by
advocates for the sailors at the last minute, is preparing to ask judges in
mid-January to stay the deportations and reopen their cases.

In the months since the sailors arrived and were imprisoned, they have never
seen a lawyer. In that way, their case is typical of asylum cases generally and
was destined for failure, experts on immigration law say.

"Ours is a system where, without counsel, most refugees -- and now Soviets, too
-- have always faced a very difficult prospect," said Arthur Helton, a refugee
expert for the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights.

Duke Austin, an I.N.S. spokesman, said that next time Federal agents would
accompany the sailors to Russia to make the deportation succeeded.Asked if they
could be sent to a third country instead, as Mr. Bazhnenov has said he would
like to be, Mr. Austin said: "Rarely do you find a third country that wants to
take the refuse from the United States."

His Grandmother's Lessons

Mr. Bazhenov, a 26-year-old merchant mariner, was interviewed here in early
January with the help of an interpreter at the Loudoun County Jail, where he
awaits arraignment on assault charges for biting a police officer during the
scuffle at the airport.

An ethnic Russian reared in Ukraine by a grandmother who taught him to respect
God more than state, Mr. Bazhenov was stamped at a young age as a troublemaker,
he said, for refusing to join Communist youth groups. After a tour of duty in
the Navy, marked by what he called "incidents," Mr. Bazhenov got a job with a
fishing fleet in Murmansk in the Russian republic.

After six months working on Volga Boat No. 136, loading heavy cargo while his
bosses sat idly, he said, he organized a strike by the crew.

For a year in the late 1980's, Mr. Bazhenov was seen as an anti-Soviet agitator
and not given any work, he said. In 1989, he was summoned by K.G.B. officials
who controlled the fleet. They gave him a choice of going to jail or cooperating
with them by spying on the others. "Unfortunately, I chose stool pigeon," he
said.

Mr. Bazhenov said he kept discovering examples of K.G.B. agents' involvement
with illegal arms and drugs, and that, naively, he kept trying to expose them.
In return, he believes the agents tried to frame him by ordering him to deliver
to Germany a package that he was sure contained drugs. Instead, Mr. Bazhenov
fled to Portugal.

In May of 1991, the Portuguese Government gave him refuge, which it rescinded a
year later when the Soviet Union collapsed. With Aleksandr Nozhichkovsky,
another Russian seaman, Mr. Bazhenov found work on the yacht Diana, headed for
the regatta celebrating the 500th anniversary of Columbus's landing in the
Americas.

In San Juan, Mr. Bazhenov said that he and Mr. Nozhichkovsky wandered the
streets until they found a police station, where they announced themselves:
"Russians. Refugees."

"The police said, 'Welcome to America,' with pleasant faces and smiles," Mr.
Bazhenov said. "I had never been so happy as that moment."

Jerome W. Finkelstein, who runs the immigration service's detention center in
Puerto Rico, took the sailors under his wing and asked the Tolstoy Foundation in
New York City to represent the two sailors and three others who had also arrived
during the regatta.

The foundation is under contract to the State Department as a resettlement
agency for refugees but does not have a legal staff.

Oddities in Process

In trying to reopen their cases, Mr. Bowman, the lawyer, will argue that the
Tolstoy Foundation provided ineffective counsel although Olga Roussanow, the
senior counselor there, said she did her very best to help. But she never
visited the sailors and did not hire a lawyer until their cases were closed,
days before the attempted deportation. Also, Ms. Roussanow counseled the sailors
not to apply for political asylum, falsely believing they would remain in prison
if they did.

Mr. Bazhenov and Mr. Nozhichkovsky applied for asylum on their own but were
turned down.

Mr. Bowman and Elisa Massimono, an asylum lawyer with the Lawyers Committee for
Human Rights in Washington, raised several questions about the way the cases
were handled.

The lawyers question why the men were immediately placed in deportation
proceedings, where they face an uphill battle. Immigration regulations seem to
specify that seamen who jump ship should be allowed to present their cases
without being tainted by the presumption that they are criminals for illegally
entering the United States. They also say their cases should go to I.N.S.
director, or asylum officer, rather than a judge, which usually results in
better chances of winning asylum.

They also said the prolonged detention of the sailors might be improper.

As Mr. Bazhenov told his story in the Virginia jail, he was tense and appeared
near tears. "If they try to deport me again, I will resist again with all my
might," he declared.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 13, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Charges of Fabrication in Civil Rights Case Are Discounted

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 395 words


To the Editor:

In "Questions for Mr. Molinari" (Topics of The Times, Dec. 25), you ask: "Did
Guy Molinari, the Staten Island Borough President, or his staff, fabricate
information submitted to Justice Department investigators? The question lingers
following the recent release of a letter to Mr. Molinari from Deputy Attorney
General George Terwilliger." The case involves Joseph Occhipinti, a Federal
immigration agent convicted in a Federal court of having violated the civil
rights of Hispanic shopkeepers in Manhattan.

Mr. Terwilliger, in a telephone interview with our local newspaper, was quoted
as stating: "I am not suggesting that Guy Molinari submitted information that
was to his knowledge untruthful."

Moreover, in a Dec. 23 news article, you quote Assistant United States Attorney
Steven A. Standiford, who prosecuted the Occhipinti case, as saying: "I don't
have any reason to believe Molinari knew that the information provided was
false."

Finally, the regional director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, James
Fox, is on record as having stated: "I don't believe that they" -- myself and my
staff -- "knowingly fabricated evidence. I believe they proceeded with complete
honor and dignity on this, trying to right what they thought was a wrong."

These statements, representing the combined commentary of the three
investigative agencies involved, should disperse what you characterize as a
cloud over my office.

If such a cloud ever existed, it was clearly of your making. In your early
edition of Dec. 23, your article on this matter proclaimed, "Justice Dept. Says
Claims by Molinari Were Faked." Later editions changed the headline to the less
accusatory "Justice Dept. Is Critical of Molinari." Moreover, later editions
deleted approximately 90 words from the article, most of them critical of my
office.

I am certain your sophisticated readers will realize what is plain: your
original Dec. 23 article materially mischaracterized my participation in the
Occhipinti matter and misled your readers.

While the later version of your Dec. 23 article did much to dissipate the cloud
that your reporting placed over my office, the three unsolicited statements that
I have produced here should now clear the air and completely dispel your
lingering questions.

GUY V. MOLINARI
Borough President
Staten Island, Dec. 30, 1992

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 14, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Find Immortality, at a Price

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 819 words


Seymour Rexite, a Yiddish actor on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, and C.
Lawrence Huerta, the former chief of the Pasquayaqui Indian tribe in Arizona,
have but one thing in common. Mr. Rexite, who emigrated from Poland in 1922, and
Mr. Huerta, who never migrated at all, are both listed on the new American
Immigrant Wall of Honor on Ellis Island.

The wall, which opens today, is more precisely a wall of donors. For $100, any
individual, immigrant or not, was able to buy a spot on this national monument,
which does not pretend to be of precise historical significance. Rather, the
wall represents the apotheosis of the American dream, allowing anyone and
everyone a chance to purchase a place in American history.

"You give a little, you get a little," said Mr. Rexite, the president of the
Hebrew Actors Union. "It's the American way."

A dense circle of concrete and stainless steel, the wall contains 420,000
engraved names, beginning with Leigh Ann Aaberg of Norway and ending with Fenna
Zyziak of Austria-Hungary. The honorees run the gamut from pilgrims and patriots
to bootleggers and golf-course designers. On the one hand, the wall commemorates
Myles Standish and Paul Revere Sr.; on the other, it honors more recent
immigrants like Meyer Lansky, the mob financier, and Rosario Piscopo,
grandfather of Joe, the actor.

'Give 'Em a Piece of It'


The Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation raised $42.5 million for the wall
in a promotional campaign designed by Lee A. Iacocca, the foundation chairman
and the former chairman of the Chrysler Corporation. "Give 'em a piece of it,"
he said, according to Peg Zitko, the foundation spokeswoman.

The 652-foot wall, designed by Ralph Appelbaum Associates of New York, cost only
$2.5 million, a fraction of the money raised. The remainder will go toward the
continuing restoration of the north side of Ellis Island. The wall itself sits
behind the main building, overlooking the Manhattan skyline and encircling the
remains of Fort Gibson, an early-19th-century embattlement unearthed during
construction.

Seventy years ago, Mr. Rexite, then Mr. Rechtzeit, spent three days recuperating
from a cold at the Ellis Island hospital before being admitted into the United
States. "Every morning, when I got up, I went toward where they had the gratings
and watched where they had the water, and thought, 'How the hell do I get from
here to America?' " he said.

The rest is show biz. A child actor, Mr. Rexite was not only allowed to enter
the United States but, eventually, to perform at the White House for President
Calvin Coolidge. He sang the Yiddish song, "Bring My Mother From the Other
Side," and after that his mother was allowed to immigrate, too, Mr. Rexite said.


More Than a Few Shapiros

Mr. Rexite does not consider the wall's grab-bag commemorativeness to be any
kind of desecration of history. "They got pizza on Ellis Island now, too," he
said, adding that he welcomed all, even those who were not immigrants.

Among them, Mr. Huerta, the Pasquayaqui Indian, said he put his name on the wall
"in the spirit of harmony between the Indian and the non-Indian."

Mr. Huerta's engraved entry precedes the 370 entries for Katz and the 340
entries for Shapiro. Many panels after the Shapiros come Anthony Martin Sinatra,
purchased by Eydie Gorme to honor Frank's father, and Thomas Thayer, Barbara
Bush's first American ancestor, who arrived from England in 1632.

Listed amid the wall's celebrity families -- the Cuomos, the Kennedys, the Red
Buttonses -- and the Ellis Island alumni are scores of modern-day immigrants who
came by jet plane.

Unlike the immigrants who came by boat, crying at the sight of the Statue of
Liberty after months at sea, Parviz Mehran flew from Iran to John F. Kennedy
International Airport. He was whisked into the country in minutes. Traveling on
a student visa, he knew he could return to his homeland if he decided not to
stay. There was no immigrant's trauma involved, he said.

A House, 2 Cars, and the Wall

Mr. Mehran, who now works as a cost/scheduling engineer for the Metropolitan
Transportation Authority, married his English-as-a-second-language teacher and
bought two spaces on the wall -- one for himself and one for Robert Macruden,
his Scottish-born father-in-law.

Shin Ki Kang, a Korean farmer who left Seoul in 1977 and now lives in Port
Washington, L.I., contributed $400 for a family listing. "I like to put my name
and my children's names with all the people who came from overseas," he said.
"I'm proud with our story."

Mr. Kang explained his realization of the American dream: "I start working in
someone else's store two, three years," he said. "Then I start a small fruit
store in Manhattan, sell that. I buy a little bigger one down to Brooklyn, sell
that. Go to Bronx for card shop, sell that, go to Queens for candy store. End up
in suburb, and on wall."

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The new American Immigrant Wall of Honor on Ellis Island may be
more a tribute to capitalism than it is to history. Though it cost $2.5 million
to build, some $42.5 million has been raised by offering donors a place on the
wall alongside the more famous for a financial contribution. A workman tended
the roster where Rosario Piscopo, grandfather of Joe, the actor, shares space
with Myles Standish and Paul Revere Sr. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 15, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Anti-Immigrant Attitude Starts in Washington

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 459 words


To the Editor:

Growing evidence of animus against immigrants in the United States is discussed
in news articles Dec. 11 and 13. You report a poll Dec. 15 showing that most
Latino immigrants believe there are too many immigrants here.

The most common explanation for this anti-immigrant bias is economic: those who
enjoy the relative prosperity of the United States standard of living are
threatened by the prospect of sharing it with others.

But another cause, not mentioned by you, is the Federal Government's legal
attitude toward immigrants. When our Government fails to treat immigrants as
human beings with equal dignity and respect, it institutionalizes and reinforces
the prejudice you have observed among the general population.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service's treatment of Haitian refugees and
Palestinian immigrants provides examples of such invidious official conduct. For
several months, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has held a group of
Haitian refugees afflicted with AIDS incommunicado at Guantanamo Naval Base in
Cuba.

In court, the agency has argued that the Haitians deserve no access to lawyers
because they have no rights in the first place. More recently, in justifying a
refusal to send four refugees to the mainland for necessary treatment, Duke
Austin, an Immigration Service spokesman, told a reporter, "they're going to die
anyway, aren't they?" (news article, Dec. 13). Such an attitude cannot but
encourage anti-immigrant bias.

Meanwhile, in Los Angeles the Immigration and Naturalization Service is
attempting to deport a group of Palestinians for alleged support for the Popular
Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a faction of the Palestine Liberation
Organization. The Government has conceded that these immigrants have done
nothing that a United States citizen could not do. United States citizens have a
First Amendment right to send money to these or any other groups, so long as
they do not intend to further any unlawful ends of the group.

But in the Immigration Service's view, if an immigrant raises any money for such
a group, even if it is directed solely toward humanitarian ends, he is
deportable as a "terrorist." Thus, the agency seeks to deport immigrants for
activity that their citizen neighbors have a constitutional right to engage in.

We will not move beyond prejudice against newer immigrants as long as our
Federal Government maintains policies that refuse to afford the most basic human
rights to all people under our control, citizens and noncitizens alike.

DAVID COLE
Washington, Dec. 26, 1992
The writer, an associate professor at Georgetown University Law Center, is a
volunteer staff lawyer at the Center for Constitutional Rights.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 16, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Bush Frees Ex-U.S. Agent In Manhattan

BYLINE: By CRAIG WOLFF

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1145 words


President Bush yesterday commuted the sentence of a former Federal immigration
agent imprisoned for conducting illegal searches and filing false reports
against Hispanic store owners in Washington Heights.

The order freeing the agent, Joseph Occhipinti, who had served eight months of
37-month prison sentence, put an end to a case that became something of a cause
celebre among police officers and other law-enforcement officials, who viewed
him as an aggressive agent who successfully rooted out drug dealers and illegal
aliens in a crime-ridden neighborhood. But to many in the community, Mr.
Occhipinti, 42, was just another overzealous official who invaded their lives
with techniques of harassment. He was convicted of violating the store owners'
civil rights.

The case became entwined in Mr. Bush's campaign in 1992. Borough President Guy
V. Molinari of Staten Island, the chairman of the 1988 Bush campaign in New York
State, took up Mr. Occhipinti's cause and angrily resigned as senior adviser to
the 1992 campaign and a senior convention delegate last June while seeking to
have the Justice Department look at what he said was new evidence.

Defense Evidence Is Called Faked

The Justice Department did reopen the case last August, but three weeks ago,
Deputy Attorney General George J. Terwilliger wrote a letter to Mr. Molinari,
asserting that the material said to exonerate Mr. Occhipinti -- affidavits by
storeowners, saying they lied during his trial in 1991 -- had been fabricated.
While the Justice Department did not hold Mr. Molinari culpable, the letter
seemed to end all hopes that Mr. Occhipinti would be released before June 1995,
when his 37-month sentence was scheduled to end.

Yesterday, a number of local prosecutors privately expressed outrage at the
decision, claiming political interference. The United States Attorney in
Manhattan, Otto G. Obermaier, normally reluctant to speak publicly about his
cases, said in an interview that he accepted the President's right to take the
action, but he pointedly said Mr. Occhipinti had not been exonerated. "Remember,
this is not a pardon," he said. He also said the Justice Department should
investigate how the evidence presented by Mr. Molinari came to be fabricated.

In confirming the President's action yesterday, the White House did not provide
any details about the reasoning of Mr. Bush or Mr. Terwilliger, who, despite his
earlier report, made the recommendation of clemency to the President. But a
Justice Department official close to the case said that the recommendation was
based on two factors.

One factor, the official said, was Mr. Occhipinti's record, which included 81
commendations, including three from the Attorney General. Second, the official
said that it was believed that the sentence, mandated by Federal sentencing
guidelines, was nevertheless not intended for the kind of situation Mr.
Occhipinti had been involved in. Such complaints, he said, typically result in
discipline or dismissal, but rarely prosecution.

Mr. Molinari, sensitive to the suggestion that Mr. Occhipinti had been granted
his freedom as a political payback from Mr. Bush to him, said that if anything,
he had feared that his resignation from the campaign might produce "the opposite
reaction" from the White House.

'George Bush Understood'

The President could have retaliated against him, Mr. Molinari said yesterday.
"But George Bush understood the depth of my feeling about the case," he said.

Mr. Molinari said that he saw the President 10 days ago in the Oval Office for
what he called a "goodbye meeting." He said that before he mentioned the
Occhipinti case to the President, Mr. Terwilliger had already decided to
recommend a commutation of the sentence, despite the rejection of the new
materials brought forth by Mr. Molinari.

Reaction in Washington Heights last night was angry.

"It's a really low blow," said Councilman Guillermo Linares of Washington
Heights. "It poses a question to the community as to where the President stands
in terms of justice."

Mr. Occhipinti, who had spent some of his time in jail in solitary confinement,
was released yesterday afternoon from a prison camp at Eglin AIr Force Base in
Fort Walton Beach, Fla. He was was greeted last night at La Guardia Airport by
his family and dozens of police and union officials, plus a group of Guardian
Angels led by Curtis Sliwa. A 22-year veteran of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, he has three daughters and a home in Manalapan, N.J.

'Handcuffed and Shackled'Xx

Mr. Occhipinti tearfully embraced his wife, Angela, at the airport. He thanked
his supporters and bitterly denounced the prosecutors who he said had made his
conviction a higher priority than that of drug dealers.

"I was one of the most dedicated agents, who became handfcuffed and shackled
like a common criminal and had to endure the dangers and humiliation of prison,"
he said.

He added: "My naive belief in the war against drugs has broght pain and
suffering to my family. When they can put a Federal agent in prison for an
alleged technicality, an officer making a good-faith search and seizure, then we
have to worry that the drug lords have taken control."

His conviction in June 1991, which was upheld by the Second Circuit Court of
Appeals last May, centered on his actions during an operation to investigate
allegations that a Dominican drug cartel was using bodegas in Washington Heights
to smuggle illegal immigrants.

Mr. Occhipinti and his supporters have said that he began investigating
Dominican-owned bodegas after an officer from the 34th Precinct in Washington
Heights, Michael Buczek, was killed in October 1988. They have insisted that the
same group that was behind the shooting of Officer Buczek also helped frame Mr.
Occhipinti.

'He Didn't Turn His Back'Xx

Last night, Officer Buczek's parents were at La Guardia Airport. Ted Buczek, the
officer's father, said, "Joe is like my son Michael; he didn't turn his back on
his job."

Trial testimony from 36 prosecution witnesses -- nearly all residents and
merchants from Washington Heights -- gave the clear impression that Mr.
Occhipinti had threatened and coerced storeowners to sign statements that were
either false or that they could not understand. The defense insisted that many
of the storeowners were hiding illegal immigrants or were drug dealers.

Mr. Molinari, long a staunch defender of police officers, later insisted that he
had evidence suggesting that the prosecution witnesses had perjured themselves.

But law enforcement officials said that some of the materials, including audio
cassettes in which the witnesses admitted they had lied, seemed to have been
read from scripts. In addition, one witness, described by the officials as
crucial to Mr. Occhipinti's position, failed a lie detector test.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Among those who met Joseph Occhipinti, left, at La Guardia
Airport last night after his release from prison were Guy V. Molinari, the
Staten Island Borough President, center, and Philip Caruso, head of the
Patrolmen's Benevolent Association. (Steve Berman for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 17, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Freed Agent Vows to Seek Vindication

BYLINE: By CRAIG WOLFF

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 847 words


Joseph Occhipinti, the former Federal immigration agent who was released from
prison on Friday by President Bush, yesterday began what he called the "second
phase" of his campaign to win exoneration. He did so even as merchants and
others in Washington Heights reacted with dismay and bitterness that Mr.
Occhipinti, who had been convicted for violating the civil rights of
neighborhood store owners by conducting illegal searches, was now free.

Mr. Occhipinti said that he planned to return to the streets of upper Manhattan
to personally seek out the evidence he said would demonstrate that he had been
framed.

"I was guilty of one crime," he said yesterday. "I had a naive belief in the war
against the drug lords."

On Friday night, Mr. Occhipinti returned home to a hero's welcome at La Guardia
Airport after he had served more than 7 months of a 37-month prison sentence. He
said he was still stunned by his sudden freedom, gained mostly through the work
of Guy V. Molinari, the Staten Island Borough President.

Mr. Molinari had lobbied the Justice Department to examine new evidence in the
case. Three weeks ago, Deputy Attorney General George J. Terwilliger wrote a
letter to Mr. Molinari, asserting that much of the evidence had been fabricated,
but Mr. Terwilliger nonetheless recommended to Mr. Bush that Mr. Occhipiniti
receive clemency.

Some Are Outraged

But along the streets where Mr. Occhipinti, once a decorated agent for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, had once worked, there were expressions
of outrage.

Jose Liberato, one of the merchants who filed the original complaint against Mr.
Occhipinti, said that in commuting the sentence, Mr. Bush chose to disregard
reams of evidence presented against the agent.

"Bush insulted the whole community," said Mr. Liberato, 45, who owns two bodegas
in Washington Heights. "He threw the law into the garbage."

He added: "It is a plan to destroy the business people of the whole Hispanic
community. The community is afraid Occhipinti will come back or someone just
like him will come down."

Lying Is Alleged

Mr. Occhipinti's argument has rested on one central point: that many of the
store owners who testified that he had searched their stores without their
consent were lying. Rather than ransacking their stores in wild searches, as
prosecutors had said he did, Mr. Occhipinti insisted again yesterday that he had
meticulously followed protocol.

Mr. Occhipinti, in a one-hour interview yesterday afternoon in Mr. Molinari's
office, with his wife, Angela, at his side, said that he also planned to enlist
the help of scores of residents of Washington Heights who he said had befriended
him. Many, he said, had already called to volunteer their help in exposing the
witnesses.

But while many law-enforcement agents and police officers described Mr.
Occhipinti as a martyr who had tried to fight the growing power of drug dealers
entrenched in Washington Heights, some in the community described him as an
overzealous agent who bent the law and disregarded civil rights.

Juan Carlos Taveras, a dentist whose practice is at 550 West 172d Street, said
that by freeing Mr. Occhipinti, Mr. Bush was sending a message that he did not
believe Hispanic people who brought charges against law-enforcement officials.

"People are afraid to do anything," Dr. Taveras said.

But Mr. Occhipinti said it was the work of agents and officers that had been
chilled. Hundreds, he said, had contacted him to say that they now shied away
from making even simple excursions into suspected drug locations. His
vindication, he said, would also help the community rid itself of drug dealers.

Mr. Occhipinto, 42 years old and a 22-year veteran of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, had received 81 commendations for his work and said he
prided himself on his ability, through street contacts, to distinguish
legitimate merchants from those involved in the drug trade.

At his trial, prosecutors produced 36 witnesses who testified that Mr.
Occhipinti ransacked their businesses and searched their cash registers and
safes and only after the fact asked them to sign consent forms.

He Describes His Methods

Mr. Occhipinti insisted yesterday that he had followed normal procedures. He
said he almost always entered targeted stores accompanied by a uniformed police
officer.

Most merchants did not have their green cards, he said, which he said gave him
the right to search the property without their consent. But in any event, he
said, he always asked the merchants to sign the consent forms before doing
anything.

"I would say to them, 'Look, I know what's going on,' and I would ask them if
they paid taxes or if they sold liquor without a license," he said.

He said they almost always admitted these violations, because they knew he was
less interested in their crimes than in getting information from them on
high-level dealers.

Then, he said, he would ask them to step behind their counters while he
searched. In all, he said, he found 22 guns, and huge quantities of drugs.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 21, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Throw Away the Crutch of Bilingual Education;
Guarantees Failure

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 292 words


To the Editor:

Your Jan. 4 article on bilingual education is extremely interesting to me as a
professional historian who has done most of her research and writing on
immigrant children and the public schools.

In 1905, when immigration from southern and eastern Europe was close to its
peak, 90,000 children were in the elementary schools in areas of New York City
where most immigrants had settled. If they had recently arrived, the school to
which they applied first tested and then placed them for six months in
total-immersion English classes.

They were punished for speaking anything but English; if heard to do so, their
mouths were washed out with soap (kosher soap when appropriate). The results
were mixed. Most of the children managed or even did well in regular classes;
many others left at the earliest legal age of 14 and went to work.

This arrangement would not be satisfactory today. We can, however, arrive at
something better than the ineffective, costly, damaging and, in essence, corrupt
procedures we have today. The schools should establish small, introductory
English-immersion classes taught by well-trained teachers and move the children
into regular classes as soon as possible.

If this is not feasible, they should maintain bilingual classes where English
and a foreign language, taught by teachers fluent in both languages, are used
and place a cap on how long a child can remain there.

As a professor at a senior college, I can say the present policy guarantees
failure for too many of the foreign-born students who enroll at a CUNY college
expecting to earn a degree that helps them move ahead in American society.

SELMA C. BERROL
Professor of History
Baruch College, CUNY
New York, Jan. 5, 1993

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 23, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

SETTLING IN: Picking Up the Pieces;
Baird's Consolation Prize: Her Old $507,000 Job

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 626 words

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, Jan. 22


Hours after Zoe Baird withdrew her nomination for Attorney General, her
employer, Aetna Life and Casualty, issued a statement of warm reaffirmation,
saying it would gladly welcome her back as the company's top lawyer.

Ms. Baird had been on leave from her $507,000-a-year job as a senior vice
president at Aetna's Hartford headquarters pending her confirmation.

In Ms. Baird's neighborhood near Yale University, however, the reception could
be a bit more awkward. Few of her neighbors today offered any defense of her
violating Federal immigration law by hiring two illegal Peruvian workers, one as
a driver and the other to care for her young son.

It was also clear today that in Connecticut at least, the story is not over.
Officials at the Immigration and Naturalization Service, a branch of the Justice
Department, said an interview with the Peruvian couple, Victor and Lillian
Cordera, had been set for next week in Hartford to help decide whether they
should be deported.

Talk of the Neighborhood

"It comes right down to it -- she was exploiting the system," said Elwood Reid,
a writer whose backyard abuts Ms. Baird's property.

A woman at a nearby house who identified herself as a full-time nanny but
refused to give her name, said: "The whole point is to set an example for
children. I think it's a good thing she didn't get in."

Some Connecticut residents had kind words for Ms. Baird, saying she maintained
poise during sharp questioning at her confirmation hearings.

Others, including a woman who left a gift on Ms. Baird's doorstep this
afternoon, angrily accused news organizations of blowing the matter out of
proportion. But the more common response in the woody environs of St. Ronan
Street was a sort of chagrined, tight-lipped regret, often accompanied by a
frustrated shake of the head, that Ms. Baird had not shown better judgment.

Little Choice Seen

"It's too bad," said Ruth Cobey, who said she had lived on this street for 20
years. "I think she certainly was qualified." But Ms. Cobey also said that Ms.
Baird had been left little choice but to withdraw. "It is such a responsible
position, and she should be without any blame," she said.

At Yale Law School, where Ms. Baird's husband, Paul D. Gewirtz, has been a
professor since 1976, there was disappointment with Ms. Baird's decision but
approval of it.

Burke Marshall, a Yale law professor who said he had known Ms. Baird and her
husband for years, said the nation was losing a good person. Nonetheless, he
said: "I think Ms. Baird's decision to withdraw reflected the feelings of the
public. I think she showed self-discipline and wisdom in withdrawing."

House Is For Sale

Many colleagues of Mr. Gewirtz refused to comment on how the situation would
affect him at Yale, but one professor who has known him for years said, "He's a
very, very strong person and should be able to bounce back."

It is unclear whether Ms. Baird and Mr. Gewirtz will return to their home here.
The house and adjoining property were purchased by Aetna in early December under
a package of relocation benefits that Ms. Baird had received when she joined the
company in 1990 but had never used. A spokesman for Aetna, Mike Bazinet, said
the company's purchase of the home had been unrelated to the confirmation
hearings.

Mr. Bazinet said the couple had planned to buy a new home somewhere between here
and Hartford, where Ms. Baird has her office at Aetna. Under the relocation
package, he said, the couple would have 60 days to find a new home. But, he
added, given the strain of the confirmation process and Ms. Baird's high stature
at the company, all those terms could be negotiable.

He also confirmed reports that the property is priced at about $679,000.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Victor Cordera on Thursday before he disappeared. The Corderas,
a Peruvian couple who worked for Zoe Baird illegally, were to be interviewed by
immigration officials next week. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 27, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Baird Stands in Part for All Working Mothers;
Paperwork Nightmare

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 330 words


To the Editor:

Many dual-career and single-parent families face the difficult child-care
situation in which Zoe Baird and her husband found themselves (front page, Jan.
14). With complicated work schedules, they seek live-in child-care providers who
can give children love and attention and also work flexible hours.

We advertised for such a person, at a high pay rate for this area, and not one
American responded. We then turned to the Immigation and Naturalization Service
because it seemed we could legally sponsor a foreign national. Our extensive
documentation made it through the local office, but when it was passed to the
regional office in Brooklyn, the agency responded that no one can sponsor a
person to live in his or her house, arguing it is too easy to take advantage of
a live-in. We offered references and a home visit; still the response was
absolutely not. We got in touch with an immigration lawyer, who told us it was
hopeless.

In the end we hired an American to come to our house during the day, severely
limiting our job flexibility. We pay all the United States and New York taxes
and insurance premiums. However, this legal route has been a nightmare. We
receive weekly letters from the Internal Revenue Service and the New York State
Labor Department, complaints that we have not completed forms that we are not
supposed to complete, audits of payments made two years before.

New York State sent an inspector to our home. With all the labor problems in
this country, a family paying taxes for a babysitter seems an odd target for
investigation. Now the Government tells us we have to file monthly, rather than
quarterly taxes.

Until the Government changes the immigration laws to permit live-in child-care
or reduces the bookkeeping for American workers, many people may be expected to
avoid the law. Perhaps the next Attorney General might help to change this
system.

JAN HACK KATZ, HARRY C. KATZ
Ithaca, N.Y., Jan. 22, 1993

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 7, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Rights Groups Attack German Plan on Refugees

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 666 words

DATELINE: BERLIN, Feb. 6


Human rights groups are protesting plans by the German Government to reject
people seeking asylum from countries where it says there is no political
persecution.  The groups say that contrary to the Government's assurances,
political repression is practiced in several of these countries.

The debate reflects the difficulty facing many Western countries, including the
United States, that are seeking to limit immigration from poor and unstable
countries.

Under a recent compromise among major political parties, Germany will soon adopt
a new law tightening restrictions on foreigners who seek political asylum here.
The compromise agreement requires the Government to draw up a list of countries
where there is no repression. Asylum seekers from these countries would be sent
home.

Although the list has not been officially published, Government officials have
discussed it with members of Parliament. Amnesty International has protested,
saying political torture and murder are officially tolerated in at least 10
countries believed to be on the list. It named Turkey, Liberia, Zaire, Nigeria,
Ghana, Togo, India, Pakistan, Romania and Bulgaria.

"Massive human rights violations may be observed in practically all of these
countries," Amnesty International said in a report issued last month.

The report said that Liberia was in a state of "terror and anarchy," that
hundreds of cases of torture were reported in Turkey last year and that dozens
of people had recently died under torture in Pakistan and been shot by troops in
Zaire. It also said Gypsies in Romania and Bulgaria were victims of continuing
"pogrom-style assaults" in which they were beaten, robbed and forced from their
homes.

"Even putting aside the matter of these particular countries, the very idea of
drawing up a list like this is unfair," said an Amnesty International
spokeswoman, Susanne Ertl. "It ignores the fact that there can be individual
cases of abuse even in relatively free countries."

Germany receives far more asylum seekers than any other country in Europe,
nearly 450,000 in 1992. Among them were more than 100,000 Romanians and 30,000
Bulgarians, most of them Gypsies, along with 28,000 Turks.

The presence of these refugees has fed a wave of rightist violence and set off
intense political debate.

The list of "persecution-free countries" must be approved by Parliament, and
several members are planning to challenge the Government over what they say is
its intention to include countries with questionable human rights credentials.

"We need to discuss whether these countries are safe or not," said one
legislator, Burkhard Hirsch. "This is naturally a very delicate matter for the
Government, because some countries may be exercising diplomatic pressure to be
sure they appear on the list of nice countries."

Search for Consensus

Interior Minister Rudolf Seiters, who is principally responsible for drawing up
the list, said after meeting with members of Parliament last week that he was
striving for "a high level of consensus" over details of the new asylum law.

Although the German authorities last year reached an agreement with Romania to
send back many Romanian asylum seekers, very few have been deported. Officials
are counting on the new law to reduce the flow of new asylum seekers
drastically.

Parliament is expected to consider the proposed law this month. It would allow
the immediate deportation not only of asylum seekers from countries considered
safe, but also those who passed through a safe country on their way to Germany.

"What this effectively means is that no refugee can come to Germany by land," a
human rights group, the Society for Threatened Peoples, said in a recent
statement. "Only those who arrive by air can apply for asylum, but they would
need visas to get here, and as a rule German embassies do not issue visas to
people seeking political asylum. Is the only remaining possibility a flight by
private plane and then a parachute jump?"

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 7, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

JAN. 31-FEB. 6: Asylum in Canada;
In a Landmark Change, Refugee Status May Be Given to Persecuted Women

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 215 words


Last week a young Saudi Arabian woman who had tried to travel alone, drive a car
and go without a veil in her native country won asylum in Canada in a landmark
change of policy.

Canadian immigration officials laughed at the woman when she first requested
refugee status 21 months ago, based on her fears of persecution as an outspoken
opponent of Saudi discrimination against women.

There certainly was nothing in the official guidelines to give her any hope. Two
immigration board members, both male, ruled that her treatment was within the
law of Saudi Arabia and did not represent persecution.

Bowing to human rights groups, women's groups and others, the Canadian
Government said it will revise its guidelines and consider granting refugee
status to women fleeing state-sanctioned abuses based on gender, including
domestic violence. Neither Europe nor the United States recognizes sex-based
persecution as a rationale for asylum in and of itself, and Canada, which has a
long tradition of humanitarian assistance, may now be leading the world.

Still, even Canada may have a long way to go to right an immigration system that
many consider sexist. An estimated 80 percent of the world's refugees are women
and children. Yet two-thirds of those Canada accepts are male.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 12, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

At the Bar;
It's the American way: Immigrant lawyers slash and hook over a hockey player's
contract.

BYLINE: By David Margolick

SECTION: Section B; Page 16; Column 2; National Desk; Law Page

LENGTH: 787 words


Anyone doubting that the melting pot is alive and bubbling should consider the
case of VMP International v. Yushkevich, now grinding along before Judge Louis
J. Freeh of Federal District Court in Manhattan. So should anyone concerned
about the perennial problem of lawyers sniping at one another when a judge is
not looking.

On one side of the case is Roman Popik (born in the Soviet city of Kishinev in
1956; law degree, Pace University, 1987). He runs VMP International. On the
other side is Alexander Berkovich (born in Riga, Latvia, in 1957; law degree,
Villanova University, 1987) and his partner, Mark Gandler (also born in Kishinev
in 1956; law degree, Columbia University, 1991). They are proprietors of
International Sports Advisers.

All are lawyer-agents, and their conflicting claims to represent the
Russian-born hockey player Dimitri Yushkevich, now skating for the Philadelphia
Flyers, have left them embroiled in a vicious court fight.

Mr. Popik has accused Mr. Yushkevich of breaching his contract with VMP by going
over to the Berkovich-Gandler group, which represents 13 other players from the
former Soviet Union now playing in the National Hockey League.

For all their successes here, the immigrant lawyers have not fared well in the
land of the Freeh. Indeed, Judge Freeh has sent Mr. Berkovich, Mr. Popik and Mr.
Popik's lawyer, David Abramson (born in Brooklyn in 1954; law degree, Brooklyn
Law School, 1981) to the penalty box for the legal equivalent of slashing,
roughing, hooking and high sticking.

First, in December, the judge fined Mr. Abramson and Mr. Popik $500 plus court
costs and fees for their obstreperous and obstructionist behavior during Mr.
Popik's deposition. Mr. Abramson's objections, he noted, were frivolous to the
point of being obnoxiousness. For instance, though Mr. Popik, like the other
Soviet-born lawyers in the case, is fluent in English, Mr. Abramson insisted
that Mr. Berkovich define such words as "lived," "travel" and "do" before using
them in his questions, stalling the proceedings to a crawl.

But before Mr. Berkovich could gloat too much, he too was fined $500 by Judge
Freeh for hindering Mr. Abramson's questioning of Mr. Yushkevich with other
silly objections. At the same time, the judge fined Mr. Popik $500 more for
disrupting the proceedings, exchanging low-fives with Mr. Abramson, making faces
at Mr. Yushkevich and, in one instance, muttering an obscenity at him.

Name-calling, mud-slinging and foot-dragging during depositions is nothing new,
since these pre-examinations of witnesses are usually attended by opposing
lawyers, the parties, a witness and a court reporter, but not by a judge. Nor is
the outrage of judges called upon to play referee when one side or the other
tattles.

Six years ago, for example, Judge Milton Pollack of Federal District Court in
Manhattan fined one Samuel J. Rosen $250 for "epithetical jurisprudence": i.e.,
calling his opponent "an obnoxious little twit."

A few years later, opposing lawyers in a deposition in the merger of the Gulf
Oil Corporation and Chevron U.S.A. charged one another in court papers with
lying, eavesdropping, snickering, making them miss their flights, reading USA
Today instead of listening to the testimony, butchering both the English
language and one another's names, and objecting often enough to exhaust the
unfortunate court reporter.

One lawyer, Jay Robert Stiefel of Berger & Montague of Philadelphia, even
suggested to Magistrate Michael Dolinger of the Federal District Court in
Manhattan that he be awarded "the Nobel Prize for Patience" for putting up with
Frederic Parnon of Lord, Day & Lord, Barrett Smith.

The magistrate complained afterward that the transcript was "littered with
schoolboy insults traded between experienced and, no doubt, well-compensated
counsel." He said the problem had eased a bit recently, but Michael Silberberg,
a lawyer in New York, disagreed. "As litigators laboring in the trenches know
only too well, the inappropriate behavior continues," he wrote earlier this
month in The New York Law Journal.

That their case has become so bloody, Mr. Berkovich said, was a result of
long-standing bad blood between the parties. Mr. Popik and Mr. Gandler did not
especially like each another as high school classmates in Kishinev. Mr. Popik
and Mr. Berkovich were not close when they both dated Barnard College students a
few years later. And now they find themselves fighting over a 20-year-old stick
handler.

But the fact that they have taken their squabble to court, Mr. Berkovich added,
reflected how Americanized they had become. "If we fought each other in the
streets or in a bar -- that would be more Russian," he said."

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 16, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Los Angeles Schools: Hobbled and Hurting

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1649 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 10


Like the city it is supposed to serve, the Los Angeles public school system is a
stricken giant, hobbled by financial problems, a threatened teachers' strike and
racial and ethnic strife.

Overcrowded classrooms, leaky roofs, outdated textbooks, metal detectors and
police officers patrolling schools are common in America's inner-city schools.

But no urban education system has faced as sudden a demographic and economic
upheaval as the Los Angeles Unified School District, which serves a city reeling
from immigration and recession.

And no other district must solve its problems in the tinderbox atmosphere that
prevails here less than a year after rioting revealed the jagged fault lines
between rich and poor, white and nonwhite, American born and foreign born in the
nation's second-largest city and its suburbs.

Diversity vs. Divisiveness

Volatile issues abound: the impending strike, a debate about dividing the
behemoth district and a decision about a superintendent. The timing of these
difficulties could not be worse, said John W. Mack, president of the local
chapter of the Urban League.

"Diversity has almost become synonymous with divisiveness here," Mr. Mack said.
"We don't need any more flash points."

Michael Casserly, executive director of the Council of Great City Schools, a
lobbying group in Washington, said that part of the problem in Los Angeles is
endemic to urban education. But part, he said, is "the scale of their operation
and the complexity and diversity of their student body."

The Los Angeles school district, which sprawls over 708 square miles, includes
all or part of 28 cities and, unlike the even larger New York City system, does
not have a decentralized structure.

California's fiscal crisis, the most intractable in the nation, has eroded
school spending statewide and turned a bellwether system into an also-ran, with
spending per student now at $4,187, compared with about $7,300 in New York City.
But even compared with other strapped cities in California, the toll has been
harsh here, where immigrants, both legal and illegal, have swelled school
enrollment to 641,000.

Nowhere is the impact of immigration more evident than in the district's
classrooms, which absorbed 45,000 newcomers from 1989 to 1992, an 8 percent
increase. Many of these new students are impoverished, illiterate Latin American
or Southeast Asian immigrants who have never read a book or worn a pair of shoes
and whose special needs are taxing the mostly white teaching corps.

"You feel inadequate if you don't speak another language," said Ed Zschoche, a
sixth grade teacher at Gage Middle School. "You're accused of racism if you use
discipline."

Even bilingual teachers are under stress. Irene Barillas, a native of El
Salvador who teaches at Belmont High School, said, "I thought I would be doing
what I learned in college, you know -- 'Let's read a novel.' " She said she
empathizes with the white teachers, but added, "Wallowing isn't going to do
anybody any good."

Still Losing Ground

In the areas where two, three and four immigrant families live together in
inadequate housing, school officials have been unable to keep pace. They have
watched class sizes grow to more than 40 in high schools. They have put up
portable classrooms, opened schools year round, adopted staggered schedules and
bused 16,000 students to the less-crowded San Fernando Valley, clear across a
mountain range and nearly two hours away on clogged freeways.

A particularly hard-hit area is Huntington Park, a Hispanic enclave southeast of
the city. Within a few blocks of each other are an elementary school with 2,500
students, a middle school with 3,200 and a high school with 3,800 -- a combined
student population bigger than most districts in the state.

The huge grade school remains hospitable. But the high school and junior high
school are dirty, noisy places. Gail Rolf, a high school health teacher, said
her room had not been swept for more than five weeks. And Mr. Zschoche's
(pronounced SHOCK-ee) middle school students use rank bathrooms and a library
without shelves.

Parents say their children deserve better. "If the place isn't half decent
looking, you're not going to do your best work," said Sergio Palos, a printer
with five children.

Strike Pends This Month

Facing a 12 percent pay cut, teachers have called a strike for Feb. 23 unless
Willie Brown, the shrewd Speaker of the California Assembly, succeeds in his
mediation efforts. The cuts in pay and benefits would close half the $400
million gap in the district's $3.9 billion budget and would lower the teachers'
salary ranking from first in the nation to seventh. The average teacher in Los
Angeles is now paid $38,700, down from $44,000, compared with $41,000 in New
York City.

Resentful Los Angeles teachers, who got a 26 percent increase over three years
after a 1989 strike, say they are spending less of their own money on classroom
supplies and less of their own time tutoring and supervising children. Parents,
even those supportive of union demands, are angry.

'My Expectations Diminish'

Students, for their part, seem sympathetic toward the teachers and well-versed
in the sad saga of state budget cuts. "The government, they're the ones with the
money, and they're hurting us a lot," said Ernesto Fuentes, a senior at Belmont
High. "It just makes me not believe in the system. My expectations diminish."

Civic leaders worry that a long strike would coincide with verdicts in two
trials related to last spring's riots: the Federal civil rights trial of four
white police officers accused of beating a black motorist, Rodney G. King; and
the state trial of three black men charged with beating a white truck driver,
Reginald O. Denny, during the riots.

When schools were shut down during the April riots, high school and middle
school students were among the looters.

Added to this already tense mix is the emotional debate about breaking up the
school district.

Leaders of the breakup movement, based in the middle-class San Fernando Valley,
argue that the sheer size of the system makes efficient management impossible.
Critics, based in Hispanic and black inner-city neighborhoods, counter that
dismantling the district would mean de facto segregation, more by class than by
race.

The 'Black-Brown Thing'

While black and Hispanic residents generally speak as one on the matter of
dividing the district into smaller parts, they will compete fiercely for the
superintendent's post. Sidney A. Thompson, who is black, got the job temporarily
after the abrupt resignation in October of Bill Anton, the district's first
Hispanic leader.

The interim selection of Mr. Thompson stirred up what he and others called the
"black-brown thing." And that was only a dress rehearsal for the ultimate
sweepstakes, which now includes Joseph A. Fernandez, a noted educational
reformer of Hispanic descent who has been dismissed as chancellor of the New
York City schools.

Administrators, teachers, parents and students have divided opinions about the
strike, the break-up proposals and the search for a superintendent. But they
share a sense of alarm about the day-to-day realities in and around their
schools.

Disturbed, Sad, Embarrassed

All are disturbed that teen-agers grind metal into weapons in the machine shop
at Manual Arts High School because they feel a need to defend themselves in the
streets.

All are saddened that the teachers' union locks its supply room during meetings
so its members do not steal the paper and pencils that they have run out of at
school.

All are embarrassed that deferred maintenance costs for the school buildings
have balloonedto $611 million, with painting and roofing on 40-year cycles.

And all are frightened by the violent deaths of two fourth graders at Belvedere
Elementary School in the space of a year in a neighborhood that is home to 31
gangs.

But this unanimity breaks down when the subject turns to the ethnic and racial
fissures in Los Angeles, America's new port of entry.

Cultures in Collision

Students on lunch break at Belmont High School, virtually all of them Hispanic,
segregate themselves according to nationality and length of time in this
country. For some reason, only the athletes speak English among themselves.

Some parents and Hispanic activists at Gage Middle School claim that white and
black teachers are not suitable educators for their children.

And teachers throughout the district debate whether it is best to celebrate the
language and culture of immigrant youngsters or to force them to adopt American
ways.

Some complain that they spend more time commemorating Cinco de Mayo, the
Vietnamese New Year and Kwanzaa than teaching reading, writing and arithmetic.
Others counter that such criticism is sour grapes from those who are not
certified to earn the extra $5,000 a year that goes to bilingual instructors.

Some point out that bilingual certification depends on passing a test about
Mexican culture and history, with no mention of El Salvador, Nicaragua or other
Latin American countries whose citizens have recently flocked here. And others
yearn for seminars on how to teach these children or for sabbaticals to attend
language school.

To Mike Roos, a former State Assemblyman who was an author of a plan to
restructure the Los Angeles schools and whose daughter attends a public high
school here, it is the district's ethnic makeup that is so confounding.

"If these were Euro-American kids, regardless of how they were doing, there
would be less of a sense that things were going wrong," Mr. Roos said. "We don't
know how to reach Salvadoran refugees, Vietnamese boat people, African-Americans
whose neighborhoods are full of crack. There is a widening gulf between those of
us in charge and the successor generation. We can't relate to their reality."


LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Deteriorating buildings are among the many problems facing the
Los Angeles school system. At Gage Junior High School in Huntington Park,
students are forced to use rank, graffiti-covered restrooms. (pg. A1); The woes
of the Los Angeles public school system are symptomatic of those of urban
education throughout America. A physical environment hobbled by inadequate
revenue leaves many exterior lockers at Gage Junior High School in Huntington
Park unrepaired and exposed. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times) (pg. A13)

Chart/Map: "Portrait of a Struggling School District"

Facts from the 1992-93 school year:

   Enrollment -- 641,000
   Number of schools -- 651
   Average teacher's salary -- $38,720
   Funding per student -- $4,187
   District budget -- $3.9 billion (a $400 million deficit)
   Students bused because of overcrowding -- 16,000 (at a cost of $1,367 a
student)

Ethnic breakdown of the student population:

   White -- 12.6%
   Hispanic -- 65.1%
   Black -- 14.6%
   Other -- 7.7%

Ethnic breakdown of teachers

   White -- 60.6%
   Hispanic -- 13.1%
   Black -- 17.2%
   Other -- 9.1%

Ethnic breakdown of the school board

   White -- 4
   Hispanic -- 1
   Black -- 1
   Asian -- 1

(Source: Los Angeles Unified School District, United Teachers of Los Angeles)
(pg. A13)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 17, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants, In Gratitude, Aid Neediest

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 573 words


When Lynn Chen was growing up in China, her image of America was shaped by the
state-controlled media, which spoke darkly of a troubled land blighted by
rampant crime, racial strife, homelessness and oppressive work conditions.

But since she came to the United States seven years ago to attend graduate
school, she has developed a more balanced view. She has grown to love American
democracy and feels grateful that she was allowed to stay here after the
crackdown on democracy protesters in Tiananmen Square in 1989.

In a letter to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, Ms. Chen, who lives in
North Bergen, N.J., cited a Chinese expression: "Doubly return one's favor." She
said that she and her husband, between the two of them, have lived in the United
States for a total of 18 years, so they decided to donate $36.

Care for Destitute

"It is unfortunate that there are poverty and other problems in America," she
wrote. "It pained me to see they were used by the Chinese propaganda machine to
excuse the tyrannical regime. But it is independent entities like yours, which
cannot exist under Communism, that care for destitute people when government
can't."

"I hope your continuous striving will make American a glorious example of
democracy for oppressed people in China and all over the world," she added.

Several other immigrants sent donations to the Neediest Cases, explaining that
they felt an obligation to give something back to the nation that offered them
shelter.

'Our Privilege to Help'

"This country has been very good to us and we feel it is our privilege to help
others," wrote Dr. M. M. Deshmukh of Mamaroneck, N.Y., who sent $100 to the
fund. "If this will help a child to secure food and shelter -- and allow him to
gain an education -- it will have been worthwhile."

Since the early years of the century, The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has
rescued people who have nowhere to turn. The Times pays the fund's expenses, so
all contributions go directly to seven charities.

This year's campaign is down about $550,000 compared with last year's
contributions at this point. But there is still time to give: the current
Neediest appeal ends on Feb. 28.



HOW TO AID FUND

Checks should be made payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund and sent
to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or to any of these
organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE, 285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK, 1011 First Avenue, New York,
N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS, 191 Joralemon Street,
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY, 105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK, 105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y.
10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES, 281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y.
10010.

UNITED JEWISH APPEAL-FEDERATION OF JEWISH PHILANTHROPIES OF NEW YORK, 130 East
59th Street, Room 427, New York, N.Y. 10022.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York
Times Neediest Cases Fund.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes
to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded . . . . $4,124,106.39
Recorded yesterday. . . . . $20,587.00

Total . . . . . . . . . . . $4,144,693.39

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 18, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

SPORTS PEOPLE: BASKETBALL;
Polynice Joins Fast To Protest Policy

SECTION: Section B; Page 17; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 116 words


OLDEN POLYNICE, the Detroit Pistons' 7-foot, 250-pound center, says he will eat
only on game days as he joins the Rev. JESSE JACKSON in a hunger strike to bring
attention to the United States' immigration policy toward Haitian refugees.

The Haitian-born Polynice said he didn't know how long his semi-fast would last.
He criticized President CLINTON yesterday for backing off a campaign promise to
stop returning Haitian refugees found on the high seas back to their homeland.

Polynice said he joined the fast after speaking to Jackson. "I'll probably eat
enough before the games just to get me through the games," he said. "I don't
think it's going to bother me at all." (AP)


LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 21, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Sharpton Joins Fast Against Haitian Ban

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 217 words


The Rev. Al Sharpton began a five-day hunger strike yesterday to protest the
exclusion of Haitian refugees who have the virus that causes AIDS from the
United States.

Mr. Sharpton joins the Rev. Jesse Jackson, who began fasting on Feb. 14 to
protest United States policy toward the Haitians being held at Guantanamo Bay in
Cuba. Mr. Sharpton also called for other public figures and elected officials to
join the fast, which he said may be extended past five days.

"These people, who sought to come to the United States, are faced with a very
unfair and, in my judgment, biased policy banning them from the United States,"
Mr. Sharpton said. "The hunger strike is to dramatize and publicize their
plight."

The 270 or so Haitians held at the United States naval base at Guantanamo were
interviewed by the Immigration and Naturalization Service and were found to have
grounds for asylum, but were prevented from entering the country by a Bush
Administration policy barring immigrants with H.I.V., the virus that causes
AIDS. Many of the detainees began fasting in late January to pressure the
Clinton Administration to lift the ban, but the United States Senate voted 76 to
23 on Thursday to uphold the policy.

Mr. Sharpton said that he would only drink water and juice during the fast.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 24, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Public & Private;
Lost in Limbo

BYLINE: By ANNA QUINDLEN

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 721 words


There is a political problem baking under the hot sun at Guantanamo Bay, a
political problem ringed with razor wire, housed in wooden barracks, living amid
rats and scorpions while soldiers watch from guard towers.

But the truth is that all political problems turn out to be people, in one
fashion or another. This one is 267 people, held in a latter-day leprosarium on
a United States naval base, waiting for a decision about what will become of the
rest of their lives.

They are Haitians, mostly adults, some children, who left their homeland in
boats for the succor of the United States more than year ago.  Their illusions
about a voyage to freedom seem pathetic now. Immigration officials determined
that all of them had credible claims for asylum. But the Haitians have had to
prove that not only their motives but their blood is pure. The Guantanamo Bay
encampment, in Cuba, is home to those who turned out to be H.I.V. positive, a
place called limbo.

It exists because of a ban, the ban that forbids immigrants who are infected
with the AIDS virus to enter this country. The American Bar Association opposes
the ban. The American Medical Association has said it is scientifically
specious. And Bill Clinton campaigned on overturning it.  That was the hope of
the people in limbo.

Last week the Senate decided to pre-empt the President and voted to make the ban
Federal law. This was not homophobia or xenophobia, some members insisted: it
was fiscal prudence. Letting potential AIDS patients into the United States
could result in increased health care costs.

If health care cost analysis is to be our future immigration policy, then why
stop at H.I.V. infection? What about cancer patients? Or, for that matter,
likely cancer patients -- if a woman wants to come here but has a family history
of breast cancer, do we really want to take the risk that she may contract the
disease and cost us money? Shouldn't we take a second look at diabetic
immigrants, immigrants with heart problems, immigrants who smoke and are at much
greater risk of contracting emphysema and lung cancer than those who do not?

Of course not. We should consider whether people are coming here, as they always
have, because they fear real repression or truly seek to build a better life.
And then we should let them in believing, as we always have, that the vast
majority of immigrants wind up enriching this country. "Huddled masses," it says
at the base of the Statue of Liberty. "Wretched refuse." Not "perfect specimen."

The Clinton Administration has not kept faith with the beleaguered people of
Haiti. Candidate Clinton promised a change in the Bush Administration policy
that sent Haitian refugees in boats back to their island home without a hearing;
President Clinton changed his mind, saying he was afraid of lost lives at sea.
Candidate Clinton promised an end to the immigration ban on H.I.V.-positive
foreigners; President Clinton appears to be loath to tangle with Congress over
this issue.

But behind every issue there are just people, in one fix or another, and the
people in limbo are essentially in jail for no more reason than that some are
sick, some are H.I.V. positive and some are family to those in the other two
groups. The portable toilets are stinking; sheets are hung within the barracks
for some nominal privacy. It is difficult to imagine the same sort of provisions
being made by the American Government for Irish immigrants or Soviet Jews
without considerable public uproar.

The unsanitary and overcrowded conditions would be bad enough for healthy
people, never mind those with depressed immune systems. One immigration
spokesman, asked about denials of requests for medical airlifts to the United
States, was said to have responded, "They're going to die anyway, aren't they?"

They won't go back because they fear death. We won't let them in because they
face death. So they sit within their cattle enclosure, waiting for death. Mr.
Clinton can think of this as a potentially unpopular decision, for it surely is.
Or he can think of it as real people, with real lives, like the woman who wrote
from Guantanamo Bay to her two children earlier this month, "Don't count on me
anymore, because I have lost in the struggle for life." So much for lifting our
lamp beside the golden door.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 2, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

When an Accent Becomes an Issue;
Immigrants Turn to Speech Classes to Reduce Sting of Bias

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1694 words


When Carmen Friedman, an immigrant from Colombia, began dating the man who would
become her husband, she felt embarrassed because she mispronounced his first
name, Joseph, as "Yoseph."

When she started a job as a substitute teacher a year ago, she dreaded going to
work, becoming nauseated at the thought of having to speak in front of a new
class.

Finally, when she realized that her accent had not diminished, even after nearly
five years in the United States, she became so unnerved by the idea of not
fitting in that she paid for lessons to eliminate her accent.

"I don't want my accent to hurt my self-esteem anymore," said Mrs. Friedman, who
is 31 years old and lives in Queens. "I know I can get my point across in
English, but I don't want to feel uncomfortable every time I say something."

Still an Impediment

As the ethnic composition of New York City and the nation changes under a
growing tide of immigration, accents are still an impediment, even a stigma, for
millions of people in school, at work and in social settings.

Aside from the differences of comprehension that thick accents may create,
immigrants say that their experiences often reflect an underlying bias against
them. But they feel their choice is between speech lessons or exclusion.

Saying they face ridicule, condescension or hostility, many immigrants go to
great lengths to reduce their accents and speak like natives, often seeking
speech therapists and tutors for help.

And in a few isolated cases, people who have felt discriminated against because
of their accents have turned to the courts, making formal complaints like those
filed for years by victims of racial and ethnic discrimination.

"People still think that there is no problem with being intolerant over the way
other people speak," said Charles Cairns, a professor of linguistics at Queens
College and the City University of New York Graduate Center. "They feel that
it's acceptable to criticize or discriminate against people with nonstandard
ways of speaking English."

Turning to Speech Lessons

Even though experts say such sentiments amount to bias, immigrants have turned
to speech lessons offered by tutors, private companies and colleges. Although it
is difficult to determine how many people have taken such courses, experts say
they are becoming increasingly popular among immigrants.

Pace University, for instance, offers about four voice and diction courses each
semester that include lessons on accent reduction, up from about two classes
five years ago. At New York Speech Improvement Services in Manhattan, more than
half of the 200 clients that come weekly are immigrants.

At the same time, many immigrants who are fluent in English are debating whether
they need such courses at all and whether by taking them they are surrendering
their cultural identity.

"Sometimes native Americans act like they have never heard a person with an
accent," said Galo Conde, a New York City public-school teacher who arrived from
Colombia 20 years ago and who says he has often been snubbed by others,
including his students, because of his accent. "But I think when you have an
accent it gives you a certain originality, something that is singular, something
that is yours."

Divisions Aren't New

The divisions and debate over accents and dialects have long been a part of
American culture, from condescension toward a Southern drawl or Brooklynese to
the question of whether black English is a legitimate dialect to the more recent
issue of whether Caribbean schoolchildren in New York City who speak dialectal
English should be entitled to lessons in English as a second language.

"Speech has always been a popular indicator of education and intelligence," said
Sam Chwat, a speech therapist and director of New York Speech Improvement
Services who counts among his accomplishments teaching Robert De Niro to shed
his New York accent for his role in "Cape Fear." "To me, it is cosmetic. It has
nothing to do with your logic, fund of information or ability to problem-solve."

Yet remarks, gibes and ridicule about accents arouse anger, insecurity and shame
among their targets, leaving many immigrants feeling cheated of the chance to
assimilate.

Making Accent an Issue

One such person, a Dominican woman from Queens, enrolled reluctantly in
accent-elimination classes last month after the corporation she worked for made
an issue of her accent in her last two job reviews.

The woman, a 48-year-old senior accountant who spoke on the condition of
anonymity because she feared losing her job, learned English within a few years
of arriving in the United States in 1967 and later earned a master's degree in
business at St. John's University.

But in otherwise positive job reviews recently, she said, her managers
complained that they often could not understand her because of her thick accent.
She found the criticism absurd, particularly since no one had previously raised
the issue during her more than 20 years of employment there, but she went to a
speech-evaluation clinic nonetheless.

"They said there was no problem understanding me," she said of the people at the
clinic.

Now she is suspicious and angry, wondering if the criticism was concocted to
keep her from being promoted, as she hopes to be. "I think this whole thing has
been fabricated to keep me from advancing within the company," she said. With
much bitterness, the woman said she chose to conform rather than complain.

"It's been a very sad experience for me," she added.

Attitudes Reflect Biases

Experts who study the interaction between social behavior and language say that
attitudes toward accents often reflect other biases. Many people, for instance,
view a French accent as romantic while they dismiss as incomprehensible the
accents of immigrants from Asian or Latin American countries.

"Our linguistic perceptions fall along class and racial lines in the country,"
said Randolph Wills, managing attorney for New York City's Human Rights
Commission, which in the last year investigated three cases in which people said
they were denied jobs because of their accents. One company settled with a
complainant and the other cases are pending.

The bias arises daily in many ways and places. In a report last February, the
United States Commission on Civil Rights identified discrimination against
Asian-Americans in the workplace, citing, among other things, discrimination
against those with accents. In Westfield, Mass., hundreds signed a petition last
summer to bar teachers with accents from teaching young children.

A Federal Lawsuit

Last year, the Federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission filed its first
lawsuit on the issue, accusing a California company of discrimination after it
dismissed an employee who was a native of India because the company felt his
accent was not good for its image. Officials and experts predict that similar
cases will arise as more immigrants arrive.

"The issue seems to have come of age," said Raj K. Gupta, executive assistant to
the agency's commissioner, referring to a flurry of letters and telephone calls
from people who, after having learned about the first lawsuit, described similar
cases of bias to the agency.

Many more immigrants, however, live silently amid what they describe as
hostility toward them because of the way they speak.

Ten years ago, when Mari Santana was studying broadcasting at Montclair State
College in Upper Montclair, N.J., a professor urged her to change her major,
suggesting that her accent would be a liability, she said. " 'It's still not too
late for you to change your major,' " she recalled him telling her each time she
entered his class. " 'You'll never get a job.' "

A Course She Didn't Need

Demoralized, Ms. Santana, a native of the Dominican Republic, enrolled in a
speech course, but the instructor felt she did not need the lessons and asked
her to leave to make room for someone who did.

Ms. Santana, whose accent is slight, felt desperate. "It became an obsession for
me to graduate and move on," she said. In 1983, Ms. Santana finished college and
has since worked as a reporter in both English- and Spanish-language television.

She is now an anchorwoman for the evening news at a local Spanish-language
station, Channel 47, and acknowledges that during her career, she has met a few
people who are put off by the way she speaks English. She has come to see
character, however, even charm, in her accent. "I have to be me," she said,
although she adds that she is taking diction courses to broaden her job
prospects.

Some linguists question the value of accent-reduction instruction, arguing that
accents should not be treated as impairments, particularly when they do not hurt
communication. Some even say the lessons prey on fears, while those who teach
the courses maintain that they help bolster self-confidence.

"I question the need for an accent-correction course when the person can already
be understood," said Angela Parrino, an assistant professor of applied
linguistics at Hunter College who teaches an accent reduction class at Queens
College.

No Promises

The other morning, on the first day of her new class, Ms. Parrino made no
promises to her students about what they would sound like when the course ended
in May. Instead, she stressed the importance of speaking clearly and carefully,
while pointing out that among native Americans, there is a diversity of speech
patterns and dialects.

One student in the class, John Castillo, a 22-year-old from Colombia, feels that
the course is critical to his future. "To tell you the truth," he said during a
break, "this class is my last hope. If it doesn't work out, I'm going back to my
country."

The problem, he said, is that he feels his accent sets him apart from others,
even though he has lived in this country for nine years. He graduated from
Newtown High School in Queens and is now a junior at Queens College.

"I was practically raised in this country," he said, speaking in a soft, lilting
accent. "But I have this accent. Does that mean I'm not an American? I don't
know."


LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Castillo, a 22-year-old from Colombia, feels his accent
sets him apart even though he has lived in this country for nine years. "This
class is my last hope," he said. "If it doesn't work out, I'm going back to my
country." (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 2, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Despite Plans, U.S. Refugee Processing in Haiti Is Said to Lag

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 860 words

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, March 1


Six weeks after the Clinton Administration promised to sharply increase refugee
processing in Haiti for people trying to flee political violence, asylum
procedures here remain largely unchanged, immigration experts say.

The critical assessment comes as the Supreme Court is set to hear arguments on
Tuesday in a case that will decide the legality of a decision by the Bush
Administration last May to return all Haitians intercepted on the high seas
while trying to flee their country.

After criticizing the Bush policy as immoral during the Presidential campaign,
President Clinton, on the eve of his inauguration, endorsed the deployment off
Haiti of more than 20 Coast Guard and Navy vessels to prevent a huge new outflow
of refugees.

Defending his decision, Mr. Clinton said his Administration would seek to make
the perilous exodus by boat unnecessary by posting American consular officials
around the Haitian countryside to take asylum applications, and by streamlining
procedures for obtaining political refuge from inside Haiti.

40,000 Try to Flee

Since the overthrow of Haiti's elected President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand
Aristide, in September 1991, more than 40,000 Haitians have tried to reach the
United States by small boat. Nearly three-quarters of them were returned to
Haiti by the United States Coast Guard.

"As far as I can tell, the new Administration is still trying to configure its
response to the problem," said Arthur C. Helton, an immigration expert with the
Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, a New York-based organization that has
worked on behalf of Haitian refugees. "Based on what we have seen, I have no
confidence at this point that we are going to have an improved and more
sensitive in-country system."

Several State Department and Immigration and Naturalization Service officials
who are involved in policy toward Haitian refugees conceded that there had been
a slow start in forming a new approach to the thousands of Haitians seeking to
flee for political reasons. These officials said, however, that in coming days
the refugee-processing capacity in the capital, Port-au-Prince, would be doubled
to about 200 a week.

Officials said the "turnaround time" required to process an application
completely would likewise be quickened to an average of one week. In the past,
some applications have languished for months before an asylum-seeker was given
final word of his case's outcome.

To this end, officials said, the number of United States immigration agents
posted in Haiti has recently been increased to seven from three, and the number
of workers for a private agency employed in the screening of the asylum seekers,
the International Organization for Migration, nearly doubled to 29.

As yet, however, officials said, there has been no definitive decision about
whether to set up processing centers in Haiti's provincial towns and
countryside.

"There have been at least two initiatives, the major one being the effort to get
human rights monitors into the country and begin the process of changing Haiti
that will lead to the building of institutions that will make democracy
durable," a State Department official involved in refugee issues said, referring
to the recent deployment of United Nations observers to Haiti. The other
initiative, the official said, was the expected speeding of the application
process.

Despite the presence of more than 60 monitors in the country, immigration
officials in Haiti said applications for asylum at the sole processing center in
Port-au-Prince had jumped dramatically in recent days from a trickle to more
than 100 a day. The increase comes after a series of violent crackdowns on
political dissent by the Haitian military.

Screening Is Criticized

Refugee advocates have criticized the screening effort, saying its offices in
the capital are conspicuously situated on a congested downtown street near the
National Palace and police headquarters.

Applicants for asylum, they say, must reveal themselves before other Haitians
employed in the screening process, further increasing their anxiety. For many, a
chance at a successful outcome has meant repeated visits to the downtown office,
whether the asylum seeker lives in a remote country town or is in hiding in the
capital.

For those most at risk, the critics say, participation in the program has been
discouraged by the fear of exposure during the application process and the
duration of bureaucratic procedures, which involve several layers of screening,
health checkups and placement in the United States by voluntary agencies before
being ushered out of the country.

"You cannot expect that the reasonable, rational person in hiding will conclude
that they should travel to Port-au-Prince to fill out some form, reveal the most
intimate and compromising parts of their lives to countrymen and strangers and
be told to return," said Carol Wolchok, director of the American Bar
Association's Center for Immigration Law. "What Haiti needs is an underground
railroad. For many people that railroad was the boats, and we have shut that
off. So far there is nothing new out there for them."

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 7, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Haitian Dissident Loses Plea for U.S. Refugee Visa

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 678 words

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, March 4


In a case that international human rights groups say exemplifies the flaws in a
Clinton Administration program to grant asylum to Haitians fleeing persecution
in their country, a dissident who fled his hometown after being severely beaten
by the military has been denied a visa to the United States.

The dissident, Ferleau Norde, a 27-year-old guitarist, whose story of detention
and torture was recounted in The New York Times last month, said he was recently
called in by the United States Embassy here and handed a form letter saying that
his request for a refugee visa had been rejected.

The letter, sent from an Immigration and Naturalization Service office in
Mexico, said that "after carefully reviewing your version of events and the
related circumstances, it was determined that you are not qualified to obtain
refugee status for the reasons checked off below." The reasons cited were that
the events recounted by Mr. Norde "did not constitute persecution according to
immigration law," that they did not constitute a "reasonable fear of
persecution" and that he "was not able to prove that the actions taken against
him" were because of his political opinions.

Despite the letter's assurances of a careful review, an American official who
supervises refugee screening here said there had been no investigation into Mr.
Norde's assertions that he had been repeatedly beaten and tortured in his
hometown, Dame-Marie, in September.

Asked about Mr. Norde's case, a senior State Department official who oversees
refugee policy said local investigation into an individual case was not seen as
a requirement before adjudication. The official added, however, that because of
the "notoriety" of Mr. Norde's request for a refugee visa, his application might
be reconsidered.

Actual asylum is applied for on American soil. But once granted refugee status,
on reaching the United States the applicant is routinely granted permanent
residence.

Mr. Norde said he had been arrested after signing a petition circulating in the
town at the time calling for an international conference on human rights in
Haiti. Released only after townspeople rallied outside a military garrison on
his behalf, he said that he soon fled to Port-au-Prince, where he has remained
in hiding since.

Mr. Norde's initial request for a refugee visa from the United States, made on
Nov. 5, went three months without a definitive reply. "They told me that there
is no reason to fear returning home, but every week I hear news of other people
I know who have been forced to flee the town," Mr. Norde said in an interview
here this week. "At this point I don't believe the embassy has done anything to
look into my case. There is a Canadian priest there who can confirm everything
I've told them, but they have never contacted him."

Anne Fuller, deputy director of the National Coalition for Haitian Refugees,
said: "Here we have a case of someone who suffered greatly, was arrested and
tortured, yet was turned down even though the events he told of in his area were
easily confirmable. If such an individual is turned down, we must wonder who
will be helped by this program."

Despite the letter saying Mr. Norde had not been able to prove his story, the
official said the United States program in Haiti did not place the burden of
proving assertions of persecution on those seeking refugee visas.

The Clinton Administration announced this week that it would be spending up to
$5 million to strengthen the program, including the posting of immigration
officials in provincial towns to conduct interviews.

Advocates for Haitian refugees say cases like Mr. Norde's are commonplace in the
program, which by mid-February had approved 179 applications for refugee visas
out of over 5,000 cases the State Department said had been "vetted."

Until recently, they say, immigration officers posted to Haiti to screen for
political refugees were sent only for short terms, had no background in such
screening and had little familiarity with Haiti or its most widely used
language, Creole.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 7, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Israel Set to Use U.S. Loan Guarantees

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 935 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, March 6


For many months they held center stage in United States-Israeli relations,
becoming a barometer of how the countries were getting along.

President George Bush withheld them from Israel to punish one Prime Minister,
Yitzhak Shamir, then handed them as a reward to a triumphant new leader, Yitzhak
Rabin.

Now, with political squabbles set aside, Israel is about to go to market using
the much-disputed American loan guarantees, which will make it easier for this
country to borrow up to $10 billion over the next five years to help generate
jobs for a large influx of new immigrants.

The first $1 billion in these American-backed loans are expected within a month,
and Finance Minister Avraham Shohat says they will be used for
telecommunications, power generation, roads and other infrastructure
improvements.

While the United States is not putting up its own money -- only its assurance
that it will cover bad debts should the Israelis default -- it will closely
monitor how the borrowed cash is spent. Most of all, American officials say,
they want to be sure that none of it winds up in the occupied West Bank and Gaza
Strip, as Washington believes was the case under Mr. Shamir two years ago with a
smaller batch of American-guaranteed loans.

'Under a Microscope'

Mr. Shohat has reportedly acknowledged to American Jewish leaders that Israel's
spending habits "will be under a microscope" for quite a while.

Loan guarantees aside, questions have arisen about how much longer Israelis can
count on the substantial amount of regular American aid -- $3 billion a year --
that their leaders have come to expect as their due. In recent weeks, they have
heard fresh American warnings that while the aid looks safe for 1994, they had
better not take it for granted in following years.

"The commitment of the American Government and people to Israel is not in
question, now or in the future," William C. Harrop, the United States Ambassador
to Israel, said on Thursday. "But it may prove difficult to maintain our
economic aid at its current high level."

On Friday, the State Department distanced itself from Mr. Harrop's remarks,
saying that "he was not speaking on instructions" from Washington. Nonetheless,
the Ambassador merely echoed what the Israelis had already heard from others,
including members of Congress.

The $3 billion a year amounts to 8 percent of Israel's Government budget and 5
percent of its gross national product, but Israelis disagree among themselves
about how indispensable that total is.

Rabin to Meet Clinton

Not vital at all, say some, conspicuously rightists who argue that the less that
Israel depends on Washington's largesse, the less vulnerable it will be to
American pressure to give up settlement activity and land in the territories.
But that is not the view of the present Government, and when Mr. Rabin leaves
next week for the United States and a first meeting with President Clinton, one
of his priorities will be to nail down existing aid levels.

A few weeks ago, staging the equivalent of a pre-emptive strike to protect the
assistance, the Prime Minister said Israel "is entitled, more than entitled" to
the $3 billion it has been getting since the mid-1980's. Joining the refrain,
Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said inflation had cut the value of the aid
package by about one-third over the years.

Moreover, Israeli officials note that relatively little of this money ends up in
Government coffers.

Of the total, $1.2 billion is considered economic aid, but it goes right back to
Washington to repay old Israeli debts for military purchases. Of the $1.8
billion in military aid, more than 70 percent must be spent on United
States-made equipment and weapons, and thus, the Israelis argue, it helps create
American jobs.

Even so, some Israelis and their American Jewish supporters acknowledge that
talk about Israel's entitlement may not sit well in Washington at a time when
foreign aid is unpopular and other countries also demand American attention.
Israel, the largest single recipient, accounts for 20 percent of the total
foreign-aid budget, and even a supporter like Senator Daniel K. Inouye, Democrat
of Hawaii, has warned against thinking "it will go on forever."

On a recent visit, Mr. Inouye proposed new forms of assistance, like an
American-Israeli project to expand the port of Haifa so United States warships
in the Mediterranean could berth there for maintenance and repairs.

Favorable Terms Given

Questions about Israeli dependence on Washington also extend to the loan
guarantees, which provide Israel favorable bank terms that it probably would not
receive on its own: 30-year borrowing, low interest rates and no repayment of
the principal for the first 10 years.

The terms are so good that Mr. Shohat recently asked the Israel Bonds
organization, which had raised a record $1.2 billion worldwide last year, to
scale back its own more costly borrowing by about 20 percent.

But the Israel Bonds president, Meir Rosenne, argues that unlike the case with
the money he raises, "there are strings attached" to the American loan
guarantees: In future installments, the United States could deduct spending in
the territories that it considers unacceptable, and theoretically Mr. Clinton
can scrap the guarantees entirely at any point, even out of dissatisfaction with
Israel's economic performance.

While the new Administration is considered a friend here, somber possibilities
were brought home when Ambassador Harrop observed that the pace of economic
change "has been slow, in fact rather disappointing."

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 12, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

METRO DIGEST

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 506 words



NEW YORK CITY

IMMIGRATION MISSED BOMBING SUSPECT

When Mohammed A. Salameh, one of the two main suspects in the bombing of the
World Trade Center, entered the United States as a temporary foreign visitor in
1987, he slipped through a Federal immigration bureaucracy that had no plan or
hope of ever tracking him amid the nation's vast tide of illegal aliens. A1.

FOREIGN FUNDS TRACED TO GERMANY

The foreign funds wired over recent months into the New Jersey joint bank
account of two arrested suspects in the bombing have been traced to Germany, law
enforcement officials said. B5.


Despite his eight years in America, the 25-year-old chemical engineer arrested
this week remained a traditionalist, relatives said. B5.

THE END OF THE WILLOWBROOK ERA

For decades, Willowbrook State School on Staten Island was a barren warehouse
for 6,000 mentally retarded people and came to symbolize everything that was
wrong with the care of the mentally retarded, prompting sweeping reforms. The
transformation to care in small group homes reached a final milestone: A U.S.
District Judge has ended 18 years of federal court supervision over former
Willowbrook residents. A1.

CAR THIEF DROPS OFF TINY PASSENGER

Moments after pushing a woman out of the front seat of a van and stealing the
vehicle in Morningside Heights, the police said, a thief realized he had an
unexpected passenger: an 8-month-old baby girl. B3.

RULING ON SHELTER FOR THOSE WITH H.I.V.

A New York Supreme Court judge has ruled that New York City must provide certain
minimum standards in housing homeless people with H.I.V. who have symptoms of
illness but do not yet have AIDS, a decision that advocates for the homeless say
would force the city to remove this group from the city's shelters. B3.

TEACHER ARRESTED ON ASSAULT CHARGES

A substitute teacher has been arrested on assault charges after second-grade
students in a Brooklyn elementary school told their parents the instructor had
hit them with his hands and with a pointer, the police said. B3.

Rise in gay bias incidents reported. B6.

Police Commissioner Kelly has ordered the deployment of a limited number of
patrol cars occupied by one officer. B6.

REGION

BRADY AIDS FLORIO BID

With his opponents on the ropes, Gov. Jim Florio pressed his campaign against
assault firearms. Speaking from the Governor's office, James S. Brady, the White
House press secretary who was paralyzed in 1981 by a bullet intended for Ronald
Reagan, urged New Jersey to retain its ban on such weapons. B4.

ATLANTIC CITY CASINOS CO-OPTING BINGO

The triumphant cry of "Bingo!" is being heard these days in unfamiliar
surroundings -- inside many of Atlantic City's gambling casinos. And that is bad
news for organizations across the state that have depended on bingo to raise an
estimated $35 million each year -- money that bought equipment for volunteer
fire departments or sent children to summer camps. B4.

Our Towns by John Tierney B4

Chronicle B6

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Pulse: Unemployment Insurance" tracks number of unemployed
people in Connecticut, New Jersey, and New York who have exhaused their
benefits. Graph runs monthly since the beginning of 1992. (Source: Labor
Department in each state).

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 14, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Help the Guantanamo Haitians

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 425 words


More than 200 Haitians infected with the AIDS virus languish in a primitive camp
on the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, forbidden to enter this country and
unable to return home for fear of persecution. Despite the ban on immigrants
infected with the AIDS virus, there are strong humanitarian and political
reasons to make an exception for this small band of refugees.

Their plight overrides the small medical risks and the costs they might impose.
And they would not bring the same problems as would a large wave of permanent
immigrants.

This page recently counseled against lifting the ban on immigration by
individuals infected with the AIDS virus unless it could be shown that the risk
of spreading disease was negligible and that the costs could be borne by an
overburdened health care system. Immigration is not a "right" but a privilege
extended to some 700,000 individuals each year from a huge applicant pool.

But refugees seeking political asylum have a stronger claim. Unlike immigrants,
political refugees face the risk of death, imprisonment or persecution in their
homeland. That's why United Nations treaties and U.S. law forbid returning any
refugees who have a well-founded fear of persecution. The refugees do not have
to be admitted to the U.S., but they cannot be sent back home.  Most of the
Haitians at Guantanamo Bay have already persuaded American officials that they
have a plausible fear of persecution at home -- and half have passed the next
hurdle, persuading officials that they have a well-founded fear. Now they seek
to come to the U.S. to pursue their claims for asylum. Some 10,000 other Haitian
refugees have already been allowed into the U.S. while their claims are being
processed. Those held in Cuba differ only in their infection by AIDS.

This small group poses a minor risk of spreading AIDS and would not be a heavy
financial burden. It probably costs more to keep them at Guantanamo that it
would to treat all of them for AIDS in the U.S. And the Government needn't bear
those costs: John Cardinal O'Connor has said the Archdiocese of New York would
help find jobs, living quarters and hospital care.

To detain the infected Haitians in a crowded, filthy camp at Guantanamo is
inhumane and dangerous. The risk of catching infections is especially great for
individuals whose immune systems are under attack by the AIDS virus. The
infected Haitians need to be moved. Their only likely haven is the United
States. The Attorney General, who has the authority, should waive them in.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 21, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants, Don't Be in Such a Hurry to Shed Your Accents

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 395 words


To the Editor:

You report that immigrants in New York City are turning to speech classes to
reduce the sting of discrimination against them based on accent (news article,
March 2). I'd like to tell all my fellow immigrants taking accent-reduction
classes: As long as you speak fluent and comprehensible English, don't waste
your money on artificially removing your accent.

I am fortunate enough to be one of the linguistically gifted. I even acquired an
American accent before I left China for the United States five years ago. From
the day I set foot on this continent till now, the praise of my English has
never ceased. What most people single out is that I have no, or very little
accent.

However, I know I do have an accent, which some experts say is Chinese and some
say British (I had British teachers for the first three years I studied
English). Whether it's Chinese or British or maybe a combination, I intend to
keep it because it belongs to me.

I want to speak and write grammatically flawless English, but I have no desire
to equip myself with a perfect American accent. I always feel it is a pity when
I hear Asian-looking youngsters speak indigenous English, especially with a
typical American teen-ager pattern of speech. I have always wished they had an
accent.

America is probably the largest place for accents in English because the entire
nation is composed of immigrants from different areas of the world. This country
is built on accents. Accent is one of the most conspicuous symbols of what makes
America the free and prosperous land its own people are proud of and other
people long to live in.

I work in an urban institution where accents are an integral part of my job:
students, faculty and staff come from ethnically diverse backgrounds. Hearing
accents confirms for me every day that the college is fulfilling its goal to
offer education to a multicultural population.

I wonder what accent my fellow immigrants should obtain after getting rid of
their own: a New York accent? A Boston accent? Brooklyn? Texas? California? Or
go after President Clinton's accent?

Fellow immigrants, don't worry about the way you speak until Peter Jennings
eliminates his Canadian accent.

YAN HONG KROMPACKY
Jersey City, N.J., March 3, 1993

The writer is assistant director of graduate studies at Jersey City State
College.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 27, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Judge Orders Better Care for Haitians With AIDS

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 454 words


A Federal judge ordered the Clinton Administration yesterday to provide better
medical care to the Haitian refugees with AIDS who are being held at the naval
base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, either at the refugee camp itself or by evacuating
them within 10 days.

The order puts the Clinton Administration in the awkward position of choosing
between protecting the refugees' human rights and setting a politically
unpopular precedent. It forces President Clinton, who had proposed allowing the
immigrants who tested positive for H.I.V. to enter the country, to deal again
with the issue that backfired on him when Congress opposed the proposal.

The President's lawyers went to court early this month to defend the
Government's refusal to admit the 250 Haitian refugees at Guantanamo to the
United States. Most of these refugees had permission from immigration officials
to come to the United States, but were denied entry when they or their relatives
tested positive for H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS. They have been held 16
months.

In a two-week trial, military doctors testified before District Judge Sterling
Johnson Jr. in Brooklyn that they had recommended medical evacuations for the
sickest Haitians as early as last May but were ignored. And Government lawyers
acknowledged that the Haitians who have AIDS were not receiving adequate
treatment at Guantanamo.

Lawyers for the Haitians applauded the order, and expressed concern that the
Government might appeal.

"I think the Government at this point should be offering apologies and not
seeking appeals," said Joseph Tringali, a lawyer for the Haitians.

Judge Johnson, in an interim order that did not discuss the ultimate fate of all
the Haitians at Guantanamo, ordered medical treatment for the sick Haitians "to
prevent any loss of life." Since the Government testified that the care at
Guantanamo was inadequate, the judge effectively ordered the Haitians evacuated
"to a place (except Haiti) where such medical care is available."

Lawyers for the refugees estimated that at least 36 of the H.I.V.-positive
Haitians were sick enough to qualify for the evacuation. Lawyers for the
Government estimated that only 15 to 20 were eligible. New blood tests are
expected to be administered soon to determine the actual number.

"It's great that these people will finally get treatment," said Lucas Guttentag,
another lawyer for the Haitians. "But it's unbelievable that the Government is
willing to incarcerate them until they're just so sick that they have to be
medically evacuated. That's an unbelievably cruel and irrational policy."

Joe Krovisky, a spokesman for the Justice Department, declined to comment
immediately on the judge's order.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 12, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

An Immigrant Finds Death At a Brooklyn Playground

BYLINE: By LYNDA RICHARDSON

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1617 words


It began as a balmy spring afternoon, so fine that the temptation to shed
jackets and backpacks and shoot hoops was irresistible. It sent Christian Abakpa
and his two immigrant brothers to a Brooklyn playground to hone their newly
acquired skill at the foreign sport of pick-up basketball.

Across the courts, Kenneth Parks and "his boys" were dribbling away at a rougher
version of the game -- "Utah," as they call it in Brooklyn, a wide-open street
game that requires deft touches, dazzling streaks to the hoop and heavy doses of
every-player-for-himself macho posturing.

But within minutes, a routine accident turned into a nightmare. According to the
police and those who witnessed the incident last Monday, an errant basketball
bounced off the rim and strayed into Mr. Parks's court, hitting a teen-ager in
the head. A scuffle began. Mr. Abakpa stepped in to defend one of his brothers.
A knife was plunged into his chest. Seventeen years old, he died in his mother's
arms on a cracked sidewalk. Mr. Parks was charged with murder.

Little in Common But Death

The two teen-agers were neither friends nor enemies; this was not a grudge
match. The boys, who by all accounts had little in common, came together for the
first and only time in an adolescent squabble that reeled out of control.
Christian Abakpa was one of three young people stabbed to death last week in
street fights in New York City. The seemingly trivial prelude to his killing
underscored the precariousness of young lives in a world where weapons are
easily acquired and frequently used.

"It's totally pointless," said Kim Reese, 38, a theater manager who practiced
his jump shot on the same playground where the killing occurred the other day.
"Basketballs hit people all the time. You say, 'Excuse me; I'm sorry.' It's a
basketball. It doesn't have a brain. Life is so cheap. People have no regard for
one another."

The two teen-agers, one street-wise and Brooklyn-bred, the other newly arrived
and raised in a tiny farming village, were worlds apart. Mr. Abakpa was a
promising ninth-grader at Washington Irving High School in Manhattan who had
recently reunited with his Nigerian parents after a 10-year separation. Mr.
Parks is a 12th-grader at Harry Van Arsdale High School in Brooklyn, but he
seems better known on the streets, where acquaintances say his nickname is
"Hook."

The blood stains have been washed away on the playground, but in blue crayon
someone recently wrote: "PEACE, Pray to God for love and peace to change this
age of rage." More unyielding is the graffiti on the southeast corner of the
courts. Mr. Parks's signature, "Hook," was spray-painted long ago in loopy,
lime-green letters along with the names of his compatriots, "Flip," "Trip" and
"Mug."

Mr. Abakpa was a tall, slender boy who had dreams of becoming a professional
dancer. His image on a television set kept his memory alive last week in his
family's apartment near the playground. Recorded in a home video last October,
he was performing a dance of happiness in traditional Nigerian dress at a
Brooklyn YMCA. His elbows were flashing and his hips, swathed in bright purple
and white cloth, moved like liquid to the drum beat.

Mr. Abakpa's parents had worried about how their children would blend into the
American culture. On a living-room bookshelf, there are two worn copies of a
book, called "America: the People and the Dream." The parents said they had
frequent talks with their sons on topics from the lack of respect in America
toward elders, to teen-age sexuality, to the dangers of street violence. Charles
Abakpa, a former tugboat operator in Nigeria, wonders even now whether his
children's foreign accent and culture played a role in the stabbing.

"If they had American accents, the situation would probably be different," said
51-year-old Mr. Abakpa, now a social worker with the city's Human Resources
Administration. "They would probably mix together and exchange the same type of
slang and play. But when there is a difference, they just try to take advantage
of that."

Long Wait for Reunion

The boy's parents had immigrated to New York in the late 1970's, leaving behind
their four sons with relatives in a village on the River Niger. The parents said
they entered the United States illegally and feared they could not return here
if they went back for the boys. Once the couple gained legal status and enough
money had been saved by working odd jobs, their sons finally joined them last
summer.

"It was a long time, an agonizing time; every night, we cried," said Christian's
mother, Grace Abakpa. "Christian would write to us and say he wants to see us.
He misses us. 'Are we ever going to be together?' I kept telling him we would.
It was a terrible experience."

As friends and relatives drifted in to pay their respects last week, the
37-year-old mother spoke quietly of her son. Her fingers grazing her forehead,
she said, "They shattered his dreams and my joy."

For Kenneth Parks, image was everything, according to teen-agers in the area who
know him. Because his background was hardscrabble, even an illusion of substance
was important. His reddish, dreadlocked hair was worn in a stylized high-top. He
wore baggy pants and expensive sneakers. He had an obsession with Ralph Lauren
Polo clothes, especially the designer jackets, known on the streets as "Lo"
jackets. His front teeth glittered gold, "like Fort Knox," said 11-year-old
Justin Wilson.

Despite Mr. Parks's reputation for toughness, his court-appointed lawyer said he
attended class regularly and received good grades at Van Arsdale High School. He
had no prior brushes with the law, said the lawyer, Eric Poulos. "He's never
been arrested, period," Mr. Poulos said.

The lawyer said Kenneth was not guilty, contending that there was no evidence
that he was the one who stabbed Mr. Abakpa at the Albert L. Parkham playground,
next to Public School 20 at Willoughby Avenue and DeKalb Avenue in Fort Greene.

Kenneth's reputation in the neighborhood, acquaintances said, was enhanced by
his association with a loosely knit group of youths called the Decepticons,
whose name was inspired by a cartoon character. In the past, some members were
known for fighting and stealing from other teen-agers, according to youths in
the neighborhood

As teen-agers hanging out last week on a street corner traded stories about
"Hook," a young man who was listening by a pay telephone suddenly came forward.
He began stabbing a fingerat the youths. "You're a snitch, you're a snitch,
you're a snitch," the man said to the teen-agers, most of whom drifted away.

But one 14-year-old continued defiantly, saying his friends and Mr. Parks's
group had fought frequently. The youth said he used to take the same subway
train as Mr. Parks to go to school but now takes another train to avoid running
into him. "We got beef with him," the boy said. "But I'm scared of him."

If life on the streets is rough, life at home for Mr. Parks seems to have been
relatively tame. His parents, who refuse to comment on the incident, live in a
second-floor apartment not far away from the Abakpa family. Mr. Parks's lawyer,
Mr. Pounds, said the teen-ager's father is an invalid; his mother works in the
health-care field.

On Monday afternoon, just hours after school had recessed for spring break, Mr.
Parks crossed paths with Mr. Abakpa.

At about 4:30 P.M., Mr. Abakpa and his three brothers, Joseph, 19, Abraham, 15,
and Edward, 13, strode onto the schoolyard, dropping their bookbags on the
sidelines. Mr. Abakpa and some of his brothers preferred to play together; they
figured they had a better game because they knew each others' moves, said Chris
Brooking, an 11-year-old who said he frequently played with Mr. Abakpa.

Abraham began to dribble on an adjacent court. At some point, Abraham's ball
bounced off the rim onto another court, interrupting the progress of Mr. Parks's
game. The ball hit a player on the head, but it is unclear who it was.

Words were exchanged and the other players encircled Abraham. Sensing that his
brother was in danger, Mr. Abakpa rushed to Abraham's aid. Moments later, he was
stabbed in the chest.

"I said, 'Oh man,' " said one youth who was watching the dispute. "His brothers
were shocked."

Mrs. Abakpa got word of the stabbing when another son raced through their front
door. She found Christian collapsed on the sidewalk, trying to get home.

Mrs. Abakpa, a registered nurse, checked Christian's pulse and administered
cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Later, she described in detached, professional
detail how the knife had entered near the left side of her son's subclavian
artery. "He wasn't bleeding any more. He had bled too much. I saw my son laying
on the ground, drawing his last breath."

Haunting Words

On a misty Saturday morning, the funeral services for Christian Abakpa brought
more than 150 people to a large stone church with a towering steeple in the
Bushwick section of Brooklyn.

One by one, family members filed into the Bethesda Baptist Church wearing long,
flowing robes, the traditional African boubou. They were joined by community
leaders, city officials and members of the Nigerian mission to the United
Nations.

As Mr. Abakpa's casket was hauled into the hearse, his father walked out of the
church looking numb. His mother kept her head bowed. His brother, Joseph,
trembled visibly, tears rolling down his face, and leaned on a friend for
support.

The minister's words had been haunting.

"He left the African bush to die in the Brooklyn jungle," the Rev. Lucius Walker
Jr. had said. "There's great sadness."

"We cannot fully understand the senselessness," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Charles Abakpa, second from right, father of Christian Abakpa,
gathered with friends on Saturday to mourn the death of his son at the Bethesda
Baptist Church in Bushwick, Brooklyn. The 17-year-old was stabbed to death last
week while playing ball at a basketball court in Fort Greene. (Michelle
V.Agins/The New York Times); Christian Abakpa in a recent family photograph.

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 16, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Enrollment Rises In New York City Schools

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 773 words


Accelerating a trend of recent years, 65,322 immigrant children entered New York
City's public schools in the last year, creating new pressures to increase the
number of classrooms, expand bilingual education programs and provide other
services for foreign-born students.

The increase, reported yesterday by Schools Chancellor Joseph A. Fernandez, was
45 percent larger than in the 1991-92 school year, when 46,358 immigrant
children enrolled in the schools. Since the 1990-91 year, the report said, the
public schools have gained 137,796 immigrant children.

"It is a phenomenon that harkens back to the waves of immigration at the
beginning of the century," said Robin Willner, the executive director for
strategic planning for the Board of Education. Instead of increases in
native-born students, she added, "It is immigration that is fueling the growth
of the schools."

Analysts said the increases, if they continue, are certain to create new
difficulties for the nation's largest school system, even though it has been
promised a large increase in state financing.

"The pressures are outstripping most people's expectations," said Emanuel
Tobier, a professor of economics and urban planning at New York University. The
immigrant youngsters may be a "back breaker," for the schools, he added.

The report yesterday was derived from an annual census of school enrollment,
conducted last October. It said the immigrant children, from 188 countries, more
than accounted for an overall increase in public school enrollment, which rose
by 23,319, to 995,465, this year.

Dominicans in Lead

As in recent years, students born in the Dominican Republic, Jamaica and China
had the highest increases in enrollment. Dominican-born children now account for
more than 20 percent of all immigrants in the public schools.

The influx of immigrant students was spread among all grade levels and
experienced by public schools across much of New York City, but the report found
three community school districts attracted the largest numbers, each adding more
than 6,000 immigrants to its enrollment this year. They are District 30 in
Astoria and Corona, Queens; District 24 in Long Island City and Middle Village,
Queens, and District 10 in Riverdale and the North Bronx.

New York City public school enrollment declined sharply from the 1971-72 school
year, when it reached a peak of 1.15 million, until the 1982-83 year, when it
reached a low of 918,384, but it has been climbing back steadily for the last
decade.

School officials said yesterday that the latest census made them even more
confident of their projections, made repeatedly over the last year, that
enrollment would once again exceed 1 million students next year and continue to
grow.

"I don't think there is any question we will exceed the previous peak," said Mr.
Tobier, who added that he expects continued increases in immigration to combine
with a rebound in enrollment by native-born students during the rest of the
1990's.

He said one reason for continued growth will be demographic trends, which
resulted in a large increase in birth rates among New York City women in the
late 1970's and through much of the 1980's. Their children will enroll in the
public schools in growing numbers over the next five years, he said.

The public school census report was released after months of dickering over
school financing that resulted in a pledge, contained in the New York State
budget proposed by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, of $145 million in added state aid for
the New York City schools during the next school year, beginning in September.

The increase will follow a year without added financing for the schools, despite
their expanding enrollment. Ms. Willner said the public school budget, financed
by the Federal, state and city governments, is $7 billion this year and "just
about even" with the amount spent during the 1991-92 year.

Anticipating the added state funds, school officials have already announced an
aggressive program of opening new schools, largely by leasing space in existing
buildings. James S. Vlasto, a spokesman for Mr. Fernandez, said yesterday that
seven of the new schools had been opened in recent months, and 43 more would be
opening by the beginning of the next school year.

But with more schools and classrooms being prepared, Ms. Willner said
yesterday's report underscores the need for more spending on specialized
programs. Among them, she said, is bilingual education, an expensive program
that costs an average of $650 per student per year, and expanded school services
to work with the parents of immigrant children.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 18, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Khrushchev's Son to Reside Permanently in U.S.

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 595 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 17


Sergei Nikitich Khrushchev, son of the Soviet leader whose 1962 confrontation
with President John F. Kennedy over Soviet missiles in Cuba brought the world to
the brink of nuclear war, expects to walk into a small immigration office in
Providence, R.I., on Monday and become a legal permanent resident of the United
States.

Sixteen months after the disintegration of the Communist Party in the Soviet
Union, the 57-year-old engineer-turned-political-scientist and his wife,
Valentina, expect to receive their alien residence cards, or green cards.

In leaving the country that his father, Nikita Khrushchev, helped run from its
prewar Stalinist days until his ouster in 1964, Mr. Khrushchev and his wife did
not seek legal status as resident aliens under any of the cold-war provisions
that allowed people fleeing Communist countries to obtain political asylum or
refugee status.

Instead, they applied on the strength of his academic and personal credentials,
which have qualified Mr. Khrushchev for visa status as an individual who can
make a unique contribution.

Prominent Backers

His lawyer, Dan Danilov, said Mr. Khrushchev's request for resident-alien status
was supported by former President Richard M. Nixon, Robert S. McNamara, the
Defense Secretary in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, and Strobe
Talbott, the current Ambassador at Large to the former Soviet states.

Although Mr. Khrushchev was once a member of the Soviet Communist Party, a fact
that disqualified most individuals from green cards in the days of the cold war,
the Immigration and Naturalization Service is expected to grant the request, Mr.
Danilov said.

In a telephone interview on Friday from his home in Cranston, R.I., Mr.
Khrushchev said he had decided to seek permanent residency in the United States
"because it is easier to work in this country." One advantage of being here, he
said, was the freedom to travel. "I won't be subject to government decisions
that keep me from leaving the country," he said. For a quarter century after his
father's ouster, the Soviet authorities denied him permission to go abroad, he
said.

"It's very difficult to change countries at my age," Mr. Khrushchev he said. "I
still have my apartment there in Moscow. I have my country house there. I have
my trees and my pond, a little pond. Very little and very beautiful, with little
fish. Of course, I would prefer to live there than here, if it were a free
country there. I know it will be a free country here. I don't know what will
happen there."

Cordial Relations

Mr. Khrushchev said that he had little contact with the Russian Embassy about
the residency application in the United States, but that his relations with it
were cordial. He and his wife have three grown sons, all of whom live in Moscow.

What would Nikita Khrushchev have said about the end of the Communist system to
which he devoted his life, and about his son's decision to live in the country
he once considered an enemy?

"It is difficult to tell about my father," Mr. Khrushchev replied. "He belonged
to another historic period. You might ask what General Washington would say
about the gulf war.

"Of course, my father would be upset at what's happening. Of course, he believed
the Communist system was better. You remember, he told Nixon, 'Your grandsons
will live in a Communist America,' and Nixon said, 'No, your grandsons will live
in a capitalist Russia.'

"But if he could have seen that another system worked better, he would have
changed. He was not a prisoner of ideology."

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sergei Nikitich Khrushchev, son of the former Soviet leader,
with his wife, Valentina, outside their home in Cranston, R.I. They are seeking
legal status as permanent residents of the United States. (Frieda Squires for
The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 20, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

OTHER VOICES;
'Know Where Your Group Is At'

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 518 words


The following remarks were taken from more than 20 hours of discussions with
teen- agers from the New York City region. Excerpts appear with each article.

Q Has it been the immigration experience, from your perspective, that different
groups don't mix?


EMMA KRAMER-WHEELER, 16, Brooklyn (Edward R. Murrow High School): It's the
language barrier for the most part.


JUAN RIVERA, 18, Brooklyn (Bushwick High School): Yeah, it's, like, in Bushwick.
You walk inside the lunchroom, you know, any period, and as soon as you walk in,
the biggest group here is, you know, Dominicans, as I said. And you have Puerto
Rican people over here. And you have Jamaicans over there.  And then you have
the mixed group over here. . . . And it's just like that's it. You know where
your group is at.


Q Is there resentment of immigrants? For instance, resentment of their jobs?


BERNARDO VASQUEZ, 17, Manhattan (A. Philip Randolph High School): That's the
problem with immigration nativism over here. Why should that person come over
here and take my job? I'm American, right? But, no. I get on the job first. Why
should they come? I don't care if they're more qualified. I have citizenship.


WUBNESH HYLTON, 19, Brooklyn (Hunter College): I know a lot of people who really
don't care about -- you know, that fear for immigrants coming and taking jobs is
just not there, because there was never no jobs there in the first place. So,
they're not really concerned about, "Oh, he's going to take my job," because I
didn't have one.


Q When I say that word "assimilation," what do you think of?


WUBNESH Well, conformity. Giving up your own identity, melting into another
culture to get ahead. I know some of my Asian friends, I think, like, Asians
have a hard time in society, because they're always stereotyped. It's completely
different from anything that we know here. And they're always stereotyped as the
model minority. And, so, they feel the need to assimilate. And one of my Asian
friends was telling me she only dates white men. And another one of my Asian
friends, she only dates black men. So, it's, like: "My culture no longer means
anything."


Q Do you ever have a sense of loss being here?


BERNARDO As a Dominican, I relate so much to the second motherland, which is the
Dominican Republic. But over here, I guess all immigrants . . . have to identify
with something that is not America. Because America is no culture.  America is a
mixture of -- it is like the melting pot. So, we have to identify with something
that is our culture.

ZAIRE GRAHAM, 17, Bronx (High School of Fashion Industries): Being that in my
family I have so much of everything, I don't know what nationality I am. Because
I have ancestors that was raped, you know, so I have a little white. I have a
little Creole. I have a little Cherokee Indian. The majority of it is black,
true. But I have my grandfather's this, my mother has half of that. So I don't
know what nationality I am. So when you ask were we robbed when we came to
America of some of our culture, I believe I was robbed totally.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Emma Kramer-Wheeler; Zaire Graham

TYPE: Text

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 24, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Sheik Slipped Into Canada, Witnesses Say

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 839 words


Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, an Islamic fundamentalist cleric whom the United States
is seeking to deport, was seen in Ottawa late last year, months after his green
card was rescinded and while he was fighting Federal efforts to remove him from
the United States.

The move would mark the third time he managed to elude Federal immigration
authorities despite being on an official State Department watch list of
terrorists and other undesirables. If he had been caught at the border, United
States officials could have prevented him from entering the country.

"If he went to Canada they could have excluded him coming back in," said
Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat who, in the wake of the
World Trade Center bombing, had already questioned Federal officials on the
sheik's original admission to the country in 1990. "Here they spent all this
time trying to get him out. He goes to Canada and gives them the perfect reason
to exclude him and they don't. The system just has to be changed."

It was not clear how the New Jersey-based cleric traveled to Canada and how and
when he re-entered the United States. He would also have been in Canada
illegally, a Canadian official said.

William R. Tillman , the deputy district director of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service office in Newark, said yesterday that officials handling
his case had no knowledge that Mr. Abdel Rahman had been out of the country
since July 1991. "It would certainly be illegal for him to come back in, and it
would certainly alter the picture as far as his present immigration proceeding,"
he said. "To depart the United States is in effect to abandon the application
for admission."

Witnesses reported that Mr. Abdel Rahman, whose preaching attracted some of the
World Trade Center suspects, appeared at both an Islamic school and mosque in
Ottawa, the Canadian capital, last fall or winter. Imam Tawfik Shaheen, the
religious leader of Ottawa's one mosque, said he saw Mr. Abdel Rahman praying at
sundown prayers at the mosque in October. He said that he had had to ask people
who the man was because he had not recognized him.

Aly Nawwar, an Ottawa engineer, said that he had also heard the cleric speak at
the city's Islamic school about the persecution of Muslims in Egypt. He said he
realized who the religious figure was when he saw him on CNN in the wake of the
World Trade Center bombing.

"I definitely saw him here in Ottawa," he said in a telephone interview. "I
definitely listened to him. There's no doubt it was the same man I saw on TV."
He said he could not remember the exact date of the speech but that it occurred
"late last year." The cleric's appearance in Ottawa was reported last week by
the daily newspaper Le Droit and by The Ottawa Citizen.

'Hallucinating'

Barbara A. Nelson, the lawyer who is appealing Mr. Abdel Rahman's deportation,
denied that her client was in Canada last fall and said that those claiming to
have seen him there were "hallucinating."

Mr. Abdel Rahman, who was tried and acquitted in the 1981 assassination of
Egyptian President Anwar el-Sadat, originally slipped into the United States in
1990 despite being on a State Department watch list of undesirables. State
Department officials said the cleric was mistakenly given a visa in Khartoum
because his name was not spelled correctly at the consulate.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said it committed a separate error by
granting him permanent resident status as a religious leader on April 9, 1991.
He was stopped entering the country on July 31, 1991, and, as a result, his
resident status and green card were revoked in March 1992. This past March he
was ordered deported. The cleric has appealed the deportation ruling.

No Plans to Detain Cleric

Earlier this week the the Justice Department had informed New York City's
Comptroller, Elizabeth Holtzman, that it had no plans to detain Mr. Abdel Rahman
pending his deportation hearings because it had no "concrete evidence" that he
was tied to the Trade Center bombing and because his care would be too costly.
The cleric is blind and suffers from diabetes.

Ms. Holtzman said yesterday that she was calling on Congress to investigate the
handling of Mr. Abdel Rahman's case by immigration authorities and again
questioned why Mr. Abdel Rahman is not being detained. "It seems as though the
sheik is certainly well enough to travel abroad as well as in the United
States," she said. Mr. Tillman said that if it turned out that Mr. Abdel Rahman
had been in and out of the United States again late last year, authorities might
re-examine their decision not to hold him in detention.

In Canada, officials who had seen the Ottawa reports of Mr. Abdel Rahman's
presence said they could not confirm that he had been in the country. "As of
today we have no record that we ever received a visa or that he visited Canada
legally," said Andre Labelle, a spokesman for the Immigration Department. "If he
did so, he did so contrary to immigration law."

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 28, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

For 32 Million Americans, English Is a 2d Language

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 887 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 27


The number of United States residents for whom English is a foreign tongue
jumped by more than a third to 31.8 million in the 1980's, due largely to a wave
of immigration from Latin America, Asia and Europe, according to a Census Bureau
report.

Using data collected during the 1990 census, the bureau determined that about 14
percent, or one person in seven, of the nation's 230 million people over the age
of 5, grew up or are growing up speaking a language other than English.

The 38.1 percent jump in speakers of a foreign language, from 23 million in
1980, was due largely to Hispanic immigration. In 1990, the nation's 17.3
million Spanish speakers far outnumbered all other speakers of a foreign
language in the United States. Spanish speakers now account for more than half
of all people whose first language is not English, according to census data.

More three in four people whom the Census Bureau counted as speakers of a
foreign language also speak English "well" or "very well," by their own
estimation. Not surprisingly, the number of those who maintained that ehy had an
acceptable proficiency with English as a second language was lower among more
recent immigrants, particularly Hispanic (74 percent), Chinese (70 percent) and
Korean (70 percent).

In addition to Spanish speakers, who represented 7.5 percent of the population
over the age of 5, 3.9 percent of the nation's residents spoke one of nine other
languages at home, according to the census bureau. In this group, speakers of
only one other European language increased in number between 1980 and 1990, that
language being French, whose 1.7 million speakers made it more popular than any
non-English language other than Spanish.

Friction in Diversity

The rapid change in the nation's language and culture, already evident from raw
census data showing that the wave of immigration in the 1980's was the highest
in 70 years, was also reflected in the decline of German and Italian speakers,
who dropped 4 percent and 20 percent, respectively.

At the same time, there was a sharp spike in the number of speakers of Asian
languages like Chinese (98 percent), Korean (127 percent) and Tagalog, the main
language of the Philippines (87 percent).

Thanks in part to the swiftness of the change, lawyers and groups that deal with
language-related issues said, a brush fire of hostile reactions to new faces,
new tongues and new alphabets swept through streets and workplaces in the past
decade.

In a 1989 case in Pomona, Calif. four years ago, a Federal District judge of
Japanese ancestry ruled that the Los Angeles suburb had violated free speech
protections by requiring Korean and Chinese businessmen to put English signs on
their shops. In another case from a hospital in Pomona, Filipino nurses waged an
unsuccessful court battle to be allowed to speak Tagalog with each other while
at work.

But there were also signs of concessions to other tongues. For example, ballots
in most states are now printed in other languages in addition to English. And
schools like those in the Washington suburb of Arlington, Va., now need to offer
bilingual education or other support for children in as many as 100 different
languages.

U.S. English, the Washington group most identified with the desire to keep
English the "official" language of government, embraced the new figures as
evidence to bolster their cause.

"We're very glad that someone has come out with this, showing those figures,"
said Cessna Winslow, the group's spokeswoman. "It doesn't surprise us. We think
multilingualism is great. Ideally, if we could all be multilingual, that would
be wonderful. But let one of those languages be English."

America's Lingua Franca

While anyone with a taste for salsa, enchiladas or Latin rhythms will find the
growing presence of the Spanish language and Hispanic culture predictable, the
growth of French speakers was more remarkable. The existence of French-Canadian
areas in New Hampshire and Maine insured that French was the predominant
non-English language in those two states, just as the French history of
Louisiana made French the top non-English language there.

But two French dialects, Louisiana Cajun and Haitian Creole, were counted as
distinct languages by census takers. Creole speakers, whose numbers increased
from 25,000 to 188,000 from 25,000 in the decade, made that dialect the
second-fastest growing among the top 25 language groups. The fastest-growing
language was Mon-Kmer, spoken by Cambodians, who increased from 16,000 to
127,000, or 676 percent.

Among the states, New York ranked fifth in the percentage of citizens (23.3
percent) who spoke a foreign language. The state with the highest percentage was
New Mexico (33.5 percent), followed by California (31.5 percent), Texas (25.4
percent) and Hawaii (24.8 percent).

The greatest percentage of change occurred in the South, which began with
relatively small percentages of speakers of other languages. For example, while
Georgia's total percentage of foreign-language speakers, at 4.8 percent was
relatively low, the increase was the largest of any state, jumping from 134,000
to 285,000, or 112 percent.

The greatest numeric change was in California, which added 3.6 million people
whose mother tongue was a language other than English.


LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC:  The total number of United States residents 5 years old and over
speaking a language other than English at home in 1990 was 31,845,000 (14
percent of 230,446,000 residents 5 years and over). This is an increase of
almost 38 percent over the 1980 total of 23,060,000.

Language                          Total          Total     Percentage
usedathome                    speakers*      speakers*       change**
                                   1990           1980

Spanish                      17,339,000     11,549,000          50.1%
French                        1,703,000      1,572,000           8.3%
German                        1,547,000      1,607,000          -3.7%
Italian                       1,309,000      1,633,000         -19.9%
Chinese                       1,249,000        632,000          97.7%
Tagalog                         843,000        452,000          86.6%
Polish                          723,000        826,000         -12.4%
Korean                          626,000        276,000         127.2%
Vietnamese                      507,000        203,268         149.5%
Portuguese                      430,000        361,000          19.0%
Japanese                        428,000        342,000          25.0%
Greek                           388,000        410,000          -5.4%
Arabic                          355,000        227,000          57.4%
Hindi,Urdu&related              331,000        130,000         155.1%
Russian                         242,000        175,000          38.5%
Yiddish                         213,000        320,000         -33.5%
Thai                            206,266         89,000         131.6%
Persian                         202,000        109,000          84.7%
FrenchCreole                    188,000         25,000         654.1%
Armenian                        150,000        102,301          46.3%
Navaho                          149,000        123,169          20.6%
Hungarian                       148,000        180,000         -17.9%
Hebrew                          144,000         99,000          45.5%
Dutch                           143,000        146,000          -2.6%
Mon-Khmer                       127,441         16,000         676.3%


*Persons over 5 years old
**Calculations are from numbers before rounding.

(Source: Census Bureau)
Table: "The Top 25 Languages"

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 6, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Third World Population Explosion Demands Western Response

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 450 words


To the Editor:

The juxtaposition of two articles on the front page April 25 reveals, as in a
lightning flash, the fundamental problem confronting humankind at this juncture:
the ongoing population explosion. I refer to the report on the Chinese effort to
control it, and the article on our immigration service's being swamped by a
seemingly uncontrollable influx of asylum seekers.

In either case we risk drawing wrong conclusions. It would be a tragedy if the
excesses connected with the Chinese effort jeopardized President Clinton's
intended reversal of American policy that denied funds for family planning
abroad; this reversal can only be the beginning of a more ambitious effort,
together with other industrial countries and possibly through a United Nations
setup, to set third world countries on the path of radical population
stabilization.

As far as the asylum problem is concerned, it would be a mistake to believe that
revamping immigration services would suffice to deal with it. European countries
have learned what we still have to learn: that behind the genuinely political
persecutees there looms an infinitely larger number of what the Germans call
"economic refugees," that is, tens of millions of third world people who, facing
misery if not starvation, will press against the borders of the still affluent.
But unless something radical is done, no exclusion laws will help, nor will
barbed wire or guns.

Humankind confronts the novel condition -- unique in its entire history -- of
its global numbers outgrowing the carrying capacity of the planet (these numbers
now devouring and destroying what remains of the basic resources of the world:
arable land, fresh water, forests, and so on). While in former eras "surplus"
populations would find "empty" regions to which to migrate, the frontier is now
closed.

Even countries like the United States, Canada, Australia or even European ones
that still can (and should) absorb millions, with a world population increasing
by about 100 million each year and doubling exponentially within ever shorter
periods, migration alone cannot solve the problem. This can only be done by
developed countries jointly assisting the overpopulated countries in family
planning and education, combined with aid for basic need fulfillment and old-age
security systems; and, if need be, denying aid to governments unwilling to
engage in such policies.

Unless we act rapidly, it may be too late to approach the problem decently.
Countries might be driven toward dealing with it through authoritarian coercion.


JOHN H. HERZ
Scarsdale, N.Y., April 28, 1993
The writer is emeritus professor of political science, City College, CUNY.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 14, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

'The Corner': Where Immigrants and Jobs Intersect;
Mamaroneck's Informal Job Market Offers a Sweat-of-the-Brow Kind of Foreign Aid

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 981 words

DATELINE: MAMARONECK, N.Y., May 13


Dawn had just broken, but already the corner of Jefferson Avenue and Van Ranst
Place was buzzing. As a red sports car pulled up to the curb, about a dozen men
sprinted to its side from a nearby park, all of them craning to get a word with
the driver.

Moments later, the crowd was dispersing, except for Benny Lorensana, a
22-year-old native of Guatemala, who climbed into the passenger seat, flashing
the thumb's up sign as the car sped off.

For Mr. Lorensana and the other Hispanic immigrants who gather here every
morning, "the corner," as it is known, is the only thing standing between them
and destitution. The men, many of whom are living in this country without proper
documentation, are day laborers. Each shows up here, rain or shine, with the
hope of securing a day's work as a painter, gardener, construction worker or
carpenter from contractors and small-business owners who need extra help.

"It's very hard to get a job in anything nowadays," said Sister Laura Reynolds
of St. Vito's Church in Mamaroneck, who has helped the workers adapt to life
here, away from their homes and the families that many of them left behind in
Mexico, El Salvador, Peru and Honduras.

As many as 60 workers show up on the corner each day, and they estimate that
each is selected to work about three of every six days that he stands on the
corner.

"That's enough for them to live on and send money home," Sister Laura said. "I
look at it as a kind of foreign aid. It's a sure way to get money into the hands
of the poor people of their countries."

No one knows for certain how many corners like this exist in the New York
metropolitan region. Miguel Maldonado, a community organizer with the Center for
Immigrants Rights in Manhattan, said he counsels day laborers on this corner and
a dozen others in Westchester County, Brooklyn, Queens and New Jersey. And he
believes the struggling economy is making such spots increasingly attractive to
employers and workers alike.

Learning About Laws

Among the things that the workers in this Westchester village have learned from
Mr. Maldonado is that, regardless of problems with their citizenship, they are
protected by New York State labor laws, which entitle them to earn the minimum
wage, $4.25 an hour, and to collect overtime.

The laborers, who have been gathering in Mamaroneck for about five years, have
gradually earned the admiration of this community, which is heavily populated by
descendants of a wave of Italian and Irish immigration in the early 20th
century. But relations were not always smooth.

The workers' original meeting place, in front of the Mamaroneck Metro-North
station, prompted a flurry of complaints from commuters, including reports that
the men were sometimes urinating in public and tying up traffic, said Chief
Joseph DelBianco of the village police.

Last spring local community groups and village officials helped work out a
compromise with the men that moved them to their current location, several
hundred yards behind the station. Chief DelBianco said the complaints had
stopped. The workers' spirit, the Chief said, has reminded him of stories of his
father's immigration to America from Italy.

"I know it was tough for my father, who was a stonemason when he got here,"
Chief DelBianco said. "He tried to hustle for a buck. I see the same work ethic
in the Latinos. They want to build a life for themselves."

Formed Labor Association

The workers have overcome problems with their employers, too, shunning those who
have bounced checks or refused to pay them in full.

"The people who used to cheat us, we know them very well," said Jaime Savino,
34, who was born in Guatemala and has lived in Mamaroneck for four years. "We
tell the brothers, 'This guy doesn't pay.' "

Thanks in part to Mr. Maldonado, the organizer who was recruited last year by
local community groups, the men have formed their own labor association,
established a minimum asking price ($60 for a day's work) and arranged to take
free English classes three times a week at St. Vito's church. They hope to use
proceeds from a planned raffle -- an electronic Spanish-English translator is
among the prizes -- to rent an indoor meeting place someday.

With pride, the men point to success stories like Jorge Gonzalez, 43, a Peruvian
who moved to Mamaroneck three years ago and who, because of his persistent
efforts on the corner, has held a steady job as a painter for the last three
months.

Mr. Gonzalez, whose wife and three children remain in Peru, said he still
visited the corner before his job starts in the morning because of the
camaraderie.

"We're not competitive," he said.

'A Needed Service'

Once or twice a week, said Nick Condro, 37, the owner of a landscaping business
in the village, he hires a man to help him maintain about 20 lawns and gardens
in town.

"They provide a needed service for the community," he said, after motioning one
of the men into his black van. "They don't bother anyone."

"I always like to make sure they eat because you never know," he added. "It may
sound corny, but it's true."

Although Mamaroneck seems to have accepted the workers, Vernon Briggs, a
professor of labor economics at Cornell University, said he was critical of any
situation in which an illegal alien takes a job that could have been filled by
an American citizen or someone with a green card.

"I think it undermines labor standards," he said. "I'm opposed to anything that
encourages illegal immigration to exist or continue."

Nevertheless, Carlos Najara, 52, a Guatemalan who was elected the first
president of the workers' association last spring, said he takes pride in what
he and the other laborers have accomplished in Mamaroneck, particularly their
dogged presence on the corner 7 days a week, 52 weeks a year.

"For us, there is no cold or heat," he said. "We're here."

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: To the Hispanic immigrants who go each morning to Jefferson
Avenue and Van Ranst Place in Mamaroneck, N.Y., in search of work, it is "the
corner." They offer themselves as day laborers to motorists who drive by looking
for extra help. (pg. B1); Often without proper identification papers, the
immigrants who gather at Jefferson Avenue and Van Ranst Place in Mamaroneck,
N.Y., provide an easy market of day laborers to motorists who stop in search of
someone to finish a job at home or provide extra help at their work place. (pg.
B6) (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 16, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

200 Chinese Deportees Caught at U.S. Border

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 252 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Calif., May 15


About 200 illegal Chinese immigrants who escaped from Mexican custody Friday
night were apparently all rounded up on both sides of the border today.

The immigrants, all men, were part of a group of more than 300 detained at the
Rodolfo Sanchez Taboada International Airport in Mexicali. The immigrants
escaped Friday night by breaking down a security cordon, overwhelming the guards
with sheer numbers and running off into the night.

United States Border Patrol guards arrested 87 immigrants as they crossed the
border into Calexico, said a spokesman, Paul Villanueva.

The remaining Chinese immigrants were believed to have been caught in Mexico or
voluntarily returned to the airport, Mr. Villanueva said. Mexican officials were
unavailable for comment.

The immigrants will be deported to China unless they request a hearing or
receive political asylum, officials said. They were being processed in Calexico
and El Centro, Mr. Villanueva said.

Mexico's plan to deport the illegal Chinese immigrants was halted Friday after
the United States and Canadian authorities refused to let a plane land and
refuel.

An official in Washington, who requested anonymity, said permission was denied
because, once the plane landed on United States soil, the Chinese could request
political asylum.

The American Immigration and Naturalization Service said 12 boats carrying 1,300
Chinese had been intercepted in the last 18 months before arriving in Los
Angeles, San Francisco, Honolulu and New Bedford, Mass.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 16, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

TRAVEL ADVISORY;
New Passport: How Secure?

BYLINE: By Irvin Molotsky

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 3; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 232 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Questions have been raised about whether the new United States passports are as
tamperproof as they are intended to be, but the State Department is standing
behind them. Richard Norton, an official of the Air Transport Association,
questioned the new passport's effectiveness in preventing the kind of tampering
that would allow people to enter the United States illegally. Appearing on April
27 before the House Judiciary Subcommittee on International Law, Immigration and
Refugees, Mr. Norton said the airline industry supported efforts to improve
immigration inspection with technological innovations, but he called the new
passport "a flawed design."

Inside the new passport there is a device called a kinegram, which is similar to
the holograms used on credit cards. After the hearing Mr. Norton told the Travel
Management Newsletter, a trade publication, that a skilled person could peel
back the laminated material and change the data underneath or alter the
kinegram.

A spokeswoman for the State Department said later: "We stand by our passport. We
feel it is very secure." Changes under the laminate, she said, would be easily
detected.

An aide to the House panel said that both sides of the dispute would be
considered but that no changes were expected in the near future. In the
meantime, travelers obtaining or renewing passports can expect to get the new
version.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 21, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Bomb Suspects Used Notorious Path to U.S.

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1543 words


When Mohammad Ahmad Ajaj disembarked from a Pakistan International Airlines
flight in New York last September, he had enough passports for several people,
as well as manuals and videotapes that taught everything from suicide car
bombings to placement of land mines.

Mr. Ajaj, later indicted as a suspect in the World Trade Center bombing, never
got past the immigration agents at Kennedy International Airport; he was caught
for his fraudulent Swedish passport. But a fellow passenger who would also
become a Trade Center suspect, Ramzi Ahmed Yousef, did. Although he had no visa,
he said the magic mantra -- that he wanted political asylum -- and was let into
the country to await hearings.

The two men were among thousands, most of them carrying counterfeit documents,
who took advantage of an air route that over the last two years had become so
notorious for bringing undocumented aliens into New York that American officials
said they suspected official Pakistani complicity.

'Some Degree of Collusion'

"We believe there is some degree of collusion or some degree of assistance --
whether with agents of Pakistan Airlines or government officials or smugglers --
in terms of soliciting official cooperation in boarding these people," said
William S. Slattery, the Immigration and Naturalization Service district
director for New York.

Earlier this year, United States officials say, they warned the Pakistani
Government "at the highest levels" that the flow had reached crisis proportions
that could require the Federal Government to take punitive action.

The penalties under consideration, said an immigration service official who
spoke on the condition of anonymity, included ending the Government-owned
airline's right to bring transit passengers into the United States en route to
other Western Hemisphere destinations such as Canada or the Caribbean.

The warning, officials say, produced a sharp drop in the numbers of inadmissible
aliens disembarking from Pakistan International Airlines flights in April, and
so far this month, "We've seen a dramatic turnaround, a dramatic improvement,"
said a United States official involved with the negotiations.

Federal authorities say the trend became evident as the stream of undocumented
aliens into Kennedy Airport became a torrent, growing from 5,000 in the 1990
Federal fiscal year to 14,688 in 1992, with Chinese, Indians and Pakistanis as
the major offenders. This year the figure is expected to reach 18,000.

The Chinese and Indians, many brought in by smugglers who charge $25,000 to
$30,000 per person, usually followed deliberately circuitous routes into the
United States, with the final flight into New York starting in such unlikely
locales as Moscow, Iceland, Mexico or Rio de Janeiro. The routing, immigration
investigators say, was designed to put the Asian immigrants at airports where
airline agents were less familiar with their brand of forged documents.

Bribery Suspected

But immigration officials said they noticed that the Pakistanis were usually
coming straight from home carrying bogus documents that should have been easy to
identify. "There are two ways to board the aircraft," Mr. Slattery said. "One is
to effect a scam, the other is to bribe the airline. I think with the Pakistanis
it's probably more of the latter."

Malik Zahoor Ahmad, the press counselor at the Pakistan Embassy in Washington,
denied that there was routine corruption at the airline, adding, "It's absurd to
say the airline officials were responsible for it.

"It is the prerogative of the host country to be either lenient or strict at the
entry point," he said. "Great responsibility lies also at security at Kennedy
Airport. We would not mind, we would not object to it, if they are rounded up
and sent back to Pakistan."

The immigration service fines airlines $3,000 a person for each undocumented
alien who comes off a plane, and the airlines ran up $21 million in fines last
year, half of them at Kennedy Airport.

Pakistan International Airlines, according to the immigration service, racked up
only $315,000 in fines, coming in below 17 other airlines. But Mr. Slattery said
the figures are deceptively low, because Pakistanis usually land with invalid
papers instead of ripping up their documents on the plane.

"Although the alien is inadmissible and has no right to enter the United States,
the airline has insulated itself from any financial consequence by assuring the
alien did not destroy the bogus document," he said.

The documents can be crude counterfeits. Or stolen passports with new photos
inserted. There are altered passports that have had new cover pages stitched in,
and passports that contain someone else's valid visa.  The most frequent
doctored papers out of Pakistan, Federal authorities say, are fraudulent tourist
visas manufactured in Karachi and Lahore; counterfeit immigrant visas, usually
from Lahore, and counterfeit United States residency cards.

Counterfeit residency cards became a particular problem after an Immigration and
Naturalization Service photo machine for making the I688 temporary residency
card, similar to a green card, was stolen from the New York office of the
immigration service in the mid- to late 1980's, Federal officials say.

The machine ended up with counterfeiters in Pakistan, Federal investigators
said, sending a flood of immigrants to New York with imperceptibly counterfeit
laminated identification cards that provided the right of entry into the United
States and the right to work. The machine was ultimately seized by Pakistan's
Federal investigative agency.

The fraudulent passports, visas or identity cards are often provided by
smugglers as part of package deals that run about $15,000 out of Pakistan and
include tickets, papers and payoffs to get on a flight, Federal authorities
said.

Others, such as Mr. Yousef, the Trade Center bombing suspect, apparently work on
their own. He told an immigration service agent that he had paid a Pakistan air
official $2,700 to get on the plane from Karachi. Officials said that they had
no way to confirm what he said but that the figure was in line with kinds of
bribes cited by other passengers caught in the United States.

To combat the fraud, the Immigration and Naturalization Service is preparing to
station a full-time agent in Pakistan. Mr. Slattery also calls for an increase
in immigration service detention centers to hold people seeking political asylum
as they await a decision on their cases. "If you don't detain them, they're not
going home," said Mr. Slattery, who has only 100 beds at his disposal and
estimates that the immigration service holds only 5 percent of the inadmissible
aliens coming into New York.

Mr. Ajaj was the exception who got caught, because of his fraudulent Swedish
passport in the name Khurram Khan, one of several in his possession.

Eric Bernstein, an assistant United States attorney, argued during a court
hearing last year that Mr. Ajaj's sentence should exceed the six-month maximum
set by Federal sentencing guidelines because the false documents and materials
he was carrying showed he was engaged in "terrorist activities."

Court documents showed that Mr. Ajaj was carrying instructions on how to commit
sabotage, how to use hand grenades and how to make poisons and Molotov
cocktails.

His suitcases also contained diagrams showing how to make silencers and
videotapes on car bombing and how to make TNT, the court documents showed. The
documents said there were instructions on how to secure combat patrols and how
to place land mines, how to kill with a knife or shoot with a concealed gun. And
there was a map of Israeli settlements on the West Bank, a defense plan for
Jerusalem and an escape plan for a detention camp near Gaza.

Six-Month Sentence

But Judge Reena Raggi of United States District Court in Brooklyn imposed a
six-month sentence, telling Mr. Ajaj, "I do not think the evidence is sufficient
for me to link your particular entry into the United States to any particular
terrorist activities."

She added, "But I do not think you had these documents in your possession out of
idle curiosity, and I suspect that though my sentence will not be a long one,
that if you don't give serious thought to what you're involved in, your life
will not be a long one."

Mr. Ajaj was later indicted in the Trade Center bombing because of a fingerprint
trail; Federal authorities say they found Mr. Yousef's fingerprints on both Mr.
Ajaj's bomb manuals and on materials found in the locker where they believe the
bomb-making chemicals were kept. The F.B.I. also noticed that Mr. Ajaj and Mr.
Yousef had consecutively numbered plane tickets.

Mr. Ajaj's lawyers argue, however, that he could not have been a conspirator in
the bombing because he was in prison, released for a week in early March and
then picked up again by the immigration service.

Mr. Yousef went to New Jersey to await his asylum hearing. His first hearing was
adjourned on Dec. 8 because he had no lawyer. His second, on Jan. 24, was
adjourned because his lawyer said he had been in an accident. Another hearing
was scheduled for late March. Mr. Yousef, now being sought in an international
manhunt, never showed up.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 22, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Berlin Journal;
Stepson of German Politics: Is Fatherland Proud?

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 932 words

DATELINE: BERLIN, Feb. 21


The thousands of men and women who hold elective office in Germany are a
tremendously varied group, emerging from backgrounds rich and poor and ranging
in ideology from Marxist to crypto-fascist. With perhaps only a single
exception, however, all have one thing in common: they were born in Germany.

That exception (and he believes there are no others) is Ismail Hakki Kosan. He
says he is the only foreign-born citizen who has successfully challenged the
unspoken taboo against nonnative politicians. From a remote Kurdish village in
eastern Turkey, he has risen to membership in the Berlin City Council.

"Ismail has the hardest job of any of us," said a fellow councilor, Eckhardt
Barthel. "People expect a great deal from him. Other politicians watch him much
more closely than they watch someone like me."

Despite the fact that Germany is a magnet for immigrants and asylum-seekers from
all over the world, many people here still insist that this is "not an
immigration country." Foreign-born politicians are accepted in many countries,
including the United States, but in Germany Mr. Kosan is still a curiosity.

Married to a German

When he appeared in the legislative chamber for the first time, guards suspected
that his identification card was false. His dark curls and swarthy complexion
give him an appearance quite unlike other council members.

As he promised in his campaign, Mr. Kosan has devoted most of his time on the
council to issues relating to foreigners. In his maiden speech in September,
which he delivered only days after rightist thugs laid siege to a hostel for
asylum-seekers in Rostock, he warned that racist attacks pose a danger to German
democracy.

"Once before, a disoriented generation of young Germans took up the cries of
'Germany Awake!' and 'Death to Jews!' " he recalled. "Now we are hearing echoes
of that time. A new disoriented generation must not be allowed to endanger the
German democracy that we have worked so hard to build."

Mr. Kosan, who is married to a German woman, was born in an Anatolian village
that had only three houses. His parents were once sentenced to death for their
sympathy with Kurdish movements, but the sentence was suspended and they were
instead deported from their native region. In 1948, after 10 years of exile,
they were allowed to return, and in that year Ismail was born.

Growing up in the shadow of rightist repression, Mr. Kosan developed sympathy
for liberal ideas. Among his idols was Senator Robert F. Kennedy, and after
finishing high school he wrote to Mr. Kennedy, asking help in obtaining a
scholarship to study in the United States. He received an encouraging reply, but
after Senator Kennedy's assassination he decided to apply to schools in Germany,
where there is a large Turkish minority.

In 1969 he was admitted to an engineering school in Berlin, and after only a few
months here he won election to head the citywide association of Turkish
students. To support himself he cleaned toilets, washed dishes and worked as a
construction laborer.  Later he found a job assisting a German lawyer who
represented foreign clients.

Like many foreigners here, Mr. Kosan had continual problems with his residence
visa. But because he had become an active member of the Green Party, he was
connected to politicians who were finally able to obtain German citizenship for
him in 1990. Later that year, the Greens nominated him to run for the City
Council.

The Green Party is traditionally sympathetic to foreigners, but nevertheless Mr.
Kosan had to overcome resistance to his candidacy from within the party.

"With any other party it might be impossible for someone born abroad to become a
candidate, but even with the Greens it isn't easy," he said in an interview at
his cramped legislative office.

"They like the idea of a foreigner running on their ticket, but some of them
didn't want me. People who I supplied with ideas for years didn't want to give
me a chance to present these ideas myself."

Partly because of fears that he would not submit to party discipline, Mr. Kosan
was assigned to the 15th place on the Green ticket for City Council, lower than
he had hoped.  Berliners vote for the party of their choice rather than for
individuals, and in 1990 the Greens won only enough votes to place 12 candidates
in the 241-member council. But three winning candidates later gave up their
mandates, and in August Mr. Kosan was sworn in.

Mr. Kosan is encouraged by the anti-racism movement that has brought more than
three million Germans into the street for candlelight vigils in recent months.
But he does not believe it signifies a newfound affection for outsiders.

"Some people go out and hold candles because they want to improve Germany's
image in the world," he said. "Some do it because they don't want Berlin to lose
its bid for the Olympics. Others say violence is bad, but they support expelling
foreigners by legal means."

The Green Party hopes to re-enter Parliament in 1994, and Mr. Kosan said he has
not ruled out the possibility of running. But he is also in touch with Social
Democratic politicians in Turkey, and he may pursue his political career there.
Under Turkish law, a Turk retains his citizenship even after taking citizenship
in another country.

"Nationality is not important," he said. "I don't consider myself a Turkish
councilor, but a human being who wants to work in politics and happens to live
in Berlin. If I had gone to America I would have done the same thing. I accept
this society. Whether it accepts me is another matter."

NAME: Ismail Hakki Kosan

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ismail Hakki Kosan, a Berlin City Council member, is perhaps the
only German citizen to successfully challenge the taboo against non-native
politicians. A Turkish native, Mr. Kosen says he is encouraged by the
anti-racism movement but doesn't think it signals a newfound affection for
outsiders. (Gunther Schneider for The New York Times)

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 2, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Port-au-Prince Journal;
In Hiding in Haiti, Dissident Despairs of U.S. Help

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 912 words

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Feb. 1


More than four months after his imprisonment and repeated beatings by soldiers
in Dame-Marie, a tiny town at the end of Haiti's southern peninsula, Ferleau
says his ears still run sometimes with the cloudy liquid that began oozing from
them once the bleeding stopped.

Since November, Ferleau, a slight 27-year-old guitarist, a player of "musique
engagee," or politically inspired songs, has been in hiding in the capital,
Port-au-Prince, too afraid for his life to return home. Although he gave a
reporter his real name, he asked that his last name not be used and his face not
be shown.

Throughout this same period, Ferleau has also been unable to qualify for asylum
in the United States. Without it, he fears, he may not survive until democracy
can be restored to his country.

"I gave them every detail of everything that has happened to me," he said of his
encounters with immigration officers at the American Embassy here. "They told me
they would investigate my case and get back to me. I can't understand why, but
since then there has been nothing."

Case Under Consideration

Asked about the case, a spokesman for the United States Embassy confirmed that
Ferleau's application was under consideration, saying "a determination will be
forthcoming shortly."

The number of immigration officers at the embassy was increased recently to
seven from four in response to President Clinton's order that the processing of
Haitians in need of political refuge be speeded up. Immigration officers admit
that mistakes of evaluation are possible, but quickly add that they know of no
cases where people with a demonstrable fear of persecution have been denied
entry to the United States.

But for international human rights groups that have protested Mr. Clinton's
decision to temporarily maintain the Bush Administration policy of summarily
returning Haitians picked up at sea, Ferleau's case is symbolic of the problems
inherent in failing to provide a haven for people fleeing this country's
political violence while attempts to determine if their stories are true run
their course.

No one can definitively assert the truth of his account of his persecution, but
his body bears the scars of what he says were repeated beatings and the details
he offers do not falter in the retelling.

Torture Demonstrated

"I was arrested on Sept. 23, one day after I signed a petition urging the
organization of an international conference on human rights in Haiti," Ferleau
said in Creole. "Without asking me any questions I was taken away to the army
barracks, stood against a wall and beaten."

Demonstrating one of several kinds of torture that he said were inflicted on him
in four days of incarceration, he spread his legs, stood on his toes and leaned
against the wall on his fingertips. While he was ordered to maintain this
position, he said, 10 soldiers beat him repeatedly, laughing as they asked why
he had signed the petition and accusing him of membership in a gang.

When that punishment failed to produce the information the soldiers said they
were after, they slammed him in the ears, Ferleau said, clapping his hands
together violently to show how it was done. The beating producing a flow of
blood and generated painful headaches, which he said still often plague him.

The next morning, he said, the local army commander, Benes Pascal, summoned him.
After he failed to give the names of his supposed fellow gang members, he said,
the commander himself began an elaborate round of torture that lasted from 6 to
10 A.M.

"When I said I had no gang, he told me I was keeping secrets and ordered my
hands tied behind my back and my feet tied together to a board," Ferleau said.
Once tied up, he said, he suffered six rounds of clubbings by the commander.

The following day, he said, when word began to spread that he had been killed,
angry townspeople gathered outside the army barracks to demand news of his fate.
To disperse them, he said, soldiers began firing in the air.

The next day, a Thursday, as if to demonstrate to all that he was still alive,
Ferleau said, the soldiers again tied him up, placed a rope around his neck and
dragged him through the streets to the local courthouse. There, he said, he was
berated for "being a partisan of Lavalas," the political movement of the deposed
President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, and for "preaching against the
army."

"At the end, the magistrate told me that he couldn't free me because the
commander wasn't around and he should have the last word," he said, adding that
he was led away for a final day in jail.

A Plea for Refuge

Stealing away to Port-au-Prince shortly after his release, Ferleau said, he
quickly approached the American Embassy to ask for refuge in the United States.

"I met there first on Nov. 5," he said. "They told me to return on the ninth.
When I came back they said they would begin an investigation and told me to
return on the 21st."

"They said they needed reference," he said of the embassy officials, from whom
he has never heard again. "I just can't understand how they could have left me
like this though. My whole town knows what happened to me."

"If democracy returns to my country in a month or two, perhaps I'll be fine,"
Ferleau said, now despairing of a visa to the United States. "But in Haiti, what
is difficult is that everyone knows everyone else, and if you are branded as a
militant, eventually you will be crushed."


NAME: Ferleau

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Many Haitians trying to flee say they are doing so to escape
political persecution, not just poverty. The claim, while a reason for entry
into the United States, is hard to prove, as Ferleau, a 27-year-old guitarist
who tells of beatings, is finding out. Until he gets word, he remains in hiding.
(Daniel Morel for The New York Times)

Map of Haiti highlights location of Dame-Marie.

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 20, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

New Country Is Like Prison to Asenhat, 18

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2437 words


Asenhat Gomez used to peer out the windows of her childhood home in the
Dominican countryside and relish a landscape of willowy palm trees and verdant
fields where her extended family would gather for daylong reunions.

In her new home in Brooklyn -- a cramped apartment on Williamsburg's South Side
-- the windows frame a claustrophobic vista of brick walls, and the few
relatives she has in this country are so preoccupied with making ends meet that
family get-togethers seem as long gone as the father who died a dozen years ago.

It has been nearly a year since Asenhat was reunited with her mother, who six
years before had left her children with their aunt and illegally entered the
United States in search of the opportunities that had eluded the family in the
Dominican Republic.

Longing for Home

But the immigrant journey of Asenhat Gomez is only beginning. For 18-year-old
Asenhat, the joys of reunion are constantly tempered by the struggles of life in
a hard new land. Hundreds of miles from all that was familiar, unable to shake
her longing for home, she tentatively ventures into a future that beckons with
equal measures of promise and fear.

In many ways, hers is the oldest of immigrant stories, played out time and again
by wave after wave of newcomers to America's shores. But for today's immigrant
children, in places like Williamsburg, that process of adjustment is made all
the more difficult by the modern plagues of drugs, guns and recession.

Asenhat, a shy girl, has become even shyer since arriving last May, the
strangeness and the frustrations coalescing in a sometimes overwhelming feeling
that she is trapped.

'Sense of Confinement'

"Everybody talked about the sense of confinement," she said recently, recalling
her first weeks in New York. "I expected that, but just not so much.

"Lying in bed I would think about what I left behind. There you got accustomed
to visiting people, my friends from school, since we were infants. The whole
place was different; you could go out to play. I miss my school."

Williamsburg -- its bumpy narrow streets lined with age-worn two-family homes
and apartment buildings closed in by the shadows of hulking waterfront factories
and the Williamsburg Bridge -- can seem forbidding to someone used to the easy
freedom of the countryside. The family's two small bedrooms are shared by six
people who subsist on meager earnings.

Still, even as she bridles at her confinement, it has become her defense
mechanism in a city whose ways and language are not her own. She seldom ventures
beyond her neighborhood, partly from fear of getting lost on unexplored streets
and subway lines and partly from fear of drug dealing and violent crime on
nearby blocks.

"It makes you feel insecure," said Asenhat, a short girl whose floppy ponytail
and baggy jeans give her the look of someone just entering her teen-age years.
"You can be going down the street and not know what can happen."

She has few friends, feeling that she has little in common with American-born
teen-agers, who she says are too "liberal" -- so preoccupied with boyfriends,
clothes and the latest fads that they squander the opportunities available to
them.

She has tried, and failed for lack of English, to find a job. Even her hopes for
improving the family's lot through education are in limbo. An honor student who
breezed through high school and a year of premedical studies in the Dominican
Republic, she plans to continue her studies at Hunter College in Manhattan. But
she has been forced to sit out a year while she learns English and qualifies for
financial aid.

In her own reticent way, Asenhat (pronounced ah-seh-NET) will admit to a certain
disappointment with her new life. "It's been more difficult than I thought," she
says. And while she allows that "there are more opportunities here," she is
quick to add that "there, people looked out for you."

Still, she resolutely hews to the immigrant dream.

"After a while I'll feel better," she said. "Especially after I learn English.
After I begin school. I like to study, and that's the best way to progress."

Death on a Farm

Asenhat Gomez was born in the countryside near Moca -- a farming community in
the Cibao region of the Dominican Republic -- where her family owned a
comfortable three-bedroom house, with a big yard filled with fruit trees, on
land where her father and uncles grew plantains and cassava.

She still recalls how on weekends, her father, Vicente, would take her and her
friends to fairs or for a cool ice cream, or how they would all gather with
relatives to spend the day eating, talking and playing.

But there were hints of darker times ahead, she said; her father suffered from
depression that seemed to feed on itself.

"When he got sick with that problem, he would get depressed because he could not
work," she said. "He went into a clinic."

'There Was No Other Way'

When Asenhat was nearly 6, he accidentally shot himself to death while cleaning
a pistol, the family says. She was in the room when it happened. She talks
little about it.

With three children and no husband, Asenhat's mother, Esperanza, tried in vain
to keep the family afloat, getting money and food from her in-laws. But seven
years ago, she took the children to her sister's house, told them she was going
to take a nursing course in a nearby city and slipped off on a nine-day journey
through Guatemala, Mexico and California and finally to New York.

"There was no other way," she says now. "A mother does it only thinking of her
children."

Working as a live-in maid in Brooklyn, she would send money back home, promising
to send for the children as soon as she had legal residency, which happened last
year.

Esperanza had told them some of what they could expect, but she knew, too, that
her advice could go only so far.

"Talking about it," she said, "is very different from living it and seeing it."

Arrival
Disappointment,
4 Flights Up

Asenhat had barely arrived in New York last May when the disappointment hit. In
her new home four flights up a dimly lighted stairway, she and her 20-year-old
brother, Harold, shared a bedroom with their sister, Amalia, 14, who had
preceded them to America by several months. Her mother slept in the bedroom off
the kitchen with her new husband, Jose Aybar, and their 3-year-old daughter,
Josephine.

"This house looked so strange to me," Asenhat said. "It was so confining, such a
big building with so many people and such little apartments."

Life inside the apartment, with her new family, was strained. At first,
Josephine would jealously cry "Mami mia!" whenever Asenhat approached her
mother. Relations with her stepfather have remained cool.

"He is almost illiterate," she said. "We don't have that much in common." They
barely speak.

"I would like to talk about my dreams," she said. "Sometimes I miss my father a
lot because he was close to us. He was very caring, very sweet with us."

'I Don't Go Out Alone'

For a while, however estranged she felt, fear of what lay outside, of being
speechless in an English-speaking city, kept her imprisoned in the apartment.
She spent her days reading the Bible or absent-mindedly watching television. She
lost weight.

"There are no places for people to go around here," she said. "I don't go to the
park. I don't go out alone."

While her block is relatively calm, the surrounding streets have seen an
increase in drug dealing and violence. There was a shooting at her sister's
school. Sometimes, she hears gunshots at night.

She remembers how in Moca, gunshots were sometimes heard ringing out in
celebration of some holidays. "Here," she said, "it's not because people are
happy."

The one solo venture she made early on -- to enroll in a summer youth program --
ended in tears in Bushwick after she couldn't speak English with the person
taking her application, who angrily shouted at her. Her frustration and fear
only increased when she wandered outside and quickly got lost.

"I was scared to ask for directions because I didn't think anyone spoke
Spanish," she said. Finally, she got up enough courage to ask a Spanish-speaking
passer-by.

"He said I was lost," she said. "I knew that."

Even now, her daily schedule is an unwavering routine played out within six
blocks of home: a noontime visit to her mother's job, English classes, several
hours at a local youth center and back home to her family.

Asenhat's confinement can be as much emotional as physical, made worse by being
sidetracked in her schooling. While her parents were never able to go to
college, they wanted to make sure their children would.  Asenhat's belief in the
bedrock American value of success through education seems absolute. When she
talks about becoming a doctor, "a professional," her face brightens and she sits
up a little prouder.

Both Asenhat and her brother Harold -- who studied civil engineering and worked
in a medical laboratory in Santo Domingo but now works six days a week at a
bodega -- plan to attend the City University of New York. But they have had to
wait a year to qualify as New York City residents for the cheaper tuition and to
learn English.

The only studying she does now is in her daily English class at the Brooklyn
Public Library, where her afternoons are filled with children's songs and
dialogues.

"It's like being little again," she said of the class, though she might have
been describing the entire humbling experience of learning English.

Asenhat also realizes that while the constant presence of Spanish in her
neighborhood makes it easier to adjust, it makes it harder, too.

"It's more difficult to learn English here because everybody speaks Spanish,"
she said. "If you hear more English, your ears get used to it faster."

A few nights ago, Asenhat slowed down as she approached her building, where two
boys boxed playfully. As she got nearer, one of the boys smoothly pulled out a
knife, opened it and feinted a slash at his friend. She barely blinked as she
sweetly asked them if they had a key to the wrought-iron lobby door that always
is locked.

After 11 months in Brooklyn, she still finds it hard to decipher the rituals of
her American-born counterparts.

"For me the most important thing is to study," she said. "For them it's
boyfriends, going places and buying clothes. That doesn't matter to me. A
person's worth isn't what they wear, but what they are and how they feel."

Her friends at home, she insists, were different. "We were more united over
there," she said. "I think sometimes that those who grew up here are more
superficial. There may be more opportunities here, but over there people looked
out for you."

Even the people she meets at El Puente, a youth center two blocks from her home,
don't always understand what she is going through. Some don't even understand
her language, although they are children of Hispanic parents. Her closest
friends are Lilin Fong and Danilda Torres, both of whom came from the Dominican
Republic several years ago.

The three are active in a natural healing class at El Puente, and they often sit
together, chatting in Spanish. Lilin thinks Asenhat is adapting as well as she
can.

"I used to count the days I had been here," she said. "I knew the hour I
arrived."

Asenhat nodded. "I count the months, too," she said. "I wanted to return home."
She lowered her voice. "Sometimes I still feel like going."

Dona Mercedes
Dispensing Advice
To 'Daughters'

Good thing Mercedes Mendez didn't hear that. The last time Asenhat revealed her
homesickness, Dona Mercedes -- as she is known to all -- looked at her as if she
were insane. "Don't even think of going back!" she scolded. "You have to be with
your mother."

Each day, Asenhat passes by Dona Mercedes's apartment for lunch and a brief
visit with her mother, who works as a home attendant caring for the 71-year-old
Puerto Rican woman. Dona Mercedes, who walks stiffly because of knee replacement
surgery a dozen years ago, busily looks after Asenhat, calling her "one of my
adopted daughters."

Dona Mercedes is one of several women who have rallied around Asenhat, intent on
making sure that nothing keeps her from her goals. Dona Mercedes, who came to
the mainland in 1946 and worked for years packing tomatoes and cooking for the
field hands on a New Jersey farm, often regales her with tales of how hard her
life was when she arrived. She cautions her against talking to strangers or
following the crowd.

Mother's Worries

"Most of all, take care of your virginity," Dona Mercedes admonished. "Don't
wander off with boys; you can get easily lost out there."

Esperanza nodded in agreement. But far from worrying that her daughter will be
led astray by friends, she frets that she spends too much time alone.

She also wishes Asenhat would be a little more accepting of her new husband,
who, she says, has had a hard enough time coping with his extended unemployment
and his mother's illness.

Asenhat would like to get a job, to help the family out. She has looked a few
times, to no avail.

"She talks about work, anything she can do," said Cecilia Figueroa, a health
coordinator at El Puente. "But there's not much she can do with no language and
no experience. She doesn't have anything."

Esperanza says she only wants her daughter to keep striving toward her goal of
becoming a doctor. To help her learn English, she is buying her a $950 set of
language cassettes, on the installment plan.

"There are few mothers who would do what Esperanza did," said Dona Mercedes.
"She's only had God's help."

And the help of Esperanza's sister, Mirope Ortiz-Lisardo, who took in the three
children when she came to the United States. Asenhat is so close to her aunt
that she calls her "Mami," and after almost a year apart, she could barely
contain her glee during Mirope's recent visit.

When it came time to leave, on a bitter-cold Saturday, the house grew quiet.
Mrs. Ortiz-Lisardo walked up to Asenhat and reached out to her. They hugged,
gazing into each other's eyes. A kiss, another hug, and then her aunt stepped
into the hallway and began her journey back to the friends and places in the
homeland her niece had left behind.

Quietly, Asenhat flopped onto the couch and sank into a corner, clutching her
sister's talking teddy bear. Her mother sat next to her and stroked her arm. The
girl shook her head when asked if she was sad.

Asenhat hugged the toy, and its voice broke the silence.

"Dream with me," the bear sang in tinny, electronic tones.

She hugged it tighter.

"Dream with me."

NAME: Asenhat Gomez

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Children of the Shadows: The eighth of ten lives of the cities.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Asenhat Gomez (pg. A1); "Everybody talked about the sense of
confinement. I expected that, but just not so much. Lying in bed I would think
about what I left behind." -- ASENHAT GOMEZ; Asenhat Gomez studying English at
the Brooklyn Public Library. (pg. B6) (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New
York Times)

Chart: "The Children of the Shadows"

SUNDAY, APRIL 4: Nicholas Whitiker, a Chicago fourth grader growing up fast.

TUESDAY, APRIL 6: Ladeeta Smith, a Brooklyn teen-ager orphaned by alcoholism and
AIDS.

THURSDAY, APRIL 8: Crystal Rossi, a Bensonhurst schoolgirl, losing focus in
class as she is tempted by the streets.

SUNDAY, APRIL 11: Marcus Tramble, a Chicago youth frustrated by fears.

TUESDAY, APRIL 13: Fernando Morales, a Connecticut drug dealer, full of
fatalism.

THURSDAY, APRIL 15: Jerina Gervais, an Oakland girl coping with teen-age sex.

SUNDAY, APRIL 18: Freddie Brown, a Bronx youth haunted by the police.

TODAY: Asenhat Gomez, a new immigrant isolated in Brooklyn.

THURSDAY, APRIL 22: Derrick White, a Memphis teen-ager, groping for a road map
out of the projects.

SUNDAY, APRIL 25: Shawn Hunt, a one-time messenger for Brooklyn drug dealers,
closing in on success.

(pg. B6)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 17, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

What to Subsidize in Israel

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 530 words


Settlements: No word has sown more discord between Israel and the United States.
Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir vows to keep building Jewish settlements in the
disputed West Bank, whatever the cost. Now his main rival in the June 23
election says otherwise.

Yitzhak Rabin, former Prime Minister and Defense Minister, asserts that money
now lavished on these settlements should go instead to jobs and housing for
332,0000 immigrants from the former Soviet Union.

This promises a real choice in what may be Israel's most important vote in half
a generation. But to keep the choice focused, the Bush Administration has to
move quickly to end a needless rumpus over a State Department blunder on the
"right" of Palestinian refugees to return to Israel.

Putting highest priority on absorption of immigrants would honor Israel's
Zionist mission and revitalize an economy whose growth sank below zero last
year. It would enhance Israel's commitment to Middle East peace talks and open
the way to U.S. approval of $10 billion in loan guarantees blocked by a dispute
over settlements.

Absorbing immigrants strains a society already burdened with heavy military
spending. Jews from former Soviet lands are enviably talented: 40 percent hold
professional degrees, five times the rate for Israelis. Yet they must contend
with an unemployment rate that has soared to 11 percent. The Shamir Government
has failed to turn this human treasure to national advantage. Some disheartened
newcomers have gone back to Russia.

Meanwhile, Israel has diverted huge amounts of capital to subsidize 200
settlements housing more than 200,000 settlers, now about 13 percent of the
population in the West Bank, Gaza and East Jerusalem. In Israel proper, a new
home typically costs about $60,000. It's a third less in the West Bank, thanks
to direct subsidies, preferential mortgages and tax concessions. This does not
benefit Soviet Jews, few of whom choose to live among hostile Palestinians.

Beginning in 1967, when Mr. Rabin's Labor Party was in power, security was the
avowed justification for the settlements. Mr. Rabin says he supports these
"security" settlements but opposes "political" settlements, whose purpose is to
assert permanent Israeli dominion over disputed territories. Whatever its
ambiguities, Mr. Rabin's position invites bargaining and progress.

Even in straitened times, Americans are ready to help Israel absorb Soviet
immigrants through loan guarantees. The snag has been the feverish settlement
drive that collides with the express disapproval of successive Presidents.

By contrast, the argument over an inadvertent State Department gaffe is a
passing squall. Margaret Tutwiler, the department's spokeswoman, stumbled into a
mine field by affirming U.S. support for a 1948 U.N. resolution upholding the
right of Palestinian refugees to return to Israel or to obtain compensation.
That right, as she added tardily, is subject to direct negotiations -- as is
Israel's claim for compensating Jews who fled or were driven from Arab lands.

By promptly restating all of this as U.S. policy, Secretary of State Baker can
correct a record now carelessly blurred.



LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 22, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Tongues New to English, Eyes Fresh to the Capital

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 854 words


America has not been all that she had hoped, but as she got off the bus on
Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, Ewa Lis, a Polish immigrant, was not
disappointed. The building before her was big and white, "exactly as I imagined
it," she said.

Smiling, Ms. Lis handed her camera to her friend Joseph Veninger, who is from
Czechoslovakia. "Take a picture of me and my White House."

Mr. Veninger wanted to go inside, and maybe get a glimpse of "the person who
runs this big system," but it was Sunday, and the White House was closed. Still,
Mr. Veninger said he was glad just to be in this mythic town that he knew only
from books and television.

"This is for me the main office for America," he said.

More Than English Lessons

Monday through Friday, Mr. Veninger and the other 22 immigrants in Donna
Harkavy's class in English as a second language meet in a basement in Brooklyn,
offered free by the New York City Board of Education. The subject is not just
English, but America, and so on Sunday, after earlier trips to New York
landmarks like the Statue of Liberty, the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the
Brooklyn Public Library, the class convened in the nation's capital.

It was the culmination of the year and, for all but one or two of them, their
first trip to Washington. After the trials of real life in their new home, New
York, Washington was a place they had to see, a chance to visit the dream
America. "Washington is a mecca for immigrants," Ms. Harkavy said.

The Washington they saw -- in six whirlwind hours, for the bargain price of $21,
round trip -- amazed them. It was, they said, so clean, so peaceful, so full of
flowers.

Another Side of Town

Maria Charles, from Puerto Rico, tried to tell her classmates that beyond the
White House and the Lincoln Memorial was another side of the nation's capital
that she had read was as poor and dangerous as the city where they lived.

Sunday in Washington reminded Mr. Veninger of being a newcomer in New York six
years ago. "At first you're like a tourist, and you see all the museums and big
buildings," he said. "But after a while you see what life really looks like --
the killing, the depression, all the sad things that happen in the big city.

"When I came here, my friend said, 'Joe, in New York you have to have special
locks, two, three locks, and gates on your window.' I said, 'What for?' Then
they robbed my apartment. They take everything, my cheap TV, my mattress, my
clothes, even my shoes. Now I have three locks, two Medeco and one regular. I
have big gate on my window."

In New York, Mr. Veninger, who was a mechanic in Czechoslovakia, is unemployed.
Ms. Lis, who taught psychology in a Polish university, has a job taking care of
an elderly woman.

A Rare Day Off

Hawa Jibral, who seven years ago was tending sheep in Somalia and now stocks
shoes in a discount store, got a rare day off. "I'm sick of shoes," Ms. Jibral
said, boarding the brown and yellow bus at 6:30 A.M. outside the Brooklyn Public
Library. "Every day I'm looking at shoes."

But on this day, Ms. Jibral, in a beautiful gold and green African dress and
black patent leather shoes, looked at monuments, memorials, gardens and space
shuttles at the National Air and Space Museum. A life-size reproduction of the
lunar landing of the Apollo II reminded her, she said, of moonlit nights with
her sheep in the Somalian desert.

She and her classmates, who were the subject of several articles in The New York
Times during the school year, made the trip with another English class, taught
by Ms. Harkavy's friend, as well as with friends and relatives. Sam Barq, from
Pakistan, brought his wife, his mother-in-law, his two sisters-in-law, his baby,
and homemade, hot Pakistani food for half the bus.

They were 49 in all, from Haiti, Thailand, Mali, Senegal, Russia, Peru, El
Salvador, Nicaragua, the Dominican Republic and seven other countries. The motto
of these travelers was "Speak English," but when the bus hit Maryland, Ms.
Harkavy put out a call for international singing. Ms. Charles stepped to the
front of the bus, took the driver's microphone and, in a clear soprano, sang in
Spanish about an old man who longs to return to San Juan.

Her father and his classmates were concentrating on their new vocabulary words:
memorial, monument, Congress, Senate, House of Representatives, Supreme Court,
enshrined (at the Lincoln Memorial "the memory of Abraham Lincoln is enshrined
forever"). And goose bumps.

"I have goose bumps," Mr. Veninger said, standing before the black marble wall
of names at the Vietnam Veterans Memorial ("I thought goose bumps were just from
cold, not emotions," Meyer Sadigurskiy, from Russia, said as the class reviewed
the words Tuesday).

On the trip home, these tourists watched a video on the bus that Ms. Nolan had
selected just for them -- "Green Card," a movie about a French immigrant who
marries a New York woman to get that coveted document. At 10 P.M., as the bus
approached Brooklyn under a full moon, Ms. Jibral was wistful.

"I want to get a transfer to Washington," she said.


LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donna Harkavy took her class in English as a second language
from Brooklyn to the nation's capital on Sunday. The six-hour visit by the group
of immigrants included a stop at the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. (George Tames
for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 25, 1992, Monday, Late Edition - Final

At P.S. 19, Bilingual Is Not Enough

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1086 words


In Janina Juszczak's fourth-grade math class, where English is the second, and
occasionally third, language, teaching is rarely as simple as putting chalk to
blackboard. With 35 students who come from 15 nations and speak 7 languages, Ms.
Juszczak -- herself an immigrant from Poland -- resorts to nods and winks,
prodding nudges and friendly smiles to make plain a world of plus, minus and
division signs.

Welcome to Public School 19, Corona, Queens.

In all its Tower of Babel glory, its crowded classrooms and its bouillabaisse of
cultures, P.S. 19 provides a snapshot in miniature of the stunning changes and
daunting problems facing New York City's public schools as they struggle to cope
with a flood of new immigrants.

Nestled in one of New York's most densely populated immigrant neighborhoods, the
school lays claim to several distinctions: at 135 percent capacity, it is one of
the city's most crowded schools; with more than 2,000 pupils, it is the largest
elementary school in New York City, and possibly the country, and with children
from 47 nations who speak 27 languages, it is easily one of the most diverse.

Within P.S. 19's 70-year-old red-brick confines, classes like Ms. Juszczak's are
the norm. Well over half of the students are immigrants, most from Latin
America. Of 12 kindergarten classes, only half are conducted in English; the
rest are bilingual, taught in Spanish and English. In the coming years, school
administrators say, they may also need bilingual classes in Chinese and Korean.
Classes in Creole and Urdu may not be far behind.

"Bilingualism is part of the spirit of the school," said Dr. Barbara Miles, the
principal. "Mayor Dinkins's entire beautiful mosaic is right here."

Gateway to America

Throughout its history, P.S. 19 -- like public schools from the Lower East Side
to East New York -- has prided itself in being a gateway to America. Seventy
years ago, it served mostly Italian and East European newcomers; as recently as
the 1970's, it had large numbers of Greek immigrants.

By the late 1970's, the area's European immigrants were being supplanted rapidly
by immigrants first from Latin America, and more recently from Korea, China,
India, Pakistan and Haiti.

In this, P.S. 19 mirrors a citywide trend. A recent Board of Education report
showed that about 120,000 immigrants from 167 countries had enrolled in the
city's schools over the last three years, an influx comparable to the immigrant
waves of the 1920's. Citywide, as in P.S. 19, the largest number of recent
immigrant students have come from the Dominican Republic.

Often poor, unable to speak English and tossed by the hardships of immigration,
the children present a special challenge to the Board of Education. Already
strapped by shrinking budgets, the board must find and pay for more bilingual
teachers and teachers of English as a second language. It must also build or
expand scores of crowded, aging schools.

P.S. 19 is a glaring example. Classrooms intended for 27 students serve an
average of 35. Two storage closets have been converted to classrooms where
students sit on mats. An aluminum mini-school built on the asphalt playground
five years ago to handle overflow from the main building is now overflowing
itself.

In a school district where many of the elementary schools are overcrowded, P.S.
19 has had little choice but to accept every student that comes through its
doors, and almost everyday, at least one does. But even on this, the school has
drawn the line. In anticipation of another record-breaking enrollment, Dr. Miles
last week closed registration for next fall's kindergarten class.

And for the first time in school history, graduation will be celebrated next
month at a nearby intermediate school because P.S. 19's auditorium is not large
enough.

Pushing Against the Limit

"Five years ago when we had 1,700 kids, we thought this is it, we can't get any
bigger," said Ron Levine, an assistant principal. "Now we're praying that the
district will find us space next year. Physically, we're at the absolute limit."

Only 42 percent of the school's students read at or above grade level, according
to the most recent citywide reading test. P.S. 19 ranked 387th out of the city's
621 elementary schools.

"They come speaking no English at all," said Shirley Subervi, a kindergarten
teacher. "They can't even say teacher. By the end of the year, they can carry on
a conversation."

Jose Ernesto Sanchez, 12 years old, is typical of the immigrants, who
increasingly come from small, rural villages, school administrators said. A
month ago, he immigrated to Queens from the El Salvadoran village of Santana,
where the school had a dirt floor and only 15 students.

Though he speaks no English, he has already made several new friends at P.S. 19,
including some from El Salvador, and is learning to cope with the hustle-bustle
of a school that is considerably more populous than his entire hometown.

"I like it here because it's so big," he said of the school, tugging at his "New
York State of Mind" T-shirt.

Randy Batista vividly recalls the hardships he encountered when he arrived from
the Dominican Republic two years ago, his eyes filling with tears as he
describes his first homework assignments in English.

In fluent English, the 10-year-old talks longingly of his native village, where
cows roamed through the tomato plants and banana trees in his family's large
yard. "Sometimes I wish I could go back," he said.

As the most visible city agency for many immigrants, P.S. 19 has tried to extend
services to parents as well as their children. Each morning the school conducts
English classes for 50 parents. Once a week, 60 parents attend a seminar to
learn about things like buying Christmas presents, taking weekend trips and
disciplining children without hitting them.

In February, Dr. Miles gave a party at the school to celebrate the Dominican
Republic's day of independence. About 20 parents brought Dominican food for the
teachers and told stories about their homeland. At one point, several parents
began to sing the Dominican national anthem, but broke down in tears and had to
stop.

One of P.S. 19's many jobs, Dr. Miles says, is to keep the parents' frustrations
from affecting the children, a difficult task when many work long hours for low
pay and live in cramped, illegal apartments.

"This is the P.S. 19 family," she said. "No matter how hard the conditions at
home, when they walk in our door, we welcome them."

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Public School 19 in Corona, Queens, is a classic example of the
changes and problems facing New York City's public schools as they struggle to
cope with new immigrants. A kindergarten class lined up for a science fair in
the gymnasium. (pg. 21); Nestled in Corona, Queens, one of New York's most
densely populated immigrant neighborhoods, Public School 19 is one of the city's
most crowded schools, with more than 2,000 pupils. Fifth graders practiced a
dance in preparation for a recent school performance. "Bilingualism is part of
the spirit of the school," said Dr. Barbara Miles, the principal. (Photographs
by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. 22)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 26, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Wary Recruits: Immigrants Vie for Day Jobs

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1672 words


The men begin to gather on the squalid Brooklyn street corner shortly after
dawn. Many wear the distinctive, shabby gray clothes of Eastern Europe, as drab
as the landscape of battered cars, auto repair shops and parking lots. Quickly,
their numbers swell to more than 100.

Miles away in Queens, the Korean-run fruit markets are just beginning to open,
the first of the shops to pull up their shutters. But in a church parking lot,
men in stained sweatshirts and baseball caps, mostly from El Salvador, are
already assembled.

And on Long Island, along a shaded road that winds up to the North Shore past
condominium developments and frame homes, knots of three and four men suddenly
appear on the corners leading into Glen Cove. Farther on, a crowd of about 30
men has gathered in the parking lot of Carmen's Deli.

They are all waiting for work.

Across the New York metropolitan region, urban migrant workers -- most of them
immigrants, nearly all of them desperate -- line up for hours each day, waiting
for trucks or vans to pick them up for unskilled and bottom-dollar jobs in
construction, demolition, moving, landscaping, anything.

No one is certain how many people are struggling to get by this way, earning
some semblance of a living through occasional hard labor. Much of their cash pay
goes for food and rent in squalid communal apartments with six people or more to
a room, and they scrimp to send money to families left behind.

They are the most exploitable of laborers -- often undocumented and afraid of
authority, unable to speak English and willing to work for less than the minimum
wage -- members of a vast underground army seeking a foothold in a city where
their glittering American dreams have been cut short by a faltering economy.

Most of the workers refuse to give their full names. They beg that the exact
locations of their street corners be kept secret, some fearing a crackdown by
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, others worried that more workers
will show up and increase the competition.

Their employers change daily. Their names, too, are rarely learned.

"Sometimes they say, 'I'll pay you tomorrow,' and they never come," said a
32-year-old Honduran immigrant who waits every day at 6 A.M. on Cedar Swamp Road
in Glen Cove. "Sometimes you work from 7 A.M. to 7 P.M., and they pay you $40.
But we need it."

The street corner phenomenon sprang up on the West Coast, where laborers crossed
the border from Mexico. But over the last two years at least six such sites have
appeared in Brooklyn and Queens, and many more exist on Long Island and in New
Jersey and Westchester and Rockland Counties.

Cities Try to Respond

New York City officials and immigrant-rights groups attribute the
Depression-style lineup for jobs partly to economic factors -- the recession
and, more broadly, the loss of the manufacturing jobs that sustained earlier
waves of immigrants -- and to the 1986 Federal immigration law, which imposed
sanctions on employers who gave jobs to illegal immigrants. City officials say
the law drove the undocumented underground, where they are less likely to face a
check for working papers.

With the pickup points drawing growing crowds, municipalities have responded in
varying ways.

In New York City, the Dinkins administration recently approached the
International Ladies Garment Workers Union to see if the union would help
organize the workers.

"It's definitely not going to go away," said Elizabeth Aivars, director of the
Mayor's Office of Immigrant Affairs. "It's a concern for this administration to
help them organize so they have a sense of someone backing them, protecting
their labor rights when they get abused."

The 'Pull' Factor

In Glen Cove, the City Council attempted to shut down the local hiring site by
passing an ordinance in 1990 banning people from seeking work in public. But the
workers still gather outside Carmen's, and the city has gone into mediation with
groups that sued to overturn the ordinance.

William S. Slattery, director of the New York district of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said he was uncertain whether the sanctions levied by
his office under the 1986 law drove illegal immigrants onto the street corners.
But if they did, he added, "I would salute that."

He said the law was intended to eliminate the work enticements that "pull"
illegal immigrants to cities like New York. "We're hoping that word goes back
home that there is no more 'pull' factor, that if you come up here you'll be
standing on the street corner with us," he said.

But the 32-year-old Honduran immigrant who waits every day in Glen Cove has
saved almost nothing in five years in the United States and says he cannot face
returning home to Tegucigalpa empty-handed.

"I want to come back to my country, but you know, I want to take something," he
said. "I came by myself, my family's in my country, and I'm supposed to support
it. But like this, how can I do it? I need a permanent job."

Off the Books

The work is virtually all off the books. The legal status of the laborers varies
from those with full work authorization, those who have the right to remain in
America temporarily, and those who are undocumented.

The workers gather informally by nationality, the sites spread by word of mouth.
The Borough Park section of Brooklyn is the province of Eastern Europe, drawing
workers from Russia, Ukraine, Georgia, Czechoslovakia and Poland. In Flushing,
Queens, Salvadorans have taken up a spot where Irish and Italian day laborers
once stood during earlier waves of immigration. In Woodside, Queens, Central and
South Americans gather near businesses that draw a steady stream of contractors.

Some immigrant-rights advocates put their numbers in New York City well into the
thousands. They are people like Edgardo Nunez, 27, who tries to send money home
for his daughter in El Salvador but has very little left after he buys food and
pays rent. There is the 27-year-old man who thought he had outsmarted both the
Russian and American immigration bureaucracies by getting to America on a
visitor's visa. Only when he was here did he find out that one needs a Social
Security number or a green card to work legally.

Underside of Capitalism

Their languages vary from Spanish to Russian to Polish, but their stories are
largely the same. They tell of employers who promise three days of work but
don't appear on the last day, payday; they mention employers who promise $5 an
hour, but then shortchange the workers.

"To an American, his word is nothing," said a bitter Russian who has seen the
underside of capitalism at the Brooklyn street corner.

In the laborers' world of reduced expectations, a windfall is a three-month or
four-month job. More often work comes only once or twice a week. In Brooklyn and
Queens a good week can produce $120. In Glen Cove, where the competition is less
intense, a worker may make $300 a week in the peak landscaping season.

The men know little about their employers, some of whom appear to be immigrants
themselves who have managed to move further up the economic ladder. At the
Flushing site, a van pulled up recently, the driver offering a job installing
air-conditioning equipment. His English was no better than the laborers'.

"What you pay now?" a worker asked.

"What you want?" asked the driver.

The salary was set at $60 a day, the hours left unspecified.

Health and Safety Concerns

Immigrant advocacy groups say they have heard of cases where the men are hauled
off to remove asbestos without proper protection or training. "Cheap labor
doesn't necessarily stop at wages," said Brian O'Dwyer, a Manhattan lawyer who
specializes in immigration cases. "Sometimes wages aren't at first blush very
bad. What is very bad is of course that there are no benefits provided, health
or welfare or pension, and more importantly, the safety standards on these
buildings are just abysmal."

With about 50 percent of their members out of work, construction unions are
ambivalent about helping the day laborers. They have pressured the city and
state to make sure that prevailing wage laws are followed by all subcontractors
on public work sites and have complained to the I.N.S. about the use of
undocumented workers in construction.

The International Ladies Garment Workers Union has only begun considering the
possibility of working with the laborers. Jeff Hermanson, director of
organization, said he was unsure whether it was viable to organize labor that
was constantly changing employers and job sites.

The workers have been met with relative indifference in Borough Park, but in
Flushing, angry residents and merchants complained that they were a nuisance,
causing traffic tie-ups and harassing passers-by.

In Flushing, the local community board, as well as representatives of the Queens
Borough President, Claire Shulman, and the New York City Commission on Human
Rights helped negotiate a compromise that moved the job hunters off a commercial
strip of Northern Boulevard and into the parking lot of St. John Vianney Roman
Catholic Church, where they are allowed to stay until 10 A.M.

The Flushing workers have taken their first tentative steps toward organization.
They now mark down the license numbers of contractors to identify them if
someone is cheated of his pay. They also refuse to work for less than $60 a day.

Still, they live barely a step above poverty. One 43-year-old man from El
Salvador is a regular in the lot, arriving at dawn from the studio apartment he
shares with five others. He says he has not had steady work since January, and
he has not been able to send home money to support his wife and seven children.

He would like to go home, but he has no money to repay his brother what he
borrowed to make the trek across the Mexican border. As he stands in the lot, he
swears that someday he will warn others against the illusion of wealth in the
United States.

"Don't be crazy," he will say. "It's a lie."

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A sour economy and immigrant job restrictions are creating
street-corner work lineups around the New York region. Francisco, center,
negotiated with a potential employer looking to hire day labor in Flushing,
Queens (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) (pg. A1); Across the New York
metropolitan region, urban migrant workers, like these Russian immigrants in
Brooklyn, line up for hours each day, hoping to be picked for unskilled and
bottom-dollar jobs. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) (pg. B7)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 27, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

HAITIANS RETURNED UNDER NEW POLICY

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 908 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 26


The Coast Guard returned the first boatload of Haitians to Port-au-Prince today
under President Bush's new policy of accepting no more refugees at the United
States naval base at Guantanamo, Cuba, the White House announced.

The decision to return Haitians without giving them immigration hearings at
Guantanamo has been bitterly denounced by human rights organizations.

The policy has been to grant refugee status only to those who can establish
during interviews at Guantanamo that they are political, not economic, refugees.
Human rights groups say the stricter policy is morally indefensible, runs
counter to the identity of the United States as a nation of immigrants and will
only encourage other countries to follow suit.

The change also drew criticism from Gov. Bill Clinton, who has all but locked up
the Democratic Presidential nomination. Asked in Little Rock, Ark., today
whether he approved of the Bush policy on Haiti, he said:

"If I were President, in the absence of clear and compelling evidence that they
were not political refugees, I would give them temporary asylum here until we
restored the elected Government of Haiti. I would turn up the heat and try to
restore the elected Government and meanwhile let the refugees stay here."

Representative Stephen J. Solarz, Democrat of Brooklyn, said he would introduce
either a resolution or a bill to require the Administration to interview Haitian
boat people on the high seas to determine whether they were entitled to refugee
status.

Mr. Bush's new guidelines were announced Sunday in an effort to stem the outflow
of refugees. Haitians have been taking to sea in flimsy boats by the hundreds in
recent days.

Today, the White House spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, announced at a briefing that
"a handful of Haitians were rescued at sea this morning and are being returned."
There were 38 Haitians on the boat.

A State Department spokesman, Richard A. Boucher, said that the refugees were
told they could apply for asylum at the United States Embassy in Port-au-Prince,
and that 17 had agreed and were taken to the embassy to fill out forms.

'Most Rational Approach'

Mr. Fitzwater said the Haiti issue was a "difficult" one but that President
Bush's change in policy -- which seemed to take many State Department officials
by surprise -- was necessary.

"We have thousands of people on the seas that are being threatened -- 18 died
yesterday or the day before -- and people are dying every day on these little
ships that they're trying to take out," he said. "The most rational approach in
terms of safety and humanitarian concerns is to try to process these
applications at the embassy, and those that are qualified are then granted
asylum."

Nevertheless the new policy was roundly denounced by human rights organizations.

"I empathize with the Government," said the Rev. Richard Ryscavage, head of the
Office of Migration and Refugee Services of the United States Catholic
Conference. "They are in a difficult bind. But this policy is a national tragedy
because it represents a turning of our backs on our very core tradition of
receiving newcomers." Father Ryscavage's office is under contract from the
Justice Department to provide social and legal services to Haitian immigrants.

'Short-Sighted Quick Fix'

Father Ryscavage said the new policy was a "short-sighted quick fix that will
ultimately backfire, because unless you deal with the core issues you will have
continuing emigration, and the core issue is not migration -- the core issue is
Haiti."

Lionel Rosenblatt, executive director of Refugees International, said the policy
"only gives other countries license to turn back refugees from around the world
without the right to assert political-refugee status."

Mr. Rosenblatt recalled that in 1980, tens of thousands of Cubans fled to
Florida quickly by boat, and that President Jimmy Carter was was hurt
politically because he was seen as having lost control of the situation.

"That was an election year and this is an election year," he said.

More United States officials are acknowledging that something needs to be done
if Haiti is going to be stabilized, but they insist that they are caught between
two fundamental problems.

On one side, they say, is the fact that the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the
democratically elected President who was ousted Sept. 30, was an imperfect
democrat at best. Father Aristide intimidated many opponents with threats to
unleash his political supporters on them, and thus his return to Haiti is still
looked upon with great ambivalence by many in the military, in business and in
Parliament.

On the other side, officials say, is the fact that the coalition of army,
business and parliamentary figures who ousted Father Aristide have not coalesced
into a coherent political force that could run the country.

Power in Port-au-Prince today is so widely dispersed that many of the sanctions
introduced by the Organization of American States have had little political
impact but an enormously negative economic impact.

Therefore, some officials say that what is needed in Haiti is some sort of
international apparatus or peacekeeping force. It could insure that Father
Aristide's return would not unnerve the opposition or leave him feeling
vulnerable to another coup. This could provide some time for the country to
introduce the political and economic reforms needed for a long-term solution.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some of the first group of Haitian refugees to be intercepted
at sea and returned to Haiti waiting to be processed in Port-au-Prince (pg. A1);
Thirty-eight Haitian refugees stopped at sea were returned to their country
immediately yesterday under a new Bush Administration policy. A refugee was
fingerprinted by police officers after being returned. (pg. A10) (Agence
France-Presse)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 29, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Portrait of America;
New Census Data Reveal Redistribution of Poverty

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1616 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 28


The best evidence yet of the widening economic gulf between the old and the
young during the 1980's was provided today in newly released Census Bureau data
that showed the elderly held their own during the decade's economic ups and
downs while the nation's children increasingly slid into poverty.

The finding is part of a cornucopia of new information from the census showing
growing differences between regions and population groups in areas as varied as
the amount of schooling, type of disability, length of the commute, age of
housing and ancestry of the nation's 250 million people.

The data also confirms the decade's place in immigration history: 8.6 million
people told the census that they entered the country during the 1980's. That is
almost as many immigrants as arrived from 1900 to 1910, the previous high-water
mark of American immigration.

Redistribution of Poverty

But the starkest picture drawn from the wealth of new information is the
portrait of the redistribution of poverty among the generations. As the number
of people beneath the poverty line grew by 4.3 million to more than 31 million
between 1979 and 1989, increasing numbers of the poor were children. One in four
of new entrants into the ranks of the poor in the 1980's was under 18 years of
age; one in 25 was 65 or older.

Martha Farnsworth Riche, director of the Population Reference Bureau, a private
Washington-based research organization, said the elderly fared relatively well
because the Federally financed safety net was held relatively intact for them.
"The indexing of Social Security payments to inflation was probably the single
biggest factor that got people out of poverty," Ms. Riche said.

"A similar thing was not done for children. We just assume that parents raise
children. Because we're all going to be elderly and we all have elderly parents,
we just think that society provides for the elderly."

The nation's adults had higher percentages of high school and college graduates,
and the percentage of high school dropouts had declined from 13 percent to 11
percent. But the educational gains were not reflected in the economic
statistics, which showed growing numbers of poor people.

The figures make up a snapshot of the nation's economic health just before the
current recession began, but the trends reflected in the census are continuing,
according to more recent data.

The Census statistics on commuting show a smaller portion of workers using car
pools or public transportation. The percentage of workers who drive alone to
their jobs rose to 73.2 percent from 64.4 percent a decade ago; car-pool use
dropped from 19.7 percent to 13.4 percent and public transit ridership fell from
6.4 percent to 5.3 percent.

Among the most striking geographic trends was the tendency of the rest of the
nation to pull away from the Appalachian and Mississippi River states of
Louisiana, Mississippi, Arkansas and West Virginia, which were consistently
poorer, younger and less educated than other areas.

The data also reflected the rapid pace of income decline in these regions, the
Farm Belt and the Great Plains. Median income levels declined by at least 10
percent over the drought-plagued decade in Iowa, Montana, North Dakota,
Wisconsin and Wyoming, as well as in Louisiana and West Virginia.

But there was marked economic buoyancy in states with large suburban
populations. Connecticut, New Jersey, New York, Maryland, Virginia, New
Hampshire, Massachusetts and California all ranked among the top 10 states in
the nation in median income; all but New Hampshire ranked among the top 10 in
the percentage of population earning more than $150,000 annually.

These states, however, were among the first to see their economies fall into
recession in 1991 and have been among the hardest-hit by the current economic
doldrums.

The newly released census figures reveal a wide range of information:

*Median income levels, adjusted for inflation, shrank during the 1980's in 24
states, from the Farm Belt to the depressed manufacturing states of Michigan,
Ohio and Illinois to Texas, Arizona and New Mexico.

*Accounting for inflation, the median household income for the nation rose 6.5
percent to $30,056 a year, but the median amount spent on mortgage payments
increased 26.9 percent, to $737 a month or $8,844 a year.

*Southeastern states, where education spending has historically been low,
registered the sharpest gains in high school graduates. But even with these
gains, the populations of North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia remained
among the least-educated. The best-educated populations were clustered in the
West and Midwest, in states like Minnesota, Nebraska, Oregon, Utah, Alaska and
Colorado.

*About 10 percent of the population ages 16 to 64, or 16.1 million people, had
impaired mobility or needed help with basic tasks like dressing. One-third of
those 65 or older, or 10.5 million people, were limited in mobility or in their
ability to care for themselves.

*The proportion of the population speaking a language other than English at home
more than doubled, from 6.6 percent to 13.8 percent, or nearly 32 million
people.

*About one housing unit in five was built during the 1980's, compared with more
than one in four in the 1970's. One dwelling in every 30 in New Mexico, West
Virginia and Louisiana lacked complete plumbing facilities; in Alaska, the ratio
is one in eight.

15 Million Households

The census data released today was compiled from "long-form" questionnaires
filled out by more than 15 million households, a sample size that dwarfs any
other government or private research effort. As a result, while the numbers are
somewhat dated, they also allow detailed regional and local analysis of
everything from household type to commuting patterns.

One of the most striking facets revealed in the new data was the divergence in
economic trends, which was often hidden within larger aggregates. For instance,
California ranked fourth in the country in the proportion of households with
annual incomes in excess of $150,000.

Yet while the state's median income grew by 17 percent in constant dollars --
more than twice as fast as the national average -- the number of California
children in poverty increased by 40 percent. These high childhood poverty
increases were explained partly, though not completely, by the 20 percent
increase in the number of Californians under the age of 18.

California also ranked well below the national average in the proportion of
working mothers, although it compared favorably with the rest of the country on
the proportion of female-headed households in poverty. Half of such households
in California were poor; the national rate was 57.4 percent.

Another cross-current was revealed in the data on 16- to 19-year-old high school
dropouts. This group declined as a proportion of all older teen-agers, going to
6.6 percent in 1989 from 7.8 percent in 1979. But while in general they were
concentrated in the inner cities and poor rural areas, the dropouts seemed to be
where the unskilled work was.

In 1990, teen-age dropouts without work were concentrated in traditional
bastions of rural poverty like Mississippi, aging industrial states like New
York, or states like North Carolina and Oregon, whose economies were rapidly
shifting from resource-based industries, like timber and tobacco, to service-
and technology-based industries.

But the greatest number of dropouts, including both the employed and the idle,
could be found in Nevada, Arizona, and Florida, all among the top five in new
home construction, an industry that provides lucrative if short-term employment
for the unskilled and semiskilled.

Among the states that had the fewest people moving in, three -- Michigan,
Pennsylvania and New York -- had major cities where poverty became more
concentrated over the decade, and where the shift in poverty from the old to the
young was most evident.

The number of working mothers was measured in the census for the first time in
1990, and the figures revealed some regional disparities. Though nearly 60
percent of mothers of preschool children worked, the percentage of working
mothers of school-age children was 75 percent. But these totals were much lower
in the Middle Atlantic States, particularly in New York, where 52 percent of
mothers with preschool children worked, along with 71 percent of those with
school-age children.

The proportion of working mothers was also below the national average in
California, and it was well above the national average in Hawaii, New Hampshire,
Minnesota and the Dakotas.

Though the proportion of blacks, Asians and Hispanic people in the country
climbed over the past decade, all three were outnumbered by whites claiming
English ancestry (32.6 million), German (57.9 million) and Irish (38.7 million).
Other European ancestries most frequently claimed were Italian and Polish.

About 30 million black residents were counted in the 1990 census, along with 7.3
million Asians or Pacific Islanders, and 1.9 million Americans Indians, Eskimos
or Aleuts. There were also 22.3 million Hispanic people, who can be of any race,
among the total resident population of 248.7 million people.

Though the census long-form data is collected to meet the requirements of
various Federal laws, like statutes on highway and mass-transit subsidies and
national welfare programs based on poverty rates, statisticians are beginning to
discuss alternative means of collecting this data. Several witnesses at a
Congressional hearing on census strategies suggested that smaller samples be
taken at more frequent intervals to keep the data up to date.


LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 5, 1992, Friday

CORRECTION:

Because of a computer processing error, an article and a chart last Friday about
the 1990 Census misstated percentages of 16- to 19-year-olds who have dropped
out of school and are not working. The five states with the lowest percentages
are North Dakota, 2.81; Minnesota, 3.52; Nebraska, 3.67; Wisconsin, 3.74, and
Iowa, 3.77. The states with the highest percentages are Kentucky, 9.16;
Louisiana, 9.11; Arizona, 8.53, and West Virginia, 8.36. The District of
Columbia had the highest percentage, 10.55.


GRAPHIC: Maps: "Shifts in Residence and Language Differences" shows percentage
of people who live in the state where they now live, and shows percentage of
people in each state who speak no English. (pg. A11)

Charts: "Education" shows the percentage of people 25 years old and older who
are high school graduates in the top and bottom five states, shows the
percentage point increase in high school graduates, 1980 to 1990, in the top and
bottom five states, and shows the percentage of 16 to 19 year olds who have
dropped out and are not working in the top and bottom five states; "Disability"
shows the percentage of non-institutionalized people age 16 to 64 with limited
mobility in the top and bottom five states; "Telephone Access" shows those
without phones in their house or apartment in the top and bottom five states
(pg. A14); "Income" shows the median household income, 1990 Census, in the top
and bottom five states, and shows the change in median household income, 1980
Census to 1990 Census, in the top and bottom five states; "Poverty" shows people
in poverty in 1990 in the top and bottom five states, shows percentage point
change in poverty, 1980 Census to 1990 Census, in the top and bottom five
states, and shows female-headed families, with related children under 5 years
old, in poverty, in the top and bottom five states. (pg. A15)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 31, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Judge Says U.S. Broke Law in Seeking Deportation

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 481 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 30


A Federal District judge says the Government violated the constitutional rights
of a Palestinian who lives in Houston by trying to deport him on the ground that
he supported a terrorist organization.

"Although the Government plainly may have a legitimate interest in regulating
subversive conduct," said the judge, Joyce Hens Green, in the decision released
Friday, "it cannot broadly prohibit teaching or advocating unpopular tenets, or
association with an organization that teaches or advocates such doctrines."

Judge Green, who was appointed by President Jimmy Carter in 1979, said resident
aliens are entitled to the same First Amendment protections as citizens.

The 35-year-old Palestinian, Fouad Yacoub Rafeedie, has lived in the United
States since 1975. He runs several Blockbuster Video outlets in Houston, where
he lives with his wife and son, both United States citizens.

Meeting in Syria Cited

The Immigration and Naturalization Service had contended that his attendance at
a two-week meeting of the Palestinian Youth Organization in Syria in 1986 showed
that he supported the terrorist group, the Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine, which is allied with the Palestine Liberation Organization. The
immigration service said Mr. Rafeedie had raised money and recruited members for
the popular front.

Mr. Rafeedie has denied being a member of the popular front or the Palestine
Liberation Organization; he has not denied membership in the Palestine Youth
Organization.

Mr. Rafeedie, who was born in Jordan in 1957, moved to the United States on an
immigrant visa and has been a lawful permanent resident alien since his arrival.

His lawyer, David Cole, called Judge Green's ruling "a great decision." The
Justice Department and the Immigration and Naturalization Service did not
respond to requests for comment.

A major issue in the case was the immigration service's citation of the "summary
exclusion" provision of the McCarran-Walter Act against Mr. Rafeedie on the
basis of confidential information concerning his reported membership in the
popular front.

Speedy Deportation Sought

It was the first time the immigration service had invoked the 40-year-old
provision against a permanent resident alien, the judge noted.

The Government said the speed and secrecy allowed under the provision were
needed for "the preservation of national security."

Because of the secrecy allowed under that procedure, Judge Green said: "Rafeedie
has been given only one opportunity to submit information and argument on his
own behalf, and even that opportunity has, thus far, been exercised in ignorance
of the nature of the confidential information with which he has been charged.

"He has, in essence, been afforded virtually none of the procedural protections
designed to minimize the risk that the government may err in excluding an
alien."

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 4, 1992, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Presbyterians Pick Rights Advocate as Leader

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 419 words

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE, June 3


A human rights advocate once convicted of conspiracy for his work with the
movement to provide sanctuary in the United States for Central American refugees
was elected today to preside over the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) for the
coming year.

In a four-way race for the position of church moderator, the Rev. John M. Fife
won 52 percent of the vote on the second ballot at the church's 204th General
Assembly, the annual meeting that sets policy for the 2.9-million-member
denomination.

Mr. Fife was prominent in the sanctuary movement, an effort by churches and
other religious bodies to provide shelter and support for immigrants, most of
them from El Salvador, who were deemed by the Government to be illegal aliens
but whom the churches called political refugees.

In 1986, he was tried along with several other sanctuary advocates and convicted
of conspiracy and aiding the transportation of an alien. He was sentenced to
five years' probation.

The church later won a lawsuit in which it accused American immigration agents
of improperly infiltrating Mr. Fife's congregation.

The 53-year-old Mr. Fife is pastor of the Southside Presbyterian Church in
Tucson, Ariz., a congregation of 140 people, about a third of whom are American
Indians and many of whom are Spanish-speaking.

Running close behind him in the election today was the Rev. W. Frank Harrington,
pastor of Peachtree Presbyterian Church in Atlanta, the largest congregation in
the denomination.

In questioning before today's vote, one issue was abortion rights, which the
generally liberal denomination has for the most part long supported. In that
questioning, all the candidates except Mr. Fife said they believed that a woman
had a right to choose abortion. Mr. Fife responded by saying that a majority
committee report to be presented at the nine-day convention was the best paper
he had seen on the issue from any church.

That report proposes a policy statement that would basically continue the
Presbyterians' support for abortion rights but that also acknowledges a
legitimate state interest in regulating and restricting abortions in certain
circumstances.

The statement, which also describes abortion as an option of "last resort" and
condemns the procedure when chosen casually or as a "repeated method of
contraception," has been perceived as a compromise. Indeed, some church members
who oppose abortion have expressed support for it.

Nevertheless, a minority report advocates a stronger anti-abortion stand.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 14, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Don't Take Jobs of the Poor

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 505 words


To the Editor:

On behalf of the New York State Task Force on New Americans, I take issue with
"The Riots: Underclass vs. Immigrants" (Op-Ed, May 15) by Edward N. Luttwak of
the Center for Strategic and International Studies. Mr. Luttwak scapegoats
immigrant communities in Los Angeles for the disorders that followed the verdict
in favor of the four police officers who beat the motorist Rodney King.

Mr. Luttwak, presenting a view that has been invalidated by most academic
studies, argues that immigrants are taking jobs from the American underclass,
resulting in social unrest.

The presumption that immigrants take jobs from those in the unskilled underclass
has lost support among economists. George Borjas argues in the book "Friends of
Strangers" that ratios of immigrants in major metropolitan labor markets have
trivial effects on wage rates and no effect on employment. Immigrants, it seems,
are doing jobs that American-born workers do not want.

In 1990 the Alexis de Tocqueville Institution, the American Immigration
Institute and the Hudson Institute released a survey of 38 leading economists,
including 7 former Nobel laureates and 20 past presidents of the American
Economic Association. The survey concluded that immigration had a very favorable
impact on the country's growth and that immigrants did not take American jobs.

Almost two-thirds of those who were surveyed believed that increasing the level
of legal immigration would have a favorable impact on the United States standard
of living.

The displacement notion was rejected by New York State. Last year, our task
force and two Assembly legislative commissions held a six-hour hearing on the
impact recent immigration had on the state economy and labor force. Our hearing
and subsequent research confirmed that the displacement of poor native workers
by immigrants is largely insignificant. A more comprehensive view would support
legislation to keep American jobs in the United States and upgrade training for
local workers, while maintaining the economic benefits that immigrants
contribute to the United States economy.

Perhaps more objectionable is Mr. Luttwak's attempt to cast African-American
interests against Latino interests by commenting that black leaders "betray the
uppermost interest of their poorest followers in order to coalesce with Hispanic
groups that oppose all serious efforts to contain immigration." It is this
racial demagogy that creates tensions between ethnic groups and harms the goal
of racial and ethnic harmony. It is these tensions that create riots; the issue
Mr. Luttwak professes to resolve.

Mr. Luttwak is making a transparent attempt to pit the American poor against the
immigrant poor, and the Latino immigrant against the African-American. The
reality is that immigrants are not the cause of riots, unemployment or the
depression of wages, but have been a blessing to America. We are indeed a nation
of immigrants.

THOMAS F. CATAPANO
Member of Assembly, 54th Dist.
Albany, May 27, 1992

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 14, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

City Official Quits Work For President

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 700 words


Saying he "felt morally compelled," Borough President Guy V. Molinari of Staten
Island has resigned from the Bush-Quayle re-election campaign to protest what he
called the Justice Department's refusal to look at new evidence in the case of
an immigration officer convicted of civil-rights violations.

"It's not because of my lack of affection for George Bush, but for some of his
appointees," Mr. Molinari, a former Republican congressman, said yesterday.

"If I were to continue working to re-elect George Bush I would not only perhaps
be helping to keep him in office, but keeping in office the same people in the
Justice Department who were insensitive, who would not even listen."

Mr. Molinari said he was resigning as one of three New York State
super-delegates to the Republican National Convention, as a strategist for the
Republican National Committee, as adviser to the New York State Bush-Quayle
campaign and as vice chairman of the Legal Services Corporation, a Federal
agency that represents poor people in civil cases.

A Sister's Request

The immigration officer, 41-year-old Joseph Occhipinti, was convicted in June
1991 of violating the rights of shopkeepers in Washington Heights in Manhattan
during searches for illegal aliens who might be involved in illicit activities.
The prosecution charged that Mr. Occhipinti stole $16,000 from the shopkeepers
in the course of conducting illegal searches.

The jury found the searches illegal, but acquitted Mr. Occhipinti of taking the
money. Last month, a Federal appeals court upheld the conviction, and Mr.
Occhipinti began a 37-month prison term on Friday.

Mr. Molinari said he investigated the case for several months after he was asked
to intercede by Mr. Occhipinti's sister, who lives on Staten Island.

Mr. Molinari said he tried to present new evidence during more than 40 meetings
and phone conversations with Justice Department officials. "I am totally
convinced that an innocent man is behind bars today because of their refusal to
listen," he said. His decision to leave the Bush campaign was reported yesterday
in The Daily News.

Search for New Evidence

A Justice Department spokeswoman, Amy Casner, said that the Assistant Attorney
General for Civil Rights, John R. Dunne, "had repeated conversations with Mr.
Molinari and responded to all communications sent by Mr. Molinari, but basically
Mr. Molinari presented nothing new."

"We all know that Mr. Occhipinti was found guilty by a jury and the verdict was
upheld on appeal," Ms. Casner added.

But Mr. Molinari said, "We have affidavits and tapes from people who talked to a
number of the prosecution witnesses who admitted they perjured themselves during
the trial."He also said he had affidavits from "reliable citizens who say they
were advised by some of the prosecution witnesses that Occhipinti was set up to
remove him from interfering with their illegal activities."

Campaign Expresses Regret

There were also improprieties during the trial, Mr. Molinari contended. He said
55 audiotapes "generated by the defense, of conversations between people working
undercover for Occhipinti and some of the main prosecution witnesses," were
turned over to the prosecution. Duplicates of those tapes were to be handed back
to the defense for use during the trial, Mr. Molinari said, but never were,
despite defense protests.

He also said Mr. Occhipinti's original lawyer "was in a severe state of mental
breakdown on the eve of the trial -- he had matrimonial difficulties and the
split-up of his law firm." The lawyer, Mr. Molinari said, "begged to get off the
case and to be allowed a 30-day extension to prepare" another lawyer. But the
motion was denied by Judge Constance Baker Motley in Federal District Court.

In Washington, the deputy press secretary for the Bush-Quayle campaign, Tony
Mitchell, said: "We were surprised by Mr. Molinari's decision. We're sorry to
lose Guy from the President's team in New York, but we are gratified that he has
expressed his admiration and love for the President. The campaign is also
confident that we still maintain a very strong organization in New York and we
expect to carry the state."

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 19, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

$25 and Under

BYLINE: By Eric Asimov

SECTION: Section C; Page 19; Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 704 words


It's a verifiable equation: when a Government falls anywhere in the world,
restaurants rise in the United States. Let's face it, political change rarely
cures poverty or resolves antipathies, but it almost always benefits American
diners.

After the Vietnam War, Vietnamese restaurants opened all over the United States,
run by new immigrants and catering to a ready market of refugees missing the
tastes of home as well as to Americans. After Governments changed in Iran,
Ethiopia and, most recently, Haiti, new restaurants sprouted up all over,
replaying this centuries-old American process of immigration and assimilation.

Such was the case with Caravan, a four-year-old Afghan restaurant owned by
Ibrahim Muhammed and Ghulam Haider. Mr. Muhammed had been the chef at the Afghan
Embassy in Washington for four years when he decided to seek asylum in the
United States in 1979 for political and economic reasons. Mr. Haider, his
cousin, was then a refugee from the war in Afghanistan, staying in the United
States Embassy in India. Mr. Muhammed helped Mr. Haider come to New York, where
he attended City College. On finishing his studies, he and Mr. Muhammed, who had
cooked at and managed a number of restaurants, decided to open their own place
in New York.

Seeking a foothold in crowded, touristy midtown, they chose a steamy block on
Eighth Avenue near the theater district, an urban counterpart to the barren,
rugged terrain for which Afghanistan is famous. Adventurous diners must traverse
a Khyber Pass of adult-video stores and similarly seedy establishments to reach
Caravan, but their reward is a quiet, calm refuge where they can relax over
savory kebabs and fiery stews.

The carpeted, rectangular dining room, seating about 85, holds neat rows of
tables covered with soft tablecloths and bearing red linen napkins. Tapestries
depicting folky mountain scenes line the walls, and sinuous music lilts quietly
in the background. Mr. Haider, a gracious presence in the dining room, is quick
to offer suggestions or recommendations as he brings over a basket of oblong
wedges of fresh flatbread.

Ashak ($3.50), steamed scallion-and-meat dumplings covered with a refreshing
mint-scented yogurt sauce, is a delightful way to start. Sambusa ($2.95) is a
spicier appetizer, crisp fried triangular turnovers containing chickpeas, ground
beef and mixed vegetables, served with a yogurt-and-lemon dipping sauce.
Boulanee kadou ($3.25) is an unusual fried turnover filled with pureed pumpkin,
fragrant with cinnamon and nutmeg and almost sweet enough for dessert.

All 10 kebabs come with enormous portions of nutty basmati rice and grilled
tomatoes. The naan va kebab ($9.95), minced beef mixed with onions and spices
and fashioned into a submarine-size cylinder, is spicier than the shishlick
($10.25), a domino row of tender chunks of grilled beef. Morgh ($10.75),
bite-size chunks of chicken breast marinated in lemon and then grilled, was
almost hidden in the rice. Only the bareh kebab ($10.75), grilled lamb marinated
in yogurt, was tough.

Even the satisfying kebabs can't overshadow the delicious peppery slow-cooked
stews, including chalow sabzi ($9.25), tender lamb served in a sauce scented
with coriander and garlic over rice with spinach, and quorma badenjan ($9.25),
another lamb dish, served with eggplant, onion, peppers and tomatoes. There is
also an array of vegetarian dishes.

Desserts, including a creamy rice pudding ($2.25) and a gelatinous saffron
pudding studded with nuts ($2) are a bit of an afterthought, a bland contrast to
the spicy fare.

Four years at Caravan have taught Mr. Muhammed and Mr. Haider a lot about
running a business in America, they say. Like the importance of ambition and
expansion. They are now planning a second restaurant on the Upper East Side.

Caravan

741 Eighth Avenue, at 46th Street, Manhattan, (212) 262-2021.

Best dishes: Scallion-and-meat dumplings; chickpea, meat and vegetable
turnovers; minced beef kebab; chicken kebab; lamb-and-spinach stew, and
lamb-and-eggplant stew.

Price range: $10 to $16.

Credit cards: American Express, Diner's Club, Mastercard and Visa.

Hours: Noon to 11:30 P.M. daily

Wheelchair access: all on one level.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 21, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE NATION;
'Processing' for Haitians Is Time in a Rural Prison

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 900 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Throughout Latin America and the Caribbean, the place with the short, harsh name
of Krome has become a symbol of the United States as famous as the Statue of
Liberty. For thousands of would-be refugees and immigrants during the last
decade, the Immigration and Naturalization Service detention center on Krome
Avenue, a two-lane road through rural farmland that separates Miami's suburbs
from the Everglades, has been their point of entry into America. The tales that
filter back to friends and relatives, however, tell not of opportunity but of
persecution.

During a hunger strike earlier this month to protest the death of one such
detainee, 185 Haitians interned at Krome charged that they had been beaten,
harassed and deprived of medical care, of their Bibles and of contact with their
lawyers and relatives. Krome, inaccessible by public transportation, is on the
opposite side of the county from Little Haiti, and just getting there can be an
ordeal for families, many of whom do not own cars to make the 60-mile round
trip. But Richard Smith, the immigration service regional director here,
described the charges as "old allegations that we have heard over and over
again." Two years ago, in fact, Representative Dante Fascell, a Miami Democrat
who heads the House Foreign Affairs Committee, was apprised of the same type of
complaints and said the documentation was "disturbing and would indicate that
longstanding abuses at the center remain uncorrected." The Federal Bureau of
Investigation has also been examining conditions, though the findings have not
been made public and the inquiry has been used by officials to limit access to
independent human rights groups. "If they have nothing to hide, why don't they
open it up and let people talk to the detainees?" asked Nancy Arnison of the
Minnesota Lawyers International Human Rights Committee.

In its earliest days, the Krome Service Processing Center was a jumble of tents
and makeshift buildings thrown up on vacant land owned by the United States
Department of Defense to process some of the 125,000 Cubans who arrived in the
1980 Mariel boatlift. As the immigration flow of the 80's continued, plans to
close the center were abandoned and Krome's population rose to as many as 800
people. Today anyone caught entering the district illegally is likely to be
taken to Krome. At the moment, Haitians are the dominant group but nearly every
other country in the Western Hemisphere is represented, and there are also
Chinese, Indians and Africans. "It's like a miniature United Nations here,"
Constance K. Weiss, the administrator, said on a recent tour.

A Jail Is a Jail Is a Jail

Compared to refugee camps in places like Hong Kong or Honduras, Krome is cleaner
and more spacious.  Nevertheless, there is no mistaking its purpose: there are
barbed wire fences everywhere. Internees wear orange uniforms, guards on the
grounds are armed, and the intimidating sound of gunfire can echo through the
camp from a nearby target range where I.N.S. officers practice. "I was once
asked by a public official why Krome looks so much like a jail," Mr. Smith said.
"That's because it is a jail, albeit a minimum security jail. The sign outside
may say that it's a processing center, but that's just semantics."

"For someone who has never been detained anywhere, having their whole conduct
regimented in Krome can be quite a shock," said Randy Sidlosca, an immigration
lawyer here, thinking especially of his women clients from "sheltered families
in traditional societies."

Though Krome was designed for short-term stays, the complexity and slowness of
the immigration bureaucracy cause many internees to spend many more than the 90
days that would be allowed by a bill now before Congress.  There are also
minors, who by I.N.S. regulations are not supposed to be detained there, and at
least one infant born in the United States. "The basic problem is that there are
no rules," said Joan Friedland, an immigration lawyer here. "Everything is
discretionary."

While they wait, many detainees volunteer for work, which earns them $1 a day;
administrators say Congress has refused to authorize an increase to $4. Even so,
it is usually not difficult to find recruits. "A lot of the cultures represented
here are very work-oriented," said Michael Rozos, Ms. Weiss's chief deputy.
"They are not used to sitting around 24 hours a day doing nothing, and they
don't like it."

Ms. Weiss denies allegations of violence and human rights abuses at Krome.
"There is no institutional policy of brutalizing people," she said. "Why would
we want to run a place where we beat the hell out of people?" Refugee advocacy
groups and immigration lawyers have a two-part answer: to discourage other
potential refugees and because it's easy to get away with. Detained immigrants
are a powerless group, these advocates say, without recourse to normal political
or legal channels. Administrators and guards are aware of the hostility with
which they are regarded in Miami, where most residents are members of immigrant
families, and argue that it is unfair, since they are merely carrying out
Washington's instructions, confusing and contradictory though they may be. "The
source of the problem is not here," Mr. Rozos said. "Nobody working here is
going to change the policy of the President of the United States. He hasn't
called us yet."

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Haitian internees meeting with relatives at the Krome detention
center near Miami. (Maggie Steber/JB Pictures)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 27, 1992, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Remark on Immigrants Brings Byrd's Apology

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 170 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26


Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, the Senate's President pro tem, angrily
suggested during debate on legislation Thursday that the United States should
not continue accepting immigrants who speak no English.

Today he apologized on the Senate floor for his remark, saying he had made it in
the "heat of the moment."

The remark was aimed at a Bush Administration plan to aid former Soviet states
and also make immigrants from several countries eligible for welfare.

"I pick up the telephone and call the local garage," Senator Byrd said. "I can't
understand the person on the other side of the line. I'm not sure he can
understand me. They're all over the place, and they don't speak English. Do we
want more of this?"

Offering his apology today, Mr. Byrd said, "I regret that in the heat of the
moment I spoke unwisely."

Mr. Byrd, who is chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, said the
remark had stemmed from his frustration over the Government's inability to
afford many essential services.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 28, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Innovative Clinics Help Asian Immigrants Feel at Home

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1424 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 27


At a refugee clinic at San Francisco General Hospital, a Cambodian woman
complaining of insomnia was offered sleeping pills and also encouraged to seek a
blessing from a krou khmer, a native healer.

At the same clinic on a recent day, illiterate hill tribesmen from Laos are
taught how to take their pills, which are taped to an index card under pictures
of the sun and moon at different places in the sky.

And a Vietnamese patient has no trouble getting warm water rather than cool to
take her asthma medication because the staff understands that she abides by the
traditions of Chinese humoral medicine and does not want to tip the balance of
hot and cold, part of the yin and yang of her culture.

"We tailor the treatment to their world view, try to give them something
familiar that feels safe," said Shotsy Faust, a nurse practitioner and director
of the clinic, which opened in the late 1970's to screen the first wave of
Southeast Asian refugees arriving in San Francisco, where nearly one-third of
the population is of Asian descent.

Because of cultural and religious beliefs, as well as race, many Asian
immigrants face more difficult adjustment problems than their European
predecessors, experts say, and that is nowhere more apparent than in encounters
with the health care system.

Adjusting Care to Culture

Here in the most Asian metropolis in the continental United States, the customs,
beliefs and languages of these newcomers are the focal points of care at several
specialized clinics.

In other cities, too, that have seen heavy Asian immigration, the health care
system is adapting. In New York City, for instance, two municipal hospitals have
started special services for the newcomers who have congregated in neighborhoods
nearby.

Elmhurst Hospital in western Queens has a special mental health clinic, with
staff members who speak Cantonese, Mandarin and Korean. And Gouverneur Hospital
on the Lower East Side of Manhattan sends its cooks to the China Institute.

Here in the Bay Area, Oakland, like San Francisco, caters to its Asian patients.

Dr. Arthur Chen, the director of special programs at Asian Health Services in
Oakland's Chinatown, is one of the first clinicians in this country to collect
data on the health problems of various Asian nationalities. He says that these
ethnic enclaves have all too often been lumped under the rubric "Asian" and that
the failure to recognize the enormous differences between, say, Vietnamese,
Cambodians and Hong Kong Chinese interferes with care.

"I wouldn't underplay the culture shock Europeans have when they come to this
country," Dr. Chen said. "But the levels of complexity are extreme when people
come from the Far East."

Visits to the refugee clinic, to a church clinic in the Tenderloin neighborhood
and to a health center at the edge of Chinatown vividly demonstrate that the
Asian community is not a monolith and that Asian-Americans, often labeled the
"model minority," are not uniformly succeeding in American society.

At the Chinatown clinic, patronized by immigrants from Hong Kong and the
province of Guangzhou, or Canton, most of the patients are in good health and
free of dangerous habits like drug abuse. They live in intact, and often
extended, families and have jobs and high expectations for their children.

The main problem in this group, said Dr. Wally Lim, the clinic director, is that
"Chinese parents tend to be negative in their parenting, and so inquisitive
children are scolded."

From Trauma to Confusion

The hospital clinic patients, but for a few Vietnamese who came in the first
refugee wave, face daunting problems. The early Vietnamese refugees fared best,
experts say, because they were educated professionals, familiar with Western
ways.

The most recent Vietnamese arrivals are military men who fought on the American
side in the war and who are only now being released from re-education camps.
Many are frail and traumatized by torture or isolation. Also arriving in the
last few months are teen-agers born to Vietnamese mothers and G.I. fathers. Many
immigrate alone, fail to find their fathers and wind up living in the street,
seeking community in gangs.

These troubled newcomers join other refugee groups who have adjusted slowly, or
not at all. They are the Laotians, members of the Hmong and the Mien hill
tribes, who come from preliterate cultures without health or education systems,
and the Cambodians, mostly illiterate rice farmers and fishermen who survived
the murderous regime of the Khmer Rouge.

By all accounts, the adult Cambodians are unlikely to assimilate here, so
immobilized or emotionally disturbed they are by the tragedy they have seen and
by the years in Thai border camps.

Interpreters on Staff

All their languages are spoken at the special clinics, often by former refugees
now trained in medical terminology. That is not the case at most hospitals,
which generally bring in interpreters as they are needed.

Often adults will bring their children to translate, which experts say increases
intergenerational problems in families already under stress. "Their system is
built on filial piety," Dr. Chen said. "Then suddenly, the burden is shifted and
they're relying on the kids. It turns everything upside down in a real scary way
and contributes to the gang problem."

In addition to the trained interpreters, many of the doctors, nurses and other
health workers at the Asian health clinics here are so-called A.B.C.'s,
American-born Chinese, who may have been raised in bilingual households and
witnessed firsthand the collision of old Asian customs and new American ones.

One of them, Ella Chan, is a nutritionist at the Chinatown clinic, where many of
her patients are pregnant women or new mothers who shun the accepted dietary
advice because of belief in the hot-cold system, which requires choosing foods
according to temperature and other properties to balance the forces of yin and
yang.

Of Blood and Ginger

Ms. Chan lived under the bewildering rules of the system as a child, forbidden
by her elders, for instance, from eating nuts when she had a sore throat because
that is an ailment caused by too much "hot" energy and nuts are considered a
"hot" food.

Now Ms. Chan sees women who do not want to eat vegetables, a "cold" food, in the
first month after giving birth, when they believe they are especially vulnerable
to "cold" energy. Her advice: Eat your vegetables but cook them with ginger, a
"hot" food.

Blood tests, too, require delicate handling because some Southeast Asians do not
understand that blood is renewable and fear it will fall into the hands of
someone who will cast a spell on them.

At the refugee clinic, which serves refugees from around the world, Ms. Faust
said that she carefully explains what will be done with each vial of blood and
that it will be destroyed after testing. She also explains the regeneration of
blood and advises patients to drink lots of healing broth.

"It's mechanistic, but it helps them," she said. "And you never, never say, 'Oh,
come on now, it's only a little blood.' "

Excess of Respect

While it is an abiding myth that all Asians are meek, clinic workers said many
Asian patients tended to show too much respect. Janny Tam, an American-born
Chinese nurse at the refugee clinic, said Southeast Asians often refused to sit
down when a doctor was in the examining room, squatting in the corner instead.
Daisy Gin, also an American-born Chinese nurse, added that Asian refugees
minimized or failed to mention their problems and rarely made requests.

Ms. Gin contrasted this to the Soviet refugees who have lately flocked to the
clinic, displaying the behavior that served them well in their homeland, where
whoever yelled loudest was likely to get the last loaf of bread.

At the end of an examination, Ms. Gin asks patients if they have any questions.
The Asian refugees stare at her, wide-eyed and silent, the nurse said, while
"the Russians ask, 'Can I have a sonogram?' "

Most of the doctors and nurses at the special clinics argue that knowing beliefs
of Asian patients is essential to good care. But Dr. Peter Ng, a pediatrician at
the Chinatown clinic, is a forceful dissenter.

"There are 20 zillion cultures out there and there's no way you can know every
quirk," he said. "What we have to do as providers is be curious. We have to ask,
and then ask again. This is not about these individual things. It's about
caring, and out of caring searching out what we need to know."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a clinic for refugees at San Francisco General Hospital that
blends Eastern and Western medicines, Shotsy Faust, a nurse practitioner and
clinic director, examined a patient. "We tailor the treatment to their world
view, try to give them something familiar that feels safe," she said. (Miguel
Fairbanks for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 28, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Low-Skill Immigrants Hurt Job Market for Low-Skill Natives

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 369 words


To the Editor:

Obfuscation seems to have become a hallmark of the debate on the economic impact
of immigrants. "Immigrants Don't Take Jobs of the Poor" (letter, June 14) by
Thomas J. Catapano, in response to Edward N. Luttwak's May 15 Op-Ed article,
adds to the confusion.

There are two distinct but interrelated issues. One is the impact of immigration
on the overall economy, and the other is the distribution of this impact on
segments of the population. There is no doubt, as Assemblyman Catapano asserts,
that the overall American economy has benefited from immigration. This is
supported by sound economics research, as well as by the survey of "38 leading
economists" he cites.

It is also true, however, that the United States has experienced a large
increase in low-skilled immigration in the last two decades. This has arisen in
part from the large illegal immigration, which has acquired permanent residence
de jure or de facto. Also in part from a system for allocating most visas that
ignores the applicant's skills.

Substantial research indicates that a large immigration of low-skilled workers
depresses employment and wage opportunities for low-skilled workers, without
regard to the race or ethnicity of the immigrant or native-born Americans. While
immigration is not the cause of poverty in the United States, in recent years it
has inadvertently made it more difficult for low-skilled Americans.

Mr. Catapano is selective in the evidence he cites. He is perhaps unaware of the
research on the adverse effect of low-skilled immigration on low-skilled
Americans. Nor does he indicate what the survey of economists would say about
this issue.

I sympathize with Mr. Catapano's dilemma. He wishes to expand immigration
opportunities for the poor living in other countries and he wishes to help
Americans in economic hardship. Sometimes policy objectives come into conflict.
To acknowledge the potential policy conflict can result in constructive public
policies.

BARRY R. CHISWICK
Jerusalem, June 16, 1992

The writer, research professor and head of the department of economics at the
University of Illinois at Chicago, is a visiting professor at the Hebrew
University.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 2, 1992, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Race Track Is Raided By the I.N.S.

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 508 words

DATELINE: ELMONT, L.I., July 1


Immigration agents descended on a flood-lit dormitory at Belmont Park Race Track
in the middle of the night, roused hundreds of stable hands from their beds and
arrested 78 men on charges of working at the track without proper documentation.

The raid at 3 A.M. today, one of the largest in the metropolitan region in
years, was conducted with the "cooperation and permission" of the New York
Racing Association, which operates the track, said Charles Troy, a spokesman for
the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Immigration officials said the arrests were part of an investigation into
employers who hire illegal aliens, in this case some of the 140 trainers who
hire the grooms, hot walkers, exercise riders and guards who care for the
thoroughbreds at the track, which is in the midst of one of its most successful
and profitable seasons in years.

"We haven't done anything of this size in quite a while," said William S.
Slattery, the director of the Immigration Service's New York district office.

An 'Employer Survey'

In all, 350 people were sleeping in the 408-room race track dormitory when 60
immigration agents, using spotlights and equipment provided by the New York
National Guard, descended in what the immigration agency called an "employer
survey."

Of the 78 arrested, 75 were identified as Mexican nationals, and one each was
from Guatemala, Peru and Chile. The Mexicans were to be sent home under a
"voluntary departure" agreement, with 42 scheduled to fly out tonight and the
remainder on Thursday. The three others were released pending deportation
hearings.

Under the Immigration Reform Act of 1986, employers who knowingly hire aliens
without authority to work face fines of $250 to $2,000 for first-time
violations. Employers are required to check documents before they hire workers.

But Mr. Slattery said many of the workers had counterfeit documents -- typically
Social Security cards or green cards. He said that this could be a mitigating
factor in any charges against employers, unless, as sometimes happens, the
employers helped provide the documentation.

A Cooperative Effort

While New York City has a policy of limiting its cooperation with immigration
officials, except in the case of criminals, the racing association, a private
nonprofit association regulated by New York State, has no such policy. Belmont
Park is situated in Nassau County.

In a statement today, the association said it had "cooperated fully" with the
Government and "assisted in working out a schedule so that this search would be
conducted in a calm and efficient manner with no danger to any horses, as little
inconvenience as possible to horsemen and no disruption of racing."

The raids did not disrupt racing today, but they caused some grumbling in the
sprawling backstretch, where the horse is king, and everyone who works with the
thoroughbreds has to pass through complex licensing and screening procedures.

"You know your rights when you go on the track," said one barn worker. "You have
none."


LOAD-DATE: July 2, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 4, 1992, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

New York's Political Parties Vie for Votes of Immigrants

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1599 words


In his crusade to rebuild New York's tattered Republican Party, William D.
Powers has sought out Hispanic workers at the Hunts Point market in the Bronx,
huddled with Iranian emigres in Manhattan and held countless meetings with
Korean immigrants in Queens. He has even found himself urging the South Korean
President to allow Koreans who become American citizens to maintain inheritance
rights in their former homeland.

This might seem to be decidedly foreign turf for a state Republican chairman who
used to be the party leader of largely rural upstate Rensselaer County. But Mr.
Powers's pilgrimages are just one sign of the change that a record wave of
immigration is bringing to the political life of New York City.

With the foreign-born now making up more than a quarter of the city's
population, the practitioners of New York's distinctive and sometimes divisive
brand of ethnic politics are reaching out into uncharted territory, after
immigrants who could one day be as much of a force as the turn-of-the century
immigrants who gave political muscle to the Democratic machine of Tammany Hall
and gave city politics a decidedly Irish cast.

Tantalized by the newcomers, Democrats and Republicans alike are mounting voter
registration drives and outreach efforts that could help decide whether the
Democrats keep their traditional hold over New York's immigrants or the
Republicans can make substantial inroads into some new ethnic groups to breathe
fresh life into the party.

Politicians who have mastered such New York intricacies as balancing the black
and Jewish votes, who campaign by eating knishes and cannoli, these days cannot
help wondering: Will Haitians show the same voting patterns as other blacks?
Will the Chinese lean to the Democrats and the Koreans to the Republicans? Will
the Dominicans overtake Puerto Ricans as the politically dominant Hispanic
group? Where will the Russians show up on the political spectrum?

"The amount of immigration into the city is amazing," said Angelo Falcon,
president of the Institute for Puerto Rican Policy, an advocacy group that
analyzes voting patterns. "What it means down the line is not clear to anybody."

So far, voting strength among the immigrants, who typically must be residents
for five years before they apply for citizenship, is low. Hispanic people make
up nearly a quarter of the city's population and have composed 12 to 15 percent
of the turnout in recent city elections.

But the immigration is already having its effect. Deputy Mayor Bill Lynch, the
chief political strategist for Mayor David N. Dinkins, recalled the axiom that a
New York politician must visit Ireland, Israel and Italy.

"I argue that now they've got to go to Israel, Africa, Puerto Rico, Ireland and
Italy," he said. "And you might have to reach into the Dominican Republic and in
the future you may have to reach into Asia. This is fast becoming an
international city and not an international city that's just European."

Even at their current voting rate, Hispanic New Yorkers are already a swing bloc
-- particularly in a race where the bulk of the black vote might go to Mr.
Dinkins and much of the white vote to a white opponent. And so, more than a year
before the mayoral election, the three probable major candidates are already
jousting for the Hispanic vote.

Going (Far) For the Vote

Mr. Dinkins, who won nearly 65 percent of the Hispanic vote in his 1989 campaign
but has had increasingly testy relations with Hispanic leaders, visited Puerto
Rico and the Dominican Republic in May.

His staff has prepared a background paper showing that $11 billion of the city's
$29 billion budget falls under the jurisdiction of Hispanic officials. And he
has called for 20 percent of city contracts to go to businesses owned by women
or minorities.

City Council President Andrew J. Stein has also visited Puerto Rico twice after
natural disasters. And he has accused the Mayor of failing to provide Hispanic
groups with a fair share of city contracts for human services.

For his part, aides of Rudolph W. Giuliani, the Republican who captured about 35
percent of the Hispanic vote in 1989, note that he does free legal work for the
Puerto Rican Legal Defense Fund. And they say he is planning to set up outreach
centers in Hispanic neighborhoods.

The last time New York saw such an influx of immigrants, nearly a century ago,
was before civil service laws and social welfare programs. Tammany Hall courted
Irish newcomers with jobs and handouts.

"We gave an incentive for the average citizen -- the poor -- to get involved in
politics," said James R. McManus, a Manhattan Democratic district leader whose
great uncle was a fabled district leader of Tammany Hall. "You'd get a job for
the son, a little favor here, a little favor there. They'd give you a turkey."

These days Democrats have continued to seek the immigrant vote. Mr. Dinkins 1989
mayoral campaign borrowed much of the structure of the Rev. Jesse Jackson's 1988
presidential primary apparatus and reached out to immigrant communities.

Democrats contend that immigrants seeking to assimilate will almost inevitably
turn to them.

"Newcomers try to buy into the power structure usually," said Norman Adler, a
political consultant.

As an example of their success with new immigrants, Democrats point to two new
City Council members, Guillermo Linares, the city's first Dominican
officeholder, and Una Clarke, who was born in Jamaica. Ms. Clarke, however, had
to battle a candidate backed by the Brooklyn Democratic leader.

Outnumbered almost five to one in New York City, the Republicans are also
looking longingly at some of the newest immigrants, like Koreans, in search of
entrepreneurs with conservative values who could be receptive to their message.

"People have laughed at me, I've driven to Queens so many times to talk to
Korean Americans," Mr. Powers said. "I just think they're the future of our
party."

Some Democrats worry that there are now other immigrant groups in their
neighborhoods with a leaning toward the Republican Party, like Soviet emigres.
State Senator Donald M. Halperin helped organize a Russian American Democratic
Club in Brooklyn.

"Neither party is effectively registering them at the grass-roots level," he
said, "but I think the Democratic Party has more to do because we have to
counteract an inclination they have to become Republicans.'

In Queens some newcomers have found the Republicans an easier path to political
activity, if not victory, since the battered party has no one waiting in line
ahead of them.

Chun Soo Pyun, a Korean immigrant from Flushing, said he decided he had a future
in politics after he organized a City Hall demonstration to protest the black
boycott of Korean merchants in Brooklyn in 1990.

He asked Democrats he knew if the party would endorse his candidacy for City
Council. But he said the answer came back no. He went to a Republican Party
function and asked for support. "They were shocked," he recalled. "An unknown
Asian guy asked for the nomination on the spot and then they thought, 'Why not?'
"

Mr. Pyun lost his race, but he's already plotting his next one. And his next.
Last year, he said he was afraid to bring up Asian issues. But next year he
might. Next time, he thinks he may refer to the violence in Los Angeles and ask
"why Koreans have to be sacrificed."

Across Queens, in Richmond Hill, Denny D. Bhagwandin, an immigrant from Guyana,
has come to the Republican Party with an earnest innocence reminiscent of Frank
Capra's Mr. Smith.

Never mind that Frances M. Werner, the Queens Republican leader, virtually
suspects that her candidate's quest to unseat Representative Floyd H. Flake, a
Democrat, will be a sacrificial race. She said Mr. Bhagwandin and his supporters
will not hear talk of losing. "They're on a mission," she said. "They want to be
Americans."

Reaching Out, And Getting Slapped

One day recently, Mr. Bhagwandin passed out campaign literature in Jamaica,
Queens, heavily Democratic territory. His office manager, Ramdat Unk, registered
voters, even though he is not yet a citizen himself.

"We're campaigning for the Republican Party," Mr. Unk gently told 29-year-old
Terence Medina, who had reached the portion of the registration form that deals
with party affiliation.

"No. They're disgusting," Mr. Medina replied.

Queens Democrats say they are also reaching out for immigrants.

Thomas J. Manton, the Queens County Democratic leader, said that he had
considered adding six at-large seats to the party's 64-member executive
committee so that he could appoint representatives of new ethnic groups. The
other members are elected. But Mr. Manton conceded that he faces opposition from
some executive committee members who argue that they all came from minority or
immigrant groups and had to learn to win at the polls.

Outside the inner sanctums of the political parties, the quest for many
immigrants is simply to persuade their countrymen to vote.

Ethel T. Chen, the Forest Hills Democrat who is president of the Chinese
American Voters Association of Queens, proudly displays her organization's voter
registration pamphlet, written mostly in Chinese.

The booklet provides everything from the words to the "Star Spangled Banner,"
standard questions and answers from the citizenship exam ("What do the stripes
on the flag mean?") and Ms. Chen's remonstrances to Chinese emigres to join the
political process. "What we emphasize," she said, "is if we don't vote, no
matter how many people we have, we are considered invisible."

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chun Soo Pyun, second from right, a Korean immigrant, began his
political career in 1990. He lost a bid for City Council but is planning his
next race. Joining him at a fund-raising event were Frances M. Werner, the
Queens Republican leader, left, and Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, center (Rebecca
Cooney for The New York Times); Denny D. Bhagwandin, an immigrant fromm Guyana,
is running as a Republican to try to unseat Representative Floyd H. Flake of
Queens. Mr. Bhagwandin campaigned recently on Parsons Boulevard. (Ruby
Washington/The New York Times) (pg. 22)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 6, 1992, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Words No Longer Escape Them;
For This Graduating Class, the Accent Is on Communication

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1160 words


Arriving alone at Kennedy International Airport from Somalia, Hawa Jibril held
tightly to her passport and visa, and one other, makeshift document. It was a
sign made by her cousin: "Please help me. I don't speak any international
language. I want to follow this address: 1661 Bedford Avenue, Brooklyn, NY,
USA."

"All I could say was 'Yes, no and where you come from?' " she recalled. A police
officer, she said, handed her sign to a cabdriver, and he delivered her to her
uncle's liquor store.

That was seven years ago. Ms. Jibril still has the sign, but the message no
longer applies. She is nearly fluent in English. And last week, in a sweltering
auditorium in a Brooklyn elementary school, she received a new document,
certifying her enormous achievement: Hawa Jibril from Somalia had completed
Donna Harkavy's Level IV English as a second language class.

So had Sam Baraker from Ukraine, Aminta Hernandez from El Salvador, Dedens
Devarieux from Haiti, Viviane Mashamba from Zaire, Ming Lin from China and 13
other immigrants from 10 other countries. Nineteen people in a wave of
immigration that is reshaping New York City.

Five mornings a week, from September through June, in a basement classroom in
Crown Heights, they had formed a small village with one law: "Speak English
only." Mistakes and accents didn't matter. Just talk, Ms. Harkavy told them. It
worked.

Their classroom was the one place where they could just talk in a city with
little patience for people who struggle with the language. After Ms. Harkavy
showed the movie "E.T." last winter, the students all said they knew how E.T.
felt. They often felt like aliens in New York, they said.

"Now I understand what people are saying," said Mr. Baraker, who was
disappointed to find, upon arriving in America 13 months ago, that no Americans
in New York would speak English with him. "Now I can say what I need. I need a
job."

So desperate was Mr. Baraker for American conversation that he telephoned the
800 numbers listed in his vast collection of catalogues (from Tiffany to J.
Crew) just to talk to the salespeople, who he says were often friendlier than
the New Yorkers he tried to talk to on the subways.

When he wasn't on the telephone, Mr. Baraker, who was a mechanical engineer in
his country, was upgrading his electronic teaching aids: from a miniature
English-Russian electronic dictionary to a home computer (with software for
learning English) to an electronic talking dictionary. Push a button, and a
voice utters the word, in eerily perfect English.

"One day I heard this strange voice from the back of the room," Ms. Harkavy
said. "I couldn't figure out who it was." The talking dictionary was repeating
the newest vocabulary word: "Detour."

Ms. Harkavy's class is the top level offered by the New York City Board of
Education. But last week's ceremony did not mean it was all over, not in the way
that high school or college commencement does. Learning English will never be
over.

"I want to speak perfect English," said Ms. Jibril, who stocks shoes in a
Payless store.

Now, Ruth Lopez from Puerto Rico can speak her mind. A few years ago, she didn't
have the words to tell her American factory boss that it wasn't right that he
was laying her off, ahead of a younger woman with far less seniority.

After four years in America, Ms. Hernandez can go to the doctor's office, the
store or her children's schools without dragging along her nephew to translate.
"The only thing I could say was, 'I'm sorry, I don't speak English,' " she said.

At the post-graduation party, which featured the usual international spread,
Jacob Janvier, from Haiti, lived up to his class nickname: the King of Idioms.
"Have a nice day," he said sincerely. "It's a breeze. I hit the ceiling.
Learning the ropes. I learned the ropes with Donna."

Learning the ropes with Ms. Harkavy meant more than just the language. She
offered a crash course in American culture: from cooking a Thanksgiving turkey
(in her kitchen in Park Slope) to the history of the civil rights movement to a
one-day bus trip to the place they had all dreamed of visiting, Washington.

Talking to human beings, face to face, wasn't enough. Ms. Harkavy wanted her
students to get comfortable with telephones, and those intimidating answering
machines. Their homework: leaving messages on a teacher's machine.

Ms. Harkavy was thrilled when Rita Limanto from Indonesia, one of the shyest
students, left a three-minute message about a trip she and some classmates had
made to Manhattan.

The energetic teacher was a one-woman job bank, helping Mrs. Limanto and five
others get jobs at the Love Store, a discount drug chain in Manhattan. Min Sun
Min, from Myanmar, formerly Burma, is selling candy at Chelsea Cinemas, thanks
to Ms. Harkavy's husband, Rob Cohen, a projectionist there.

"Never say you can't do something," Ms. Harkavy told her scrupulously honest
students as she sent them on job interviews. "Always say, 'I can learn quickly.'
"

Her students are starting at the bottom in New York. In their countries they
were doctors, engineers, accountants and teachers.

No Easy Undertaking

Last week, Stephan W. Poppick, who heads the Adult Learning Center where the
English class met, praised the students, along with the immigrants from other
English classes, for their determination.

"Learning English is not a breeze," Ms. Hernandez said, practicing her idioms.
She did it, and sewed dresses in a factory. Unfortunately, she can't practice on
the job. "Everyone speaks Spanish," she said, ruefully.

Mr. Baraker will start Brooklyn Technical College next fall. Min Sun Min, a
newspaper editor in his country before the military crackdown, has received a
scholarship from Asia Watch to study journalism at New York University. Yuriy
Barskiy from Russia will also enroll at N.Y.U.

Her students had come to New York to change their lives. Ms. Harkavy, who has
spent her life in Brooklyn, would also like to transform hers. She and her
husband are looking for something that is hard to find in New York: a garden, a
sense of community, a slower pace.

Eugene, Ore., or Chapel Hill, N.C., might be the place. Ms. Harkavy plans to
spend this summer looking for work. In the fall, however, she plans to be back
in the basement, teaching English, and America, to the newest New Yorkers.

                             --------------------


The Series So Far

The first article in this series about an English class for immigrants appeared
on Nov. 28, 1991. It described the students' celebration of Thanksgiving.
Subsequent articles told of the obsession of one Ukrainian immigrant, Sam
Baraker, with learning English; of parents who fear they may fall far behind
their children in learning English, and of how the immigrant students celebrate
holidays and special occasions by cooking and sharing native dishes. The most
recent article, on May 22, described a trip by the students to Washington.


LOAD-DATE: July 6, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: America 101: Learning the Language -- Last of six articles about an
English class for immigrants.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Five mornings a week, from September through June, in a basement
classroom in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, the members of Donna Harkavy's Level IV
English as a second language class had one rule: "Speak English only." Ms.
Harkavy, center, told them to just talk and it worked. The class graduated last
week. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 11, 1992, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Russia Signs Treaty to Set Up A Region for Ethnic Germans

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 340 words

DATELINE: MOSCOW, July 10


Russia and Germany signed a treaty today providing for the resettlement of about
two million ethnic Germans along the Volga River, where an autonomous German
republic existed until Stalin destroyed it during World War II.

The treaty will re-establish an autonomous region open to all ethnic Germans in
the former Soviet Union. It was signed by Deputy Prime Minister Valery
Makharadze and Nationality Policy Minister Valery Tishkov of Russia and Bonn's
special envoy for ethnic Germans, Horst Waffenschmidt.

About two million ethnic Germans still live in the former Soviet Union, mainly
in Russia and in the Central Asian republic of Kazakhstan.

But they are often still called the Volga Germans, a reference to the autonomous
Volga republic that was set up in 1924. Stalin abolished the republic in 1941
after Hitler's troops invaded the Soviet Union, and about 400,000 of the
region's ethnic German inhabitants were deported to Siberia.

Bonn has said it is willing to support ethnic Germans in the former Soviet
Union, and it has given $87 million to ethnic Germans in Russia in the last two
years. Under the new treaty, Russia is also obliged to provide financial support
to resettled Germans.

Many ethnic Germans say they would like to immigrate to Germany, but Germany has
been inundated with refugees from the east and is trying to discourage further
immigration. The German Constitution states nonetheless that every ethnic German
is eligible for German citizenship.

Russian news reports did not make clear how much land was being set aside for
the ethnic Germans. The old republic occupied an area of 11,000 square miles,
slightly larger than the state of Maryland, straddling the Volga near the cities
of Saratov and Engels. Thousands of Germans came to Russia in the early 18th
century at the invitation of Peter the Great, who sought teachers, doctors,
architects and engineers to help modernize his country.

In March, Ukraine set up a program for resettling ethnic Germans who were
deported from Ukrainian lands.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of Russia showing location of of the former Volga Republic.

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 14, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

THE SURROUNDING SCENE -- THE MELTING POT;
The Tired, the Poor, the Laundry

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk; The Convention

LENGTH: 1081 words


Mohammed Hassan, a busboy at the Righa Royale Hotel, is busy this week filling
the water glasses and clearing the dirty plates of the Democratic Senate
Convention Committee members and their guests. But close as he is to the heart
of the American political process, the 25-year-old immigrant from Bangladesh
harbors no illusions about seeing democracy at work.

"They democracy, I work," said Mr. Hassan, who has lived in Astoria, Queens,
since he won a visa in an immigration lottery a year ago.

As the city plays host to the Democratic National Convention this week, hotel
workers, restaurant employees and taxi drivers, many of them foreign-born, brush
closer to the big event than many other New Yorkers. And for the immigrant women
who make the delegates' beds and the immigrant men who make their cappuccinos,
the convention is at once mystifying and vaguely exciting.

For Marie Dominique, a 51-year-old Haitian immigrant assigned the dubious honor
of cleaning Gov. Bill Clinton's suite at the Hotel Intercontinental, it is
merely nerve-wracking.

'I Just Wash, Wash, Wash'

"I don't speak to him, but I speak to his wife," said Mrs. Dominique, who takes
home $320 for 35 hours of scrubbing a week. "I just wash, wash, wash and she
say, 'Take your time, relax.' That's why the Democrats make me happy. Because
they don't treat you down, like the Republicans. The Republicans, they're mean."

Most foreign-born tourism workers are not quite as partisan as Mrs. Dominique,
who, like so many of her compatriots, sees President Bush as an enemy of the
deposed Haitian president, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

Rather, as they vacuum the confetti of the political party that considers itself
the voice of the immigrants, most immigrant workers do not know they are being
spoken for. Some, for that matter, have no idea what the hoopla is all about.

Curious About Gore

"I just know the name of this convention, the International Democratic
Convention," said Ludmila Pushkosh, a math teacher from Odessa, Ukraine, who
works as a maid at the Sheraton Park Avenue. "It is, I think, a lot of people
from different nationalities who talk about communication between peoples."

In contrast, Tilak Ranaweera, who owned a coconut farm in Sri Lanka and now
cleans rooms at the Sheraton New York, was intensely curious about Governor
Clinton's choice of Senator Al Gore as running mate. Mr. Ranaweera, who arrived
in this country three months ago.

"Is it because of his position on the environment?" he asked on Sunday. "Here
people waste a lot of things."

Traditionally, Democratic leaders, particularly in the Northeast, have waxed
eloquent about the immigrant pursuit of the American Dream. At the 1984 and 1988
conventions, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York and Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of
Massachusetts spoke rapturously of their Italian and Greek forebears. Ellis
Island is less central to the oratory of Governor Clinton of Arkansas, but not
far at all from the minds of the many delegates who are trekking there for a
visit this week.

"My father came to this country from Poland the day Warren Harding was elected
president," said Elaine Bloom, a Florida legislator and delegate. "I imagine
that for the immigrants working at our hotel, this moment is as moving for them
as that moment was for him."

'Still Sleeping at Noon'

Well, not quite. "I'm mad at the Democrats," said Marta Cruz, a housekeeper from
the Dominican Republic, as she munched on chicken Sunday in the Sheraton New
York's employee cafeteria. "I have five rooms full of them -- and they're all
still sleeping at noon."

For some recent immigrants, the difference between the Republicans and the
Democrats appears so subtle as to be inconsequential. "In Sri Lanka, we have two
parties that are easier to distinguish, the extreme socialists and the extreme
capitalists," said Mr. Ranaweera, 37 years old.

For others, however, the lines are more clearly drawn. "Well, the Democrats
stand for more like people and such," said Anne Marie Standly, a 32-year-old
Trinidadian, as she paused in her vacuuming at the Sheraton New York, a
convention headquarters. "The Republicans are more like for money and
monuments."

Some of the immigrant hotel workers assumed that one was a Democrat if he or she
was a believer in democracy. "I'm born and raised a Democrat and that's the
truth," said Eunita King, a St. Lucian who grew up in Barbados, a Commonwealth
member with a Parliament.

Dreams Are Far Away

Although this confusion would seem fortuitous for the Democratic Party, many
immigrants from the Caribbean -- like Mrs. King and Mrs. Dominique, the
Clintons' hotel housekeeper -- don't seek citizenship, preferring to hold on to
their dreams of returning home. Other immigrants become citizens but don't vote.

"The procedure how to register -- I never learned it," said Anna Frydman, a
Polish housekeeper who has lived in the United States for 22 years.

Mrs. Frydman is, however, learning an aspect of the democratic process that will
not be shown on C-Span. As she entered the room of a union official at the
Sheraton New York on Sunday morning, she noted that the bed was still tightly
tucked in, the nightly chocolate still on the pillow.

"Somebody didn't sleep at home last night," she said. "Party, party, party."

Pervasive as the media are in all languages, most immigrants, in and out of the
hotel industry, have at least some idea of who's who.

Getting the General Idea

"George Bush? He have a lot of experience," said Fiona Yu, a cashier at the
Hotel Maria who arrived in New York from Hong Kong last year. "Bill Clinton? He
make me feel -- not very honest, maybe too young. And he have a scandal: Little
Flowers."

Penny Shum, a 44-year-old immigrant from Shanghai who cleans rooms on the 46th
floor of the Sheraton New York, engages every delegate she sees in conversation.
And her story is a rich one, like the stories of so many of the workers silently
tending to the Democrats this week.

"Do you know the great Cultural Revolution?" she begins. "Well, I was forced
into the countryside to farm. Then I go back into the city to work at a factory.
At night, I go to Chinese Medical College. I mostly learn acupuncture, massage.
Many people call me Dr. Shum.

"I came here for the children's future," she continued, wiping the headboard on
a queen-size bed. "I want them to live more than me. Maybe someday they be guest
here at the Sheraton. Like a Democrat."


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Many of the immigrant workers who labor in the city's hotels and
restaurants are experiencing the Democratic National Convention first-hand.
Marie Dominique, a 51-year-old Haitian immigrant who cleans Gov. Bill Clinton's
suite, says the Democrats make her happy "because they don't treat you down,
like the Republicans." (Lee Romero/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 14, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Agencies Face Language Barriers

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1484 words


Clutching forms in one hand and children in the other, scores of
Spanish-speaking women trudged through a sprawling welfare office in Washington
Heights the other day for a lengthy round of bureaucratic rituals: waiting in
crowded rooms, filling out applications, meeting with caseworkers, waiting some
more.

Amid the sluggish lines and piles of paper, a shy 23-year-old immigrant from the
Dominican Republic seemed bewildered. But she was soon rescued by Ramon D.
Alfonso, a bilingual caseworker, who spoke in soothing tones in Spanish as he
showed her how to renew her welfare payments.

Without a growing number of workers like Mr. Alfonso, the office, run by the
city's Human Resources Administration, would founder in the flood of Dominican
immigrants who have transformed northern Manhattan in recent years.

"There's no way in the world that we could function without bilingual staff,"
said Raymond Garcia, the director of the office, which is in a former bowling
alley at 4660 Broadway near Sherman Avenue and is usually packed with hundreds
of people seeking welfare for the first time or recertification of their
payments.

As more and more immigrants from many different countries settle in New York
City, many city agencies are taking steps to prevent the Babel of languages
filling their offices from paralyzing their work. They are hiring bilingual
staff and interpreters, translating forms and pamphlets into a jumble of
languages and teaching their employees to be more sensitive to people who do not
speak English.

The languages on signs in city offices point to agencies' efforts: Albanian in
Williamsbridge, the Bronx; Haitian Creole in Flatbush, Brooklyn; Cantonese in
Chinatown; Korean in Flushing, Queens, and Spanish just about everywhere.

City agencies have long grappled with the problems wrought by immigration. But
now, growing numbers of city officials -- particularly those from Hispanic
neighborhoods -- and advocates for immigrants' rights are voicing concern that
significant segments of the city's population are being deprived of services
like medical care and legal aid because they do not speak English.

"Language is the biggest challenge now facing city agencies in serving the
immigrant population," said Elizabeth Aivars, director of the Mayor's Office of
Immigrant Affairs. "There have been small efforts throughout different agencies,
but nothing on the scale that we need. We still have a long way to go."

The numbers are telling: At least one million people have immigrated legally to
the city since 1980. The 1990 Census found that nearly 40 percent of the city's
population speaks a language other than English and nearly 20 percent has
difficulty with English. About 20 percent of the city's population speaks
Spanish, and half of those people have trouble with English. The Census does not
ask whether the language spoken is a first language.

The Human Resources Administration, which oversees welfare and food-stamp
programs for than a million people, says 12 percent of its clients speak
Spanish, 1 percent speak Russian and smaller but significant numbers speak
Chinese and Urdu, spoken in Pakistan and elsewhere in South Asia.

Need for a Common Language

About 17 percent of the nearly 19,000 clients at the welfare office in
Washington Heights, the Dyckman Income Support Center, speak only Spanish, and
thousands of others prefer to speak Spanish. The center has increased its
bilingual staff by about one-third in the last two years -- to about 50 of 140
caseworkers -- because it has been overwhelmed by Spanish-speaking clients.

"They feel much more comfortable with us," Mr. Alfonso said after he spoke to
the 23-year-old Dominican woman. "They feel free to talk to us and give us the
information we need."

The Mayor's Office of Language Services, which was mandated by the new City
Charter passed in 1989, coordinates efforts to insure that the city does not
discriminate against New Yorkers who do not speak English. This fall, the office
will begin holding seminars that will ultimately train tens of thousands of city
employees to be more mindful of language differences.

"By and large, the big agencies that deal with the public, they are committed to
this issue," said Tony Longo, the coordinator of the office. "But you still have
pockets of low consciousness or unconsciousness toward language."

The office has established a directory of about 2,000 city employees who will
volunteer to interpret for agencies in dozens of languages -- from Portuguese
(Christie Biaggi of the Department of Employment) to Bengali (Shampa Chanda of
the Department of City Planning). The volunteers are not professional linguists,
but they have passed the office's language-proficiency tests.

Some state agencies have similar directories. The Department of Motor Vehicles
has 19 positions reserved for people who speak Spanish. They are in offices in
New York City and Westchester County and on Long Island.

La Policia en Nueva York

One of the first city agencies to confront language barriers was the Police
Department. It first placed interpreters, who also work as receptionists, in
station houses in the late 1960's but did not mandate them until 1982. There are
now nearly 70 in 29 of the 75 precincts, speaking languages including Spanish,
Russian, Chinese, Korean, Italian, Khmer and Polish.

Three Spanish-speaking operators work around the clock at 911, where about 23
percent of the nearly nine million calls last year were in Spanish, said Yolanda
B. Jimenez, assistant police commissioner for community affairs.

At the 109th Precinct station house in Flushing, Queens, two receptionists
interpret in Chinese and one interprets in Korean for officers interviewing
dozens of immigrants each day. The interpreters link the precinct to a
neighborhood where so many newcomers have settled in recent years that some
blocks seem transplanted from the teeming metropolises of the Far East.

The other day, a distraught immigrant from northern China rushed into the
station house at 37-05 Union Street, imploring an officer to find her
16-year-old daughter, who had run away from home. Only with the help of
Giok-Beng S. Co, a receptionist who speaks three Chinese dialects, could the
police understand the woman's pleas.

In the 109th Precinct, which has signs in its station house in Chinese, Korean,
Spanish and English, only 7 of the 220 officers are Asian and speak Asian
languages. About a quarter of the visitors to the station house need
interpreters in Chinese or Korean, Miss Co said.

Capt. John Timony, who commands the precinct, said that he "absolutely" needed
more Asian officers, who would lessen the burden on the precinct's bilingual
receptionists -- Miss Co, another who speaks Chinese and one who speaks Korean.

Indeed, some advocates for immigrants' rights note that although the Police
Department is trying to make itself more accessible by hiring people like Miss
Co, its force of about 27,000 officers still does not reflect the diversity of
the city. About 74 percent of the officers are white.

Luis Garden Acosta, chief executive of El Puente, a community development group
in the heavily Hispanic section of Williamsburg, Brooklyn, said that many city
agencies, including the Police Department, were hiring interpreters as stopgap
measures to avoid more fundamental changes.

"There would be no need for so many interpreters if the Mayor's
affirmative-action spirit were carried out through the agencies down to the
working staff," Mr. Garden Acosta said. "There would be no need for interpreters
if in fact there really were a multicultural staff."

Responding to such concerns, the Human Resources Administration announced last
fall that it would try to insure that the percentage of bilingual workers at
each of its 400 or so offices was equal to the percentage of people served by
the office who speak a particular language.

Facing tight budgets, some agencies are turning to volunteers. The Boro Park
Senior Citizen Center in Brooklyn, which is financed by the city's Department
for the Aging, has recruited five Russian-speaking volunteers. The center,
located at 4511 14th Avenue, serves lunch every day to about 150 elderly people,
more than 50 of whom are recent immigrants from the former Soviet Union.

"We have to have the volunteers," said Rechel Reichman, assistant director of
the center. "If we don't, we're in trouble, because none of the staff speaks
Russian."

Over a meal of breaded fish, mashed potatoes and carrots, 65-year-old Mera
Rubinstehyn, who came to New York last year from Minsk, Belarus, said she relied
on the Russian-speaking aides to help her start a new life in New York.

"Without them, I could not come to the center, because no one would understand
me," she said in Russian as a volunteer interpreted. "I cannot imagine what I
would do without them."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Giok-Beng S. Co, who speaks three Chinese dialects, is a
receptionist at the 109th Precinct station house in Flushing, Queens. About a
quarter of the visitors to the station house need interpreters in Chinese or
Korean (Dith Pran/The New York Times); Ramon D. Alfonso, a bilingual caseworker
at a welfare office in Washington Heights, has been a comforting voice to
non-English-speaking clients bewildered by the jumble of paperwork. (Jim
Estrin/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 25, 1992, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Need a License? Join the Crowd

BYLINE: By EVELYN NIEVES,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 856 words

DATELINE: MORRISTOWN, N.J., July 24


By the time the Department of Motor Vehicles here opened at 8 A.M., the line to
get in snaked down the length of the building and across the parking lot. Still,
the office manager, Marc Pinkus, considered this a good day.

"We've had as many as three or four hundred people waiting when we opened," Mr.
Pinkus said. "We've heard of people camping out at three in the morning."

The clamor here began about two weeks ago, when word spread that the department
had dropped a policy requiring proof of legal immigrant status for
driver's-license applicants. The Morristown office, which accommodates perhaps
50 people, was hit first, and hardest, because of a rumor in immigrant
communities that the policy change was a limited-time offer and available only
in Morristown.

"We still don't know how the rumor started," Mr. Pinkus said as he ushered in
patrons two or three at a time. "All we know is that the first day, we weren't
prepared for it."

No End to Lines in Sight

Now, the lines are spreading. In recent days, motor vehicle offices throughout
New Jersey -- especially in the northern half of the state, where immigrant
populations are concentrated -- have been similarly swamped. And officials see
no end in sight. In some places, including in Lodi, Newark, Paterson and Wayne,
just getting in the door has meant waiting up to four hours, said the
department's deputy director, Michael Santaniello. People have described
quitting a line in frustration, only to return the next day and find a longer
one. On good days the wait can be as short as an hour and a half, but officials
have no way of knowing which days those will be.

The new policy, which took effect on July 1, came at the same time that the
agency lost its money for overtime in the new state budget. Offices must
conclude business by 4:30 P.M. sharp. Some have locked their doors, with 200
people inside and 200 waiting outside, as early as 1 P.M.

The situation at local motor vehicle offices has been the subject of local radio
talk shows and produced an avalanche of angry letters and phone calls, Mr.
Santaniello said. Many complaints suggest that the change in policy makes no
sense in light of recent state crackdowns on illegal immigrants, including the
recent arrests of three dozen undocumented foreigners in Bergen County.

'Assisting Illegal Aliens'

"We're not pleased with the new policy either," he said, "because we feel that
we are now knowingly assisting illegal aliens to continue to violate Federal
law."

Mr. Santaniello said the policy was changed after Legal Services of New Jersey
challenged the rule in October. The State Department of Law concurred with the
challenge, which said there was no law requiring drivers to divulge citizenship
when applying for a license. At the time, New Jersey and Colorado were the only
two states to require such proof.

Now, undocumented foreign nationals who request a driver's license fill out an
application that says they have no Social Security number and are not entitled
to one. The state then issues an identification number in lieu of the Social
Security number for the driver's-license application.

Mr. Pinkus said that part of the reason lines are so long at his office is that
each time such an application is processed, the office must fax the application
to the department headquarters in Trenton. "Imagine 48 offices all faxing
applications," he said. "It could take two hours before we're finished with the
applicant." Mr. Santaniello, who said driver's-license applicants are issued
numbers as "tie-breakers" in cases where two people have the same name, said the
only way to issue numbers is through the central administration.

A bill that would restore up to $5 million to pay overtime for the agency passed
the state Senate Budget Appropriations Committee on Thursday and now faces a
Senate vote. But the Legislature has adjourned until Aug. 3, assuring long,
wilting lines for at least the next two weeks.

Even if overtime is restored, Mr. Santaniello said, it will not mean shorter
lines. "It'll help in that we won't have to shut the doors early," he said.
"Today we had to close Lodi at a little after 1."

Since the policy change, 6,500 people without Social Security numbers have
applied for driver's permits and licenses, as opposed to 39 such people in June,
he said.

At the Morristown office, undocumented immigrants waiting solemnly on a line
they joined before dawn would not speak to reporters, and some looked fearful at
even being approached.

Other people on the line longed for the old days of hourlong waits. Cheryl Luse
had arrived at 8:15 A.M. at the Morristown office to renew her car registration,
armed with paperwork from her office. "I came yesterday at lunchtime," she said,
"But it was really long. I couldn't wait. Today, I took the morning off and came
early to avoid the line. But it was already around the block when I got here."

And John Baylouny, who had expected to wait half an hour, had to take the
morning off to register his new car. "I felt like turning back, going home," he
said, "but now, I have a lot of time to wait."

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: People lining up yesterday outside the office of the Department
of Motor Vehicles in Morristown, N.J. In some places, the wait is up to four
hours. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 31, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Ruling on Haitians Is Suspended

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 339 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 30


The Bush Administration won a 48-hour reprieve today from a court order barring
the automatic return of all Haitians picked up at sea to their homeland.

The same Federal appeals court in New York that on Wednesday effectively
nullified Administration policy suspended its order today "to permit the orderly
consideration" of an Administration plea to the United States Supreme Court.

The Administration is now free to send back all Haitians. No Haitians were
intercepted in the 24-hour period while the ban on forcible repatriation was
briefly in effect, according to the Coast Guard in Miami.

Justice Department lawyers filed an appeal today to the Supreme Court for an
emergency stay of the lower court's ruling while the high court decides whether
to review the merits of the Administration's policy.

Lawyers say the Supreme Court is almost certain to take up the case because in
more than seven months of litigation, two Federal Circuit courts have issued
conflicting opinions on whether the Administration must extend protection
guaranteed by Federal immigration legislation to refugees picked up on the high
seas outside United States territory.

In February, the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit in Atlanta
took the position that the right to apply for asylum applied only to aliens who
had arrived in the United States.

President Bush issued a directive in May ordering that Haitians fleeing in boats
for the United States be halted by the Coast Guard and escorted back to their
shores without being interviewed by immigration officials on their reasons for
fleeing.

Nearly 37,000 Haitians had been picked up by the Coast Guard since a military
coup overthrew Haiti's President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, on Sept. 30,
1991, and thousands were being housed at an American naval base at Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba.

In June, a Federal judge in Brooklyn upheld the policy, saying that immigration
laws invoked by those seeking to overturn the order did not apply in
international waters.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 7, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Coast Guard Resumes Returning Refugees to Haiti

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 94 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 6


The Coast Guard has returned some Haitian refugees to their homeland for the
first time since the United States Supreme Court issued a stay allowing the Bush
Administration to keep sending them back without immigration hearings.

The Guard said it had escorted 40 refugees on a freighter back to Port-au-Prince
on Wednesday. They were found on the vessel on Saturday 17 miles north of
Nassau, the Bahamas.

On Saturday, the Court granted a Justice Department request for a stay of a
ruling by a Federal court that nullified the Administration's policy.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 16, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Sampling the Flavors of Southeast Asia

BYLINE: By NANCY HARMON JENKINS;  NANCY HARMON JENKINS is working on a book
about ethnic American food.

SECTION: Section 5; Page 14; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2112 words


SAN FRANCISCO's reputation as one of the most Asian of American cities goes back
to the middle of the 19th century, when the first Chinese immigrants arrived
after gold was discovered at Sutter's Mill. Like other immigrants, those
earliest settlers brought their cuisine and their foodstuffs with them, and San
Francisco became known early on as a good place to eat Chinese.

Today, with what are some of the classiest Chinese restaurants anywhere east of
Taipei, the city is still a good place to eat Chinese. But adventurous diners
looking for new tastes and experiences may want to investigate a humbler food
scene in the little mom-and-pop and storefront eating places that have grown up
with more recent immigration from Southeast Asia, especially Vietnam and
Cambodia.

Although immigration from that part of the world, especially Vietnam, continues
to be significant (in 1990 alone, the last year for which statistics are
available, there were nearly 50,000 Vietnamese immigrants to the United States,
many of them settling in the Bay Area), the food of the region has been slow to
take root in this country. Inexplicably so, because it's a delightful cuisine,
fresh and flavorful, a tempting combination of crisp raw vegetables, lots of
seafood, pungent sauces and sharp chili peppers.

San Francisco is exceptional in having several easily accessible clusters of
Southeast Asian food shops and restaurants where visitors can spend a couple of
hours strolling, smelling, tasting, maybe sampling the cuisine at several
different eating places and then stocking up on Southeast Asian ingredients to
take home. And if you want just to relax and enjoy first-rate Vietnamese cooking
in a more formal environment, San Francisco can supply that too; Aux Delices, a
white-tablecloth restaurant on Polk Street, recalls the stylish
French-Vietnamese establishments that once defined elegant dining in Saigon.

Southeast Asian cooking generally is a close cousin to Chinese, especially in
technique, but it's leaner, not so rich, and the variety of fresh herbs and raw
vegetables -- mint, basil, coriander, cucumber, lettuce, grated raw carrot --
are seldom found in Chinese preparations. Vietnamese, Cambodians and Thais alike
use hot chili peppers and lemon grass, curry, coconut milk and tamarind,
combining these flavors to produce subtle, intricate, well-balanced tastes. The
use of chili peppers is instructive: Thai food can pack an aggressive punch, but
Cambodian and Vietnamese cooks are apt to use chilies as a fragrant condiment
rather than as an assertive statement on their own. Each of these cuisines --
Cambodian, Vietnamese, Thai (and also Laotian and Burmese) -- represents a
regional dialect of a single Southeast Asian culinary grammar, in the same way
that Tuscan and Sicilian are regional variations of Italian cuisine.

If rice is the staple food of the region, fermented fish sauce is the ubiquitous
seasoning. Nuoc mam, to call it by its Vietnamese name (it's tuk trey in
Cambodia), has an undeservedly evil reputation, too fishy for Western palates.
Made from anchovies and other small fish, layered in salt and left to ferment in
barrels, properly made nuoc mam is a clear, dark amber liquid, the color of an
oloroso sherry, with an unforgettable rich aroma (think of a well-aged Pont
l'Eveque cheese) and the robust, mouth-filling chewiness of a great wine. When
used as a sauce, nuoc mam is often cut with lime juice or sweetened water. It
may take a little getting used to, but it is well worth the effort.

What to drink with spicy Southeast Asian food is a problem that most diners seem
to solve with either cold beer or hot tea. Wine drinkers may want to explore
white wines, especially Gewurtztraminers, which, experts agree, can be a good
choice with these complex flavors.

THE area of Larkin Street north of Eddy, with its hot tub spas and massage
parlors, is unprepossessing to say the least, but it's one of the best places to
look for the casual, marketplace style of dining that's a hallmark of Southeast
Asian eating. There are no street markets here, but the simple savory fare of
restaurants in this seedy district calls to mind the kind of food you get in
market stalls all over Vietnam and Cambodia. While I wouldn't recommend a
nighttime visit (not because of danger so much as sleaze), by day the area is
full of interest and relatively safe (that is, lock your car and keep your
handbag closed and close).

You might start with the barnlike soup-parlor and restaurant called Pho 54 at
730 Larkin, (415) 928-8989. Pho is a type of noodle soup often served for
breakfast in Vietnam, where the culinary repertory includes an apparently
infinite variety of robust and filling phos all made in much the same way: rich
and flavorful meat stocks are served with more meat or fish, along with noodles
or rice and a variety of fragrant herbs and raw or pickled vegetables.

Pho 54's extensive menu includes some 20 soups, priced from $3.50 to $4.95.
Diners are presented with a deep bowl of cooked noodles and soup meat --
chicken, beef or pork, sometimes shellfish -- then select whatever appeals from
among sprigs of fresh mint, coriander and Vietnamese basil, sliced green chilies
and white onions, bean sprouts, slivered carrots and other raw vegetables
presented on a platter of garnishes. When the selection is made and the
ingredients assembled, steaming hot broth is poured over the bowl, slightly
cooking the raw herbs and vegetables and releasing their aromas. At Pho 54, we
tried big bowls of tai nam (tai gau, we were told, was "the same but more fat")
for $3.75. Along with ample shreds of the beef brisket that had gone into the
stock there were paper-thin slices of raw steak that also cooked briefly in the
hot broth; it was a luscious dish, complex yet clean-tasting. Bottles of nuoc
mam and tuong, a fiercely hot red chili and garlic paste, are placed on the
oilcloth-covered table for those who wish to adjust the seasonings.

English is not widely spoken at Pho 54, but hunting and pointing produce
excellent results. I wouldn't bother with anything other than soup as the menu
is too lengthy to inspire much confidence, but the soups are first-rate.

Down the street from Pho 54 is Angkor Cafe at 637 Larkin, (415) 775-1318, a
Cambodian noodle shop with plain, cheerful decor, distinguished primarily by the
vivid pink Formica tabletops, and time-warping music like Bob Dylan singing
"Lay, Lady, Lay." Rice noodles come in two varieties, thin or wide (Asians, I'm
told, will debate endlessly over whether wide or narrow is more appropriate to a
specific sauce), and there are also egg noodles, called mii. All come steamed
with a choice of topping: beef; meatballs; a mix of flank, tongue, tripe and
brisket; beef flank, both fresh-cooked and raw, with satay sauce; shredded
chicken, or a mixture of prawns, pork sausage, crab surimi and squid. Egg
noodles can also be ordered with a meaty chunk of savory braised duck leg and
are at their best pan-fried. Sweetly smoky lott chharr are special rice noodles,
short and stubby, lightly stir-fried with crisp bean sprouts, scallions and
green coriander and topped with a fried egg to make a robust, Asian-style
breakfast at $3.25. All the main course dishes range between $3.25 and $3.95,
while occasional daily specials go a little higher. Portions are ample and the
atmosphere is lively and friendly.

A stroll through Thang Xuong Market, at 724 Larkin (near Pho 54) can be
instructive for those who are curious about the varieties of sauces, produce and
rice-noodle preparations. If the market is not too crowded (avoid Saturday
afternoons), the clerks and proprietors are cheerful and quick to explain how
things are used and what they're made of. You may end up with a couple of
bottles of nuoc mam (which connoisseurs collect to sample just like olive oil)
or some fiery tuong to take home and add to scrambled eggs.

Near the corner of Eddy and Larkin, at 560 Larkin Street, is a tiny closet of a
shop called Sai-gon Vietnamese Sandwiches, (415) 474-5698, where for $2 you can
buy a delicious barbecued chicken sandwich, freshly made (the counter clerk
slices the chicken before your eyes) on a crisp baguette roll with coriander,
mint and strips of lightly pickled vegetables. The same carefully prepared
combination, but with spicy, peppery, pork meat balls replacing the chicken,
costs $1.50. This is fine picnic fare, to which you can add a couple of banana
leaf-wrapped packets of savory minced pork mixed with sticky rice.

Another area of interest if you're looking for Southeast Asian food is in the
Richmond district, heading west on Clement Street around Fifth, Sixth and
Seventh Avenues. Here, old favorite restaurants like Mai Viet-Nam, 316 Clement,
(415) 221-3046, and the Golden Turtle, 308 Fifth Avenue, (415) 221-5285, serve
such Vietnamese menu staples as cha gio, delectably crunchy spring rolls of
minced pork and shrimp wrapped in rice papers and deep-fried until crisp and
lightly brown, and nem nuong, charcoal grilled meatballs wrapped at the table in
rice papers and dipped in a savory peanut sauce. At both restaurants, complete
meals, not including beer or wine, run from about $7 to $11 a person.

Clay pot cookery, braising over high heat in a covered terra-cotta container, is
not unique to Southeast Asia (indeed, it's practiced all over the world wherever
ovens are rare) but the Vietnamese seem to have a special gift for it. At Minh's
Garden, a long, narrow hole-in-the-wall at 208 Clement, (415) 751-8211, pork
chunks and meaty prawns are braised together in a clay pot to make a rich and
flavorful stew. And if catfish baked in a clay pot is on the menu ($5.95), don't
pass it up, for the syrupy, peppery sauce makes a perfect foil for the bland
flavor of catfish. A complete dinner for two, not counting beer or wine, is
about $15.

DON'T be put off by the decor of Minh's Garden, which consists of illuminated
beer signs, credit card advertisements, fading posters of Asian landscapes, and
fake hanging plants. Despite the plastic plates on which it is served, the food
here is fresh and flavorful. Minh's cha gio, practically the Vietnamese national
dish, are notable, served (as they should be but aren't always) on a platter
with lettuce leaves and sprigs of mint or coriander, julienne strips of carrot
and a little mound of rice noodles. Barbecued pork spareribs are not a
traditional Vietnamese dish, but they've been adopted with enthusiasm and the
soy and sugar marinade gives them a decidedly Southeast Asian flavor.

One of the largest Southeast Asian food shops anywhere is the Richmond New May
Wah Supermarket on Clement between Sixth and Seventh, where you can find freshly
made rice pasta, along with herbs and seasonings like lemongrass, young pink
sprouting ginger and fresh galangale, the ginger-like rhizome that flavors many
Southeast Asian dishes, Chinese garlic chives, both fresh green ones and yellow
blanched ones, the tender shoots of young pea vines, dozens of varieties of
dried and pickled fish, and the fat, foil-wrapped packets of Thai and Vietnamese
pates, ready to take home and steam for supper.

At Aux Delices, 2327 Polk Street (between Green and Union),(415) 928-4977, the
atmosphere is very different from the casual neighborhood eating places. With
its white walls, pink place settings and blond wood furnishings, the place has a
calm, cool and soothing atmosphere, very different from the animation of the
neighborhood places. Prices are higher here, but it's still in the moderate
range, with most entrees priced between $5.95 and $7.95. Quality is high.
Witness the tom rang shrimp, quickly sauteed in the shell with a little garlic.

What would be called appetizers or finger food in other parts of the world are
an integral part of Vietnamese meals. At Aux Delices, try goi cuon, minced pork
and shrimp rolled up in rice paper to look like thick pale-white cigars and
served cold to dip in a chili-spiced bean sauce; or chao tom, savory minced
shrimp pressed around a stick of peeled sugar cane and grilled (nibble the
shrimp, suck the sweet cane juices and try to keep them from dribbling down your
chin); or banh cuon, crumbled pork, mushroom, onion and spices, wrapped in rice
paper and garnished with crisply browned onions, or chicken marinated in
five-spice powder and simply roasted to be eaten with the fingers. These
appetizers range in price from $4.50 to $7.50.

With the exception of Aux Delices and the Golden Turtle, reservations are not
necessary, but diners should telephone to be sure an establishment is open. They
open and close on a casual basis.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A bowl of beef and noodle soup at Pho 54, left, and the kitchen
at the Angkor Cafe, a Cambodian noodle shop. (pg. 14); Aux Delices, a
French-Vietnamese restaurant. The Richmond New May Wah Supermarket. (pg.
16)(Photographs by Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 18, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Vessel Puts 150 Asian Migrants Ashore in Haiti

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 442 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 17


At least 150 Asians, apparently trying to reach the United States illegally by
boat, landed on the southern coast of Haiti over the weekend, officials in
Port-au-Prince said today.

In Washington, immigration experts said that the passengers, who were put ashore
in small boats or swam to the beach at Jacmel, are probably mainland Chinese who
paid Taiwanese smugglers to bring them to American territory.

A United States border patrol boat recently intercepted a vessel and removed
illegal Chinese immigrants heading for Puerto Rico from the Dominican Republic,
according to Duke Austin, spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service here.

A spokesman for the United States Embassy in Port-au-Prince said that Haitian
refugee officials had only sketchy information about the Asians who came ashore
in Jacmel, about 75 miles southwest of Port-au-Prince.

The Associated Press quoted Marlene Dorfeuille, director of the Permanent
Haitian Refugee Center in the Haitian capital, saying that 151 young Asian men
had apparently been abandoned offshore. They had no travel documents, she said.

Commercial ships, most of them Taiwanese fishing vessels, have also been
dropping off hundreds of mainland Chinese migrants in Central America, officials
here say. A majority of the would-be immigrants come from Fujian Province, on
China's southern coast. They pay extortionate fees to Chinese-American gangs,
who arrange for them to be picked up in Hong Kong.

To pay off the cost of the voyage, the migrants become laborers in jobs in
American Chinatowns from which they cannot escape, officials say, adding that
the newcomers may become "enforcers" for gangs, factory laborers or prostitutes.

More than 25,000 illegal Chinese migrants have disappeared into American cities
over the last few years, immigration officials say. Some ask for political
asylum, citing Chinese social policies such as forced abortions or limitations
on human or civil rights.

"Coercive family planning policies are clearly a claim made by many Chinese,"
said Arthur C. Helton, director of the refugee project for the Lawyers Committee
for Human Rights. He said that of 2,067 requests for political asylum from
Chinese migrants pending at the end of June, 35 had been granted and 17 denied.

Mr. Helton, who regards this as a high approval level, said in an interview that
in 1991, immigration officials issued a directive calling for special, positive
consideration to Chinese who cited forced abortions or other constrictive family
planning policies in their requests for asylum.

"This was clearly a concession to the political right," Mr. Helton said.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 20, 1992, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

British Racial Attacks Grow, Alarming Minorities

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1281 words

DATELINE: LONDON, Aug. 19


Ruhullah Aramesh fled his native Afghanistan eight months ago, bound for what he
hoped would be a better life in England. This month, the 24-year-old immigrant
was dead, killed by a group of white teen-agers on a South London street.

Mr. Aramesh, the police said, was the victim of pure racial hatred. Set upon by
young toughs after he tried to stop them from harassing a group of female
relatives, he was knocked to the ground and repeatedly struck on the head with
iron bars, clubs and a sawed-off pool cue.

Five teen-agers have been arrested in the beating, during which, witnesses say,
the assailants repeatedly shouted, "Die, you Paki!" Paki is a racial epithet
broadly used to refer to immigrants from Pakistan, Bangladesh and other South
Asian nations.

In poorer parts of inner London, where one of every five residents is a nonwhite
member of an ethnic minority, the killing of Mr. Aramesh has had a numbing
effect. It has reinforced the worst fears of those who say immigrants and ethnic
minorities, who make up less than 5 percent of Britain's population, are
increasingly the target of racial abuse or violence.

Scapegoats for Economic Woe

"Such things seems to happen even more when the economy is bad," said Manibhai
Patel, who runs the Asian Community Action Group in Brixton, a South London
district where many black and Asian families live. "We are the scapegoats. We
are the prey."

Statistics made public by Scotland Yard showed 3,373 incidents of racial assault
or harassment in London in 1991, a jump of 16 percent over the previous year.
About half involved physical assault.

A national survey by a civil rights group last April similarly concluded that
incidents of racial assault reported to police agencies in England and Wales
grew by nearly a third between 1988 and 1990, to 6,459.

Civil rights organizations and counselors who work among minority groups here
argue that the incidents are the most extreme expression of deep-seated racial
tensions tugging at the seams of British society, aggravated by a growing
population of nonwhites, many of them new immigrants, and a persistent economic
recession that has exacted its heaviest toll among the poor and least educated.

Like America, those tensions are usually most acute in racially mixed,
low-income neighborhoods where the competition for scarce jobs and housing is
already marked, and where new immigrants from Asia or the West Indies are most
likely to concentrate.

Problems Everywhere<HE

"We all know about Rodney King and what happened in Los Angeles," said Afsana
Yahiya, who counsels victims of racial abuse in East London. "But the problems
are here, they are everywhere, and the more we acknowledge that, the better for
all of us."

In some cases, conflicts have been inflamed by racist gangs, including skinheads
or others allied with the British National Party, a small but vocal militant
group that appeals to the most xenophobic elements within Britain's
class-conscious society. Active in working-class neighborhoods, the group
campaigns on the slogan, "Rights for Whites."

Police officers caution that the statistical increase in hate crime may more
accurately measure the greater scrupulousness of police and community agencies
in keeping track of racist attacks. But civil rights groups say no statistics
accurately measure the degree to which ethnic minorities are subjected to racial
abuse and intimidation, including physical violence.

"I think any numbers we see seriously understate the degree to which these
incidents occur," said Peter Laing of the Congress of Racial Equality. He said
one survey in Newham, a London neighborhood, suggested that only one in 20
incidents of racial abuse or assault was reported to the police.

Those incidents involve a wide range of abuse, from physical assault to
vandalism, like breaking windows, spraying racist graffiti on walls or pushing
excrement through mail slots.

Zakir Khan, a counselor who says he deals with three to four cases of
interracial conflict a week from a storefront office in Tower Hamlets, a borough
in East London, said many Asian people did not report incidents to the police.

"I have dealt with older Bengalis or Somalis who think if a white person attacks
them, it is their right because it is their country," he said. In addition, he
said, they are often intimidated by police officers, whom they do not regard as
sympathetic.

At the same time, he said, younger Asians, most of them second- or
third-generation Britons, are more determined to fight back, and this increases
the likelihood of violence.

On the Isle of Dogs, an area in East London where growing numbers of
Bangladeshis and Somalis are being resettled in a mostly white public housing
project, community workers say racial assaults occur daily.

In recent months, said Ms. Yahiya, who was assigned as the community's first
racial harassment case worker in April, troublemakers have poured a bucket of
water over the head of a 65-year-old Pakistani man as he was moving into an
apartment in an all-white building, beaten up two Bengali men returning from a
neighborhood civil rights forum, thrown a pig's head through the window of a
local Muslim butcher, and so intimidated members of a Somali family that social
agencies say they must relocate them.

Laila Hussein, who immigrated to London two years ago, said her younger brothers
and sisters could not play outside their apartment building because some other
residents in the mostly white complex had threatened to turn their dogs on them
whenever they went outside. "We are all scared and want to leave," Ms. Hussein
said.

In the last 25 years, according to Government population data, Britain's
combined population of Asians and blacks has more than doubled, from 1.1 million
to more than 2.7 million.

Most Nonwhites Are Asian

Nearly 80 percent of those are Asians, including people from the Indian
subcontinent, Korea, Southeast Asia and the Philippines. Blacks, who began
moving to Britain in large numbers during the 1950's, are mostly immigrants from
the West Indies and their descendants.

All together, nonwhites currently make up about 4.9 percent of the overall
population of 55.8 million, compared with 2.1 percent in 1966.

While racial attacks involve whites against blacks and, less commonly, assaults
by blacks on whites, the greatest increase in recent years has involved assaults
by whites, and sometimes blacks, on Asians, the police and civil rights groups
say.

Killings are relatively rare. The most highly publicized incident before the
attack on Mr. Aramesh was the death two years ago of a 15-year-old black
schoolboy, who was killed during a confrontation between white and black youths
in Thamesmead, east of London. His 19-year-old assailant was convicted of murder
and sentenced to life imprisonment.

Woman Set Afire

But this year, there have been several especially violent episodes, including an
incident in which an Asian woman waiting for a bus in Ilford, in East London,
was set afire by a group that included at least one black and one white
teen-ager. She suffered burns over 20 percent of her body.

Superintendent John Jones, a London homicide detective, said that while racism
was a clear factor in many of these violent crimes, the heart of the problem "is
not color but culture."

"Basically, the people who cause these incidents are half-witted thugs, the same
sorts of yobos who beat up people in pubs for no reason at all, or run amok at
football stadiums," he said. "For them, a different skin color is just one more
reason to pick a fight and beat someone up, and sometimes it gets badly out of
hand."

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Many in Britain fear immigrants and ethnic minorities are
increasingly the targets of racial violence. Afsana Yahiya, seated on sofa, who
counsels victims of racial abuse in East London, visited the family of Laila
Hussein, standing at center, which has been the victim of racial violence.
(Jonathan Player for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 21, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Noncitizens Should Again Have the Vote

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 291 words


To the Editor:

"Until World War I, nearly half the states in the country allowed immigrants to
vote at one time or another, even in Presidential elections," you state in a
July 31 news article on discussions to give immigrants the vote. According to
"Strangers in the Land: Patterns of American Nativism 1860-1925" by John Higham,
only seven states still had immigrant voting rights by 1917: Indiana, South
Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, Missouri, Arkansas and Texas.

Other states had eliminated alien suffrage in their constitutions from the
1880's. "Three states amended their constitutions in 1918, and the rest followed
suit in the immediate postwar years," Mr. Higham writes.

As a result of nativist moves against immigrant political rights, newcomers must
usually wait five years for United States voting rights until becoming citizens.
In some cases, immigrants (for example, from Poland) can continue to vote in
their native lands by absentee ballot.

The Irish Government grants no voting rights to its citizens abroad, except for
diplomatic or security force personnel. Thus, Irish immigrants to the United
States spend at least five years without voting rights in any country, unless
they live in the Maryland suburbs that grant alien voting rights. It would be a
great step forward for democracy for the Irish and other disenfranchised groups
to have voting rights in their native lands, the United States or both.

American states should give serious consideration to allowing immigrants to vote
in municipal elections. Under the Maastricht treaty, European Community
countries will grant such rights to resident citizens of other E.C. states.

JOSEPH E. RYAN
Resident Scholar, Freedom House
New York, Aug. 3, 1992

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 23, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Suspected Aliens Win Rights

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 322 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 22


Bringing an end to a 14-year-long legal battle, a Federal district judge has
approved a lawsuit settlement that will give new rights to people arrested by
the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Under the agreement, people detained as suspected illegal aliens will be given a
"notice of rights" informing them why they have been detained and offering them
the opportunity to consult a lawyer.

The notice of rights, which will be in English or the native language of the
people arrested, will also inform them that they may have a legal right not to
be deported.

A separate form will ask those detained whether they believe they will be harmed
if they are repatriated. If they answer yes, they will be allowed to pursue a
request for political asylum.

In addition, the immigration service has agreed to post a list of free legal
services near public telephones at the agency's holding centers.

Fight Over Factory Workers

The lawsuit, brought against the immigration service by the Center for Human
Rights and Constitutional Law, in Los Angeles, was settled in June by the
center's chief lawyer, Peter Schey, and the agency's Commissioner, Gene McNary.
The settlement was formally approved by Judge Matt Byrne on Thursday.

Mr. Schey said Friday that he was "extremely pleased" that the agreement could
now be put into effect. In announcing the agreement in June, he had said: "For
the first time, people being arrested as suspected illegal immigrants will have
the same rights as those arrested for suspicion of criminal behavior. For the
first time, they will be given the rights guaranteed to everyone in this
country, Americans and non-Americans alike, guaranteed by the American
Constitution."

Mr. Schey brought the case in 1978 after successfully fighting for 65 illegal
immigrants, arrested in a Los Angeles shoe factory, who had been denied access
to a lawyer and coerced into agreeing to be deported.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 1, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Dominican Immigration Alters Hispanic New York

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1950 words


Jackie Saltares remembers a time not that long ago when the Puerto Ricans were
the undisputed kings of Hispanic New York and Spanish Harlem was the spiritual
and physical center of their realm.

El Barrio, the neighborhood, was home to thousands of Puerto Ricans who settled
into cramped walk-up apartments on the narrow side streets and who bustled along
the wide shopping avenues, eager if weary travelers on the road to the American
Dream.

Now, an increasing number of immigrants from the Dominican Republic have come to
El Barrio, snapping up apartments and businesses that were once the domain of
Ms. Saltares's countrymen. When she walks down her block on East 115th Street,
the three bodegas and two beauty parlors owned by Dominicans loom as reminders
of just how aggressively the new arrivals are staking their claim.

'There's Another Dominican'

"Every time you turn around, there's another Dominican," she said. "It's like
our neighborhood doesn't belong to us anymore."

That neighborhood is not just El Barrio. It is the entire territory of Hispanic
New York -- its politics, its economy, its society. And Ms. Salteres's unease
underlines a debate, sometimes friendly, sometimes not, in that territory that
echoes from El Barrio to the Bronx, Brooklyn and beyond as Puerto Ricans try to
adjust to a changing world.

Members of both groups acknowledge that this rivalry could hinder their
intertwined aspirations for power and influence in an increasingly Hispanic
city: according to city and census records, Hispanic New Yorkers grew from 16.3
percent of the population in 1970 to 19.9 percent in 1980 to 24.4 percent in
1990. The rivalry manifests itself in grumblings, tensions and slights ranging
from silly stereotypes to accusations of exclusion and nationalistic "me first"
myopia. In many ways it is a late 20th-century reprise of the jousting played
out generations ago by other struggling immigrants, the Irish and the Italians,
the Germans and the Jews.

In part, it is a matter of demographics. In one generation, a big change in
immigration has wrought a major shift in the city's Hispanic population. The
Mexican Consulate, for instance, estimates that since the mid-1980's, the number
of Mexicans living in the New York metropolitan region has grown from 60,000 to
more than 200,000.

New York has ever-increasing numbers of Central and South Americans and
especially Dominicans. While 20 years ago Hispanic New Yorkers were almost
always Puerto Rican, the 1990 Census estimated that the city's 896,763 Puerto
Ricans now account for about half its Hispanic population, probably less when
illegal immigrants are taken into account.

Dominicans, their migration spurred by political upheaval in the mid-60's and by
economic hardship in later years, have become the city's second-largest Hispanic
group, numbering 332,713, with thousands more illegal and uncounted.

And while both groups still live on the struggling side of success, the
Dominicans have made substantial economic progress in a single entrepreneurial
generation, buying up bodegas, restaurants and livery-cab fleets around the
city.

Is Political Agenda Too Puerto Rican?

As Dominicans come into their own, some feel they are being held back in
politics and community organizations where their concerns are given lip service
while the leadership pursues a narrowly Puerto Rican agenda.

Dr. Rafael Lantigua, an internist active in Dominican political and community
affairs, said that when a Hispanic Congressional seat was proposed for the West
Bronx and Washington Heights, some Puerto Rican politicians suggested one of
their own as a possible candidate without consulting with the Dominican
community. He said that when Dominican political types questioned the move, they
were told to be patient.

"We all sit at the table when it comes time to draw lines," said Guillermo
Linares, the first Dominican elected to the City Council. "When the time comes
to determine who represents all of us, we no longer find ourselves at the
table."

One high-ranking city official who is Dominican was more blunt, when he said
that the Puerto Rican politicians wanted them to ask for permission rather than
consult.

"We're never going to do that," he said, speaking on condition of anonymity.
"For that we'd go back to the island."

Some Dominicans insist with some smugness that they will outpace a Puerto Rican
community that they feel has never realized the advantages of their dual
benefits of being the city's longest-established Hispanic group and one that is
born with United States citizenship.

Considering themselves the pioneers among the city's Hispanic groups and the
leaders in struggles for bilingual education, voting rights and fair financing
for social-service groups, some Puerto Ricans worry that the newcomers are
riding on their coattails. And they are quick to add that they remain the main
political bloc, accounting for some 80 percent of the city's registered Hispanic
voters.

"Other groups may be forgetting that we busted our backs to make New York a
bilingual town," said Representative Jose E. Serrano, who is Puerto Rican. "In
typical Puerto Rican fashion we will share those gains with all our Latino
brothers. But now that the fruits are coming in, the people have to admit
publicly how this happened. We can't run the risk of someone rewriting history
and making it look like New York City became a bilingual town in 1985."

Despite the misgivings in the city, many from both groups see their futures
bound together by a common language and concerns, and there are members of both
groups working together for their communities. They anticipate reaping the
benefits of their political and civic cooperation. The existing tensions are the
growing pains of an evolving relationship.

"You find like in any good marriage, there's a lot of conflict," said Palmira
Rios, an assistant professor of urban planning at the New School for Social
Research, "But somehow you continue living together."

Even though Jackie Saltares had qualms about the growing Dominican presence in
her neighborhood, she knew that the two groups had more in common than not. It's
a weird feeling, she said, made all the more odd by the fact that one of her
closest friends is a Dominican woman who dispelled her teen-age notions that
Dominican women were rubes or husband-hunting hussies.

"I know there's this ongoing feud between Puerto Ricans and Dominicans, but I
never really understood it," she said, adding that the two groups shared too
many ethnic, cultural and historic bonds to allow themselves to be bogged down
in bickering. "This doesn't make sense to hate yourself."

Act of Kindness Amid the Brickbats

Jose Luis Reyes, a 28-year-old Dominican immigrant who works as a clerk at a
Washington Heights variety store, chuckled at the brickbats tossed between his
compatriots and Puerto Ricans.

"Some Puerto Ricans say Dominicans come here to get welfare," he said, standing
on the sidewalk, a hectic array of shoes, T-shirts and soccer balls behind him.
"The Dominicans say that Puerto Ricans live off the government."

His more nationalistic friends sometimes taunt Puerto Ricans by reminding them
that their island is a United States possession. "They say that Puerto Ricans
don't have a real flag," he said.

Mr. Reyes doesn't buy into that talk; he once worked for a Puerto Rican store
owner who took him under his wing, giving him a chance to earn a decent wage and
inviting him to his house to unwind after work.

Nonetheless, he wondered why Puerto Ricans have not made more strides,
especially in the business world, given the head start they have on other
Hispanic immigrants in both time and citizenship.

Marlene Cintron, a Puerto Rican who is the director of the Office of Latino
Affairs for Mayor David N. Dinkins, said her recent marriage to a Dominican
sparked some mean-spirited offhand remarks about his citizenship at a
fund-raising reception, where she was seated at a corporate table with several
influential New Yorkers.

"A white woman who is married to a Puerto Rican came over to comment on my
marriage," Ms. Cintron recalled. "She finished her statement and said, 'We were
wondering if your husband needed papers.' At which time the rest of the table
proceeded to laugh. I left very hurt."

Personal slights notwithstanding, in her circle, where she is in contact with
the political leaders and community advocates for the city's various Hispanic
groups, Ms. Cintron sees no major strife between Dominicans and Puerto Ricans.
"Those who understand real empowerment understand that we need to do it
together," she said.

In many measures -- income, education, poverty rate -- the two groups are
seemingly indistinguishable, said Professor Rios of the New School.  "The idea
that one community is so much better or worse doesn't really hold," she said.

Dominicans own most of the city's bodegas in large part because of a
generational shift, buying them from Puerto Rican owners who decided to retire
or whose college-educated children sought broader opportunities in the
mainstream labor force. Ms. Rios noted that while social indicators for the
city's Puerto Rican population paint a bleak picture, they overlook the fact
that an increasing number of Puerto Rican professionals have moved away from the
city.

Still, Dominicans who work for community-based groups say that nonprofit groups
founded by Puerto Ricans will gladly serve Dominican clients while refusing to
allow Dominicans into leadership and decision-making posts.

Several community advocates noted that during the recent disturbances in
Washington Heights, most of the city's Hispanic elected officials, nearly all of
them Puerto Rican, made little effort to reach out to the Dominican community.

"I think a lot of Puerto Ricans were confusing their agenda as the only one on
the table," said Moises Perez, the executive director of Alianza Dominicana, a
social service agency in Washington Heights. "Now, they have to share space at
the table."

Squabbling Fiercest When Pie Is Small

Mr. Perez said that the rivalry boils down to squabbling over limited financing.

"Some people in the Puerto Rican community are taking the low road and see it as
Dominicans and other Latinos taking over what they built," he said. "But others
who are more visionary understand that we have to look at the pie as having to
be bigger than it has been. We have to fight for a bigger pie."

In practical terms, Puerto Ricans still constitute some 80 percent of the city's
registered Hispanic voters, making them crucial to the victory of any candidate
wooing that vote. One senior Puerto Rican elected official said that the
Dominican community did not have the votes to elect one of their own to
Congress, and that those victories they have had were propelled by Puerto Rican
votes.

"We gave them a Council seat and we may give them an Assembly seat," said the
official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "We got to fight it for them each
time. They have got to wait some time. It's not their time. It's hard politics."

A growing segment of younger Hispanic residents, raised in the city and sharing
a common outlook as New Yorkers, have been building coalitions that would reap
benefits for all. Many see the squabbles as infighting among political elites
that in the long run will do little to lift either community.

As executive director of Alianza Dominicana, Mr. Perez said he was heartened by
those efforts. Nonetheless, he made clear that the work was long and time was
short.

"We either share it or we compete," he said. "And if we compete, get ready to
run."

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dominicans are beginning to gain a stronger economic and
political foothold in New York's Hispanic community. Thriving Dominican
businesses, like this one in Washington Heights, are appearing more frequently
in traditionally Puerto Rican neighborhoods, increasing tensions between the two
groups.; Jackie Saltares, a Puerto Rican, says that Puerto Ricans and Dominicans
share too many ethnic, cultural and historic bonds to allow themselves to be
bogged down in bickering.; Jose Luis Reyes, a Dominican, doesn't agree with the
divisive talk of some of his friends; he once worked for a Puerto Rican store
owner who took him under his wing, giving him a chance to earn a decent wage.
(Photographs by Angel Franco/The New York Times) (pg. B4)

Map/Diagram: "Ethnic Enclaves: Dominicans and Puerto Ricans"

Areas in New York City where Dominicans or Puerto Ricans make up at least 25% of
the population. There are no areas of that nature on Staten Island. (Source:
Census Bureau) (pg. B4)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 2, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

NEWS SUMMARY

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1034 words



International     A3-9

GERMANY RETHINKS ASYLUM POLICY

German politicians from all parties are predicting that the country will soon
tighten its immigration law, one of the most permissive in Europe. That is just
one aftershock from the recent racist violence against foreigners.  A1

Almost 200 tombs are desecrated in a Jewish cemetery in France.  A8

CHEMICAL ARMS PACT EMERGES

Negotiators have completed an accord that would ban the production, use and
stockpiling of chemical arms and are preparing to submit it to the United
Nations, Bush Administration officials say.  A1

NEW LESSONS FOR YOUNG RUSSIANS

There was not a portrait of Lenin to be seen, not to mention Marx or Engels or
even Yeltsin, as students trooped to school in Moscow. It's the first full
school year in a new country with plenty of problems.  A1

SERBIA, SPURNED AND BITTER

News Analysis: Blamed by much of the world for the war in the Balkans, Serbia is
descending into bitterness and a sense of persecution that hardly bode well for
peace efforts.  A3

Four from U.N. team killed in new attack on Sarajevo.  A3

NEW SYRIAN TONE AT TALKS

In a document given to Israel, Syria has committed itself to reaching a peace
settlement and acknowledged that Israel has security concernsthat could be
addressed.  A6

CHINA SEIZES RETURNING STUDENT

Police officers in Beijing detained a Chinese student leader who had just
returned from exile in the United States. The student had been preparing to talk
with reporters about plans for setting up a chapter of a pro-democracy group.
A8

IMPEACHMENT REQUEST IN BRAZIL

Two groups formally asked Brazil's Congress to impeach President Fernando Collor
de Mello.  A8

Nonaligned nations open a meeting in search of a reason to exist.  A9

Floodwaters wash coastal Nicaragua after an earthquake. A7

A second major politician quits in a Japanese financial scandal.  A8

National     A14-20, D18

BUSH STEPS UP SOUTH FLORIDA AID

Touring the Miami area, the President said the Government would rebuild an Air
Force base destroyed by Hurricane Andrew and pay almost all costs of restoring
the region's public property and services. Relief was also promised uninsured
homeowners.  A1

Storm victims had a mixed reaction to Bush's visit.  A16

In Homestead, a ghost town sprang up in olive drab.  A15

The hurricane did not spare Dade County's colleges.  A15

DOWN, BUT HARDLY OUT

News analyis: In opening the Treasury to South Florida, Mr. Bush demonstrated
anew why even Presidents who lag in the polls are electoral forces to be
reckoned with.  A1

CLINTON APPEALS TO THE AGED

Campaigning among the elderly, Governor Clinton said the President's budget
plans would trim their entitlements and harm their children as well.  A1

In an Iowa race, the House bank scandal is being replayed.  A17

BEHIND THE LABOR DISPUTE AT G.M.

A strike and resulting plant shutdowns that have already affected more than
30,000 General Motors workers involve labor's first concerted reaction to the
company's campaign to lower costs.  A1

CALIFORNIA TRIES AGAIN

Governor Wilson and state legislative leaders began intense talks aimed at
resolving a dispute over education aid, the last hurdle to ending California's
two-month-old budget impasse.  A14

THOUSANDS OF TEACHERS ON STRIKE

With the beginning of a new school year, teachers have struck a number of
districts in Michigan, Illinois and Vermont. And several districts in
Pennsylvania, Massachusetts and California are under a threat of walkouts.  A20

A CLOSE CALL ALOFT

Two jetliners carrying more than 200 passengers came dangerously close to each
other over Virginia. Federal investigators said they were trying to determine
whether the cause was a system designed to avoid midair collisions.  A14

SETBACK FOR LIVER PATIENT

The world's first recipient of a baboon liver took a turn for the worse, and his
prognosis is guarded.  D18

Cold Spring Journal: Throngs in search of a vision.  A14
A month after her accident, the QE2 set sail.  D18
The tobacco industry drew fire over children's smoking.  D18

Education Page   B7
C. Everett Koop starts a new education program at Dartmouth.
Lawsuits charge 23 states with shortchanging districts on funds.
Campus Journal: At Gallaudet University, teaching deaf students.

Arts/Entertainment   C13-18
AN OUTBURST FROM FISCHER

After 20 years of silence, Bobby Fischer, the American chess genius, vented many
complaints at a news conference in Yugoslavia. Among his targets were the United
States Government, leading chess players and world Jewry.  A1
The elusive director Hans Jurgen Syberberg re-emerges.  C13
Music: A new Jeremiah in Elizabeth Swados's "Jerusalem." C13
The Pop Life.  C13
Word and Image: Wooing David Letterman.  C13
Times dynasty biography.  C14
TV and Somalia.  C18

Living Section   C1-10
 Americans wake up and smell the coffee.  C1
At lunch with Al Roker: Bright and warm and hold the thunder.  C1
Eating Well: Pollack or cod? Fish or fowl? F.D.A. takes a closer look.  C1
Wine Talk C8

Health Page   C12
Study suggests how anger may harm the heart.
Personal Health: Achilles' tendon is not the only vulnerable one.

Metro Digest   B1

Business Digest   D1

Sports   B8-13
Baseball: Coleman's temper flares after ejection.B9
Yankees are likely to pursue Cone.  B9
Column: Vecsey on Jose Canseco.  B9
Football: Amid controversy, Marinovich stays calm.  B9
Tennis: Navratilova advances at U.S. Open.  B9

Obituaries   D18-19
Antoinette M. Kraushaar, an art dealer.  D18
Dr. Irving Philips, an educator in child psychiatry.  D18
Charles L. Weltner, Chief Justice of Georgia.  D19
Morris Carnovsky, an actor.  D19

Editorials/Op-Ed  A18-19
Editorials
Mr. Bush inherits the wind.
Plowshares from Russia.
Bosnia's tragedy, and Bobby's.
Rocky 2: democracy on the ropes.
Letters
Glenn Garvin: Hunting for scapegoats in South Florida.
Shen Tong: The next revolution.
Bai Yong: The torturers of Ling yuan.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 6, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The Millions of New Immigrants Yearning to Call Home

BYLINE: By JONATHAN BURTON;  Jonathan Burton writes frequently about marketing
from New York.

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1301 words


WHEN Radha Krishnan arrived in New York from his native India in June 1983,
fresh out of medical school, he went straight to his parents' house in White
Plains, N.Y., and telephoned family and friends back home. Calling Dehli is
almost as easy as dialing Dallas -- one reason why Dr. Krishnan, now a physician
at the Mercer Medical Center in Trenton, N.J., still spends about $60 a month on
calls to India.

Many immigrants spend much more on an expense that is an accepted fact of
immigrant life -- and one not lost on the American Telephone & Telegraph
Company, MCI Communications Corporation and the Sprint Corporation.

The three big long-distance carriers have recently embarked on nationwide
campaigns to capitalize on the tidal wave of immigration in the 1980's and
1990's that may represent the greatest to the United States since the turn of
the century. About 8.6 million people settled legally in the United States from
abroad between 1980 and 1990 and nearly 10 million more are expected in this
decade, mostly from Asia and Mexico.

The stakes are high. International calling volume is growing at a far healthier
rate than domestic long-distance demand. Revenue from overseas calling is
expected to reach $8.6 billion by 1996, nearly double the $4.4 billion the
industry realized in 1991. Last year international telephone traffic represented
20 percent of the $23 billion in calls placed in the United States; by 1996 it
could total 27 percent of a $32 billion business.

The long-distance telephone companies have gone to great length and expense to
reach these new Americans. A recent arrival from Seoul, for example, can expect
to find promotions from A.T.&T., MCI and Sprint in the mail every few weeks. The
phone companies buy mailing lists and even tap vehicle registrations for names
of immigrant households.

The phones companies are also offering special holiday discounts. On Chusok, an
autumn festival, all calls to South Korea are automatically discounted. Rates
are lower to Mexico for Cinco de Mayo and to Ireland on St. Patrick's Day.

There are other services to lure immigrant customers. At Korean-American
community events, the telephone companies set up booths that feature free
long-distance calls and immediate sign-ups. Long-distance operators are
available to assist in almost any language, whether a customer speaks Spanish or
Vietnamese.

MCI is credited as the first long-distance carrier to plunge into this
event-oriented, grass-roots marketing, particularly within the past two years.
Although there are no market share figures, A.T.&T. has been working hard to
lure customers this way, while Sprint is active but seen as somewhat late to the
game.

As more countries can be called from the U.S., long-distance carriers are able
to target new ethnic groups. Since earlier this year, Vietnam and Cambodia can
be dialed direct from America, opening a window for an estimated 700,000
Vietnamese-Americans and 250,000 Cambodian-Americans. Direct-dial service to
Armenia was also introduced this year, sparking interest among the roughly
800,000 people of Armenian descent in the United States. Asked about inroads to
the Armenian-American community, Marguerite M. McHale, A.T.&T.'s manager of
international marketing, replied that there have been few. "You've given me an
idea," she added.

IDEAS apparently do not remain secret for long in the telephone business -- one
reason why pricing, promotions and service are often alike. A.T.&T. threw a
party at an upscale Korean restaurant in New York one recent evening for local
Korean-American community leaders and journalists. Not to be outdone, MCI
invited a similar group to a luncheon at the United Nations the next week.

While advertising in foreign-language newspapers and magazines is the key medium
used by telephone companies to reach new Americans, foreign-language television
is becoming a more popular forum for the long-distance carriers.

"They have emerged as our lead sponsors," said Rosemary Fincher Danon, executive
vice president of the Los Angeles-based International Channel Network, which
provides programming nationwide in 17 foreign languages, including Mandarin,
Cantonese, Korean, Japanese, Tagalog and Hindi.

During one recent broadcast day, International Channel viewers could see A.T.&T.
commercials in Mandarin, Korean and Tagalog, MCI spots in Japanese, Tagalog and
Hindi, and Sprint ads in Hindi, French, German and Italian. "Airlines and phone
companies are the best things that have ever happened to us," said Ms. Danon.

But the most effective advertising may be word of mouth. One in three new
arrivals from Asia relied on family and friends in choosing a carrier, according
to a 1990 survey of 1,800 Chinese, Indian, Filipino, Japanese and Korean
immigrants. For Chinese-Americans, the average was 60 percent. The study,
conducted by New York-based P.S.I. Inc. and the Institute of Asian Studies at
St. John's University in New York, was partially funded by A.T.&T.

THE survey also found that 40 percent of the Korean-Americans who responded call
friends and relatives overseas at least once a week -- far more than the other
groups polled. One reason may be that Koreans are among the newest arrivals to
this country.

Tai Cho, president of the Tai Han Broadcasting Corporation, which broadcasts
Korean-language television to the New York metropolitan area, ventures another:
Koreans phone home often because it is expected of them. "We're raised that
way," he said. "We have some guilt feelings if we don't call regularly."



REACHING OUT TO ASIANS

TO reach immigrant Americans, the long-distance carriers have steered from their
mainstream Madison Avenue advertising agencies to smaller shops that specialize
in ethnic markets. Perhaps the most vivid illustrations involve advertising to
Asian-Americans, the fastest-growing immigrant group.

A.T.&T. and MCI in particular get help from several advertising agencies owned
by Asian-Americans that have assembled in-language campaigns for nationwide
direct mail, print and television. A.T.&T. is said to have committed several
million dollars to this effort, far more than its competitors.

The 7.3 million Americans of Asian descent have little in common with each other
but geography. Korean-Americans are worlds apart from Japanese-Americans, and
even Cantonese-speakers from Hong Kong have different values than
Mandarin-speaking Taiwanese.

Some common denominators do surface, namely subtlety and tradition. A.T.&T.
tells mainstream America pointedly that "we want you back," but it politely
informs Japanese-Americans in Japanese that "we are waiting for your call."

A.T.&T.'s pitch to Asian America is the responsibility of Amko Advertising Inc.,
a small New York-based agency run by two Asian marketing veterans, Eliot Kang
and David Lee. Amko's staff includes native speakers of Mandarin, Cantonese,
Korean, Japanese and Vietnamese. MCI splits business between two New York-based
shops, Lee Liu & Tong Inc. and L3 Advertising Inc.

While people of Chinese and Korean backgrounds will often base a purchase
decision on price, Japanese-Americans tend to value corporate history. Last year
L3 created a humorous television commercial for Mandarin-speakers touting MCI's
claim that it offers savings over rival A.T.&T. In it, a young Chinese-American
woman calls her mother in Taiwan for a recipe. When she receives her A.T.&T.
bill, the young woman says she could have gone out to dinner on the extra money
she spent.

An Amko-produced spot aimed at Japanese-Americans countered that the difference
between A.T.&T. and other long-distance carriers is a matter of a few pennies.
Spend the money for A.T.&T.'s reliability, the advertisement challenged, or save
it and get lesser quality.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Some Fast-Growing Ethnic Groups" shows some fast growing Asian
and Hispanic ethnic groups. (Source: Census Bureau)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 11, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

The Green Card at the End of the Irish Rainbow;
Latest Wave of Immigrants Finds That, Even With Legal Status, Jobs Are Still
Tight

BYLINE: By DONATELLA LORCH

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1497 words


Last fall, Carol Philbin gave up. Without working papers and out of a job for
more than a month, she returned home to Galway for good after three years of
struggle in the shadow world of New York City's undocumented Irish.

A letter in her parent's mailbox sent her back again. The letter informed Ms.
Philbin that she had won a visa lottery that would allow her to work and live
legally in the United States. But since her return, Ms. Philbin -- whose sister
Moira and brother Sean have also immigrated to the United States -- has found
that while the shadow had lifted, the struggle was not over.

"I was very naive in thinking, 'I've got my green card, I'll walk into any job,'
" Ms. Philbin, 21 years old, said. "My first six weeks, I couldn't even get a
waitressing job. The green card doesn't make any difference. It's not harder but
it's not easier. The difference is that here I have the opportunities to do what
I want."

Talk of Few Jobs

Among thousands of Irish immigrants in New York, also winners like Ms. Philbin
in the unusual lottery, there is a sense that their dream came true -- but at a
tough time.

In the city's Irish pubs, the talk at the wooden horseshoe bars is no longer of
coveted green cards but of the lack of jobs, particularly in construction where
most of the young men work. For many who had received higher education in
Ireland, legalization seemed to be synonymous with career advancement, a chance
to break out of occupations like construction, waiting on tables and caring for
children, but many say they are now being rebuffed by employers because they
have insufficient experience in their white-collar professions.

A result is a break in a trend of many decades. Many new Irish immigrants are
avoiding New York completely and heading toward Florida, where construction jobs
are more readily available.

And in a strange twist, at the moment they become eligible to stay here legally,
many young Irish are returning to Ireland. Some simply want to raise their
children there. Others leave to wait out the recession at home even though the
joblessness rate is more than double the rate in the United States. In Ireland
they can live with their families and collect unemployment benefits.

The illegal Irish community in New York City, estimated two years ago at 30,000,
a third of the Irish living illegally in the United States, is going through
other changes as well, as it is reshaped by a maturing population as well as the
recession.

Irish Pubs in Trouble

The most striking differences are in the changing neighborhood profiles. In
traditional first-stop immigrant neighborhoods of Sunnyside and Woodside in
Queens and Bainbridge Avenue in the Bronx, some of the Irish pubs that
mushroomed and were revitalized during the illegal immigration boom of the
mid-1980's are going out of business. In part, it is because few people have
money to spend, but also because the carefree, hard-working, hard-playing
partygoers have married, had children and moved to quieter, safer neighborhoods
like Maspeth in Queens, Riverdale in the Bronx and Yonkers.

"Five years ago the bars were busy every night," said Debbie McGoldrick, the
immigration columnist for The Irish Voice, one of the main Irish papers in the
city. "Advertisement in The Irish Voice for pubs and restaurants has gone down
from eight pages last year to four this year. An awful lot of people went back
at Christmas. They are monitoring the situation from there. It's only a plane
ride away."

Adrian Flannelly, president of WNWK, an Irish radio station that has live
broadcasts in Ireland as well, said: "Some people have gone back, others have
changed their life styles. They've fanned out of the neighborhoods. The pubs are
in a recession. There are some areas that give the impression that people are on
a vacation. And they are -- an extended vacation."

These types of changes are characteristic of the Irish in particular, a group
that since their first wave of immigration 200 years ago has flowed back and
forth from the home country and throughout the United States. "There's something
in the Irish attitude that says, 'I belong in America,' " said Francis P. Vardy,
senior demographer in the Department of City Planning who closely follows the
Irish migration patterns. "They don't consider themselves foreigners. They
consider the U.S. to be the 33d county of Ireland."

Construction Workers Suffer

The most mobile within the community and the hardest hit by the recession are
the construction workers. They follow their trade, many having left New York
temporarily to work in France building EuroDisney, in England to build the
tunnel under the English Channel and on construction sites as far away as Japan
and South Africa. Many are planning to head to Florida, to help rebuild after
the hurricane. Those who have remained often spend weeks between jobs.

The close-knit community is expected to change even more in the next few years
as the lottery in permanent residency cards plays out. The lottery is a result
of a 1990 law that gives preference to immigrants from 34 European countries to
counter their underrepresentation during the last 26 years. In the next two
years, it guarantees the Irish a total of 48,000 resident alien permits.  It is
the largest legal migration of Irish since 1965. The lottery's goal is to
legalize Irish already in the United States. An estimated 75 percent of this
year's winners already live in the United States, said James McIntire, Irish
vice consul and immigration liaison officer. Although it is impossible to count
New York's illegals, more than 60 percent of them have been absorbed in this
drawing, experts estimate.

Next year's lottery rules have been changed, giving Irish in Ireland an equal
chance at winning. Instead of accepting applications on a first-come,
first-served basis as they did last year, creating mob scenes at a Virginia post
office, the Immigration and Naturalization Service is accepting only one
application per person chosen randomly by computer during a one-month drawing
period that ended Aug. 28.

Bridging the Culture Gap

At the Emerald Isle Immigration Center in Woodside, Martina Newe-Smith works in
the newly created employment division. Part of her role is to bridge the gap
between cultures, she says. For that purpose, Mrs. Newe-Smith has put together a
pamphlet that teaches everything from resume writing to interview etiquette. She
is flooded by requests for jobs, particularly by newly legalized Irish who want
to find jobs that require their educational background. But many find themselves
still in their old jobs.

"I know people who have come back with green cards, have college educations but
find it financially more secure to do nannying or waitressing," Carol Philbin
said.

Still, having a green card is not taken lightly.

"It's a feeling you can't describe," an older sister, Moira Philbin, said.
"Until you actually go through immigration, you feel this is not happening. You
look across at the other line and you think, never again will I wonder whether I
can get in. And I felt nothing can stop me now."

Among those who remain, there is a tremendous drive to endure. Freda Grealy, 23,
studied law in England and just took her bar exam. She works 62 hours a week, as
a receptionist and a waitress, unable to find more professional work, but is far
from discouraged. "My attitude is that this too shall pass," she said. "Just
because you are legal, it doesn't open the golden gate."

One of the Lucky Ones

The Philbin sisters and their brother represent the struggles and dreams of the
new Irish-Americans. Moira Philbin, 27 years old, studied computer science in
Galway, but in New York she worked as a dog walker, a house cleaner and a
receptionist. She considers herself lucky. Many of her friends, out of jobs,
have returned to Ireland.

Now she has found a job she likes at a Woodside travel agency, has moved to a
new apartment and plans to go to school in January. For the first time, she will
not have to work under an assumed name and will receive health insurance and
other benefits.

Carol Philbin left Ireland just out of high school and despite her new legal
status, has only been able to find baby-sitting jobs. She worked as a
housekeeper for two and a half years and now plans to learn the art of makeup
for disfigured people and hopes to go to college.

"I used to pray and cry a lot," Carol Philbin said. "I'm very optimistic. I have
never consciously thought, 'What will I do if I can't get a job?' "

Their brother, Sean, whose wife is expecting their second child, is toying with
the idea of returning to Ireland in the future to raise his children, Moira
Philbin said.

"It's a different kettle of fish if you're out there on your own or if you have
kids," Ms. Philbin said. "The difference in being legal is that now you know you
can go for whatever you want. It's like a weight off your shoulders."

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: For Moira Philbin, above, who immigrated to the United States
from Ireland, life has been a series of jobs that were hard but attainable with
a green card. For her sister, Carol, it has been harder. By the time she was
picked in the lottery and received legal immigrant status, the jobs had
disappeared. (Lee Romero/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 18, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

CHRONICLE

BYLINE: By NADINE BROZAN

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Style Desk

LENGTH: 486 words


When Congress passed a bill in 1990 prohibiting the Immigration and
Naturalization Service from keeping people out of the country because of their
ideology, GABRIEL GARCIA MARQUEZ assumed that he could enter without difficulty.
After all, he had finally been granted a visa after trying to get one for 30
years.

On Sunday, Mr. Garcia Marquez, the Nobel laureate novelist, who lives in
Colombia and Mexico, learned differently. He and his wife, MERCEDES, landed at
Kennedy International Airport on an Air France flight from Paris and were
hustled off to an immigration office, and then to another one. They were
detained for almost two hours without explanation.

Speaking in Spanish yesterday from his hotel room in Manhattan, he said through
PATRICIA CEPEDA, his personal assistant in New York: "I am pretty used to this
stuff. It always happens in the United States. After a while, I realized it was
taking much longer than usual, and my wife has never been under restrictions
before."

Mr. Garcia Marquez said that when he finally reached the head of the line in the
second immigration office, he watched an official studying a computer screen and
typing into it. "I said to him: 'Look. I am a well-known person. Perhaps I can
clarify any doubts.' He said, 'I have information here, but I can't tell you
what it's about.' "

DUKE AUSTIN, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Washington, said the inspector who handled the case was off duty yesterday and
unavailable for comment. Mr. Austin said he had no further information on the
incident.

Mr. Garcia Marquez said he and his wife were suddenly released. "I was told it
was an error, about somebody with my same name," he said. "I said don't tell me
that. I know it's me. I have been on the list for 30 years."

Mr. Garcia Marquez said his name had been put on the list of people to be
excluded when he worked as a correspondent for four months in 1961 for Prensa
Latina, the Cuban news agency. He left the agency after the Bay of Pigs
incident, when, he said, "the Communist characteristics of the Cuban revolution
took over and they cleared out all the non-Communists."

"I was a leftist liberal but not a Communist," he said.

Although his lawyer TERENCE FORTUNE, a partner in the Washington office of Paul,
Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, sent a letter of protest to the Commissioner
of Immigration this week, Mr. Garcia Marquez said he did not plan further
action.

"I have accepted their excuse that it was an administrative, bureaucratic
error," he said. "I am so happy to be in New York that I accept being ill
treated."

His mission here? "I was going from Paris to Mexico, but I wanted to hear WOODY
ALLEN play," he said, referring to Mr. Allen's clarinet performances on Monday
nights at Michael's Pub. "I also wanted to show him my friendship in his time of
need."

Now that's love in the time of cholera.


LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of GABRIEL GARCIA MARQUEZ

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 3, 1992, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

ABOUT NEW YORK;
For Greenpoint's Poles, an Uncertain Prosperity

BYLINE: By Michael T. Kaufman

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 801 words


AT Shanghai Lee's restaurant in Greenpoint, where the Chinese waiter took the
orders in Polish, Andrzej Czeczot, an illustrator, was showing his latest
satirical drawings to friends. As an artist and, what is more to the point, as a
perfectly legal immigrant, Mr. Czeczot has no objection to seeing both his names
in print, but at least two of the others were without green cards and so
preferred to be called simply Jurek and Stas.

One of the drawings showed a street in the Brooklyn neighborhood with booths
advertising different kinds of forged documents. "Social Security Cards," said
one, "Green Cards," said another, and the third offered "Asbestos School
Diplomas." This referred to state licenses issued to graduates of a course
qualifying them for dangerous and relatively high-paying work in asbestos
removal. A year ago the police broke a ring selling such counterfeit permits to
Polish arrivals.

"You can't get the fake diplomas anymore," said Stas, who gained his own
legitimately by completing the course offered by New York State and taught in
Polish as well as in English and Spanish. "But you can still get any other kind
of documents."

"Remember those war films showing roundups in Warsaw with Nazis looking for Jews
and people without papers?" said Jurek, a freelance house painter. "Can you
imagine what would happen if there was one here on Manhattan Avenue, God forbid?
They would find half had no papers or bad papers."

No one is sure how many of Greenpoint's Poles are illegal residents, how many
have come as tourists and overstayed their visas to work as cleaning women,
restaurant workers, in construction or demolition or as factory hands. But as
the conversation at the Chinese restaurant illustrated, the illegals, vulnerable
to exploitation and forced to live lives of hustling and hassling, have had a
big impact on the neighborhood.

"The big change came three years ago when the economy started to change in
Poland," said Jurek. He explained that before then, as Communism was failing,
$40 bought enough zlotys for a family in Poland to live reasonably for a month.
Under those conditions people came here with the idea of working for a while,
saving and going back. "Back then," he said, "if you could take back $5,000 you
were set for life, you could set up a business."

"Now that Poland is an almost normal country, $5,000 is nothing," Stas said.
"Even $20,000 won't change your life." As a result, people who may have come
intent on going back are here to stay. "Look what happened to me," Stas said. "I
came six years ago. I tried this. I tried that. The letters from my wife and
daughter stopped. I met a woman here. I still say I am going to go back but I'm
lying. My friends know it too."

"We are all here for good," said Jurek. He said that he and his friends pray
that the lawyers they keep consulting will eventually find a way for them to
become legal immigrants.

Meanwhile, living by their wits and coping with landlords and employers willing
to exploit their uncertain status, they have brought energy and conspiratorial
cunning to what had been a sleepy ethnic enclave little noticed by the rest of
the city. "We may be in a recession but there is not an empty store on Manhattan
Avenue," said Mr. Czeczot, the artist. "Legally or not people are working. New
little restaurants are opening." Other old-timers agree that in the decade since
young Poles like Stas and Jurek flocked to Greenpoint, the neighborhood has
grown steadily richer.

One source of this prosperity has come from asbestos removal. This occupation,
dominated by Polish and Irish workmen, is thought of as the best of jobs and
Stas knows that many in Greenpoint envy him. He says the jealousy is misplaced,
describing the work as exhausting, hazardous and not anywhere near as well
paying as people think.

"When I was still in Poland I heard that Poles could make $45 an hour pulling
away asbestos in New York," Stas said. "All I knew was that it was dangerous but
I thought, 'How much more dangerous could it be than breathing the air around
Katowice?' " he said, referring to the polluted industrial region where he grew
up. "Anyway, for $45 an hour I was ready to bite frogs and jump from church
steeples, but I have never seen $45 an hour."

"Look," he said, showing stubs from his pay slips. "I'm lucky if I get $10 an
hour and sometimes I have to kick back money to the subcontractors who hire me.
Often we don't stop for lunch. We don't get overtime. Sometimes important safety
equipment is missing. Sooner or later some of us will get sick. But what can I
do? Complain? To who? They'll just replace me with some other illegal Pole
waiting for the opportunity."

"You mean like me," said Jurek, smiling and passing around a plate of sweet and
sour shrimp.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 6, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

High Court Will Take Up Bush's Policy on Haitians

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 791 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5


The Supreme Court placed the Bush Administration's bitterly contested policy
toward Haitian refugees on the agenda for its new term today.

Acting at the Administration's request, the Justices agreed to decide whether
the involuntary return of all Haitians picked up on the high seas violates
United States immigration law, as a Federal appeals court held two months ago,
or whether the policy is a valid use of Presidential power to deal with a
serious immigration crisis, as the Administration contends.

It makes this argument in an aggressively worded brief that all but asks the
Justices to declare questions concerning foreign policy to be exempt from review
by the Federal courts.

The Supreme Court acted almost a year after the elected Haitian Government of
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide was overthrown by the military, sending tens of
thousands fleeing toward American shores. The Administration's response evolved
over the next few months, to be met at each turn by legal challenges brought on
behalf of the Haitians by rights advocates.

At issue before the Supreme Court now is the latest variant of the policy, an
executive order issued by President Bush on May 24. The order, reversing a
policy under which every Haitian received a preliminary screening to determine
eligibility for political asylum in the United States, required the Coast Guard
to intercept Haitian migrants' boats and return the occupants without an initial
screening. Applications for asylum can be made only at the United States Embassy
in Port-au-Prince.

On July 29, a panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
ruled 2-to-1 that the new policy violated the rights guaranteed by the country's
basic immigration law, the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, to aliens
seeking asylum.

The three-judge panel relied on Section 243(h) of the law, which provides that
"the Attorney General shall not deport or return any alien to a country if the
Attorney General determines that such alien's life or freedom would be
threatened in such country on account of race, religion, nationality, membership
in a particular social group, or political opinion."

Three days later, the Supreme Court granted an Administration request for a stay
of the Second Circuit decision, permitting the new policy to take effect while
the Government prepared its formal appeal.

Since then about 1 percent of applications for admission as refugees have been
approved by the United States Embassy in Haiti, compared to about 30 percent of
Haitians who won tentative admission last spring under the old policy -- after
preliminary screening at the United States naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

As a legal matter, the case, McNary v. Haitian Centers Council, No. 92-344,
presents a relatively straightforward question: Is the law's protection against
the forcible return of would-be refugees limited to aliens who are already
inside the country's borders, or does it also apply to those who, like the
Haitians, are caught before they reach American shores?

This is the sort of statutory-interpretation problem with which the Court deals
regularly. However, the Administration has framed the case in a way that makes
its appeal a test of much more than the Court's ability to parse a Federal
statute.

In a broad and aggressively worded argument, Solicitor General Kenneth W. Starr
is asserting that the appeals court "intruded into a delicate area of the
nation's foreign policy" and should not be permitted to "second-guess" the
President's chosen course of action.

The brief accused the appeals court of having "intruded intolerably into matters
assigned by the Constitution to the President -- by interfering directly with
the operation of military vessels under his command on the high seas, and by
upsetting the delicate balance of diplomatic and other measures instituted by
the President to restore democratic rule in Haiti."

This approach transforms the case into a test of whether the Justices share the
Administration's vision of essentially unreviewable Presidential authority in
the area of foreign policy. If the Court chooses to engage the argument on those
terms, the outcome could have importance beyond the matter of Haitian
immigration.

The lawyers who have challenged the Administration policy, on behalf of several
groups of Haitian migrants, are urging the Court to limit its inquiry to the
meaning of the Federal immigration law. They are arguing that the Court of
Appeals correctly concluded that a 1980 amendment to the Immigration and
Nationality Act made clear that Congress intended to protect aliens who had not
yet reached the United States as well as those threatened with deportation from
the country.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 7, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

New Wave of Cubans Sails to Florida Illegally

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1554 words

DATELINE: KEY WEST, Fla., Oct. 6


For the first time since the Mariel boat lift brought 125,000 Cubans to the
United States in 1980, refugees desperate to flee the dictatorship of Fidel
Castro are arriving here steadily in large groups aboard Cuban vessels, in
defiance of American and Cuban restrictions.

The authorities say nearly 1,000 refugees have arrived in the last two months,
nearly half the number for all of last year.

The authorities say that in contrast to the Cubans who arrived here in the last
decade, mainly in family groups or mostly in small numbers aboard makeshift
rafts, the latest influx includes larger groups of people transported on
commercial or private boats. The vessels leave the refugees just offshore, on
uninhabited islands or near lighthouses.

Up to the Main Beach

On Monday a Cuban fishing trawler pulled up to the main downtown beach here just
before dawn and let 19 people wade ashore. The refugees included Oscar Mestril
Ramirez, 49 years old, who said the group sailed out of a harbor near Havana on
Sunday night.

"We made a deal, an arrangement through an intermediary," Mr. Mestril said.
"They told us when and where they would pick us up and where they would leave us
off."

Under United States immigration laws Cubans are allowed to apply for and be
given legal residence more quickly than any other national group. The Supreme
Court agreed this week to consider the Bush Administration's policy of forcing
refugees from neighboring Haiti to return to their homeland when picked up on
the high seas. But rulings on those cases will not affect Cubans.

The Bush Administration argues that Cubans are political refugees and that an
overwhelming majority of Haitians are primarily fleeing harsh economic
conditions.

The new movement from Cuba poses a challenge to Washington, which said after the
Mariel boat lift it would never again allow Mr. Castro to dictate American
immigration policy, and the Bush Administration has repeated that.

Coast Guard officials here say they are not equipped to contain the flow, and
Immigration and Naturalization Service officials said budget restrictions limit
their ability to process the newcomers.

In contrast to the Mariel boat lift, the movement this year is a trickle, not a
flood, and it appears to be organized more for profit than for humanitarian
purposes. Cuban exile groups here say that in interviews the arrivals describe a
growing smuggling network of a character and scope that could function only with
the connivance of the Cuban authorities. Indeed, the refugees say, the
Government is increasingly desperate for cash since the collapse of the Soviet
Union and the loss of $5 billion a year in subsidies.

The reports about refugee smuggling are emerging as a record influx of Cubans
seeks asylum in the United States. Officials say that 485 Cubans risked their
lives to cross the shark-infested Straits of Florida in August and that 468 made
the 90-mile journey last month. The officials say 2,203 Cuban refugees arrived
last year.

Cross-Section of Cuban Society

Usually the flow of rafts peaks in the summer and diminishes after Labor Day
because of changes in wind patterns, sea currents and water temperatures that
make the trip more difficult and dangerous. But September was a record month,
and Coast Guard officials said they expected the movement to continue.

"All indications are that we don't see an end to this." Steven Kabick of the
guard said. "It's a rare occasion that we don't have rafters coming in. It's
become an everyday thing, and we are trying to work with what we've got."

Taken as a whole the arrivals offer a cross-section of Cuban society. The people
who arrived on Monday included electricians, stevedores, mechanics, farm workers
and solderers as well as an architect, a pharmacist, a fashion model, a boxer, a
sculptor and a dancer. In interviews they have said they left because of
increasing political repression and economic privation.

Released to Relatives

A vast majority of the applicants for asylum are being processed in this
isolated resort of 25,000 residents because the I.N.S. is no longer transporting
them to Miami and holding them at the Krome Detention Center, as was its policy
until the summer.

Now, Cubans who arrive by sea are being inspected and turned over to relatives,
friends or volunteer groups that assist refugees in a remarkably compressed
period of time. The reasons for the change, the I.N.S. district director in
Miami, Carol D. Chasse, said, were "budgetary, and also a consideration of what
the Federal Government role should properly be."

News of that streamlining, which meant that the 19 who landed on Monday were
released to relatives within six hours of their arrival, has filtered back to
Cuba, where there is a backlog of 100,000 requests to apply for visas at the
American Interests Section.

"We are not going to get in a state of panic," Mayor Dennis Wardlow of Key West
said on Monday. "If we have to we'll handle this just like Mariel. We have the
volunteers to do it. There's certainly a traffic out there on the seas, but as
far as the city goes, our resources have not yet been strained."

'Tatters and Scars'

Cuban-Americans working for refugee-relief groups said many of the people being
counted by the authorities as riding rafts recently may actually be customers of
the smugglers. The relief workers said they suspected that Cuban boats were
taking refugees to areas outside American territorial waters and leaving the
people to float on inner tubes, certain that the Coast Guard will soon spot and
rescue them.

"Normally when someone comes over in a raft, they are severely sunburned and
dehydrated, with their clothing in tatters and scars or blisters all over their
hands from days of paddling," said Arturo Cobo, a Bay of Pigs veteran who is
coordinator of a new refugee center operated by the White Street Baptist Church
here. "In the last couple of months we have begun seeing rafters who do not
present those conditions."

Denial by Cuban Spokesman

A spokesman for the Cuban Interests Section in Washington, Ariel Ricardo, denied
that his Government had encouraged, tolerated or profited from any refugee
smuggling. "The Cuban Government doesn't have any interest in promoting illegal
immigration," he said. "If we have proof that any boat captain has committed
this act, there will be a trial."

Mr. Ricardo also said his Government was even less capable than the United
States to control the refugees' movement. "Look at the map and you will see that
Cuba has thousands of kilometers of coast line, with hundreds of small keys and
little islands," he said. "This is a relatively difficult situation to control,
and people do have the right to go fishing."

Decrease Expected in Weeks

A State Department official who insisted on anonymity said today that although
"things are getting worse in Cuba and people in positions of authority may be
more amenable to a little bribery and looking the other way," there is no reason
to believe that an influx of the size of the Mariel immigration wave is likely.

In contrast to the Coast Guard spokesman's expectation, he said he expected the
numbers to start going down in the coming weeks, adding, "Even if the total is
even 25 percent above last year, I don't think that is a significant departure
or trend."

Mr. Mestril, the passenger who arrived on Monday, said the passage cost each
member of the group 5,000 pesos, payable in advance. At the official rate of
exchange, that would amount to $5,000. But at black market rates, it is the
equivalent of just under $150.

Mr. Mestril arrived with his stepdaughter Ana Maria, his son-in-law Angel and
his 2-year-old granddaughter, Rosa. He said he planned to rejoin his wife,
mother and brother in Miami.

Another passenger, Heber Frias Cutino, 16, said that he was on deck with the
captain of the vessel as she left the harbor and that he heard seven or eight
shots being fired at the group by security authorities. He became frightened, he
said, but the captain laughed and assured him, " 'We have nothing to worry
about.' "

"You mean the security people were deliberately firing over your heads?" Mr.
Cobo asked.

"That's it," the youth replied.

"In other words, all of that was for show, so that if anyone asked, they could
say they had tried to stop you," Mr. Cobo said.

The youth agreed.

Burden on Volunteer Groups

A spokesman for the I.N.S. in Washington, Duke Austin, said that although it is
illegal to smuggle foreigners into the United States, that fact will not affect
the Cubans' chances for asylum. "It doesn't change the eligibility of the alien
if he pays somebody to smuggle him here," Mr. Austin said. "Under our laws the
smuggler is guilty. But you can't prosecute the alien just because his presence
is the product of an illegal activity."

Because of recent changes in I.N.S. policy, the burden of processing and caring
for Cuban refugees has fallen largely on volunteer agencies and Cuban-Americans
in southern Florida. Those groups, however, are trying to deal with increased
demands for their services as a result of Hurricane Andrew, which also led the
Federal Bureau of Prisons to transfer some prisoners from damaged jails to the
I.N.S. detention center in Miami.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cuban refugees aboard a Coast Guard vessel with one of their
rafts on Monday night near Key West, Fla., after fleeing their homeland. (John
Berry for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 7, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

On Outside Looking In: Immigrants With H.I.V.

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1613 words


Five years after the Federal Government decided that H.I.V. was a reason for
keeping immigrants out of this country, hundreds of immigrants already in New
York and other American cities where they often settle are living in a legal and
emotional limbo.

In the view of the Government, immigrants infected with H.I.V. represent a
financial drain on the public since they almost certainly face an expensive
medical future. State Department guidelines note that the average lifetime cost
of the illness has been estimated at $85,000.

But critics of the policy counter that the costs are difficult to assess and not
a factor for immigrants with other diseases, like cancer. They say the
restrictions amount to thinly disguised moral screening.

While the merits of the policy are debated, many of those who hoped the United
States would offer a refuge and a chance at a new life instead find themselves
with their lives on hold because they tested positive for the virus that causes
AIDS.

For several months, fear of deportation has kept Sergio D. Dominguez, a
30-year-old man from Guatemala who said he has lived in this country illegally
since 1980, from seeking housing or medical treatment. For more than a year,
Seydou F., a 28-year-old immigrant from the Ivory Coast who works as a poorly
paid sales clerk in Manhattan, said he has been unable to get a better job for
lack of permanent resident status.

And for the last nine months, a 22-year-old woman from Brooklyn has been stuck
abroad, unable to return to her 4-year-old son. Like many others, she found out
she was H.I.V.-positive by submitting to the medical exam required of aliens who
seek to stay in the United States permanently.

"I had everything planned," the woman, a factory worker who lived in the United
States for 13 years as an illegal alien, said during a tearful telephone
interview from South America, where she went to get the documents she needed to
become a permanent resident of the United States.

"It never occurred to me that I was infected."

Under the Federal policy, H.I.V. infection is "a communicable disease of public
health significance." Other diseases that bar immigration include active
tuberculosis and leprosy. The policy restricts the temporary entry to the United
States of infected people and makes those seeking permanent entry or a "green
card," the immigrant visa, one step short of citizenship, inadmissible.

The exclusion can be waived to assure family unity, on humanitarian grounds or
for other specified reasons, but immigrants with H.I.V. are also required to
show proof that they can pay the cost of AIDS if they get sick. Immigration
lawyers say the criteria are too stringent for most.

Faint Possibility of Waiver

In 1989, the last year for which figures are available, 442 people tested
positive for H.I.V. out of 397,000 applicants 15 years or older who sought to
immigrate, the United States Public Health Service said. Last year only 10
people applied for the waivers, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said.
Two have been granted so far.

Although deportable, few people who fail the medical tests are actually
deported. Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service say that since
those who test positive usually do not pursue their application for
legalization, they are not routinely known to the agency.

But as illegal aliens, those who test positive are not eligible for most
government benefits for people with H.I.V., nor do they have easy access to
preventive care.

Originally, Federal officials cited concerns about the spread of H.I.V. as the
reason for the policy. But last year the Public Health Service recommended
removing the virus from the list of excluded illnesses because H.I.V. is not
spread by casual contact.  Since then, however, the Departments of Justice and
Health and Human Services have failed to agree on what has become a sensitive
political issue and come up with new regulations to replace the policy. The
arguments have revolved around the cost of caring for AIDS patients, Bush
Administration officials said.

Matter of Treatment

For many of the immigrants, the policy presents a cruel irony: they are excluded
for a condition that demands advanced medical treatment -- something many can
find only in the United States. And to Government officials it poses a question
that goes to the core of immigration policy: Should considerations like costs
override the humanitarian concerns that have made Americans open their borders
time and time again?

The issue has been highlighted recently by the case of about 300 Haitians
stranded at the American base in at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba because they or a
family member on whom they depend tested positive for H.I.V. But many others in
cities where immigrants often settle have been affected in subtler ways. Many
have lived here for years and want to legalize their status so they can work, or
travel overseas, or simply live without the risk of deportation.

Seydou F. came with a tourist visa from the Ivory Coast in 1988 and last year
married a United States citizen. He said he works as a clerk in a clothing
store, pays taxes and has health insurance. He said he has tried to get an job
in accounting, his profession back home, but has had trouble because employers
are reluctant to hire him without a green card.

Sense of Frustration

He applied for permanent residency in August 1991 and learned he had H.I.V. He
is now waiting for a decision on his waiver application.

He said he does not understand the Government policy stifling his plans.

"We don't know if I would get sick," he said. "If you're careful, my doctor
says, I may not get sick in 14 years. I would have been working all that time
and I would contribute more than I would take away from the government."

Mr. Dominguez, the immigrant from Guatemala, ended up, destitute and ill, at the
Gay Men's Health Crisis last month to obtain legal representation. The
organization, which currently counsels about 500 H.I.V.-infected immigrants, is
trying to obtain permission for him to stay in the country for at least a year
on humanitarian grounds so that he can qualify for some temporary benefits.

Mr. Dominguez tested positive for H.I.V. last December, when he was hospitalized
for 28 days with pneumonia. In his 12 years in the United States, he passed up
several chances to apply for legalization because he thought he would soon make
enough money to return to Guatemala.

He once earned $300 to $400 a week as a cook in a Mexican restaurant, but the
steady work ended before he was ready to go back, he said, and as he struggled
to make a living, his health problems began. He was homeless and slept in a
building in mid-Manhattan until this week, when he moved to a welfare hotel.
Last December Mr. Dominguez gave the hospital a fictitious name and, after a few
visits, did not return for follow-up treatment, afraid he would be reported to
immigration officials. He said he does not want to return to Guatemala penniless
and ill with H.I.V.

"I'd rather die here," he said.

Clinton's Stance

Of the estimated 37,000 Haitians who have arrived in Guantanamo by boat since
the overthrow of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide a year ago, those remaining
there pose a unique situation. In a case filed in Federal District Court in
Brooklyn, lawyers for the Haitians argue that they are on American territory and
thus entitled to legal representation before their asylum claims are reviewed.
The virus would not be an obstacle to asylum if they applied for it in the
United States, the lawyers say.

Justice Department officials, saying that Guantanamo is not American territory
but a military base leased from Cuba, argue that the Haitians are not entitled
to lawyers and that they need waivers from the H.I.V. restriction. But while the
Government has petitioned the Supreme Court to hear the case, Federal officials
have allowed several of the Haitians to come to the United States for medical
care.

Despite such flexibility, the H.I.V. exclusion still stands and is not expected
to change unless there is a change in the White House. (Gov. Bill Clinton has
said he would eliminate the policy if elected President.) In the meantime, the
New York City woman waiting in South America vows to return. Her mother and two
siblings are already permanent residents and her stepfather is a United States
citizen who petitioned the Immigration and Naturalization Service to classify
her as his child.

The woman, who is staying with an aunt, agreed to an interview on condition that
neither she nor her country be identified for fear that any publicity would hurt
her chance of obtaining a waiver. During the interview, she cried repeatedly,
her emotions ranging from bitterness to helplessness.

The woman, who came to the United States when she was 9, said that she does not
know how she contracted the virus but that "If it was sex it was by an American,
and what hurts me is that it was an American that ruined my life and now I can't
go back."

She has yet to find out if her son is also infected.

The boy, a United States citizen, can go to her but she has not been able to
find a job that would support them both so he shuttles between an aunt and his
grandmother. She said her mother and stepfather, both factory workers, are
working overtime on Saturdays to try to meet the financial requirement to obtain
the waiver. Her lawyer, meanwhile, is trying to enlist the help of AIDS groups.

As a last resort, she said she is considering sneaking into the country.

"I may have to go through Mexico," she said. "I have a son who needs me."

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 10, 1992, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Amsterdam Journal;
Plane Crash Exposes a Dutch Ghetto

BYLINE: By PAUL L. MONTGOMERY,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 827 words

DATELINE: AMSTERDAM, Oct. 8


All day, the curious make the 20-minute metro ride from the center of the city
to the apartment building where an El Al cargo jet crashed on Sunday evening.

Many stand and watch as cranes continue to lower lines into the scorched gap the
plane tore in the building, searching for bodies among the rubble.

The crash, which Prime Minister Ruud Lubbers called the worst disaster in the
Netherlands since World War II, has focused attention on the daily tragedies in
the lives of the residents of Bijlmermeer, the poorest quarter of the city. And
the visitors making the trip to the crash site are discovering a part of the
city some never knew existed.

Center for Immigrants

Bijlmermeer is teeming with immigrants from Africa, Asia and the Caribbean. Some
immigrants come to take advantage of one of the most generous welfare states in
the world. Some of the new arrivals enter the country by legal means while
others slip through the cracks illegally.

A retired Dutch woman who lives alone in Bijlmermeer was watching the passing
throng at a shopping arcade the other day, surrounded by stores selling saris
and tropical vegetables and other foreign goods.

"I like the color and variety of this place very much," she said in precise
English. "I think you will find that the Dutch are a tolerant people, and
certainly the last war taught us to hate racism. But then you see the junkies
and the people who don't work and you wonder. This is my country and I am not
afraid, but it cannot go on forever like this."

Lab at Airport

The city authorities have tried to reassure the illegals who might have friends
or family in the wreckage to come forward with reports of the missing.

"I promise you that you will not get into difficulties," said Ed van Thijn,
Amsterdam's Mayor.

The city has set up a laboratory at Schiphol airport, 10 miles from Bijlmermeer,
to identify the bodies and coordinate the reports of the missing.

[So far, 51 bodies have been found, and some Dutch officials are now projecting
a death toll of around 120 people instead of the 250 estimated to have died
shortly after the crash, Reuters reported. The authorities say that some victims
may have been incinerated completely in the fire.]

There is none of the open hostility to immigrants that has made headlines in
Germany, but some Dutch are puzzled about the situation.

Bijlmermeer, for example, is notorious for drugs. Young men in American athletic
gear stand ready to deal in parking lots and shopping arcades, scanning the
streets for the police. A municipal report two years ago estimated there were
1,500 addicts among Bijlmermeer's 75,000 people.

In March the police raided the area and arrested nearly 50 people, almost all
from Ghana. At the time, the police said those arrested were dealers and
couriers in a Europe-wide cocaine and heroin network.

Majority From Dutch Colonies

Most of the immigrants in the area come from former Dutch colonies like Suriname
and Indonesia, and are admitted to reunite families.

The 187,000 people of the overseas territories of Aruba and the Dutch Antilles
(Curacao, Bonaire and St. Maarten) have residence rights and also make up a part
of Bijlmermeer's population. Others, apparently the majority, get visas to come
and work in largely menial jobs.

In 1990, when 82,000 non-Dutch immigrants to the Netherlands were approved, the
Dutch spent 30 percent of their gross domestic product on social welfare,
according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. This
compared with an average of 20 percent in the other industrial countries.

Imram Mujoorie, from Pakistan, said he found that a shrinking economy and recent
restrictions on welfare payments had reduced the desirability of the Netherlands
for some would-be immigrants.

"Some of my friends are going back," he said. "There is very little work now."

Work Force on Disability

He has a residence permit that allows him to work, he gets a rent subsidy from
the city and spends most of his time tending the counter at a sex store in the
red-light district.

The country is unique in having 14 percent of its work force receiving payments
for physical or psychological disabilities. Payments can amount to 70 percent of
a worker's last salary. Many of the recipients who are younger than 40 complain
of bad backs or psychological problems.

But the crash has made many immigrants question life in Bijlmermeer. At the
local sports center, which serves as a shelter for those left homeless by the
crash, a weary-looking man stood in a corridor resting his forehead on the
concrete wall.

"I don't know, I don't know," he said, over and over.

Evert H. Verdies, who came here from Suriname, wants to put distance between his
family and the crash, which occurred about 200 feet from his apartment.

"I can't forget it, and my children can't either," said the 39-year-old
construction worker. "It's better to go away."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The neighborhood of Biljmermeer in Amsterdam, the poorest
quarter of the city, is notorious for drugs -- a municipal report two years ago
estimated there were 1,500 addicts among the suburb's 75,000 people. A man
prepared his daily fix of heroin at a commuter train station in Biljmermeer.
(Associated Press for The New York Times)

Map of Amsterdam showing location of Bijlmermeer.

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 18, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

A la Carte;
Culinary Blending of Jamaican and Chinese Tastes

BYLINE: By RICHARD JAY SCHOLEM

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 21; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1349 words


SOON after immigrants settle in this country, their restaurants follow. The
first such eating places to be established are modest and usually in the centers
of the immigrants' new neighborhoods. As the communities prosper, restaurants
gentrify and move outward.

The three-month-old Calabash International Restaurant in Baldwin is part of that
second wave. The sign outside says, "West Indian and American."

But aside from a pasta and a cajun dish, everything at Calabash is Jamaican.
That includes its well-traveled chef and part owner, Vincent Chin, a Jamaican of
Chinese descent who has worked at restaurants like the Plantation Inn in
Kingston, Jamaica; Maxwell's Plum in Manhattan and the Hilton in Somerset, N.J.

Mr. Chin and the manager and co-owner, Cecil Nalty Jr., another Jamaican,
established Calabash adjacent to a thriving West Indian residential area.
Although most West Indian restaurants on Long Island are no more than
peanut-size takeouts with two or three tables, Calabash, with its pink napery,
gray walls and accommodating service, is a neat pleasant place for any
adventurous diner to try a taste of the islands at a modest cost.

A taste of the islands here means Chinese food, Jamaican style, as well as
jerked, curried and escovitched meat and fish. The Jamaican and Chinese pairing
makes culinary sense, because much of the Jamaican is spicy and almost all the
Chinese is mild.

Only Four Entrees Top $10

The menu also makes sense, as in dollars and cents. Just four entrees exceed
$10, with most at $7.95 or $8.95. Appetizers range from $3.95 to $4.95, and
desserts go from $2.25 to $2.95. Takeout prices are even lower.

Three jerked appetizers -- pork ($4.25), chicken wings ($3.95) and sausage ($4)
-- delivered a resounding salvo of tasty spicy-hot flavors.  Although it is not
on the menu, the sausage, simply served on a bed of lettuce, was most memorable,
the jerked chicken wings were the hottest, and the pork the fattiest, with about
50 percent waste.

Jerked, or jerky, meat is cut into strips and dried. It tastes much like spicy
flavorful barbecue.

Do not be deceived by the so-called soups of the day. They are not something to
be eaten before a meal, but are meals in themselves. The suey mein ($7.95) is a
bowl of soothing broth filled with noodles, vegetables and Cantonese-style roast
pork and chicken. Even without the egg roll in the soup that the menu promises
this is a filling difficult-to-finish dish. Additionally, eating it requires
alternating a soup spoon and a fork. Special suey mein ($10.50), the other soup
meal, boasts fish balls and shrimp in addition to the other ingredients.

Before receiving our entrees, a dinner salad not mentioned on the menu,
appeared. Although a standard salad, it was just part of a rather generous array
of accompaniments included in the entree prices.

Jamaican main courses come with vegetables and a mammoth bowl of brown rice and
peas. Chinese dishes and Chinese-Jamaican combination plates are served with
white rice and chicken broth and white rice, respectively. The bland brown rice
should be eaten in tandem with spicy dishes. It makes for an effective offset,
nicely moderating the sizzling-hot concoctions.

Exotic sodas like Kola Champagne and ginger beer ($2) help in that regard, too.
The Kola is vaguely reminiscent of ginger ale, and the ginger beer is similar to
root beer.

But not all Jamaican dishes need be accompanied by rice or cold drinks. An
excellent choice that does not is the curried goat ($7.95), a hearty, rich
potato-laced stewlike preparation that is to the Caribbean what beef Burgundy is
to France, despite the fact that it actually springs from India's culinary
influence.

Chicken fricassee ($8.25), or Jamaican brown stew, as it is called on the
island, is rewardingly herbaceous and oniony. It also is not particularly
incendiary. Unfortunately, the dish is somewhat diminished by an annoying
abundance of bones.

Sliced Jamaican-style steak with Chinese spices and mixed fresh vegetables could
have been a mite more tender, but received high marks in the taste department.

Fresh ginger enlivened and enhanced chicken chop suey ($7.25). The jerk pork
served as part of a combination plate with curried goat and chop suey was far
meatier and vastly superior to the same dish offered as an appetizer.

Interesting and Varied

The choy fan sampler plates, with three different offerings for $9.95, provide
interesting and varied eating. We never made it to the escovitch porgy ($8.95)
or snapper ($11.95), but for those who have an interest, the fish is browned in
oil and then immersed in a vinegar marinade.

Unfortunately, the grape-nut and rum-raisin ice-cream desserts were not
available the night this writer visited, nor was apple pie. But two huge
portions of warm dense raisin-studded bread pudding ($2.95) provided a
satisfying finale for four diners.

Finally, for those who remember Jimmy Durante and wonder if the name Calabash
has anything to do with his radio and television sign-off of "Good night, Mrs.
Calabash, wherever you are," it does not.

In this case, Calabash refers to a tropical gourd and to an authentic appealing
West Indian restaurant in the Fairview Shopping Center at 1187 Grand Avenue in
Baldwin (538-7400).

Mirko's miniature main courses, which enable diners to sample two or more
selections at relatively modest cost, were such a success in the summer that
they are now a mainstay at the restaurant on Watermill Square in Water Mill
(726-4444).

Mirko's, one of the few East End restaurants that remain open virtually the
year-round -- it closes for four to six weeks in January and February --
operates from Thursdays to Sundays this month and Fridays to Sundays in November
and December.

The restaurant, which was completely redecorated a few months ago, also began
bottling its popular olive oils and vinegars over the summer and incorporating
them in gift baskets, as well.

Mirko's adds one or more fresh herbs to its olive oil and grows the basil,
rosemary and other add-ons in its garden. Among the vinegars are citrus and
tarragon.

Guy Reuge, who owns the Mirabelle Restaurant, 404 North County Road, St. James
(584-5999), is also one of the most creative chefs on the Island. Mr. Reuge, a
Frenchman who was trained in his native land, introduces completely new dishes
on each of his four seasonal menus.

His autumn selections include both appetizers and entrees. Among the appetizers
are smoked quail with huckleberry-vinegar sauce in a small pumpkin, fried crab
ravioli with curry and grilled bell peppers and potato and apple cake with fresh
foie gras and Calvados brandy.

The featured entrees include pompano with black-olive fettuccine and coulis of
sweet potato, osso buco of monkfish, or with the bone, with creamy polenta in a
Long Island merlot sauce and grilled flank steak with saffron risotto and
fricassee of fennel.

Mr. Reuge is also planning a tasting dinner next Sunday that will spotlight the
wines of Switzerland. Another wine-tasting meal, on Nov. 13, will be devoted to
California's famous Opus One wine.

The North Street Grill, 661 Northern Boulevard, Great Neck (466-0200), a
contemporary American restaurant, is stressing two new classic America features,
live jazz and Sunday brunch. They do not occur together. The jazz is heard from
8 to midnight Friday and Saturday nights in the Club Room, where the regular
menu of the night is available. A recent trumpet-piano duo featured Chet Baker-
and Miles Davis-types of music.

There is no cover or minimum for either dinner guests or those who vist later
than 10 P.M. for a cognac or coffee.

The $15.95 brunch that began on Sept. 27 is somewhat unusual for a restaurant of
this stripe. Brunch is often a meal offered by eating places that stress
quantity over quality. The U-shaped buffet boasts the resturant's own smoked
fish and bagels, muffins, fruit and breads baked in a wood-burning oven.
Included is an appropriate drink, be it a bloody Mary, screwdriver or the more
exotic passion-fruit mimosa.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 19, 1992, Monday, Late Edition - Final

3,000 Foes of Iraq President Will Be Admitted to the U.S.

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 116 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 18


The United States has agreed to admit 3,000 Iraqi opponents of President Saddam
Hussein who are living in refugee camps in Saudi Arabia, an American immigration
spokesman said today.

The agreement was reported in The Washington Post and confirmed later by the
spokesman, Duke Austin of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Mr. Austin
said the refugees are mostly Shiites who are afraid to return to their homes in
Iraq while President Hussein remains in power.

Teams from the immigration service have been sent to the Saudi refugee camps to
screen people seeking to immigrate to the United States, Mr. Austin said, and
other countries have also offered havens to the refugees.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 20, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Plans to Resettle 7,000 Iraqi Refugees

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 145 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 19


The United States accepted 3,500 Iraqi refugees in the year ended Sept. 30 and
expects to resettle a similar number by next Sept. 30, the State Department said
today.

The department spokesman, Richard A. Boucher, expanding on information provided
over the weekend by immigration officials, said the refugees were among 30,000
Iraqis stranded in Saudi Arabia last year at the end of the Persian Gulf war.

About 20,000 fled from Iraq when President Saddam Hussein crushed an uprising by
Shiite Muslims in the south just after the war; 10,000 were Iraqi prisoners of
war who asked not to be returned, Mr. Boucher said. About 25,000 Iraqi refugees
remained in Saudi Arabia, he added.

Mr. Boucher said Washington had started accepting the refugees at the urging of
the United Nations when it became clear they had no immediate prospect of
returning to Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 7, 1992, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants' Fear of Forms Imperils Aid to Schools

BYLINE: By LYNDA RICHARDSON

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1674 words


When Lyubov Golant was told to sign a standard government form to qualify her
son for free lunch at a Brooklyn public school last fall, her first reflex was
fear.

After years of having to answer prying questions from Soviet authorities before
getting a job or even a library card, she was suspicious of giving the school
personal information like her family's income, the number of people in her
household and whether they were on welfare.

"It's in our blood to be scared," said the 30-year-old woman, who left Moscow
with her 8-year-old son, Yevgeny, five months ago. "In Russia, we learned to say
not what we really think and to think not what we really say."

Mrs. Golant's hesitance was only momentary. But many of the city's new immigrant
families are unwilling to fill out such forms, a reluctance that is costing
schools with large foreign-born populations hundreds of thousands of dollars in
Federal aid, said Robin Wilner, executive director of strategic planning for the
school system.

Main Poverty Indicator for Schools

With the number of foreign-born schoolchildren on the rise in recent years,
getting the forms -- which are the main poverty indicator used in the schools --
has become more and more pressing for the schools. The forms not only make
children eligible for a free lunch, but they are used to qualify for the Chapter
1 Federal aid program, which pays for extra tutoring and special classes for
low-achieving poor children.

Currently, 7 of the 649 schools in the city that became eligible for such aid
this school year have lost it, and 17 risk losing it, because they were not able
to collect enough lunch application forms, school and union officials say. In
most cases, the schools losing out have large immigrant populations, the
officials said. The loss of funds will result in fewer teachers, aides, reduced
class sizes and developmental programs in those schools.

Many parents are like Mrs. Golant, immigrants or refugees from countries
governed by harsh laws and dictatorships. In some cases, however, the parents
refuse to sign because they find it shameful to accept what they see as welfare.
Still others are here illegally, and fear that such forms will eventually be
used to track them down and deport them.

"With the recent spate of immigrants from so many countries that are at war or
in political turmoil, it's a growing new problem," said Susan Amlung, a
spokeswoman for the United Federation of Teachers.

Difficulty in getting immigrants to fill out forms is not confined to the New
York schools. Other key ports of entry, including Miami, Boston, Los Angeles and
Houston, see it, too.

Innocent Requests Can Chill

"Immigrant parents are easily put off by any kind of request for information,"
said Joan First, executive co-director of the National Coalition of Advocates
for Students, a group based in Boston. "The requests may be very innocent on the
part of the school people and may not have any intent to chill the parents'
relationship with the school, but it still may have that outcome."

About 150,000 immigrants from 167 countries have enrolled in the city's schools
in the last four years, said the schools' chief spokesman, James S. Vlasto.

"As this immigrant population increases, it's going to be even more difficult,"
Mr. Vlasto said. "It takes a lot of work to help these people assimilate into
the school system. They're fearful of the government. Where they come from,
they're looking over their shoulder. They're afraid of answering the phone or
even giving out their mailing address."

Officials are also worried that a second problem will emerge next year. The pool
of Federal funds that New York City receives could shrink by more than $50
million because of a change in the Federal allocation formula, which will use
1990 Census figures for the first time, they said.

"The same families who don't want to fill out the lunch forms are not picked up
in the 1990 Census, so we will not get credit for these families, and we're
serving their children," said Ms. Wilner. "It's a problem we have that is going
to be a national issue."

New York's school system received $432 million in Chapter I aid for the 1992-93
school year. Elementary schools that qualify average about $500,000 in Chapter I
aid. To be eligible, schools must show that at least 59.08 percent of their
students are living below a certain family income level; the lunch forms are the
most common proof. A school that cannot collect enough forms forfeits the
Federal aid, and its share is then distributed to other schools that do qualify.
But it leaves some schools with a large immigrant population -- often in need of
a great deal of remedial help in reading and math -- at a severe disadvantage.

In an effort to get the forms signed this year, some schools have enlisted the
help of community organizations that have a foothold in immigrant neighborhoods.
Others have tried home visits, telephone calls and private meetings in the
principal's office in an effort to convince parents that they will benefit from
signing.

"We mingle with them in the schoolyard and we also make calls," said Joseph
Silverstone, the principal of P.S. 225, whose large Russian population includes
Mrs. Golant's son. His staff, which speaks to parents in their native language,
has collected all but 11 lunch forms from the school's 660 students. "You have
to understand what they've overcome to come to this country," he said.

In Community School District 4, where a wave of immigrants from Mexico and
Central America have flooded the schools of East Harlem, school officials have
tried to soothe parents' fears with meetings that focus on the confidential
nature of the forms and their relationship to the Federal aid received by the
school.

"These are the front-line realities that schools have to deal with," said
Wilfredo Laboy, the district's director of student development and pupil
personnel services. "We have newly arrived people coming from countries that
have been abusive of power. They don't understand the connectedness between the
services and these applications."

At Seward Park High School on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, where many
students are from China, Burma, Bangladesh, Central America and the Caribbean,
dozens of free lunch applications are neatly stacked by color according to
language; pink for Chinese, green for Spanish and white for English.

But Jeannette Goldstein, a tart-tongued school aide who is known affectionately
as the Lunch Lady, said some students seem to prefer an empty stomach rather
than accept a free lunch coupon from her.

'Don't Care What You Offer'

"I plead with them. We joke with them. We try to induce them," said Mrs.
Goldstein, a 64-year-old school aide. "The ones who are not willing don't care
what you offer them. They just say they don't want."

The other day, Mrs. Goldstein was riffling through at least 60 admission slips
of students who had not returned lunch application forms. She balled a fist
tight in frustration.

"A lot of them come from poor areas but they don't want any lunch," she said,
rattling off students' addresses. "East Broadway -- I know that building is a
walkup. It's probably still an old tenement with bathtubs in the kitchen or in
the hallway."

At a desk behind Mrs. Goldstein, Ellen Wong, an assistant who interprets for the
large Chinese population at Seward Park High, monitored a telephone. One of her
jobs is to call parents who work in garment factories in Chinatown when they
have not returned the lunch forms.

Welfare Question Ignored

Most of the lunch forms for Asian students are eventually collected, the school
assistant said. But, she added, when they are asked whether they are on welfare,
about 80 percent of the Asian families refuse to answer.

"They're embarrassed," she said. "They do not go for welfare. They don't want
people to look down on them. I try to explain, 'You need it.' They go home and
think about it."

A feeling of shame about handouts is shared by many immigrants, whether they are
Asian, Haitian or Russian like Mrs. Golant, who feared that she and her son
would be viewed as "a second sort of people."

A school system spokesman, Robert Terte, said the free-lunch forms, which also
ask for the Social Security number of the adult household member, are kept
confidential in the schools and are not shared with agencies like the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. Still, some school employees say the
forms have the power to terrify many immigrants.

'I Can't Take a Chance'

"They freeze when they see the Social Security number," said Jerry Cioffi, the
principal of Prospect Heights High School in Brooklyn. "They say 'I'm
undocumented, Mr. Cioffi, and I can't take a chance.' Some of them have left
Haiti and a very repressed Government. They're not here properly and they don't
have a Social Security number. The downside outweighs the upside. The downside,
in their minds, is that if the Federal Government gets this information, they
could be deported."

Prospect Heights High, where three-quarters of the students are immigrants and
mostly Caribbean, needs to collect 1,500 lunch applications, but by the last
week in October the school had retrieved only 600 forms. Because the collection
numbers are so low, Prospect Heights High risks losing 10 teachers and aides
next year who help children in remedial math and reading.

For one family from Peru, whose 9-year-old son attends a public school in the
Bronx, signing the forms became the basis of a heated argument.

The father, who insisted on anonymity, is here illegally, though his wife has
proper documentation. Signing is considered a terrible risk by the father, who
looks for work on construction crews. He said he told his wife that he might be
hunted down.

He and his wife ultimately compromised. She filled out the form, making no
mention of his existence.

"We considered not signing it, but we also understand that the person who would
suffer is the baby," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Many of the city's new immigrant families are reluctant to fill
out school forms, an aversion that costs schools thousands of dollars in Federal
aid. "It's in our blood to be scared," said Lyubov Golant, a recent Russian
immigrant, who hesitated before signing a standard form to qualify her son for
free lunch at a public school. With her was her son, Yevgeny. (Rebecca Cooney
for The New York Times) (pg. 25)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 13, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

THE TRANSITION: The President-Elect;
CLINTON, SKETCHING PLAN FOR ECONOMY, COUNSELS PATIENCE

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KELLY,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1152 words

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Ark., Nov. 12


Echoing a campaign rich in promises, President-elect Bill Clinton sketched out a
plan today for his Administration's first months, incorporating elements ranging
from the creation of investment tax credits for job growth to the loosening of
immigration policies barring most Haitian refugees.

Mr. Clinton said he would repeal an executive order banning abortion counseling
at federally financed health clinics and would introduce an ethics policy to
guard against conflicts of interest by members of his Administration.

He also firmly defended having Vernon E. Jordan as his transition chairman while
Mr. Jordan sits on the board of a tobacco company. Mr. Clinton noted with slight
asperity that he, not aides like Mr. Jordan, would be making the decisions in
the new Administration.

No 'Overnight Miracles'

Speaking in the Old State House here at his first news conference since winning
the election, Mr. Clinton outlined in grand, broad terms his domestic and
foreign policy priorities. He promised quick action on the economy while taking
care to warn against impatience.

"I expect to keep the focus on these economic issues, and I'm not going trying
to scale back or scale down, or anything else," he said. "I think the American
people understand that these problems are of long duration, and there won't be
any overnight miracles, but I think they expect aggressive and prompt action,
and I'm going to give it to them." [Excerpts, page A18.]

Mr. Clinton began by announcing the appointment of 48 aides to work on the
transition, with Prof. Robert B. Reich, a Harvard expert on public policy, and
Samuel R. Berger, a former Carter Administration official, occupying
respectively the top domestic and foreign policy positions. [Page A19.]

Proceeding With Discipline

On the domestic front, the President-elect listed a litany of "clear priorities"
that was, in the manner of his campaign, notable for its scope and diversity:
the prompt creation of new jobs, the beginning of a process to reduce the
Federal deficit over four years, the establishment of a national health-care
system, the improvement of political ethics and the passage of a plan by which
college tuition loans would be repaid through service.

At the same time, he said he would not fall into the trap that caught the last
Democratic President, Jimmy Carter, who tried to pass so many ambitious pieces
of legislation in his first 100 days that he overloaded Congress and failed to
achieve much.

"I think we have to proceed with real discipline, but I think the American
people want America to get its house in order and want this economy to start
working again, and that's what I'll focus on," he said.

In foreign policy, Mr. Clinton said he would introduce a military budget that
would preserve America's position as a superpower while scaling down the cold
war military apparatus, taking further measures to reduce nuclear weapons in
Russia and elsewhere, strengthening global economic growth and furthering the
Middle East peace negotiations.

With the future Vice President, Senator Al Gore, standing silently and solemnly
at his side, looking much like a Secret Service agent, Mr. Clinton appeared
assured and volubly at ease during the 30-minute question-and-answer session,
confidently responding with evident mastery of the material. He was caught
unprepared only once, by a question on his policy toward the Korean Peninsula,
but even then he managed to pick his way through a bland, brief answer without
stumbling.

Asked if he sometimes felt overwhelmed by the scope of his new job, Mr. Clinton
said there were times, late at night, when he and his advisers "stood around and
think -- this is overwhelming." But he dismissed those doubts as light and
passing.

"I'm having a wonderful time," he said. "I mean, it is an enormous
responsibility, but I asked for it, and it's an indulgence to feel overwhelmed
by it."

Pressed several times on what some see as a potential conflict between hard
realities and the public's high expectations of his Administration, Mr. Clinton
asserted that he was not planning to narrow the scope of his ambition.

In one crucial facet of his economic plan, however, Mr. Clinton did appear to
allow a door to open through which he might later backpedal. Asked if he still
intended to propose a tax cut for the middle class in January, as he had
promised during the campaign, Mr. Clinton said he had "not made any decision to
change."

"If I make a decision to do that, I'll let you know, but I have not made a
decision to do that," he said.

Dee Dee Myers, the spokeswoman for the Clinton transition operation, said
afterwards that the President-elect had not intended to signal a future retreat
from his middle-class tax relief promise.

"He was reaffirming his intention to move forward with the plan as advanced in
the campaign," she said. "He has not changed his position, nor does he intend to
change his position."

On several issues Mr. Clinton exhibited the ability he showed during the
campaign to address a disputed issue in ways that seemed to recognize the merits
of the arguments on both sides.

Regarding the Bush Administration's refusal to admit Haitian refugees to the
country, for instance, Mr. Clinton said he recognized that "there is a
legitimate distinction between political and economic refugees." But he added
that the order "sending them back to Haiti under the circumstances which have
prevailed for the last year was an error, and so I will modify that process."

He demonstrated as well his fondness for invoking committees to handle
particularly volatile issues. Asked whether he intended to repeal the military
ban on homosexuals during the first 100 days of his Administration, Mr. Clinton
said he intended "to move forward on that," but said he would wait first for the
results of committee study on the matter.

"My concern here is to do it in a way that is most appropriate for the
management of the whole national security and military interests of the
country," he said. "I want to consult with a lot of people about what our
options are, including people who may disagree with me about the ultimate
merits."

In discussing a package of ethics rules that his aides intend to disclose
beginning on Friday, with additions over several weeks, Mr. Clinton found
himself defending the position of Mr. Jordan, the transition chairman, as a
$50,000-a-year director of the RJR Nabisco Holdings Corporation. Some
anti-smoking groups have questioned whether Mr. Jordan's position should bar him
from involvement in the appointment of people to the top health-policy
positions.

"Vernon Jordan is my friend and has been very important to me in the selection
of the Vice President and in the transition process, but Vernon Jordan is not
going to pick these major people who serve in the health-care positions," Mr.
Clinton said. "I am."

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President-elect Bill Clinton and Vice President-elect Al Gore at
Little Rock news conference yesterday. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 18, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Public & Private;
Set Her Free

BYLINE: By ANNA QUINDLEN

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 730 words


In the last year these things have happened to Silieses Success: Her parents
were murdered, she fled her home in a boat, she was taken to a refugee camp, she
was told she had "a little problem" with her blood, she gave birth to her first
baby, and she buried him.

Perhaps, after all this, it may seem almost unremarkable that she is in prison
despite the fact that she has been charged with no crime. She describes her days
in the Detention Center run by the Immigration and Naturalization Service on
Varick Street in New York City: "I get up, I sit down, I cry, I think."

For Ms. Success, imprisonment may seem just another part of the personal
nightmare that followed last year's coup in her native Haiti. But for Americans
who believe our country still stands for something special, it should be a
reminder that disgraceful treatment of immigrants is not merely an exhibit at an
artfully restored Ellis Island.

Ms. Success is in jail only because she is H.I.V. positive, that "little
problem" the doctor mentioned when she was held at the American naval base at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, a latter-day leprosarium for Haitian refugees infected
with the AIDS virus.

She says she did not know what her blood problem was until Ricardo died on Sept.
15, a little over three months after he was born. She was told that he had died
as a result of H.I.V. infection, although Ms. Success believes otherwise. She
says that after his birth she was billeted with him in a large open tent during
several days of rain and that he developed a bad cold. She says that when
soldiers stormed through their living quarters one day, the baby was hit on the
side of the head by a helmet.

"After that he would not take my milk," Ms. Success said in Creole through an
interpreter.

Her son died at Walter Reed Hospital in Washington D.C., where he and his mother
had been sent from Guantanamo when his health deteriorated, and afterward Ms.
Success became something of an immigration problem. Since the United States is
one of the few nations in the world that excludes aliens who are H.I.V. positive
as public health risks, her blood test made her inadmissible for entry.  But she
was already here. And she had a fine case for political asylum in the deaths of
her parents, who were supporters of the ousted President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

In an America obsessed with domestic malaise, the travails of the Haitians have
been little noticed and less lamented. When George Bush decreed in May that we
should turn back their boats, few evoked the shameful day in 1939 when the liner
St. Louis was forced to return to Europe -- and many of its Jewish passengers to
move on to concentration camps and death -- because it was denied permission to
dock here.  Perhaps it will require the long lens of history to understand how
many Haitians died because we saw them only as faceless black problems.

Here there is a face, a broad one with penciled brows, a 22-year-old seamstress
with a passionate mien and a baby buried in Maryland. She has law students from
American University and Yale and lawyers from the university law clinics and the
Center for Constitutional Rights working on her case. She has two church
organizations ready to offer her a place to live.

But she also has an existence run by the I.N.S., an organization that lives and
dies by procedure and that deals very poorly indeed with individuals, otherwise
known as people. One official said there was no reason to handcuff Ms. Success
as guards have in the past, but couldn't promise that it wouldn't happen again.
When she was strip-searched, she says, she was told: "This was a mistake. Please
don't tell your lawyers."

President-elect Clinton has pledged to change the policy that sent Haitians back
with no attempt to determine whether they had legitimate cases for asylum. And
he has said that he will remove H.I.V. infection as a bar to immigration.

But Ms. Success should not have to wait. The Government may allow her to leave
the Varick Street Detention Center at any time. The time is now. She should be
set free for her own sake, it is true, so that she can begin to build a life out
of the utter ashes of her old one. But perhaps she should be set free for our
sake as well, so that we can begin to become again the kind of country that puts
people in jail for doing wrong, not for getting sick.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 22, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Once-Soviet Jews Again Find Their Way to Israel

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1279 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Nov. 21


After hitting a low point last spring, immigration from former Soviet territory
to Israel has gained new life, bolstered by a spurt of arrivals from troubled
regions and the predominantly Muslim states of Central Asia.

The numbers are far from what they were two years ago, when the present wave of
immigration reached a peak and 15,000 to 20,000 arrivals a month were routine.

But since spring, and then gathering momentum after the advent of a Labor-led
Government in mid-July, each monthly immigrant total from the former Soviet
Union has been higher than that of the previous month.

In May, there were 3,361 newcomers, the lowest figure since this wave got
rolling in 1989. It climbed to 6,832 in October, and Israeli officials say it
should end up at least that high in November, remaining consistently in the
monthly range of 8,000 to 10,000 through 1993.

100,000 a Year

The projections translate into 100,000 or so new arrivals a year. If these
forecasts hold up, the raw figures will continue to be unusually high by
historical standards and, for this country of five million, would be the
equivalent of five million immigrants to the United States. Actual legal
immigration to the United States was 1.8 million in 1991, the latest year for
which official figures are available, and the number of illegal immigrants is
unknown.

As in the past, most of the immigrants are Russian and Ukrainian Jews. But a
rising number -- about 2,900 in October, more than 40 percent of the total --
come from strife-torn areas like Georgia and Tajikistan or from basically
tranquil Islamic republics where nationalism and religious fundamentalism have
made inroads.

It is thus far not so much a problem of rampant anti-Semitism and violence,
although there have been incidents like graveyard desecrations, said Simcha
Dinitz, chairman of the Jewish Agency, the quasi-governmental body that oversees
immigration to Israel. Rather, he said, it is a historical fear that aggressive
anti-Semitism will not lag far behind if wobbly post-Communist structures
tumble.

"We have many signs of growing anti-Semitic sentiments being expressed both in
the Asian and European parts of the former Soviet Union," Mr. Dinitz said in an
interview.

Burden and Blessing

The Russians, as the newcomers are generally called here regardless of their
origin, are both a burden and a blessing for more established Israelis -- a
burden because tending to them is expensive, a blessing because heavy
immigration is the only way that the country's Jewish majority has avoided
losing ground to a faster-growing Muslim minority.

About 400,000 immigrants have arrived from former Soviet territory since the
start of 1989, accounting now for 10 percent of the Jewish population and, when
combined with earlier Russian arrivals, forming the largest single group by area
of origin.

Given the large percentage of scientists, musicians and physicians among the new
arrivals, they are widely viewed here as raw material for a future cultural
flourishing. But Israel has not been able to generate enough work for all the
arriving violinists and engineers.

It was in part because of the high unemployment rate here -- over 10 percent for
all Israelis and over 30 percent for new immigrants -- that tens of thousands of
Russians holding exit visas decided earlier this year that they were better off
staying put for a while.

Two Factors Cited

Mr. Dinitz and his agency's chief of immigration, Uri Gordon, say Labor's rise
to power last summer may help explain why the monthly arrival totals have
started to climb back up again -- that and the Bush Administration's decision to
reward the new Government with $10 billion in United States loan guarantees to
stimulate the economy.

"The expectations of this Government, in the peace process and other areas, are
very high," said Mr. Gordon.

But Mr. Dinitz, a leading Labor Party figure, acknowledges that Government
promises still exist largely on paper and that hoped-for economic breakthroughs
have yet to occur. A more likely reason for the increased immigration, he says,
is a worsening situation in Russia and other states, including rumors of
possible coups and concern about the firmness of President Boris N. Yeltsin's
grip on power.

Once arrived, many newcomers say work is their main worry. Housing, once a
serious problem, is no longer a dominant issue, although thousands of Russians
still live in shabby apartments and cheek-to-jowl trailers in Beersheva and
Ashdod.

Businesses Started

Nor is the situation entirely bleak even in regard to jobs and business
opportunities. Yuri Shtern, who is in charge of immigrant issues for the
Federation of Israeli Chambers of Commerce, says Russians have begun between
2,000 and 4,000 new businesses in the last two years, each employing an average
of three workers, usually fellow Russians. As for unemployment, it is most
conspicuous among older people and the most recent arrivals. The Finance
Ministry says that after two years here, 90 percent of the men and 85 percent of
the women have found work.

But immigrants say the figures are misleading because at least two-thirds who
are working have failed to find jobs in their professions, especially the nearly
10,000 physicians among them.

Alex Berkowitz, 29 years old, was a veterinarian in Ukraine. After a year and a
half in this country, he makes car windows on a kibbutz near Jerusalem. "I want
to work in my field, but there's nothing for me in it here," he said. "You need
pull and a lot of luck."

It is the same for Marina Buger, 40, who came from Moscow last year and could
not find a job as a construction engineer. She is a cleaning woman now.

"Israelis ask us how we are, and now we say, 'O.K., O.K.," Mrs. Buger said. "But
it isn't O.K. They tell us to have patience, that it will be all right. But they
don't understand that there is no time for patience."

Employment Is Paramount

For Russians, employment means almost everything, says Dr. Jacob Schultz, a
psychiatrist who directs psychological services for the Soviet Jewry Zionist
Forum, an advocacy group for immigrants.

"Work was one of the greatest values in the Soviet Union," he said. "How else
could a Jew prove his worth?  Suddenly, here, in their own country, they lose
it, and so they lose a major part of their identity. There is a feeling of
helplessness."

Thus far, Dr. Schultz and others say, the unhappiness has been mostly
internalized. The number of recent arrivals who have given up on Israel and
moved elsewhere is low -- below 5 percent, according to Mr. Dinitz.

Now and then, there is a news report about aberrant behavior, like the Russian
father who killed his daughter. More than a few Russian women have become
prostitutes.

'Depression Is Inside'

But these extreme forms of trouble are the exceptions. "The depression is
inside," said Mussya Greis, an economist with the Zionist Forum.

Israeli officials insist that they are well aware of the need for swift action.
One idea, Mr. Dinitz says, is to encourage increased immigration by teen-agers,
and he says his agency has identified 10,000 youngsters in the former Soviet
Union whose parents are ready to let them come here while they themselves stay
behind.

Teen-agers can be expensive because they require schooling and shelter, Mr.
Dinitz said. But among other benefits, they relieve the immediate burden of
providing jobs.

"When they will finally enter the work force," he said, "they will be
full-fledged Israelis, trained here and speaking the language. In the long run,
that may be the best kind of immigration for us."

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Since the spring, the influx of immigrants to Israel from former
Soviet territories has been gathering momentum. Playing backgammon in Beersheba
were Alhazor and Yaakov Alexander Naftaly, both from Grozny, capital of the
Chechenya region, which has broken away from Russia. (Nitsan Shorer for The New
York Times)

Graph: "Leaving Troubled Regions," tracks immigration of Jews from former Soviet
republics to Israel, Jan 1990-Oct 1992 (Source: The Jewish Agency)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 22, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEWS SUMMARY

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 795 words



International 3-19

PARIS CALLS PACT UNACCEPTABLE

France's Prime Minister called the U.S.-European trade agreement unacceptable,
warning that it posed a "grave threat" to French farmers but avoiding mention of
a veto.  1

RUSSIANS IN THE BALTICS

Russians in the independent Baltic nations are frightened about their future and
their civil rights.  1

CLINTON WARY ON TRADE

President-elect Bill Clinton is holding off on embracing the agreement on farm
subsidies between the U.S. and Europe because of its potential political
dangers. 1

IMMIGRATION GAINS FOR ISRAEL

Immigration from former Soviet territory to Israel has gained new life, with
arrivals from the predominantly Muslim states of Central Asia.  3

KEY BOSNIAN TOWN UNDER SIEGE

A new refugee crisis was looming in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a strategic town
was reported to be under attack from Serbian forces.  8

On a vital road in Bosnia and Herzegovina, winter is a fierce foe.  9

MOST WINDSOR ARTWORKS SAVED

The fire that struck Windsor Castle appeared to have claimed a handful of
artworks.  10

A post-Czechoslovak problem: finding storage for spent atom fuel.  11

Russia, seeking a free market, welcomed Peace Corps volunteers.  12

The Angolan rebel Jonas Savimbi failed to attend a unity meeting.  18

Brazilians are worried that the Acting President is floundering.  6

Anarchists fought skinheads and torched a school in Germany.  15

National 22-40

ON BEING FAT IN AMERICA

Despite consistent findings that most people have little control over their body
weight, researchers find -- and the obese confirm -- that society continues to
deride fat people for their condition.  1

Who do many Americans react so negatively to fat people?  38

QUESTIONS ON MINING OFFICIAL

Federal mining inspectors say the head of the Government agency that oversees
the coal industry has repeatedly interceded on companies' behalf to thwart
enforcement of the strip-mining law.  1

THE DIMMING OF A LONGTIME STAR

News analysis: Never before in his long and vibrant career has James Baker found
himself so poorly placed as now.  28

The religious right and the G.O.P.'s post-election squabbles.  28

As President-elect, Clinton now sounds different notes.  26

On a resort island, Democratic state chieftains gathered.  26

BOTCHED AUTOPSIES, AND MORE

The prairie graveyards of West Texas are giving testimony to the misdeeds of a
circuit-riding pathologist who left a trail of faked autopsies, botched blood
samples and missing organs from the Panhandle to the Rio Grande.  22

THE BAD DAYS AT ROCKY FLATS

The grand jurors who investigated the nuclear weapons factory near Denver said
in a draft of their report that violations of environmental laws continued there
even as they were at work, according to excerpts published in the December issue
of Harper's.  23

The reinstated gay sailor's first week back on the job.  31

Metro 41-52

ALONE, UNDERCOVER AND BLACK

The shooting of a black transit police officer by a white colleague who mistook
him for a mugger has thrown open a window on what minority officers say is the
double threat that they face when working undercover.  1

CONVICTION IN BEATING CASE

A 22-year-old Long Island man charged with beating a black high school football
star with a baseball bat in what the authorities described as a racial attack
has been found guilty of first-degree assault.  41

Man sentenced to 75 years in slaying of couple.  44

FEARING FOR THEIR SAFETY

Gone are the days when the worst a utility worker had to fear was a customer's
dog. The people who tend New York's electricity, gas and telephone service say
violence is altering the nature of their jobs.  41

SOUL SEARCHING ON THE WEST SIDE

The city's plan to move 50 homeless families into a hotel on Manhattan's Upper
West Side has created a quandary that contrasts the area's progressive social
compassion with its neighborhood charm.  41

A night with the homeless in a city Human Resources office.  44

Bronx residents demand a crack-down on speeders.  43

Bronx Borough President rebukes appointee.  43

Flushing residents patrol against prostitutes.  43

Teaching unity and tolerance, Baha'is converge on Manhattan.  50

New Jersey issues new rules on police seizure of assets. 50

Badillo is considering a fourth mayoral race.  51

Wachtler case delayed for medical tests.  44

University of Bridgeport moves to retain accreditation.  55

Newspaper deliverers' union and a dozen members face charges.  47

Obituaries 54

Kaysone Phomvihan, longtime President of Laos.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 22, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

People of Distinction

BYLINE: By J. Jorge Klor de Alva;  J. Jorge Klor de Alva, a professor of
anthropology at Princeton University, is writing a book on multiculturalism in
the United States, Britain and France. He is the editor of the forthcoming
"American Identities: Traditional, Contested and Imagined."

SECTION: Section 7; Page 43; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1448 words



LATINOS
A Biography of the People.
By Earl Shorris.
520 pp. New York:
W. W. Norton & Company. $25.

SINCE the 1960's, when non-European immigrants began to surpass in number those
coming from Europe, the United States has undergone the most dramatic cultural
and demographic shifts in its history. Not only has it become an immigrant
nation once again, with close to 11 percent of the population foreign born, but,
of greater importance, today nearly one in four Americans is of African, Asian
or Hispanic ancestry. And among these, Latinos, as many Hispanic people prefer
to be called, are by far the fastest growing. Demographers expect them to number
at least 39 million by 2010, which is likely to make Hispanics, Mr. Shorris
observes, "the largest group of minorities in the United States." But who are
these peoples? No book answers the question better than "Latinos."

Earl Shorris, the author of three novels (including "Under the Fifth Sun") and
four works of nonfiction (among them "The Death of the Great Spirit" and "Jews
Without Mercy") and a contributing editor of Harper's Magazine, notes that he
waited 20 years for a book like this to appear. It didn't, and, fortunately for
us, he decided to wait no longer. By combining his skills as a journalist and a
novelist to weave well-annotated sketches of Latino individuals and families and
the predicaments they face into a single, compelling story, he has shown how
much journalism can contribute to the making of ethnographies of complicated
societies. Without Mr. Shorris's eye for the telling detail and the summarizing
symbol, his capacity to mold wide-ranging data into concise narratives and his
keen interviewing skills, this credible profile of the cultural world of more
than 20 million people intermixed among 226 million others would have been
impossible.

A sizable part of his book concerns the histories of the Latino communities,
going back to their Spanish and African roots. But like most journalists, Mr.
Shorris deals with the present better than he deals with the past. For instance,
what he says about the Aztec language and culture, and their supposed influences
on Mexican character, is usually wrong and best skipped ("macho" does not come
from the Nahuatl "to know"). On the other hand, his discussion of the cultural
role of multilinguality in the United States is well informed and remarkably
free of the partisan baggage the topic usually carries. Along with other
experienced observers (including anyone who rides the subways of New York), he
argues that the nation is becoming linguistically bicultural with or without
bilingual education, and no matter what English-only policies are adopted.

He goes even farther. Using the comedian Paul Rodriguez as an example of the
bilingual television host who can move easily from one cultural sphere to
another, he advances a conclusion familiar to anyone with cosmopolitan
experience: an ability to use two languages makes one more social and less
ignorant, helpless and isolated.

The author sheds a much-needed light on many other related issues that are
currently unhinging less knowledgeable observers. Among these are the
persistence of ethnic identity, the failure of the old model of immigrant
assimilation to hold true in the case of many Latinos, and the assumption that
multiculturalist initiatives could lead to the disuniting of America.

Concerning the first two issues, Mr. Shorris makes the necessary but usually
neglected distinction between the motives and experiences of turn-of-the-century
European immigrants and those of Latinos. With no intention of returning,
immigration for the Europeans was an end to an old world. Their goal as "real"
immigrants was a new social contract in which language, culture, names and even
lives would be sacrificed for liberty, equality, food and the promise of wealth.
But for many Latinos, racism, proximity to their homelands and their status as
exiles have intervened, making a similar social contract possible for only a
few. When a "true" immigrant experience (one in which some form of equality and
economic mobility is achieved) fails to materialize for the first generation,
Mr. Shorris maintains, it may not occur at all. The devastating result, he
asserts, is that "the second generation -- the hope of the immigrant, the
generation in which the great social and economic leaps most often occur, the
dream incarnate -- is born dead."

In agreement with much contemporary scholarship, Mr. Shorris points to the
crucial errors of mid century sociology that established as truth the immigrant
paradigm of inevitable assimilation in the course of three generations. He
argues that the proponents of this model, like Nathan Glazer and Daniel Patrick
Moynihan in their book "Beyond the Melting Pot" (1970), failed to understand
Latinos and blacks, passing over the importance and tenacity of culture while
greatly underestimating the importance of race. "From the vantage of an aerie at
Columbia or Harvard the prognosis of one immigrant group looked a lot like that
of another," he writes. But reality was otherwise. For most blacks and Latinos,
poverty followed each generation. And for many among the Latinos, he maintains,
the closeness to the ancestral land, the continuous arrival of new immigrants
and the isolation engendered by racism all contributed to the maintenance across
the generations of the Spanish language and Hispanic cultural traits.

Does this mean unassimilated Latinos are fragmenting America? Not according to
Mr. Shorris, who is quick to note that neither poverty, discrimination nor
neglect have discouraged the overwhelming majority of Latinos from seeking their
version of the American dream. Except for a few young activists in the 1960's
and 70's, Latinos have not advanced a separatist agenda. They are instead, the
book suggests (Mr. Shorris makes the process of assimilation the book's "core"
issue), doing much to help themselves gain a greater share of wealth, power and
visibility. After all, E pluribus unum is a Latin, not an Anglo-Saxon, motto.

Mr. Shorris, who was raised in El Paso and is married to a Hispanic woman, is an
affectionate and sensitive observer of cultural differences. But he is not an
ethnic cheerleader, and he is too preoccupied with covering all sides of the
story to be concerned with the orthodoxies of political agendas. The Hispanic as
well as the non-Hispanic origins of the predicaments of Latinos are given their
proper due. His many references to the insidious nature of the prejudices and
discriminations practiced among Latinos (which he labels "racismo") and the
racism practiced against them leaves no doubt that he believes both sides of the
Rio Grande handle the question of race with dirty hands.

The search for cultural unity in the face of historical, socioeconomic and
racial diversity, a burden common to all comparative studies of Hispanics, is
undertaken by Mr. Shorris with great hesitation. Having studied Latinos in depth
from coast to coast and class to class, he refuses to romanticize the possible
links and instead identifies them as no more than a complex of peoples, sharing
in different degrees vocabularies, values and feelings toward
European-Americans. His reluctance is also informed by an awareness that
cultural distinctions and stereotypes can easily be confused. Considering the
wide range of topics covered -- history, religion, politics, education,
business, the arts, music, literature, employment and world view -- Mr. Shorris
does a laudable job of maintaining the boundary between the actual and the
stereotypical. Nonetheless, many readers, especially Latinos, will be
unforgiving when they meet occasional questionable depictions of, say, Mexican
fatalism or Cuban fanaticism.

Still, "Latinos" is a powerful, beautifully written and thoughtful book that is
likely to remain unequaled in its sweep and profundity for some time to come. It
is also a timely education for Americans of all nationalities, classes and
races. "A snapshot of America taken now," he observes, "would reveal strong
Latino influences in language, cuisine, music and entertainment. These are not
signs of conquest, however; history is not a matter of repetitions." At a moment
when much divisive propaganda is parading in the guise of concerned scholarship,
it is good to know that on the basis of actual empirical research someone can
credibly assert that "civilization need not be a zero-sum game." Mr. Shorris is
wise to argue that "the victories of Latino culture are victories of pluralism.
. . . Nothing is taken in return for this enrichment; it is, by definition, a
gift."

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 23, 1992, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Haitians See a Renewal of Hope With Clinton

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1171 words

DATELINE: PETIT-GOAVE, Haiti, Nov. 20


Although President-elect Bill Clinton has carefully qualified his campaign
promises of more generous treatment of Haitian refugees, warning that he is not
throwing the doors open to mass immigration, his victory has been greeted here
with such enthusiasm that many Haitians are preparing renewed attempts to reach
the United States.

In conversations with dozens of people along the Caribbean coastline, Haitians
spoke with giddy conviction that Mr. Clinton's Administration would either
quickly restore democracy and set things right in their poor and broken country,
or welcome them with open arms when they set out in small boats to reach
American shores.

In bays and coves along the coast, boat builders, anticipating a heavy demand,
are readying the wooden hulls that some freely admit are being built to carry
Haitians away from their country.

"Nov. 3 and Jan. 20," said Luc Salomon, an unemployed 34-year-old father of
four, reciting like many others the dates of Mr. Clinton's victory and
inauguration. "As far as I am concerned, after the good Lord comes Bill Clinton,
and as soon as Bill Clinton is sworn in, you'll see me go."

Others in a crowd that had gathered in the shade of a small seaside house said
they would wait, briefly, to see if Mr. Clinton restored their elected
president, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, who was violently overthrown by
soldiers 14 months ago. But failing that, nearly all of them, including a
handful who had already been twice returned by Coast Guard cutters, said they
would try to flee.

"It's both repression and poverty that makes us want to leave," said Fleury
Prophete, a 22-year-old who, like most in this slumbering port town, has been
left idle by an economy that scarcely functioned even before a hemisphere-wide
embargo was imposed on Haiti soon after the coup.

"If there's no work in this country, I have to get out," said Mr. Prophete.
"Since the morning I haven't eaten. Look at the waste we have to wade through
every day. We don't have a government that cares about us. All they know how to
do is beat and torture people."

In the last year, nearly 40,000 Haitians have scraped together their life
savings, often selling their land or homes, to secure passage aboard the rickety
boats setting out for the United States. After months behind barbed-wire fences
in a sweltering tent city at the United States Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay in
Cuba, or quick interceptions by the Coast Guard, more than 70 percent have been
returned to Haiti. The other 30 percent have been admitted to the United States
while their asylum applications are reviewed.

Last May, after the Pentagon warned that Guantanamo had been stretched beyond
capacity, President Bush authorized the summary repatriation of Haitians without
an asylum hearing. Advocates for the refugees say such hearings are guaranteed
by national and international laws that were intended to distinguish between
those fleeing political repression, who have a right to asylum, and economic
refugees, who have no such right.

Although the legality of Mr. Bush's order is being challenged before the Supreme
Court, its effectiveness in stopping the refugee wave is uncontested. Since May,
the number of boat people setting out to sea has gone from a rush to a trickle.

A Warning From Clinton

During the Presidential campaign and since, Mr. Clinton has expressed
disapproval of the Bush Administration's policy. But after aerial surveillance
by the Coast Guard found hundreds of boats being readied on Haitian shores after
his election, Mr. Clinton warned, "It would be unwise for anybody to think that
I am going to articulate a policy that would promote mass migration."

In a news conference in Washington on Thursday, Mr. Clinton promised to spell
out that policy clearly before his inauguration, saying, "This is about giving
Haitians a chance to make a case that they should be granted asylum in this
country temporarily until we see a democratically elected government restored to
Haiti."

Although hundreds, perhaps thousands of Haitians have been killed since the
September 1991 coup against Father Aristide, diplomats say that most Haitians
cannot demonstrate the reasonable fear of being singled out for attack that is
required to qualify for political asylum under American law. But Haiti's
poverty, its proximity to the United States and the presence there of large
numbers of Haitians make the hemisphere's richest country a powerful magnet for
the people of the poorest.

Seeking Regional Help

After expressions of alarm in Florida over the prospect of a renewed wave of
Haitians, which State Department officials said could easily number in the tens
of thousands, aides to Mr. Clinton have said that refugees would probably not be
screened in the United States. Instead, they said, Washington would seek to
persuade another country to harbor the refugees during their screening.

Failing that, Mr. Clinton's aides said, screening of refugees would take place
aboard United States ships or at Guantanamo.

United States diplomats noted that repeated attempts by the Bush Administration
failed to persuade any other country to receive large numbers of Haitians.
Diplomats also said that the Guantanamo base's capacity is 12,500 refugees, and
they add that the base would be unable to handle a much larges number. Naval
vessels, they said, are unsuitable for harboring refugees for more than brief
periods.

Because of constraints like these, many have concluded that Mr. Clinton's best
option would be to increase pressure on Haiti's military leadership to accept
Father Aristide's return to office.

The Logic for Aristide

"There is a sort of inexorable logic here that unless you return Aristide, there
will never be civil liberties in the country, meaning many of those who try to
reach the United States will continue to have a plausible argument that they are
political refugees," said Robert White, a former United States diplomat. He
visited Haiti this week with a group of Democratic Party figures led by
Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York City. "If Aristide comes back,
however, the United States could say that all of these people are economic
refugees."

Advocates for the refugees also say that Mr. Clinton should concentrate on
settling Haiti's political crisis while urging the United Nations and other
countries to play a larger role in handling the refugees.

"There are a number of things the United States still hasn't tried yet," said
William G. O'Neill, deputy director of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights,
"from freezing the assets of individuals already identified as supporters of the
coup, and urging places like France and Canada to do likewise, to unilaterally
revoking the visas of these people. These are things which could be done right
away, which would send a very different signal about the resolve of the United
States to restore democracy, and would give some hope again to Haitians that we
are serious about change."


LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: With renewed hopes among Haitians that they can go to the United
States, Haitian boat builders like these in La Gonave are readying wooden-hulled
boats in anticipation of heavy demand. (Associated Press) (pg. A1)

Maps showing the location Petit-Goave, Haiti. (pg. A9)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 29, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants' Faith Lifts the Housing Market

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1557 words


When Tricia and Philip Chen landed on American soil in 1990, having endured an
eight-year wait to gain entry from their native Taiwan, buying a house was low
on their list of family priorities, somewhere below becoming fluent in English
and obtaining credit cards.

But priorities quickly changed.

The Chens, now proud owners of a four-bedroom house in Park Ridge, N.J., are
among large numbers of immigrants to New York, New Jersey and Connecticut who
have been buying homes, even during the depths of a long housing slump that has
discouraged many of their native-born counterparts.

And while no one expects the immigrants by themselves to fuel a quick recovery
of the housing market, analysts attribute their aggressive buying to a bedrock
faith in the long-term value of real estate, a widespread belief that home
ownership represents full enfranchisement in American society and the
professional skills and hefty financial resources that some -- but far from all
-- recent arrivals have brought to the region from abroad.

Lender's Survey

"This gives us stability," said Mrs. Chen, whose husband is an engineer with
Reebok International who spends much of his time working on
research-and-development projects in Asia. In English that is brisk but still
slightly broken, she said she still marvels at how big their New Jersey house
is, compared to the cramped quarters that even affluent families must accept in
her native country.

"In Taiwan, you would have to be a millionaire," she said.

Although precise data on how many immigrants are buying homes in the region are
not available, one new measure is provided in a survey of 800 people by the Dime
Savings Bank of New York, a large mortgage lender.

The survey results, released this month, found that 26 percent of the homes and
apartments purchased during the last 12 months in New York City, Westchester,
seven counties in northern New Jersey and on Long Island were people who had
been born outside the United States.

Were the same results derived from a study that was confined to New York City --
as much as ever a "city of immigrants" -- analysts said they would not have come
as a surprise. Indeed, after huge levels of immigration from the Caribbean,
South America and Asia during the 1980's, city records show that fully one-third
of its residents were born outside the country.

But considering the fact that in the area surveyed by the Dime, immigrants make
up only 16 percent of the population, the figures took on added significance.

"The study highlighted the importance of the immigrant market in helping
stimulate an economic recovery," said David J. Totaro, the Dime's director of
marketing. In the survey, the bank also asked respondents about their
home-buying intentions, and concluded that immigrants would also make up about a
quarter of the region's home buying public during each of the next three years.

In fact many immigrants profess a greater faith than other homebuyers in the
national and regional economy and little fear that the housing slump will last
much longer.

"Since we are in a recession, I got a better house at a better price," said V.
N. Prakash, a native of India who owns a jewelry business in Jackson Heights,
Queens, and bought a large new five-bedroom home here in Farmingdale in 1990.
"Things have to bounce back eventually."

The region's housing market remains mired in a slump that is now more than four
years old. The Dime's survey comes at a time of evidence that home sales
elsewhere in the nation are beginning to emerge from the trough. On Wednesday, a
report by the National Association of Realtors in Washington said that existing
home sales rose by 9 percent across the nation in October, the biggest increase
in six years.,But it said sales in the nine Northeastern states, including the
New York region, rose by only 2 percent.

But Mr. Totaro said the Dime study also provided a warning to banks. "We have
got to better accommodate the needs of immigrant buyers," he said.

The growing importance of immigrants to the housing market is forcing lenders to
rewrite some of their rules, including providing the bank with a detailed credit
history and a birth certificate, that have proven to be obstacles to people not
born in the United States.

For instance lenders, who have long been careful not to accept down payments
unless they can be sure that the money is actually that of the borrower, say
they have been increasingly presented with unconventional propositions from loan
applicants, some of whom have even presented themselves with suitcases filled
with cash.

Distrust of Banks

"We are still trying to establish a policy for mattress money," said Michael J.
Burke, manager of the Affordable Housing Program at Chemical Bank, which was
established in January to make mortgage loans to families with incomes no higher
than $60,750, and which has dealt extensively with immigrants from the Dominican
Republic and elsewhere in the Caribbean and Latin America.

Many immigrants, because of their experience in their native lands, distrust
banks. They often try to keep their borrowing to a minimum by making large down
payments and in some cases even offer to pay for homes entirely in cash. But
they often lack the credit histories that are normal for people who have credit
cards, car loans and other experience as borrowers.

Still, the financial clout of some immigrant groups -- those from Korea and the
Dominican Republic in particular -- is often enhanced by cultural traditions in
which money is pooled among several members of a family or groups of friends.

At Chemical, Mr. Burke said, "25 percent and 50 percent down payments are very
common" among immigrant buyers, forcing the bank to liberalize its rules for
monitoring the sources of cash down payments.

To make sure that borrowers have not gone deep into debt to raise the down
payments, or produced the money through criminal activity, lenders have
traditionally sought documentation of how the down payment funds were raised.
And applications have been rejected from applicants who received money from
people other than their relatives.

But now, Mr. Burke said, Chemical is far more willing to accept down payments
that have been raised by groups of immigrants. In such cases the applicants
provide a letter from other members of the pool explaining how the pooling
arrangement works.

Lack of 'Green Card'

Another problem for some immigrants is the lack of a "green card," or
documentation from their foreign employers. At Dime, Mr. Totaro said a past
requirement that all applicants who are not citizens provide a green card has
been changed -- now the rule is waived whenever an applicant makes a down
payment of at least 25 percent.

Still, the attempts by banks to accommodate immigrant borrowers have not
eliminated all hurdles.

"It seems to me that banks would want to make it easier for immigrants to engage
in traditional American business practices," said Orlando Acosta, deputy
director of New York City's Human Rights Commission, a Dominican immigrant who
is among the hundreds of Dominicans who have purchased cooperative apartments in
recent years in the Inwood section of Manhattan.

He said requirements by banks for green cards and other documentation from
immigrants remain excessive and unfair. "They are just making things more
cumbersome and more intimidating for people who don't represent credit risks,"
he said.

In Park Ridge, Mrs. Chen said she, too, found the process of obtaining a
mortgage loan daunting. At the time, neither she nor her husband had credit
cards or sufficient credit histories in the United States to satisfy normal
policies of New Jersey lenders.

They also did not have enough cash for a 20 percent down payment on their house
and were forced to borrow the money from Mr. Chen's sister.

But despite the hurdles, Mrs. Chen and other immigrants said they were not
surprised that people born in other countries had emerged as a strong component
in an otherwise sluggish real-estate market.

"In Asian countries, people have a very different cultural attitude toward
owning real estate," said Grace Lu Volkenhouse, a specialist in minority lending
for the State of New York Mortgage Association, and herself a Korean immigrant.

"We take a very long view of the world," she said, adding that many buyers who
have personal roots in Asia have been undeterred by the region's housing slump.
"We will invest and sit it out," she said.

In this suburb in eastern Nassau County, Mr. Prakash, the Jackson Heights
jeweler, shares her optimism. He purchased his house last year after arriving in
New York City in 1979, starting his jewelry business in 1984 and prospering.

He said he was attracted to the Farmingdale subdivision by a fellow Indian
immigrant who first showed him the house he ultimately purchased and now expects
his own family's move here to be part of the first wave of Indian immigrants
moving from the congestion of Queens to the suburbs of eastern Nassau County.

"Buying a house on Long Island will always be a prestigious thing to do," he
said.

Now Mr. Prakash says he cannot be sure when the recession and housing slump in
the region will end. But he says he is certain it will. "This is America," he
said, "and I can wait."

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: "This gives us stability," said Tricia Chen of the home she now
owns with her husband. Mrs. Chen stood on the porch of her four-bedroom house
with her sons, Jerry, left, and Allen in Park Ridge, N.J. (Dith Pran/The New
York Times) (pg. 52)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 6, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Where to Place Blame For Latin Misery

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 23; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 323 words


While I am sympathetic to the struggling largely El Salvadoran immigrants, it
should be apparent by now that most of them are not political refugees, but
rather victims of an economic and social order that has long abandoned them, and
they're here more or less permanently.

El Salvadorans I've met through my family, and as exemplified by the recent
election in El Salvador, are politically conservative and condemn, almost
without exception, the leftist insurrection.

One of my biggest surprises and learning experiences was that my El Salvadoran
in-laws did not see the guerrilla movement as a response to social and political
injustice, but more as an anarchistic power struggle fueled by the Russians and
Cubans. This, believe it or not, is mainstream El Salvadoran thinking,
regardless of what the refugee activists in this country claim.

The injustice in El Salvador and in much of Latin America predates the influence
of the United States and should be viewed as a legacy of the brutal Spanish
conquest of the Indians, with reverberations that continue to this day.

The political culture and the despotic leaders, with their juntas, that sprang
from this culture deserve the blame for a situation that resulted in one of the
largest waves of immigration to the U.S. in history -- not the United States --
as some still insist on having us believe. Add to that severe overpopulation and
the revolution of rising expectations.

El Salvadorans and other illegal aliens have filled jobs throughout the 80's and
until now that most Americans do not want. The welfare system is responsible for
taking a lot of people out of the work force, creating a need to fill jobs at an
undesirable wage. The Salvadorans, in fact, met a very strong need created by an
expanding economy and our welfare system. At the same time, they have placed
additional demands on our already overtaxed school system.

HARRY KATZ
Wading River

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 6, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE TRANSITION;
British Sought to Find Citizenship Files on Clinton

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 490 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 5


British officials said today that the Home Office was responding to numerous
press inquiries when it sought last October to learn whether President-elect
Bill Clinton had ever made an application for British citizenship.

But they said that such an application was not listed in the appropriate index
in immigration and naturalization files, and hence no search was conducted. Mr.
Clinton was a Rhodes scholar at Oxford University in the late 1960's.

"You can't search through files if there are no files," said a spokesman for the
Home Office in London when asked about an article in The Washington Post today
that said the office had conducted a "comprehensive" search of immigration files
for information about Mr. Clinton.

Mr. Clinton, asked today about the British action, said, "They should have more
pressing business." He commented during a morning jog in Little Rock, Ark.

Betsey Wright, a former Clinton campaign official, said that the campaign had
received reports that Conservative members of Parliament had been approached by
Republican Party workers about searching Mr. Clinton's files for politically
damaging material.

The British action took place at about the same time that State Department
officials conducted a search of Mr. Clinton's passport records to learn whether
the Democratic Presidential candidate had ever applied for citizenship in an
effort to avoid the draft in the Vietnam War.

State Department investigators obtained evidence suggesting that the White House
may have been involved in conceiving and coordinating the search in an effort to
embarrass the Democratic candidate and influence the outcome of the election.

Instead, disclosure of the search in the waning days of the Presidential
campaign embarrassed President Bush. The disclosure led to the dismissal of
Elizabeth M. Tamposi, Assistant Secretary of State for consular affairs, who
supervised the search. Steven M. Moheban, who worked as her aide for two and a
half years, resigned two days before Sherman M. Funk, the State Department's
inspector general, issued a report on the incident.

In addition, Steven K. Berry, acting Assistant Secretary of State for
legislative affairs, was demoted for his role in the passport search. He has
said he told Ms. Tamposi that the White House wanted consular files searched for
negative information on Mr. Clinton.

Mr. Berry told investigators that the White House wanted to know if Mr. Clinton
had ever expressed a desire to renounce his United States citizenship to avoid
the draft. No letter or other document reflecting such a desire was found.

Referring to Ms. Tamposi, Mr. Moheban said at the time: "She was very careful.
If she hadn't gotten a push from other people, she wouldn't have done this."

The State Department is continuing its investigation, and the General Accounting
Office, the research arm of Congress, is also investigating the circumstances of
the search.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 8, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

SPORTS PEOPLE: HOCKEY;
Probert Free to Travel

SECTION: Section B; Page 21; Column 4; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 187 words


BOB PROBERT of the Detroit Red Wings was cleared yesterday by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service to travel between the United States and his native
Canada. The ruling means that Probert will be able to live in Canada and still
play hockey in the United States for the Red Wings, said JAMES MONTGOMERY, the
director of the Detroit district office.

It has been nearly four years since Probert was told that if he left the United
States he could not return. He was arrested in March 1989 on drug possession
charges at the tunnel between Detroit and Windsor, Ontario, his hometown, and
was ordered deported shortly after the arrest. He later was convicted of the
charges.

Probert appealed the deportation order, staying in the United States and playing
for the Red Wings in American cities. He also applied numerous times for an
immigration waiver that would allow him to play hockey in both countries. His
attorney, HAROLD FRIED, said the most recent waiver application was made about
two weeks ago and granted yesterday.

The Red Wings play tomorrow at Toronto, and Probert will be with the team. (AP)



LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 9, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Germany Closes the Gate

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 465 words


Engulfed by refugees and torn by violent attacks on foreigners, Germany has
decided to clamp down on a frontier now entirely open to asylum-seekers. The
ruling Christian Democrats and the opposition Social Democrats agreed last
weekend on a tough policy that would end the refugee tide by closing the gates
to newcomers from countries said to be free of repression.

Nobody can reasonably fault Germany for trying to limit and regulate a huge
influx of refugees. But Chancellor Helmut Kohl and the Bonn political
establishment have regrettably taken the easy way out. They would do better to
set a quota on immigrants and nurture a more pluralist society by adopting a
formula for citizenship based on residence rather than blood ties.

The new policy is an understandable but ill-considered retreat from open
borders. Germany's asylum laws are the world's most liberal, allowing virtually
all refugees to stay for long periods. Asylum-seekers are forbidden to work, and
may linger as wards from three to five years while courts weigh their cases.

This year alone Germany will house and feed 370,000 asylum-seekers plus 173,000
"ethnic" Germans from Russia and elsewhere who obtain automatic citizenship.
Germany has accepted 200,000 Yugoslav refugees; much more populous America has
found room for only 1,000 Bosnians; Britain last month denied entry to 175
Bosnians stranded in Austria, even though they had sponsors in Britain.

Small wonder that Bonn has clamored for a clampdown. But Germany can be faulted
for the breadth of its exclusions. Mr. Kohl has the votes to amend the
Constitution and enact laws listing countries said to be free of political
persecution. He is expected to include most states in Eastern Europe and the
former Soviet Union.

Basing refugee policy on country of origin collides with Geneva protocols and
international procedures in which asylum is granted, case by case, to any
individual with a well-founded fear of persecution. Listing Romania as
non-repressive would automatically bar Gypsies, whatever the evidence of
persecution in Romania.

A fairer policy would speed up processing of asylum-seekers and set a reasonable
quota on immigrants. The Government's claim that it lacks enough judges smacks
of a lame alibi.

Equally distressing is Bonn's failure to revise an outdated naturalization law
rooted in ethnicity. Under the existing system, a Turkish guest worker who has
lived in Germany for 30 years and speaks German fluently is denied the
citizenship automatically granted a Russian-speaking immigrant who can prove
German ancestry.

What a pity Mr. Kohl finds it so hard to remind Germans how much they owe to the
toil and sweat of five million resident foreigners whose presence truly made
possible the German "miracle."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              246 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 13, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. DENIES APPEAL FOR 4 ILL HAITIANS

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 866 words

DATELINE: CAMP BULKELEY, Cuba, Dec. 11


Despite pleas from military officials, the Immigration Service has refused to
allow four ill Haitians infected with H.I.V. to leave the crude camp where they
are held here and come to the United States for treatment.

In the camp, within the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base, are 222 Haitians seeking
asylum in the United States who have tested positive for the virus that causes
AIDS. Among them are 15 whose level of defensive immune system cells is low
enough to officially designate them as having AIDS.

Many of these men, women and children fled jail or the Haitian military to get
here, and all have passed initial interviews on the way to gaining asylum. Also
in camp are 55 dependents, mostly children, who are not infected.

They have been left behind at the camp because the Justice Department determined
early in the year to begin enforcing the Bush Administration's ban on allowing
anyone infected with H.I.V. to enter the United States.

Col. Stephen Kinder, commander at Guantanamo, and camp doctors requested
permission from the Immigration and Naturalization Service for the release of at
least the four detainees who are so ill that camp doctors cannot adequately care
for them.

Request Turned Down

Today, Colonel Kinder learned that the request had been turned down. As he stood
beside the camp, clearly disappointed, the Colonel said: "I think our
recommendation should be honored. It is based on medical reasons. I guess we'll
have to try harder."

Doctors at the camp expect several patients to die within the next six months.
Two detainees have tried to commit suicide.

One infant who was born at the camp, Morant Ricardo Bethony, has already died,
at the age of 3 months. When he contracted pneumonia here, he and his mother
were flown to Walter Reed Army Hospital, a departure from Immigration Service
policy. Efforts to save the baby failed, and he died on Sept. 15.

After her baby died, the mother, Silieses Success, 22, was put in the
Immigration Service prison on Varick Street in New York City, because officials
said they do not want H.I.V.-infected immigrants released into the United
States.

Many of those in the camp say they hope that President-elect Bill Clinton will
free them so they, like thousands of others who fled Haiti and asked for asylum
after the Rev. Jean Bertrand Aristide was ousted, could fly to United States to
await legal proceedings.

An Immigration Service spokesman said he did not know of the request regarding
the four Haitians. But the spokesman, Duke Austin, said in a telephone interview
from Washington, "We don't have any policy of allowing people with AIDS into
this country."

'They're Going to Die Anyway'

Earlier, when asked by an Associated Press reporter why the Haitians must stay
in camp if the doctors felt they could not adequately treat them, he replied,
"they're going to die anyway, aren't they?"

Later Mr. Austin confirmed that. "I did say it, yes, but it would be so unfair
to print that," he said. "All I meant to say was that the outcome would be the
same either way, so what would they gain from coming to the U.S.?"

The camp has created political and legal fights because the Justice Department
has built and maintained it over the objections of Federal health officials who
called it a "potential public health disaster."

Joseph Tringali, an attorney working with the Center for Constitutional Rights,
a New York group that has taken on legal representation of many of the Haitians,
said the situation is "shameful."

"These people have committed no crime, and they are kept in degrading
conditions," he said.

Colonel Kinder has made clear to the prisoners that the military's job here is
to take care of them and has no part in keeping them here.

"I'm just a soldier here," he said, explaining that his job is to take care of
his charges, not to determine why they are here. A few yards from where Colonel
Kinder stood, talking to reporters, was a wall of hand-lettered signs made by
detainees, most of which ask the simple question "Why?"

In spite of the desperation of many detainees, the Colonel is well liked within
this camp. The prisoners say he has restored order and humane leadership after a
summer of riots.

One Man's Sorrow

One man who represents the full brunt of the Haitians' plight is Morant Bethony,
the husband of the woman whose child died and was sent to Varick Street jail.
Mr. Bethony said he and his wife were pursued in Haiti by soldiers because they
had gathered signatures on petitions demanding justice for those killed by
Government troops since the 1991 coup.

Standing beside a white sheet he has hung to gain some privacy in the hut where
20 cots are packed into one room, Mr. Bethony talked about life in the camp.

"The food is bad. We have nothing to do but sit like animals," he said. "Why
can't I be with my wife? Why?"

He said he was allowed to speak to his wife in the New York jail yesterday. "She
said she never saw the body of our baby, they took it away," he said. "They said
they buried it. They don't tell us where."

"My wife asks why she is held in a jail with criminals and users of drugs," he
said "She is no criminal."

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 16, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Doctor Cleared in Killing Returns to Mexico

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 183 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 15


A doctor kidnapped from Mexico for the United States Government and cleared on
Monday of helping to kill a Federal drug agent returned to Mexico today.

Government lawyers had tried to keep Dr. Humberto Alvarez Machain, 45, in the
country after his acquittal by arguing that he was an illegal immigrant.

But immigration agents placed Dr. Alvarez on a flight early today, said Allan
Parachini, spokesman for the American Civil Liberties Union.

Prosecutors contended that Dr. Alvarez used his medical skills to keep a Drug
Enforcement Administration agent, Enrique Camarena Salazar, alive as Mexican
drug traffickers tortured him in 1985.

Prosecutors stalled his departure by filing an emergency request to have the
ruling by Judge Edward Rafeedie of Federal District Court blocked, and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service placed a hold on him as an illegal
immigrant.

Dr. Alvarez sat in a van on the tarmac at Los Angeles International Airport
until he was allowed to board the Mexicana Airlines flight, said Allan
Parachini, a spokesman for the American Civil Liberties Union.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 23, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Justice Dept. Is Critical Of Molinari

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 414 words


A Justice Department official has asserted that the office of Guy V. Molinari,
the Staten Island Borough President, supplied fabricated information to a
department investigation into claims that a Federal immigration agent convicted
on civil rights charges was framed.

In a letter to Mr. Molinari, Deputy Attorney General George J. Terwilliger wrote
that after a five-month investigation, the Justice Department concluded that
material said to exonerate the agent, Joseph Occhipinti, was fabricated.

Mr. Terwilliger did not indicate in the letter whether Mr. Molinari or his staff
knew the material was bogus, and he did not assign blame for the deception, a
potentially criminal act.

The letter, dated Dec. 9 and made public yesterday, states that the Justice
Department found no reason to doubt that Mr. Occhipinti, a 42-year-old former
Immigration and Naturalization Service agent, had a fair trial.

Mr. Molinari dismissed Mr. Terwilliger's assertions yesterday as "pure garbage"
and stood by the material that his office collected. "We are convinced the man
is innocent and we will prove it," Mr. Molinari said.

Mr. Terwilliger and others involved in the inquiry refused to comment on the
case yesterday.

Mr. Occhipinti was convicted in June 1991 in Federal court in Manhattan of
violating the civil rights of Hispanic shopkeepers in Washington Heights by
conducting illegal searches and filing false reports. He was sentenced to 37
months in prison. Last May, the Second Circuit Court of Appeals upheld his
conviction.

Mr. Molinari has been a staunch defender of Mr. Occhipinti, who has claimed that
he was set up by Dominican merchants whom he was investigating on suspicion of
smuggling illegal aliens.

Mr. Molinari's office supplied investigators with written statements from people
who claimed to have heard a prosecution witness admit that the case against Mr.
Occhipinti was invented.

Mr. Terwilliger's letter was released by Otto G. Obermaier, the United States
Attorney for the Southern District of New York.

"I don't have any reason to believe Molinari knew that the information he was
providing was false," said Steven A. Standiford, an Assistant United States
Attorney who prosecuted the case. "But it certainly appears, at a minimum, that
Guy Molinari was duped."

The vagueness of Mr. Terwilliger's letter and the unwillingness of the
principals to discuss the case make it difficult to verify independently the
Justice Department's assertions.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              249 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 25, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Topics of The Times;
Questions for Mr. Molinari

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 266 words


Did Guy Molinari, the Staten Island Borough President, or his staff, fabricate
information submitted to Justice Department investigators? The question lingers
following the recent release of a letter to Mr. Molinari from Deputy Attorney
General George Terwilliger.

The letter, made public to Mr. Terwilliger's apparent chagrin by U.S. Attorney
Otto Obermaier, conveys the findings of a lengthy F.B.I. review of material
submitted by Mr. Molinari's office in an effort to exonerate a Federal
immigration agent convicted of civil rights charges. The agent, Joseph
Occhipinti, was sentenced to 37 months in prison in June 1991 for violating the
rights of Hispanic shopkeepers by conducting illegal searches and filing false
reports.

Mr. Molinari has been a vocal defender of Mr. Occhipinti, who claimed he was set
up by Dominican merchants whom he was investigating for smuggling illegal
aliens. Yet his conviction was unanimously affirmed on appeal, and the F.B.I.
found "no credible information" to support his claim. That leaves a cloud over
Staten Island's Borough Hall. Mr. Terwilliger's letter raises serious questions
about the methods used by Mr. Molinari's staff to help Mr. Occhipinti, including
the "scripting" of affidavits and possible coercion of witnesses.

Mr. Molinari dismisses all this as "pure garbage." But he has yet to provide a
full accounting of the curious investigative role his office played in this
case. Meanwhile, having made public its criticism of Mr. Molinari's evidence,
the Justice Department cannot reasonably withhold the full F.B.I. report.

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 27, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Offering Immigrants From Russia Insights on Life in America

BYLINE: By MERRI ROSENBERG

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 19; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1110 words

DATELINE: THE BRONX


THE spirited discussion, which covered the Iran-contra affair, former President
Nixon's role in the Watergate scandal, the Communist Party, tensions in Crown
Heights and the jury system, was nearly as biting as the bitter cold on a chilly
Sunday morning.

In an auditorium at the Montefiore Medical Center here, six adults met with
Edward Beliaev, a lecturer from the School of Public and International Affairs
of the Harriman Institute at Columbia University to discuss differences between
the former Soviet Union's political system and that of the United States.

This was not a displaced-graduate seminar that had somehow migrated from
Morningside Heights in Manhattan to the Mosholu section of the Bronx. Rather, it
was the third lecture in a six-part series offered free to recent Russian Jewish
immigrants as part of the New York Emigre Acculturation Project, a two-year-old
endeavor spearheaded by the Mosholu-Montefiore Community Center's Russian
resettlement committee in conjunction with the Harriman Institute. Topics, among
others, include discussion of the banking system and how to live in a law-based
society.

"In asking my neighbors what they need, they asked for this," said Robin
Grenell, a Bronx resident and volunteer chairwoman of the resettlement
committee. "They've been cut off from Western Europe for so long that they don't
understand how we can have so much freedom and why we don't have a Stalin as
leader. They're used to strong-arm government."

Long-Term Needs Considered

Most programs for the new wave of Russian Jewish immigrants focus on learning
English, preparing a resume and landing a job or locating housing, clothing and
furnishings. The community center, in like manner, reaches out to southern
Westchester synagogues and temples, asking for donations of food, clothing, beds
and essential household items.

But what distinguishes the New York Emigre Acculturation Project from other
programs sponsored by the United Jewish Appeal-Federation or the New York
Association for New Americans is that it addresses the long-term needs of the
immigrants to become integrated members of American society -- and it does so
through programs given in Russian. With the language barrier that so many of the
new arrivals face, communicating with them in Russian facilitates the process,
said Mrs. Grenell, a former Unicef employee.

"They can't express these kinds of ideas with limited English," she added. "In
the long run, they have to participate in our society. They're used to surviving
outside the norms of a society, and they assume they need to do that here.

"It's hard for them to understand," Mrs. Grenell said, "that when you get a
telephone, no one will spy on you, or that the system doesn't run on graft. The
idea behind developing this program was to help them make the cultural
transition."

For instance, during a recent discussion, Professor Beliaev had to confront a
somewhat skeptical audience unfamiliar with such concepts as the jury system,
presumption of innocence and a Constitution that provided for a separation of
power. "The emphasis is different," Professor Beliaev said. "I have to explain
to them what a law-governed society is. It wasn't possible in Soviet society."

One woman, who had apparently been tapped for jury duty, was bewildered by the
American system. As Professor Beliaev explained, the Soviet system permitted
only members of the Communist Party to serve as jurors; it was difficult for
this woman to understand that American jurors had the power to determine a
defendant's innocence or guilt.


For Leonid Byrhovsky, an engineer who arrived from St. Petersburg last June with
his wife and two young daughters, the program offers an opportunity to
understand what it means to be an American. Mr. Byrhovsky, who spoke through an
interpreter, said, "I came here legally, thanks to the American Government, and
now I can begin my new life in this country. My big problem is English."

Although most Russian Jewish immigrants have settled in the Brighton Beach
section of Brooklyn and a few places in Queens, there has been a recent
migration to the northern Bronx following more relaxed Soviet emigration
policies begun in 1989. There are about 1,500 Russian Jewish immigrants in the
Mosholu section. "It's a growing Jewish community here," Mrs. Grenell said.

Westchester Support

Some congregations in Westchester, like Young Israel in Scarsdale or Temple
Israel in White Plains, have supported the efforts of the Mosholu-Montefiore
Community Center, including sponsorship of Jewish education for some children
and inviting immigrants to share in holiday celebrations.

"We are committed to those values that are central to Jewish tradition," said
Rabbi Jacob S. Rubenstein, leader of Young Israel and president of the
Westchester Board of Rabbis. "Being of assistance to immigrants in a nation of
immigrants is the essence of Jewish benevolence. We need to recognize that these
are our brothers and sisters; these people could very well be us. We need to do
what we can to enhance their absorption process and contribute warmth and
friendship."


Diane Stern, a social worker and member of Young Israel, prodded her synagogue
to contribute beds for the Bronx community. "The people in that area are not the
haves," said Mrs. Stern, who has been involved with the cause of Russian Jewry
for 20 years. "I felt that the Westchester community should help. They need
furniture and material goods, but they also need to understand how Jews live
here."

Starting a Library

Some of Mrs. Stern's efforts in the last two years include raising funds for
Passover meals and starting a Russian-language library at the Mosholu-Montefiore
center, helping run an Israel Independence Day party and Hanukkah celebrations.

Mrs. Stern added: "Our community is willing to help. They do understand their
obligations. In a way, it's paying back for what our grandparents received when
they emigrated."

Temple Israel, for example, recently invited Russian Jewish families to attend
an early Hanukkah party. Two Scarsdale residents, Dorothea Steindl and Ira Adler
of Temple Israel, formed personal friendships and trucked down donations of
household furnishings and clothing.

"They need help in getting acclimated to America," Mrs. Steindl said. "More
people should help, with conversations to improve their English, or if possible,
with jobs. These Russians are very willing to learn."

Those interested in helping the Russian Jewish community in the Bronx can
contact Cathy Shifman at the Mosholu-Montefiore Community Center at (718)
882-4000.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edward Beliaev, a lecturer from the School of Public and
International Affairs at Columbia University, with immigrants. (Dith Pran/The
New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 30, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Population Passes 256 Million, Bureau Says

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 873 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 29


Rapid population growth in the West and a level of immigration unequaled in
almost eight decades have pushed the United States population to 256.6 million
as 1993 approaches, the Federal Census Bureau reported today.

The national figure for Jan. 1, 1993, is based on a projection of 4.1 million
births and net immigration of 846,000 in 1992. In addition, bureau statisticians
subtracted an estimated 2.2 million deaths and added the return of 129,000
American citizens, like military personnel, who had lived overseas.

The state-by-state totals released today reflected populations in July. Still,
these showed that the pace of growth was fueled by Western states whose
populations grew at least 2.5 percent over the year. These were Alaska, Arizona,
Colorado, Idaho, Nevada, Utah and Washington. Nevada's population grew by 3.5
percent, or 44,000 people.

No New Adjustments

On a percentage basis, the growth in the populous state of California was
somewhat less, 1.5 percent, but the total population growth of 487,000 was more
than double the actual growth in any state outside of Texas, whose population
increased by 307,000 people.

About 307,000 immigrants settled in California between July 1991 and last July,
or more than 3 in 10 of all immigrants to the United States in that period.

As the latest population figures were released, the bureau also announced it
would not use statistical techniques to adjust such annual population estimates.

Eighteen months ago, Commerce Secretary Robert S. Mosbacher decided against
adjusting the official 1990 census to compensate for an undercount of members of
minority groups and city-dwellers. But he left open the possibility that the
annual numbers might yet be adjusted. A lawsuit by New York, Los Angeles,
Houston and other major cities trying to force such an adjustment is pending in
Federal District court in New York.

Federal Aid at Issue

The issue was a matter of intense concern in part because the redrawing of
political boundaries depends on census numbers -- both data for geographical
areas, and ethnic data that allow legislators to comply with legal requirements
insuring representation for minority groups.

Equally important for some legislators is the $40 billion or more in Federal
funds distributed annually to states, municipalities, housing authorities,
transportation agencies and school boards based on census data. The latest
decision, unless overturned by the Clinton Administration, insures that the
distribution of these funds will not be changed to reflect the blacks and
Hispanic-Americans missed in the 1990 census.

The Bureau's director, Barbara Everitt Bryant, had originally recommended to Mr.
Mosbacher that the 1990 census figures be adjusted to reflect what was then
believed to be an undercount of 2.1 percent. Since then, discovery of computer
errors and some statistical changes have reduced the estimates of an undercount
to 1.6 percent, about the same as in 1980.

Still, an expert committee formed to make a recommendation on adjustment of
annual estimates pushed for such an adjustment. Their recommendation led to
rumors that the bureau would decide to adjust, prompting congressmen from
Midwestern and some Northeastern states -- inevitably the relative losers to the
fast-growing Western and Southern states -- to call hearings in protest.

In an interview today, Dr. Bryant said she had wanted to adjust the population
figures to make up for what she said was a clear undercount of blacks,
Hispanic-Americans and renters. But, she said, while the statistical tools were
available to make these adjustments for small geographical units, the necessary
tools to double-check the findings were inadequate. In the face of legal
scrutiny, she said, this made a decision to adjust untenable.

Quick Reaction

"Every number has to become defensible," Dr. Bryant said. "When you say -- you
know how to do it but you can't prove it's right or wrong -- then it's no longer
defensible.

"If it weren't for the problem that we had to defend it in court, there would
have been a strong inclination to have adjusted, just because we would like to
fix any undercounts at the national and state levels, the big levels."

But the corrective, secondary measurement, she said, was "very inconclusive"
when used for smaller subdivisions of the population.

The reaction to Dr. Bryant's decision was quick and did not split along party
lines. Members of the Northeast-Midwest coalition in Congress from both parties
approved. The Democratic chairmen of the House and Senate committees overseeing
the Census Bureau approved. But Mayor David N. Dinkins of New York, a Democrat,
said "money to which New Yorkers are entitled" was "currently being denied"
them.

Senator Herb Kohl, Democrat of Wisconsin, whose state was at risk of losing a
Congressional seat if the 1990 population figures had been adjusted, praised the
decision as avoiding an unfair shift "of Federal funds from the industrial
Midwest to the Sun Belt states." Representative Tom Sawyer, Democrat of Ohio,
pointed out that unofficial, adjusted population figures would be available for
inspection. "Today's decision," he said, "strikes the proper balance."


LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 31, 1992, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Releases 45 Cubans Who Defected in Plane

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 785 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 30


Forty-five Cubans who defected to the United States in an airliner on Tuesday
were released from Federal custody late tonight after an intense debate in
Washington about whether the pilot's diversion of a routine domestic commuter
flight violated international hijacking agreements.

The Aero-Caribbean airliner landed at Miami International Airport after
passengers overpowered three crew members during a scheduled flight from Havana
to the beach resort of Varadero. The plane's pilot, Carlos Cancio Porcel, was a
leader in the defection plan.

The Cuban Government criticized the diversion as a "terrorist act" of "aerial
piracy" and accused the United States of violating international law with its
longtime policy of automatically granting political asylum to Cubans.

After landing in the United States, Mr. Cancio and 47 other people on the plane
who said they wanted to defect were taken to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service's Krome detention center here. Later in the day three minors among them
were released to relatives.

The remaining 45 people were released to relatives and friends tonight shortly
after 10 P.M.

No Explanation of Move

The immigration service made no statement explaining its action, and calls to
the United States Attorney's Office here, which had been investigating what it
earlier called "possible violations of United States laws" in the defection,
went unanswered late tonight.

Earlier in the evening, the airliner, a Russian-made Antonov A-26, lifted off
from the Miami airport on its way back to Havana. Crew members, who had arrived
earlier in the day, waved a Cuban flag from the cockpit just before takeoff.
Five people from Tuesday's flight who had asked to return to Cuba did so tonight
aboard a second Cuban aircraft.

Under longstanding American policy, Cubans who arrive in the United States and
claim political asylum are often freed within hours, regardless of the
circumstances of their arrival. The 36-hour delay in releasing most of the
participants in Tuesday's mass defection had been loudly criticized by local
politicians and Cuban exile leaders, who saw it as a sign of vacillation.

'Extremely Touchy Issue'

Lawyers and security experts specializing in aviation said the delay was due
primarily to the unusual and complicated legal issues arising from the nature of
the Cubans' arrival. These experts also suggested that officials in Washington
were deeply divided over the best way to resolve those issues.

Beyond the fate of individuals, "there is a much larger issue here, an extremely
touchy and critical issue," Billie Vincent, former head of security for the
Federal Aviation Administration, said earlier today. "The real problem we face
is what this portends for the future. We don't want to see these people go back,
but by sanctioning the illegal diversion of a flight, we encourage this to
happen again.

"The point is that the United States Government faces a very unwelcome dilemma
on this particular one. You can call this a diversion if you want, but that is a
euphemism, because some people on that airplane were taken somewhere against
their will and a lawful, sovereign flight was diverted from its destination."

Others had predicted that Washington would release the Cubans for political
reasons, simply ignoring those legal arguments.

"Whether you indict or prosecute someone for an alleged crime is pretty much in
the eyes of the beholders," said Burton A. Landy, a Miami lawyer who specializes
in Latin American international law issues. "We're not going to find any
legislation that will put this matter into one basket or another. But it's
pretty obvious how this is going to turn out."

'A Dangerous Precedent'

It was precisely that prospect that alarmed some aviation lawyers and security
experts. They were critical of comments by Cuban exile leaders and some Federal
officials that the Aero-Caribbean diversion should not be considered a hijacking
because the pilot acted voluntarily and not under duress.

"This is a very dangerous precedent that runs in the face of international
aviation law," said a lawyer for a major American airline who spoke on condition
of anonymity. "Once the pilot diverts his craft from its lawful journey and
enterprise, I don't see any difference between him and a pirate."

Some Federal officials also expressed concern about the consequences in Cuba of
a unilateral release of Mr. Cancio and his passengers.

"We want to be fair to these people who have come over," said a State Department
official who refused to be identified. "But on the other hand, we don't want to
encourage people to take desperate measures, whether on rafts or planes."



LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 11, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Battling Contagions of Superstition and Ignorance;
A Ukrainian-Born Physician Coaxes Nervous Immigrants to Accept Western Medicine

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1105 words


Three-year-old Leonid Rozental had seen the vaccination needle and was screaming
as Dr. Anatoly Belilovsky approached. "This will be like the bite of a big
mosquito," said the doctor in Russian to the boy. Then, he gave Leonid the shot
and a lollipop in quick succession.

"He should have had this when he was 2 months old," the doctor said, referring
to a standard vaccination intended to prevent a type of meningitis.

But Leonid and his parents moved to the United States from Russia four months
ago, where, Dr. Belilovsky said, doctors are trained to be sparing with vaccines
for fear that they will hurt, not help, the child.

Bridge Between Two Worlds

As a pediatrician in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn, Dr. Belilovsky is a bridge
between two medical worlds. Brighton Beach is a haven for immigrants from the
former Soviet Union, and each day Dr. Belilovsky confronts the medical care in
that part of the world.

He has seen children with undiagnosed heart problems that are now harder if not
impossible to correct; children with severe anemia because their mothers had
poor prenatal care; a handicapped child who died of measles because her doctors
were trained not to give vaccinations to handicapped children.

"I have cabinets filled with charts of kids who didn't get their vaccinations on
time," Dr. Belilovsky said.

Dr. Belilovksky is typical of doctors throughout New York City who work in
neighborhoods steeped in other cultures. Doctors who treat Mexican immigrants,
for instance, see high rates of immunity to certain antibiotics, which are as
available as aspirin in Mexico. Those whose patients are natives of the
Caribbean grow accustomed to eggs placed in the windowsills of sickrooms to ward
off the spirits of illness and fear.

Dr. Belilovsky is particularly well prepared to treat immigrants of the former
Soviet republics, where medications have long been scarce and where folk
medicine has been entrenched for even longer. He was born in the city of Lvov in
what is once again Ukraine, where his mother, Kira Belilovsky, worked as a
pediatrician.

A Practice in Brighton Beach

He and his family moved to the United States in 1976, when he was 15 years old.
Dr. Kira Belilovsky took the tests required to practice medicine and her son
graduated from Brooklyn Technical High School, Princeton University and the
University of Connecticut School of Medicine. After completing pediatrics
training three years ago he joined his mother's practice in Brighton Beach. Of
the 5,000 patients in their office files, 80 percent are immigrants from the
former Soviet Union.

Dr. Belilovsky remembers his mother's complaining that she might as well forget
everything she learned in Soviet medical schools and begin again in the United
States. Recently he read some of her Russian textbooks and has come to
understand what she meant. "Genetics," he said of the books his mother used as a
medical student, "was described as a bourgeois pseudoscience developed to
perpetuate the class system. The whole of psychiatry was covered in one
paragraph."

Once he joined his mother, however, Dr. Belilovsky had to do a lot of relearning
too. His first surprise was that his Russian was not adequate for the job.
Though he had spoken the language since he was born, his vocabulary stopped
growing at age 15 and he was lost when trying to explain medical problems to
patients.

Antibiotics? Oh No!

Even when he knew the words he had a difficult time communicating. "I remember
the first time I told a family their child was O.K. and would only need some
antibiotics," he said. "Their faces fell. I thought I was giving good news, that
we can cure this, no problem. Their faces said, oh no, it's so serious it needs
antibiotics."

Back home, he learned, his patients had been told that antibiotics would damage
a child's liver and should only be given in cases of extreme illness. At least
twice a week, he estimates, he has to persuade a mother to give such medication
to her child.

"I go out in the waiting room," he said of how he approaches those
conversations. "I pick out a patient who had a good result with the same drug
and I say, 'Tell this lady what happened.' "

It requires similar coaxing for some parents to sign vaccination consent forms.
"The fear of vaccines is unbelievable," he said. "Over there doctors believe
that any tiny problem is a reason not to give the shot. He sneezed twice last
week. He's sensitive to ragweed. Anything."

Leonid, for instance, was born slightly prematurely and doctors delayed his
diphtheria vaccination for a year and did not give him several other vaccines at
all.

Vaccinations Are Easier

It is easier to win the arguments over vaccinations, he said, than those over
antibiotics.

"They can't go to school without them and I'm not going to give them a note
saying otherwise," he said.

Dr. Belilovsky spends time talking patients out of as many things as he talks
them into. Transplanted medicines, for instance. Nearly every family brought the
contents of the medicine cabinet with them and Dr. Belilovsky's first advice is
"throw out all the medications from the old country."

"Those that I know what they are, I don't know how they're made," he said.

For years, he said, patients have been asking him about a fever-reducing
medicine widely used back home but unknown in the United States.  Earlier this
year, he said, he saw a listing of ingredients for the medicine and was
appalled. The drug contained aspirin, which has been linked with Reye's syndrome
in children, and amidopyrin, which, Dr. Belilovsky said, was taken off the
American market decades ago because it was potentially fatal.

"It works, sure," he said. "It will drop the fever of anything. Problem is it
will sometimes drop it to room temperature."

Less dangerous, he said, are the variety of folk medicines on which his patients
sometimes rely. Cupping, in which suction is created by applying a warm glass to
the chest wall, is harmless, he said, unless it prevents a patient from getting
to the doctor for more effective treatment. Gridding, in which a tic-tac-toe
pattern is drawn on the skin in iodine, to relieve inflammation, is just as
ineffective, he said, but potentially more dangerous. He recently saw a child
with a second-degree burn from the iodine.

Amid the frustration, however, there are victories. Leonid is one. After the boy
calmed down, Dr. Belilovsky noted the vaccination in the chart. With it, the
child's immunization record is up to date.

"It won't hurt him?" his mother asked, hugging her son.

"It will help him," Dr. Belilovsky said.

NAME: Anatoly Belilovsky

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The consequences of the former Soviet Union's remoteness are
seen daily by Dr. Anatoly Belilovsky. As a pediatrician in the Brighton Beach
section of Brooklyn, he deals with patients who have fled lands where
medications were scarce and folk medicine entrenched. Two-year-old Michella
Gugliev was treated for a virus last week. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York
Times)

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 254 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 29, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Conversations/Leticia Quezada;
L.A.'s Schools Chief Wants Power, And the Vote, for Immigrant Parents

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1216 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


LETICIA QUEZADA remembers that day 16 years ago when, as a Mexican immigrant
fresh out of college with a teaching credential in bilingual education, she
applied for work at the Los Angeles schools. She was turned down "flatly," told
Los Angeles did not need bilingual teachers. Today Ms. Quezada greets visitors
as the first Hispanic president of the Los Angeles Board of Education, presiding
over a school system in which nearly half the students cannot speak English.

She also presides over what is now perhaps the biggest crisis the nation's
second-largest school system has ever faced. Six months after the civil
disorders and arson that swept Los Angeles, the 641,000-student system is
threatened both by insolvency and a strike by teachers furious over a
recession-induced pay cut of 12 percent.

In all this, Leticia Quezada, who migrated to California at age 13 without
speaking a word of English, the daughter of a Mexican copper miner who died of
tuberculosis at age 33, has emerged as the teachers' chief nemesis and a
forceful advocate for the children of the deprived.

Wednesday, on the eve of a courtroom showdown with the teachers union, Ms.
Quezada put on the hard edge that sometimes comes with this territory, the
complex shifting politics of the Los Angeles Unified School District, and
defended the pay cut imposed on teachers.

"The union is saying 'lay off the rest of the employees to pay us the same
salary,' " she said in a soft voice tinged with the accent of her native Mexico.
"We have said in bad times the morale of our employees is very important. It
would be a real disaster if some employees feel they've paid the entire price of
the economic depression this district is facing. We have said we are not going
to lay off any employees, teachers or classified because we felt this economy
could not afford any more unemployed. We thought it was the right policy
decision.

"There's no way for any union to say it's okay to cut salaries by 12 percent.
But the reality is that bankruptcy is the only other choice. In the final
analysis, this will get resolved. It will not be easy. The problems we have are
so complex and so huge that most people would want to give up."

Moments later, tears flowed down her cheek as she described the plight of the
children of what she calls the "forgotten America," the poor and dark-skinned.

Up From a Macho World

"More and more, the color of the school system looks like my family," she said.
"Unless someone steps in who has the understanding, the sensitivity and the
language skills to speak not only to the children but to their parents, we are
going to lose this generation. The little ones, they did not ask to be born into
a poor family, to go to a school that does not have a nurse. The problems have
gotten bigger. The riots brought lot of anxiety and tension to the surface.
Things have gotten more intense and intense. People are beginning to say,
'Forget it, it's not worth it.' They give up and start killing, committing
suicide."

Leticia Quezada is one of the first of a growing number of female political
leaders to emerge from the macho world of Hispanic America. The most notable
here is her erstwhile ally, Gloria Molina, elected last year as the first
Hispanic member of the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors.

Ms. Quezada's journey began in the slums of Ciudad Juarez, opposite El Paso,
Tex., from which her mother emigrated to Pittsburg, Calif., near San Francisco,
and worked as a waitress. The young Leticia started eighth grade without
English, caught up and eventually graduated from high school with honors and
attended the University of California at Santa Cruz on a scholarship, then
earned a master's degree in bilingual education.

But early on, she said, she decided her calling was not teaching, but the
politics of teaching. "A professor instilled in me a sense that rather than
helping one child at a time there are bigger things like changing educational
policy," she said. "I was always searching for a place to make a contribution to
my community through changing policy."

To do that, she felt she had to move to a big city with lots of Mexicans. That
inevitably led to Los Angeles, which she had never visited. After being rejected
by the school system, she did job training, then in 1981 joined the Carnation
Company, the Los Angeles-based food maker, as its representative to the national
Hispanic community.

She eventually plunged into electoral politics, winning one of seven seats on
the school board in 1987, representing the mostly Mexican-American east side of
the city. Last spring, the fractious board elected her president. The
politically powerful teachers union supported her re-election in 1991, but
turned on her this year in a dispute over their contract. They marshalled enough
support to thwart Ms. Quezada's bid for Congress in a bitter primary fight last
June.

She has been the board's foremost proponent of two controversial notions,
bilingual education and giving parents more control over their local schools,
which have among the country's highest drop-out rates, lowest achievement scores
and most violence.

Angering Blacks

"We have a tremendous challenge in educating Latino students," she said. "In
entry points like Miami, New York and Los Angeles, we believe the best way to
educate these students, to get them to graduation, is bilingual education."

Even more contentious has been Ms. Quezada's proposal to let noncitizens vote in
school board elections, which would greatly benefit Hispanic candidates inasmuch
as Hispanic people are about two-thirds of the school population but only about
a third of the voters in Los Angeles. Her proposal drew fire from the leaders of
Los Angeles's black community, where frictions have developed with the
fast-growing Hispanic population, and she was accused during the recent
Congressional primary of promoting illegal immigration.

But she contends that the proposal, shelved for now, is a key to getting parents
involved. "Over 70 percent of our parents are immigrants, very likely not U.S.
citizens. So many parents are disenfranchised in choosing who will decide on the
education of their children. At a time when all reform movements in public
education are saying that the only way schools are going to do better is with
better parent involvement, this is major form of parent involvement.

"Change is very threatening. If you give Latinos the right to vote, what is
going to happen to the gains blacks have made? All of us have to get used to
idea of change." In many schools in the riot-scarred South Central area, the
schools are now about half Hispanic, half black. "Children have to learn to live
together," Ms. Quezada said. "That is the reality most us in public office are
going to have to start speaking.

"I am always going to be committed to the issues of large cities," she said, "to
questions of policy rather than personal issues, always looking to the next
generation. Education provides the most answers, because if you do a good job in
educating children, most of the other issues are taken care of."

At age 39, Ms. Quezada has no children of her own and contemplates none. "No, I
already have enough," she mused. "I take care of other people's children."

NAME: Leticia Quezada

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leticia Quezada in her office in Los Angeles last week. (Jim
Wilson/The New York Times)

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company
