
                               1 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 8, 1992, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

GEORGIA HARVESTER IS FINED $1 MILLION IN ALIEN SMUGGLING

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1118 words

DATELINE: FORT VALLEY, Ga., Feb. 7


A local peach harvester was fined $1.1 million today by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, the largest fine in the agency's history, in an action
that showed both how tough and how porous the nation's landmark 1986 immigration
reform law can be.

Immigration officials said four employees of the harvester, the Lane Packing
Company, had smuggled thousands of aliens into the country over the last two
years and had employed many of them, keeping them in conditions akin to bondage
while the aliens worked to pay off the fees charged by the smugglers.

The previous record fine imposed by the immigration service, in 1989, was
$580,000, levied against the Piedmont Quilting Corporation of Walhalla, S.C.

A Dramatic Demonstration

Today's action was a dramatic show of just how tough the provisions of the
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 can be. Under the law, which mandates
stiff penalties for those who hire illegal aliens, employers are required to
verify the work eligibility of all employees hired after Nov. 6, 1986, and to
refrain from hiring people not authorized to work in the United States.

Thomas P. Fischer, district director of the immigration service in Atlanta, who
announced the fine, conceded that it was also a sign of how rampant smuggling
operations continue to be, even though unemployment in the United States is at a
five-year high.

"This will put a major dent into illegal employment activities in the Southeast
and also cripple a major smuggling ring," he said. "But this is just one of
many."

Appeals Are Planned

Jay Hawkins, a lawyer who spoke on behalf of the company's owner, Duke Lane,
said: "We have 30 days to appeal in writing with the administrative law judge
with the I.N.S. We'll have a hearing there, and if we're unable to reach a
satisfactory result then we will appeal to the U.S. District Court here."

The company is one of Georgia's largest peach harvesters and packers, but no
information on its current earnings was immediately available.

The immigration service said four Lane employees were at the heart of a major
smuggling ring that for two years brought in about 500 aliens a month during an
eight-week harvesting season. The aliens were transported from the interior of
Mexico to the Southeastern United States.

The employees, one of them a foreman, are Bernardo, David and Gaston Macedo, all
brothers, and their stepbrother, Aguileo Castillo.

Officials said the aliens crossed the Rio Grande near Del Rio, Tex., and were
then transported in trucks and vans to Lane's headquarters here and to other
employers in the United States. The aliens were supplied with transportation and
fake documentation at a cost of up to $1,400 a person.

Mr. Fischer said about 800 aliens went to work for Lane and the rest for
employers in other parts of Georgia, as well as in Florida and North Carolina.
He said 80 percent of Lane's workers appeared to be illegal aliens.

The four Lane employees were arrested in June and later convicted of smuggling
the aliens from Mexico.

Mr. Fischer said the fine today was so large because of the smuggling operation
and the degree to which nearly all the documentation required as proof of legal
residence was either grossly inadequate or fraudulent.

'Bondage-Type Operation'

He said it also reflected the degree to which the aliens were kept in a "little
bondage-type operation." He said the aliens paid rent and utilities of $60 to
$70 a month, in addition to the fees for passage and documentation, to stay in
substandard barracks-like buildings.

"There was no indoor plumbing at all," Mr. Fischer said. "It was basically
pressboard, non-air-conditioned. They were sleeping on the floor, no light
sockets, light bulbs, things of that nature. It was just a roof over their
head."

Historically, most of the farm labor in the South has been done by blacks. But
over the last two decades Hispanic workers have become the backbone of the
agricultural workforce.

Agricultural employers have cited the difficulty of finding American workers to
do menial farm labor.

Al Pearson, chairman of the Georgia Agricultural Commodity Commission for
Peaches, said that over the last 10 years most growers have switched from local
workers to a migrant labor force because of a lack of local workers able to do
seasonal work under difficult conditions.

'Professional Seasonal Worker'

"People can't subsist on 10 weeks of work and sit around the rest of the year,"
he said, "so you wind up going to a more professional seasonal worker, and they
are mobile and follow the work, say, from Florida citrus to Georgia peaches."

But blacks interviewed here said they would work in the peach orchards if the
jobs were available.

"People will do the work," said John Brown, who described himself as
self-employed. "I think they just want to find people who will do it cheaper."

Mr. Fischer said some unscrupulous employers prefer to pay wages so low that
only illegal workers will take them.

"What happens is you just take a job and write the darn thing down, knowing an
American won't take four bucks an hour, and they justify to themselves, 'Well,
we're going to have to hire illegal aliens because we can't get Americans,' " he
said. "That's baloney. The calls I get and what I see people doing today to keep
their families solvent and above the poverty level -- yeah, I see people working
and taking those jobs."

Investigation Is Continuing

Immigration officials said that the investigation in the Lane case was
continuing and that other fines or criminal action could be forthcoming.

Mr. Fischer said the action today was a sign that the Immigration Reform and
Control Act, which offered the promise of legal status to many aliens and stiff
penalties for employers who hire illegal aliens, can be an effective tool.

But he said the continued influx of aliens was also an indication that the law
could easily be circumvented.

"I believe the act has the proper tools, but two things come to mind," Mr.
Fischer said. "One is the resources allocated to the I.N.S. need to be
reassessed for us to combat this type of criminal activity. Secondly, there
appears to be a growing cottage industry in the fraudulent document area. We
need to make the documentation counterfeitproof, and I don't think right now the
documentation has that type of protection."

Even if Lane is found liable, it is not clear what the ultimate fine will be.
Verne Jervis, an I.N.S. spokesman in Washington, said he believed the previous
record fine of about $500,000 was eventually settled for about $300,00.

But Mr. Fischer said he hoped the fine against Lane would serve notice to other
employers.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 21, 1990, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Study Finds Mild Gain in Drive on Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 589 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 19


A report by two influential research organizations has concluded that the
Government's efforts to seek penalties against employers who hire illegal aliens
has been only a modest deterrent to illegal immigration.

The Rand Corporation and the Urban Institute, in what they called the most
comprehensive study yet of the impact of employer sanctions on illegal
immigration, said the sanctions had reduced illicit border crossings by less
than 20 percent.

''If the intent was to generate a large decline in the flow, employer sanctions
appear to have been unsuccessful and Congress may wish to weigh the cost of
continuing the program against its current level of effectiveness,'' said the
study, which was issued Thursday.

But the study added that if the policy was intended only ''to curb the rate of
increase in the flow, the sanctions have probably been successful and Congress
may wish to continue with the current law.''

The study was released as Congress debates whether to repeal or revise
provisions of the landmark 1986 immigration law that establish civil and
criminal penalties for employers who hire illegal aliens. A study released last
month by Congress's General Accounting Office found a ''widespread pattern of
discrimination'' in employment against people with a ''foreign appearance or
accent.''

Impact of Finding of Bias

Under the terms of the immigration law, the finding of bias by the accounting
office forces Congress to reconsider the legislation's provisions requiring
employers to demand from everyone they hire proof of citizenship or the right to
work legally in the United States. The report by the accounting office said the
law had ''apparently reduced illegal immigration,'' but it made no systematic
attempt to reach a firm conclusion about the law's effectiveness in stemming the
flow of illegal aliens across the border.

The conclusions offered by Rand, which is based in Santa Monica, Calif., and the
Urban Institute, in Washington, were based on a three-year study of statistics
on legal immigration, border arrests of illegal aliens and changes in the pay
and labor supply for jobs at car washes and restaurants. The study by the two
independent, nonprofit research organizations, was conducted under a grant from
the Ford Foundation.

The study found what it called ''clearcut'' evidence that the law was having its
intended effect on immigration in 1987, with the flow of illegal immigrants
falling by more than 15 percent and requests from farmers for temporary workers
from abroad rising 28 percent. But in 1988, the study found, the downward trend
in illegal immigration was reversed, and in 1989, labor market analysis
suggested only a small decline in illegal immigration.

Representative Charles E. Schumer, the Brooklyn Democrat who was one of the
authors of the legislation, said the latest report and the accounting office
report ''are a commentary on how the bill is working now, but not on the concept
behind the bill or on how it might work if it were taken seriously by the
Administration.''

Mr. Schumer said that if the legislation was to be successful, the Government
must not try to enforce it on a ''shoestring'' budget.

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
border apprehensions declined from 1.1 million in 1987 to 857,000 last year,
although they appeared to be climbing again this year. ''Apprehensions have been
down considerably and, in the absence of the law, probably would have increased
considerably,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 7, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Employers of Illegal Aliens Facing Stronger Action

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 675 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 6


Armed with favorable rulings from Federal courts, the Justice Department is
stepping up enforcement of the immigration law to punish employers of illegal
aliens. But employers say the Government's efforts have left them confused about
the law and vulnerable to prosecution.

Immigration officials and judges are telling employers that in addition to
checking identification documents of all job applicants they should investigate
"suspicious circumstances" suggesting that an applicant or a worker might be an
illegal alien.

But employers who are too aggressive in checking documents risk violating a
section of the immigration law that forbids discrimination against citizens or
refugees and other aliens authorized to work in the United States.

"The employer is in a no-win situation," said Peter N. Larrabee of San Diego, a
lawyer who has represented employers in many cases involving the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, part of the Justice Department.

Employers say they are caught in a bind, subject to fines if they hire illegal
aliens with too little scrutiny of their documents, but subject to penalties for
discrimination if they demand too much documentation.

After many years of debate, Congress in 1986 passed a landmark law intended to
discourage the hiring of illegal immigrants. Under the law, employers who
knowingly hire illegal aliens are subject to civil and criminal penalties, and
in a memorandum and directive sent recently to field offices around the country,
the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, Gene McNary, ordered agents
to take a more "aggressive enforcement posture" as part of an "enhanced employer
sanctions strategy."

Emphasis on Fraud Cases

Mr. McNary ordered investigators to emphasize fraud cases in which employers
harbor illegal aliens or help them get counterfeit documents. The agency also
recently rescinded a policy requiring immigration officers to warn an employer
before imposing a fine.

In the last four months, the agency says, it opened 2,353 investigations into
the employment of illegal aliens, imposed 529 fines totaling $3.2 million and
collected $940,000. It says fines are up roughly one-third over the preceding
four months.

The investigations have focused on restaurants, construction companies,
landscaping contractors, poultry-processing plants, peach farms, carpet mills,
textile factories, janitorial service companies, hotels and parking garages,
among other employers.

The new approach is motivated partly by the fact that the 1986 law, the
Immigration Reform and Control Act, has not stopped the influx or employment of
illegal aliens.

Richard L. Kenney, a spokesman for the immigration service, acknowledged that
many employers perceived a conflict between parts of the 1986 law, but he
insisted they could easily verify the employment eligibility of new workers
without committing discrimination.

Mr. Kenney said it was natural to shift emphasis from education to enforcement
because most employers now understood the requirements.

In several recent cases, Federal judges have ruled that an employer violated the
law if he "should have known" that a worker was an illegal alien, regardless of
whether the employer actually did know.

Under the law, an employer can establish an "affirmative defense" by examining a
worker's documents. But in some cases, the immigration service has argued that
employers should be alert to suspicious circumstances like the misspelling of a
worker's name on a document.

Judges are accepting this argument.  A "deliberate failure to investigate
suspicious circumstances" is tantamount to knowledge that an alien is illegal,
said the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco,
in a 1989 ruling.

In another case, an administrative law judge cited the appellate court ruling
when he fined a restaurant in Phoenix. He said the manager should have noticed
that an employee's name was spelled "Rodriguez" on his driver's license but
"Rodriquez" on his Social Security card.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 24, 1991, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Service to Issue Fines for Phony Work Papers

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 390 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 23


The Immigration and Naturalization Service plans to begin issuing civil fines of
up to $5,000 against anyone caught trafficking in phony documents.

Such documents are now widely available to illegal aliens seeking work.

The fines will apply to anyone who uses, makes or knowingly accepts phony
drivers' licenses, Social Security cards and other forms of identification. The
fines range from $250 to $2,000 for each document on the first offense, and from
$2,000 to $5,000 on the second.

Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas, who added the little-publicized
civil penalties into a 1990 immigration law, said more than half of illegal
aliens who have jobs used fraudulent documents to obtain work.

The widespread availability of such documents has been cited as a factor in
undermining a 1986 law against the hiring of illegal aliens and in a surge in
illegal immigration in the Southwest after three years of decline.

'Hole in Law Enforcement'

"It's not just a sieve; it's a gaping hole in law enforcement today," Mr. Smith
said. "Individuals who are not supposed to be employed in this country are able
to be employed through the use of illegal documents. And if we don't stop the
use of illegal documents, we're not going to stop the employment of illegal
aliens."

The document fraud provisions were added to the 1990 legislation by Mr. Smith
and Senator Alan K. Simpson, a Wyoming Republican, in a House-Senate conference
just before final Congressional passage last fall.

The immigration service recently proposed regulations to carry out the law and
will begin enforcing the fines after the final regulations are issued, probably
by late summer, said an agency spokesman, Duke Austin. The new law allows the
agency to seek the civil fines before administrative law judges.

Mr. Austin said the agency was particularly interested in using its new
authority to go after the producers of fraudulent documents, who could be
subject to large fines depending on the number of documents seized.

"Do we plan on using this law?" Mr. Austin said. "Absolutely. It's another tool
to get the purveyors of these documents."

Karen Miksch, staff lawyer for the National Immigration Law Center in Los
Angeles, said she was afraid that the law could increase discrimination against
foreign-looking job seekers.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 28, 1991, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Rash Remedy on Illegal Aliens

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 487 words


The landmark 1986 immigration law set out to discourage illegal aliens by
turning off the economic magnet and penalizing employers who hire them. Now
opponents of employer sanctions argue that the law has provoked insupportable
discrimination against legal residents who look foreign. They are pressing for a
bill to repeal sanctions sponsored by Senators Orrin Hatch, Utah Republican, and
Edward Kennedy, Massachusetts Democrat.

That represents a rash remedy for an uncertain ailment. The evidence is mixed
and, in any case, proponents of repeal have yet to show why less drastic
alternatives won't work.

The 1986 law was a compromise. It conferred amnesty on hundreds of thousands of
illegal aliens already in the U.S. At the same time, it required employers to
verify the status of new hires, to discourage more illegal immigrants from
coming. Once employers are satisfied that any of about 20 documents that
establish work eligibility, like a Social Security card, are not fraudulent,
they notify the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Department of
Labor.

It's a simple procedure that 80 percent of employers seem to be following. But
last year the General Accounting Office, Congress's investigating agency, found
that about 20 percent of employers avoided hiring people who looked or sounded
foreign rather than risk being penalized.

Opponents of sanctions have seized on the G.A.O.'s finding of a "widespread
pattern of discrimination" to urge repeal. They also cite a 1990 study by the
Urban Institute and the Rand Corporation, two think tanks, concluding that the
flow of illegals has not decreased significantly. If sanctions are causing
discrimination and not discouraging illegals, critics argue, why continue them?

That's the theme of the Hatch-Kennedy proposal. It would repeal sanctions and
increase the number of Border Patrol agents from 3,800 to 6,600. Better control
of the borders is certainly desirable. But it ought not preclude other measures,
short of repealing sanctions, that could lessen the law's discriminatory effect.

The G.A.O., which did not urge repeal, recommended at least two that haven't
been adequately tested. One is better education of employers, which the
Immigration Service has now begun. Another is reducing the number of acceptable
work authorization documents to lessen the likelihood of fraud.
Counterfeit-resistant Social Security cards are gradually being phased in, and
states are experimenting with more secure licenses for drivers. But the
immigration agency has not promoted greater reliance on fewer documents, and its
own records are not always up to date.

Opponents of sanctions -- and all concerned with preserving civil rights -- are
right to be concerned when a Federal law is shown to increase discrimination.
But that's far from clear and, at least until lesser remedies are pursued,
repealing sanctions remains premature.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 23, 1992, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Airlines File Lawsuit Over Alien Detention

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 175 words


Refusing the role of jailers of aliens seeking political asylum, a group of
major American airlines filed suit yesterday to challenge a policy by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service that holds them responsible for detaining
undocumented passengers and stowaways when their planes stop over in the United
States.

In the suit filed in Federal District Court in Washington, the air carriers,
represented by the Air Transport Association of America, charged that the policy
violated Federal law setting a fee system to cover detention costs of
undocumented foreigners.

Immigration authorities, not the airlines, should be responsible for the custody
of all excludable aliens, pending adjudication of asylum claims, the airlines
contend in their action against the immigration service.

"We're willing to work with the I.N.S., but we don't want to be jailers," said
Richard E. Norton, a senior director of the air carriers' association. He said
the airlines screened passengers' documents on departure "but we can't read
their minds."

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 9, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

BORDER CROSSINGS NEAR OLD RECORD; U.S. TO CRACK DOWN

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1109 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 8


Six years after the passage of a law intended to halt the flow of illegal aliens
from Mexico, immigration officials expect that the number of people apprehended
at the border this year may reach or exceed the peak levels recorded before the
law was signed.

In response, the Bush Administration plans to announce a series of stepped-up
enforcement measures to handle what may be more than a million apprehensions
this year. The measures include hiring hundreds of new border patrol agents,
issuing counterfeit-resistant work permits and using military vehicles left over
from the Persian Gulf war to patrol border areas.

Attorney General William P. Barr, who is scheduled to discuss the proposals in a
speech in San Diego on Monday as part of a three-day tour of the southern
border, said in an interview today, "We believe that the combination of
lighting, repairing fences and increased numbers of personnel, all targeted at
the most used routes, will have the promise of significantly reducing the flow."


'Revolving Door'

But immigration experts said that the law-enforcement actions were unlikely to
succeed without moves dealing with the economic disparities between the United
States and Mexico and other countries.

"What this does is speed up the revolving door," said Wayne A. Cornelius,
director of the Center for U.S.-Mexican studies at University of California at
San Diego. "It's a Band-Aid attuned to election-year politics.

"The border patrol will increase the catch rate," he added. "But the deterrent
effect is exceedingly limited. The overriding reality is that the economic
attraction of U.S. employment is still too powerful."

Continuing to Increase

According to the records of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, illegal
immigration continues to increase despite countermeasures like the extension of
a heavy metal fence that immigration officials say will eventually close off
nearly 12 miles along the border south of San Diego, where more than 40 percent
of all apprehensions occur. In a new tactic, some aliens are avoiding the fence
by rushing in groups along the highway through the Mexican-controlled border
crossing used by people exiting the United States.

The immigration records show that after a peak of nearly 1.76 million
apprehensions in the 1986 fiscal year, the number of people caught crossing the
border declined to 954,000 in 1989. But since then apprehensions climbed to 1.13
million last year, and immigration officials say the number this year may
surpass the record in 1986, when Congress passed the Immigration Reform and
Control Act, which requires employers to verify that that workers may legally
work in the United States.

The number of apprehensions represents only a portion of the people actually
entering the United States, although border patrol officials say that some of
the increase in the rate is a result of stepped-up security measures.

The increase has overwhelmed Federal immigration authorities and officials in
some border states say illegal immigration represents a huge financial burden
that they can ill afford in an economic downturn. In California, a crucial state
for Republicans in the November Presidential election, Gov. Pete Wilson, a
Republican, has sought additional measures to curb illegal immigration, saying
it is straining the state's budget for health care, welfare and immigration.

Adding Agents

The immigration service plans this year to add 300 agents to the 2,300-member
force assigned to interdict aliens and drug traffickers along the 1,900-mile
border separating the United States and Mexico. In next year's budget, the
Justice Department is seeking 200 more border patrol agents.

The proposals would provide the agents with new equipment, including
communications gear, sensors, lighting and military vehicles supplied by the
Defense Department to help patrol areas along the border.

The immigration service would also hire 200 more investigation officers,
including 150 to find and deport aliens who have committed crimes in the United
States. The other 50 agents will be assigned to stiffen enforcement of the
Federal sanctions in the 1986 law against employers who knowingly hire illegal
aliens.

In an effort to encourage legal entry, the immigration service will hire 250
temporary workers to reduce the backlog of applications from people seeking
legal residency in the United States. Without additional workers, immigration
officials expect that by the end of the year there will be 1.2 million
applications from people seeking citizenship under the amnesty provisions of the
1990 Immigration Act.

Justice Department officials say they will finance the new package in large part
by shifting money within the existing budget of the immigration service.

President Bush and President Carlos Salinas de Gortari of Mexico have expressed
hope that the free trade agreement they are negotiating would be a step toward a
long-term solution of the problem. But a number of experts believe that even
with the agreement, Mexican wages and employment rates will take years to rise
enough to compete with American salaries.

In the interim, the Bush Administration appears to be relying mainly on
intensifed law enforcement to discourage illegal entries.

Immigration experts say the 1986 law affecting employment has been undercut by
weak enforcement and by widespread use of forged documents used by workers to
establish their eligibility for jobs.

In response, the immigration service will recall 1.5 million alien registration
documents, or green cards, issued before 1970. Those older green cards, used to
prove employment eligibility, are the easiest to counterfeit, immigration
officials say. In their place, the immigration service will issue
counterfeit-resistant documents, charging $70 to reissue the card.

Another measure is intended for those who commit crimes in the United States.
Justice Department officials say of the nearly 65,000 inmates in Federal
institutions, one-quarter -- the majority of them from Mexico -- are
non-citizens. In some court systems, like Orange County in Southern California,
nearly 35 percent of the suspects arraigned are aliens, the officials say.

The Justice Department plans to establish a National Criminal Alien Tracking
Center that would permit law enforcement agencies to contact the immigration
service anytime to identify and track aliens who commit crimes.

The system would be used to more quickly deport aliens upon completion of prison
terms and to allow immigration officials to begin deportation proceedings
against aliens while they are in prison.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Arrested At the Border," tracks people apprehended at the
border, 1986-1991 (Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service) (pg. 34)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 19, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Boom in Fake Identity Cards for Aliens

BYLINE: By ROBERTO SURO,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1302 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Feb. 18


For more than two years, investigators from the Immigration and Naturalization
Service searched for the source of counterfeit documents seized from illegal
aliens in 11 states from Washington to Florida, and when they finally found it
last September in Los Angeles they were amazed at the size of their booty.

In a series of raids, the immigration service seized two printing presses and
more than 250,000 fake identity cards that could be used to circumvent the
Federal law prohibiting the employment of illegal aliens.

Although immigration officials hail the seizure as a major victory because it
dismantled the largest-known counterfeiting operation specializing in
immigration documents, they say it also illustrates the immense problems in
enforcing the law.

As most people who have started new jobs in the last few years know, the
Immigration Control and Reform Act of 1986 requires employers to ask new workers
for proof of citizenship or legal residency. The legislation was aimed at
denying illegal aliens the jobs that draw them to the United States, but an
underground industry in the production and sale of counterfeit identity papers
has undermined the law significantly.

New 'Green Card' Planned

The Bush Administration last week announced a package of measures intended to
toughen enforcement of immigration laws. The Administration said it plans to
hire more Border Patrol agents and investigators and to issue resident aliens a
new identity document, or "green card," which officials say will be
counterfeit-resistant.

With the detentions of illegal aliens expected to surpass a million this year,
approaching records set before the law's enactment, Federal officials and
immigration experts warn that making the law more effective will be difficult.

"Many suspected it from the start, but now it is increasingly apparent that
document fraud is the rock on which employer sanctions could founder unless the
Government is willing to tackle some very nettlesome issues," said Michael Fix,
an immigration specialist at the Urban Institute, a Washington policy analysis
organization.

Under the 1986 law, anyone who knowingly employs an illegal alien is subject to
penalities ranging from $250 fines to six months in prison.

The product of nearly a decade of debate, the 1986 law was a basket of
legislative compromises. Among them was the decision not to require employers to
verify the validity of documents presented to them. Instead, employers are
liable only if they accept blatantly fraudulent papers.

Congress also decided to allow the use of existing documents rather than
creating a single new one for all workers because proposals to create a new
national identity card were opposed on constitutional and civil rights grounds.

Report Cards Are Valid

There are 29 documents that can be used in various combinations to satisfy the
law, including a dozen issued by the immigration service itself. Others include
Social Security cards, driver's licenses and even school report cards for those
under 18 years old.

"Ironically, it is the very high rate of compliance with the law that we are
getting from employers that has helped produce a tremendous increase in the use
of false documents, because with the great majority of employers following the
law there is no other way for illegal aliens to find work," said Gary Renwick,
assistant director for investigations in the immigration service's San Antonio
district.

When the law was enacted in 1986, the immigration agency was catching more than
1.7 million illegal aliens a year. Then the numbers began to drop, and after
employer sanctions went into effect on Nov. 6, 1988, the cases were cut almost
in half. But by 1990 the numbers were rising again, and last year the total went
to 1.13 million.

Although these figures offer only a rough gauge of a trend, many immigration
experts contend that employer sanctions have lost their bite because
high-quality false documents are widely available at low prices.

In Los Angeles, for example, street vendors, for about $50, offer a basic packet
including a Social Security card and some sort of identity document like a
voter's registration card; in Houston, an alien registration card goes for about
$250, immigration officials say.

With stepped-up enforcement, the immigration agency can point to many types of
immigration frauds that have been exposed in recent months.

Last summer, agents arrested two doctors who, officials say, headed a ring in
the Laredo, Tex., area selling Texas birth certificates for $1,200 each.  In
December they secured indictments against eight members of a ring in Atlanta
that smuggled in aliens from the Far East and established new counterfeit
identities for them for $50,000.

The organization that was dismantled with the big seizure in Los Angeles,
however, is most often the type doing the most damage to employer sanctions,
immigration officials say.

John Brechtel, assistant director for investigations in the immigration
service's Los Angeles district, estimated that more than a million aliens may
have bought documents produced by the Los Angeles ring.

"We ran it very much like a drug operation," Mr. Brechtel said. "Starting at the
street level, we made undercover buys and worked up to the top."

Forms by the Truckload

Along the way, he said, the investigators uncovered a nationwide network of
retail vendors; local distributors, who ran "mills" where the cards were
customized for buyers, and wholesalers who boasted that they could deliver blank
forms by the truckload.

On the night of Sept. 24, Mr. Brechtel said, investigators arranged to buy more
than 4,000 blank cards from one wholesaler and then followed him to a printing
shop on Pico Boulevard.

Hours later, with the ink still wet, the final undercover purchase was made and
the raids began. Seven people were initially arrested, including the printer,
Hyun Bae Suh, a Korean citizen. All have since pleaded guilty to at least one
false-documents charge. The search for the rest of the organization continues.

"For about three weeks after we took down the print shop no one was doing
business on the street because it was so big, but it was only one of many
operations, and the supply came right back," Mr. Brechtel said.

Credit-Card Technology

With the measures announced last week by Attorney General William P. Barr, the
Government will try to get to the root of the document problem with some of the
same technology now widely used to combat credit card fraud.

This year the immigration agency will start replacing the 1.5 million oldest
green cards, those easiest to counterfeit, with new ones that will include a
hologram design and a magnetic strip that can be read electronically.

The next step will be to issue new cards to the other 5.5 million resident
aliens. But Mr. Shaw said all these documents would simply become another target
for counterfeiters unless there was a telephone verification system available to
employers.

A pilot program for such a verification system is to begin this year with 10
employers in 10 cities. The employers will punch the number on a prospective
worker's green card into a computerized data base that would certify the
validity of the card.

But even with a secure system of identifying legal immigrants, people can still
claim to be citizens with only a Social Security card and driver's license to
back them up.

"I do not see much political stomach in Washington to take on the national
identity card issue, or even for spending a lot more money on immigration," said
George Vernez, co-director of the immigration program at the Rand Corporation, a
California research institute. "So the question is whether controlling illegal
immigration really is a national priority."

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Los
Angeles examining a printing press confiscated during a raid last year. The
printing press was used to make counterfeit documents. (Immigration and
Naturalization Service)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 7, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Detaining the Wrong Aliens

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 386 words


Foreigners seeking political asylum who arrive in the U.S. without proper papers
are detained without a hearing in Federal jails. But illegal aliens who have
committed crimes and served time in state prisons are released without being
picked up for deportation by Federal authorities. Both policies need to be
reversed.

Before 1980, the Federal Government sensibly allowed refugees seeking asylum to
remain free until their cases were adjudicated. Only those who might flee or
posed a threat to safety or security were detained. That presumption was
reversed when many Cubans and Haitians arrived in 1980 and 1981. Many were
detained pending a determination that they were genuine political refugees.
Since 1982, the Immigration Service has required detention for virtually any
undocumented alien stopped upon entering the country.

About 7,500 people are now detained; half seek protection as refugees, the rest
are mainly illegal immigrants who may be subject to deportation. They are
typically held under harsh conditions with limited access to attorneys or
outside communication. Such detention is deplorable and unnecessary.
Experimental releases of detainable aliens shows they do not disappear. Under a
1990 pilot program, 127 asylum applicants were released on their own
recognizance in New York. More than 90 percent complied with reporting
requirements and court appearances.

Meanwhile, the Federal Government is irresponsibly casual in handling illegal
aliens who commit local and state crimes. In 1990, an estimated 188 known
illegal aliens were released from New York state prisons, but not picked up and
detained by Immigration. Instead of facing deportation, these aliens have
disappeared.

Before release, illegal aliens who have committed crimes contribute to
overcrowding in state prisons. New York State's prisons, already operating at
121 percent of capacity, house nearly 1,500 illegal aliens at an annual cost of
$38 million. The Federal Government could ease the overcrowding by holding
deportation hearings for them while they are in state custody.

The Federal policy toward undocumented aliens is exactly backward. It should
detain and deport those who have been convicted of committing crimes and free
those seeking refugee protection while they await their day in court.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 28, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Albany Sues U.S. on Aliens Held in Prison

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 690 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 27


New York State sued the Federal Government today, demanding that it begin to
take custody of thousands of illegal aliens that the state says it is being
forced to house in its prisons.

The lawsuit, filed by State Attorney General Robert Abrams in Federal District
Court in Albany, contends that the United States Immigration and Naturalization
Service is violating a 1990 law by failing to take custody of illegal aliens who
have served time in state prisons for aggravated felonies and are eligible for
parole or work-release programs.

Under the law, the suit charges, the Federal Government is supposed to take
charge of these inmates and begin deportation proceedings against them. But all
too often, state officials said, the immigration service fails to do that,
leaving New York State with no choice but either to release the convicts back
into the streets once they have served their terms, where they are often
arrested for new crimes, or to continue housing them at a cost to the state of
about $100 million a year.

New York State's prison system is operating at 122 percent of capacity, and
state officials estimate that at least 1,604 of the 59,300 prisoners in the
system are illegal aliens. An additional 2,408 are foreign-born prisoners whose
alien status is unknown to the immigration service, making it likely that they
are in this country illegally, the state says. In all, the state says, there are
3,379 inmates in the system who should end up in Federal custody.

Could Affect Other States

New York is the first state to sue in an effort to force the Federal Government
to take custody of its illegal aliens. The lawsuit could also affect other
states like California and Texas, whose prison systems house large numbers of
illegal aliens.

The lawsuit was filed today by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo; Thomas A. Coughlin 3d, the
State Commissioner of Correctional Services, and Raul Russi, chairman of the
State Division of Parole. It names as defendants William P. Barr, the United
States Attorney General, and Gene McNary, Commissioner of the Federal
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

A spokesman for the Justice Department, Douglas Tillett, said the department had
no comment on the lawsuit.

Commissioner Coughlin, speaking from Washington, where he was attending a
conference on prison overcrowding sponsored by the Justice Department, said it
was quite clear that the Federal Government was violating the 1990 law.

He said the state was forced to file the lawsuit after a letter he sent in
February to Attorney General Barr and Commissioner McNary that threatened the
suit elicited no response.

'Wasn't Very Helpful'

Though Mr. Coughlin said Mr. Barr seemed to be responsive to his concerns, the
Commissioner added that he had met with immigration officials today and that the
meeting "wasn't very helpful."

"McNary said that he couldn't obey the law because he has no money, which in my
opinion is not a professional thing to say," Mr. Coughlin said. "Federal judges
have told me for years that money is not an issue when it comes to obeying the
law."

Under one proposal to alleviate the prison problem, a bill sponsored by two New
York lawmakers, Congressman Charles E. Schumer, a Democrat, and Senator Alfonse
M. D'Amato, a Republican, the Federal Government would convert three closed
military bases into prisons, which could then be used to house up to 4,500 of
the most violent illegal-alien criminals.

The bill would also authorize $100 million a year in Federal aid to the states
for incarcerating the remaining 35,000 alien inmates and would allow the states
to transfer nonviolent offenders to the immigration service to be deported
instead of imprisoned.

"The Federal Government in the last decade has been willing to pawn off any
problem on the states and blame them for it," Mr. Schumer said in an interview.
"They're aware of this -- they just say they don't have enough resources or
ability to do what has to be done about illegal criminal aliens. But it makes no
sense for the Federal Government to just put its head in the sand and say, 'This
is not our problem.' "

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 5, 1991, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Simple Justice for Aliens

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 376 words


Amnesty for undocumented aliens was a humane and vital part of the Immigration
Reform and Control Act of 1986. The act offered some three million illegal
immigrants release from an underworld culture and gave Congress a basis for
controlling the borders and deciding who should live here in the future.

The program's broad success was marred, however, by arbitrary procedures that
denied as many as a quarter of a million aliens a fair decision on their
eligibility for legitimate status. Last week, the Supreme Court, attentive to
Congress's generous purpose, moved decisively to correct the arbitrariness of
hostile bureaucrats.

By a 7-to-2 margin, the Court ruled that Immigration and Naturalization Service
legalization procedures are subject to Federal court review when those
procedures violate the norms of fairness. Applicants for amnesty thus have a
right, from Congress if not from the Constitution, to the due process of law
already available to citizens and legally resident aliens.

Congress legalized immigrants who could show they had lived in the United States
since 1982 and aliens who had done 90 days of farm work in the previous year. It
called for a hearing and appeal process that would be simple and lean but never
contemplated the denials of rights found in some regional offices of the
Immigration Service.

For example, some examiners routinely refused to provide competent translators
(in Haitian Creole and Spanish) for the crucial applicant interviews. They
violated their agency's own rules by refusing to hear the applicants' witnesses.
They disallowed employment evidence from certain contractors they suspected of
fraud but kept the blacklist secret from the applicants until lawyers for the
workers discovered it in litigation.

The Immigration Service argued that such a lawsuit was precluded by the lean
appeals process provided for each case -- a cold, narrow view that the Supreme
Court said wasn't even technically correct. If Congress meant to be so harsh,
the majority found, it knew how to say so.

The Court has now cleared the way to an orderly cleanup of the amnesty programs.
And it has fulfilled its function of insuring that a landmark act of Congress is
enforced faithfully and humanely.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 2, 1991, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Aliens Law Shouldn't Lead to Fear of Hiring

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 585 words


To the Editor:

Your Aug. 7 article on recent increased enforcement of sanctions against
employers of illegal aliens points out contradictions and challenges of the
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, which aimed to welcome illegal
immigrants with histories of residence and employment in the United States
through "amnesty" and to discourage employment of new arrivals through fines for
employers of illegal aliens.

You mention that a General Accounting Office report showed widespread employment
discrimination against legal immigrants as a result of the sanctions [some
editions].

Employer sanctions were opposed by Hispanic, immigrant and other civil rights
groups including the Hermandad Mexicana Nacional during the debate preceding
passage of the 1986 legislation. Those groups have described the law as the only
piece of legislation in United States history that institutionalizes employment
discrimination against a minority. Much of immigration-related discrimination
would disappear with the repeal of sanctions.

As long as employer sanctions are with us, however, our best chance of assuring
equal employment opportunity in this country is to support and heed the Justice
Department's campaign of public education regarding the antidiscrimination
provisions of the 1986 legislation. The department's Office of Special Counsel,
through a national competition begun last year, awards grants to community
agencies to inform workers and employers on their rights and responsibilities
with regard to the hiring of work-authorized immigrants, refugees and those
granted asylum.

Thanks to these public education efforts, immigrants in communities where grants
have been made are learning to identify discrimination, and employers in
violation of the anti
discrimination provisions are being investigated and prosecuted. Employers who
ask for work-authorization documents at the time of application, rather than
waiting until the time of hiring, or who are "playing it safe" and hiring only
native-born applicants, are among those subject to penalties for discrimination.

Since discriminatory practices are the result of lack of understanding of the
1986 law and fear of sanctions on the part of employers, the public information
campaign aims to provide the business community with accurate and up-to-date
information, so that employers can offer foreign-born job applicants the same
opportunities as natives.

The Office of Special Counsel's public education program is thus of mutual
benefit to immigrants and employers. It will allow immigrants to continue to
make the contribution to the United States economy they have made historically,
and it will enable the business community to make informed and optimal decisions
in the hiring of new employees.

The program, with little more than $1 million available this year, is working
well in communities where public education grants have been awarded, but it
needs and deserves more resources. To educate all those who look foreign or who
speak English with an accent, as well as every employer with four or more
employees in this country, is an enormous challenge.

The Justice Department has taken on that challenge, but with modest funds. Upon
the success of its public education campaign depends not only the economic
advancement of America's newest residents and their employers, but also our
society's well-being.

MARGO CORONA DE LEY
President, Hermandad Mexicana
Nacional Legal Center
Chicago, Aug. 12, 1991

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 21, 1991, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

BILL WOULD ALTER IMMIGRATION LAW

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 612 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20


Senator Orrin G. Hatch introduced legislation today to repeal sanctions against
employers who hire illegal immigrants, saying the provisions of the 1986
immigration act had resulted in increased discrimination against Asian and
Hispanic Americans and unnecessary paperwork for employers.

Mr. Hatch, a Utah Republican who is one of the Senate's prominent conservatives,
was joined as a co-sponsor by Senator Edward M. Kennedy, one of the leading
liberals. In enacting the 1986 law, Senator Kennedy said, "We aimed at illegal
aliens, but we hit law-abiding Americans."

They said employers reacted to the law by avoiding hiring people who looked like
aliens or who had foreign-sounding names.

The provision requiring employers to verify that workers are not illegal
immigrants was a crucial section of the 1986 act. It was intended to discourage
aliens from coming to the United States illegally by making work unavailable to
them. It was a legislative compromise for amnesty provisions that allowed many
illegal immigrants to remain in the United States.

More Border Guards Sought

Today Mr. Hatch and Mr. Kennedy, joined by 10 other Senators, and Representative
Bill Richardson, Democrat of New Mexico, proposed a substantial increase in
manpower for the Border Patrol as a better way to halt illegal immigration.

The challenged provisions require employers to verify employees' citizenship or
status as legal aliens and allow fines of up to $2,000 for each employed illegal
alien. They were accepted reluctantly by supporters of Hispanic Americans, and
Mr. Richardson said they were assured at the time that the provisions would be
repealed if they proved discriminatory.

One of the provisions' authors, Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming,
today denounced the Hatch-Kennedy proposal, saying that if it was adopted the
message would be, "The U.S. is no longer very serious at all about controlling
its borders."

Mr. Simpson, the Senate Republican whip, said that reports of discrimination
caused by the act were exaggerated, and that discrimination had existed long
before the act was passed. He said the proposal to increase the Border Patrol's
agents to 6,600 from 3,800 was not a serious one because Mr. Hatch did not say
where the money to pay for them would come from.

Mr. Kennedy is chairman of the Immigration Subcommittee of the Senate Judiciary
Committee, and Mr. Simpson is its only Republican member. A spokesman for the
third member, Senator Paul Simon of Illinois, said he would take no position on
the issue until hearings were held.

Administration Opposes Repeal

Mr. Hatch said, "I hope the Administration will come along in time," but he
acknowledged that it now opposed the repeal. A spokesman for the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
said the federation was also opposed to repeal, although some individual unions
favor it.

An effort to repeal the sanctions last year did not get out of Mr. Kennedy's
subcommittee. One possibility short of outright repeal is legislation to
simplify the paperwork involved for employers.

Mr. Simpson proposed, as he has in the past, "some kind of universal identifier"
document. The suggestion of a national identity card has been rejected by
Congress as implicitly totalitarian, but one Congressional source said today
that it might be possible to reduce the number of acceptable documents and
thereby reduce employer discretion and confusion about identifying legal aliens.
If a driver's license, a Social Security card or an immigration document were
the only acceptable documents, he said, the burden would be much simpler. At
least a dozen other documents are now acceptable, he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 26, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Traffic in Fake Documents Is Blamed For New Rise in Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: By ROBERTO SURO, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1549 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Nov. 25


Four years after a new immigration law brought about a steady decline in the
number of illegal aliens caught crossing the southern border, the number has
turned sharply upward as illegal aliens and those who help smuggle them have
widely circumvented the law with counterfeit documents.

The 1986 law, the Immigration Reform and Control Act, sought to weaken the
economic magnet that draws illegal aliens to the United States by prohibiting
the employment of people who cannot document their immigration or citizenship
status. The law was backed up with stiff fines on employers who hire illegal
aliens.

But a growing number of scholars and policy makers have recently concluded that
the law's deterrent effect was only temporary and that its impact has been
rapidly wearing off this year.

'Just One More Hurdle'

"Employer sanctions may have seemed a real barrier at first, but now they are
just one more hurdle to overcome," said Wayne A. Cornelius, director of the
Center for United States-Mexican Studies at the University of California at San
Diego. "We seemed to have turned a corner with that perception sometime last
year, and the widespread use of fraudulent documents appears to be a major
factor."

Before the law was enacted, detentions of people crossing the southern border
reached more than 1.6 million a year, provoking the Reagan Administration to
declare the border "out of control." After three years of steadily declining,
the number detained rose to about 850,000 in the fiscal year that ended in
September 1989.

Recently released statistics for the 12 months ending this September showed that
more than 1 million illegal aliens were caught crossing the border, an increase
of more than 22 percent over the previous year. Although the numbers are subject
to varying interpretations, they are widely regarded as an indicator of the
surreptitious human traffic across the border.

The Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Gene McNary,
said in a telephone interview that part of the increase in apprehensions was
attributable to an increased law enforcement effort along the border. "That's
one explanation," he said. "I don't believe it explains everything because we
know that we've got more fraudulent documents and we know that we have more
pressure because of the economic situation in Mexico."

Renewed Discussions on Policy

In recent months discussions have begun in Congress, the immigration service and
elsewhere in Washington over whether the 1986 law is fundamentally flawed or
whether it simply needs to be enforced differently.

The rising figures on detentions are only one reason that sanctions against
employers are coming under renewed scrutiny. Last March the General Accounting
Office, the investigative arm of Congress, issued a report finding that the
sanctions had caused "a widespread pattern of discrimination" against people who
look or sound like foreigners. Many employers admitted to being so confused
about the law that they simply did not hire anyone who might be an alien.

For the people who police the border there is little doubt about where to find
the major weakness of the 1986 law. Many of the aliens they apprehend carry it
in their hip pockets or purses.

"We've been seeing the apprehension numbers going up, and at the same time we've
been seeing more and more people carrying fraudulent documents," said Dale A.
Musegades, chief agent for the Border Patrol's El Paso sector. "And the quality
of the documents has been improving, too.

"It's no different than when we put manpower in one spot and they simply move
someplace else. They've adapted to employer sanctions and found a way around
it."

Adaptation to New Requirements

For the most part the sanctions against employers, usually in the form of fines,
have been imposed when the immigration service believes that an employer
knowingly and repeatedly hired illegal aliens.

Since the law allows workers to use 17 types of documents to prove their
legitimate status and an employer need not verify the authenticity of the
papers, "an illegal can present a good set of fake ID and an employer will be
fairly blameless in hiring him," Mr. Musegades said.

As a measure of how sophisticated the market for fraudulent papers has become,
officials pointed to a counterfeiting operation uncovered in Harlingen, Tex.,
earlier this month. Joseph De La Cruz, an agent in the Border Patrol station in
Laredo, said a laser scanning device had been used to produce nearly perfect
copies of several kinds of documents, including Social Security cards that sold
for $20 apiece in bulk.

Counterfeits in Quantity

The size of the market was demonstrated by the seizure of single cache of more
than 25,000 fraudulent documents in Houston last January, Mr. De La Cruz said.

The increased use of fraudulent documents to circumvent sanctions against
employers has renewed a longstanding debate over whether the Government needs
some means to check the identities of all the people living in this country.

"I don't think that we can give up on employer sanctions yet, but we better
start realizing that eventually we are going to have to face up to the document
issue," said Doris Meissner, an immigration specialist at the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace, a research institute in Washington.

In the initial debate over the 1986 law, Congress overwhelmingly rejected
national identity documents as a step toward totalitarian controls. This year
more modest proposals encountered equally fierce resistance.

Resistance From Many Quarters

For example, there have been numerous proposals for some kind of telephone
verification system that would allow employers to check the validity of an
identity document just as credit cards are often checked during a transaction.
But so far, the Bush Administration has opposed such widespread public use of
Government data.

Meanwhile, some important lawmakers have begun to question whether the sweeping
program to revise immigration policy that began with the 1986 law is suffering a
major setback just as it reaches its conclusion.

By sharply reducing illegal immigration the 1986 law was intended to lay the
groundwork for the measure adopted by Congress just last month, which increased
legal immigration by about 40 percent with most of the new visas going to people
valued for their job skills.

During the debate on the most recent bill, Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican
of Wyoming, who helped draft both immigration laws, pointed to the increased
number of apprehensions as showing problems with the program. "We must face the
fact that we have not yet closed that back door," he said. "In fact, we are
still leaving the back door open while considering prying open the front door
much wider."

At a Border Patrol detention office along the Rio Grande in El Paso, sanctions
against employers seemed to be accepted as a fact of life by the men and women
who were brought in one day this month after being caught crossing the river
illegally.

Smiling and rubbing the dark stubble on his cheeks, a young man who identified
himself as Carlos Garcia, said, "I know about the law, but it doesn't bother
me." Waiting in a holding cell with about a dozen others to be sent back across
the bridge to Mexico, he said that he could not remember how many border
crossings he had made but that there had been dozens. This was the third time he
had been caught, he said.

Whenever he went north, he said, he always managed to find work of some kind.
"If you have friends you can mow lawns or something like that, and if you want
something better you buy an ID to show the boss," he said.

Numbers Open to Speculation

Just how many people are coming through the back door is a subject of much
analysis and speculation.

There is no way to count the number of people who cross the border
surreptitiously, and the number of people caught can fluctuate because of many
factors aside from the actual number illegally crossing, including changes in
staffing levels by the Border Patrol.

Studies published this year by two research organizations, the Rand Corporation
and the Urban Institute, concluded from analyses of the apprehension figures
that sanctions against employers could be credited with reducing the number of
illegal entries by roughly 20 percent to 25 percent in first three years after
enactment.

"Since then, and especially this year, we've seen the trend change and now the
flow seems to be increasing," said Frank D. Bean, a sociologist who helped
conduct the Urban Institute Study. "This calls into question whether sanctions
have had any permanent impact."

But Representative Bruce A. Morrison, Democrat of Connecticut, who sponsored the
House version of this year's immigration law, was reluctant to draw any
conclusions from the recent rise in apprehensions. "It is hard to tell whether
changes in those numbers reflect changes in reality or changes in policy at the
I.N.S.," he said. "They are too easy to manipulate."

Nonetheless, Mr. Morrison questioned the effectiveness of the 1986 law. "It's
not easy to know the potential of employer sanctions because they've never been
effectively enforced by the I.N.S.," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: People apprehended while entering the country illegally from '86
to '90 (Source: U.S. Border Patrol)

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 2, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Help for Salvadorans, With a Catch

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 30; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1045 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 1


For those daring enough to grasp it, the United States is offering a hand of
welcome, though an ambiguous one, to hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants
from El Salvador.

The broad immigration law signed Thursday by President Bush offers among its
provisions an 18-month "safe haven" to Salvadorans who have illegally entered
the United States. But to qualify for safety, they must make their presence
known to the Government, and at the end of the 18 months they return to their
former status, illegal alien.

Those who register by July will win the right to live and work in the United
States, with all the benefits of legal residents. But after 18 months, with
their names and addresses in the hands of the authorities, they become subject
to possible deportation.

The safe-haven provision represents a victory for immigrants' rights advocates,
who have sought protection for El Salvadorans fleeing the military and political
strife in their country, said Guillermo Rodenzo, executive director of El
Rescate, a private legal and social services group in Los Angeles. But he said,
"It is not clear whether the implementation of the legislation will have a
negative or positive impact on the Salvadoran community."

Confronting a Quandary

The law presents groups like his with a quandary. "We'd like to say: 'This is
great. Do register and don't worry,' " Mr. Rodenzo said. "But we just can't do
that because we don't think it is that wonderful."

But Frank Sherry, an immigration advocate in Washington, said, "The fear that
people live with on a daily basis is so overwhelming and debilitating that the
opportunity to live free and work safely for 18 months or more is a benefit that
may be worth the risk."

Duke Austin, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Washington, noted that the safe-haven provision was intended only to meet what
was seen as an immediate need, a humanitarian gesture to provide a respite for
people fleeing war.

"There has never been anything said about granting them permanent residence," he
said.

Indeed, the provision includes language making it difficult for a person who
accepts safe-haven status to apply to stay permanently.

A paradox at the heart of the provision is that the United States is offering a
haven for refugees fleeing a Government and a military that Washington supports
and helps to finance.

The safe-haven provision is one of several innovations in the immigration law,
which also raises quotas for highly skilled immigrants, enlarges the number of
Europeans and Africans to be admitted, and ends certain barriers, including
those blocking Communists, homosexuals and people with AIDS.

Rule Could Be Extended

The attorney general is empowered to extend the safe haven longer than 18
months, or allow it to lapse. If the time is extended, it is unclear whether
immigrants who had chosen to remain underground could then apply.

One of the El Salvadoran immigrants who now faces the decision is Andres
Candido, a 51-year-old farmer who said he fled El Salvador two years ago to
escape retribution for anti-government activities.

He has turned for counsel to Madeline Janis, executive director of the Central
American Refugee Center in Los Angeles. At seminars for El Salvadoran
immigrants, her group is urging them to think before registering.

"The military killed some of my brothers because they were with me in a
cooperative," Mr. Candido said. "My family and I spent eight years in hiding,
moving from place to place, and we were running out of places to hide."

In America, he said, he has found political freedom but economic hardship. Apart
from six months' work as a security guard, Mr. Candido has been unemployed and
needs relatives' help to support his wife and two daughters.

After 18 Months, What?

"We all want work permits," he said of his fellow immigrants, "but we would like
to know what the Government is going to do after 18 months. If they are going to
deport us, then maybe it is better for us to remain as we are and not turn
ourselves in."

But he added, "I think there are people who will apply out of desperation."

Ms. Janis said 400,000 to 500,000 El Salvadoran immigrants live in Los Angeles,
most of them without legal status. They represent perhaps half of all
Salvadorans in the United States.

The Salvadorans are only part of a huge wave of Mexican and Central American
immigrants who have entered the country illegally in recent years, but they have
been singled out for safe haven because of the fighting in their country.

"There are people who are fleeing the general conditions and are in danger of
the general violence, and there are people who are a little more active in
politics and perhaps labor issues," said Nils Frenzen, a lawyer with a private
legal assistance group, Public Counsel, adding, "Everyone in El Salvador is in
some degree of danger."

Nevertheless, the United States rejects all but about 2 percent of El Salvadoran
applications for political asylum, say immigrant-rights advocates.

An Underground Society

The result is a large underground society here of people who share low-cost
housing and work illegally at low-paying jobs, with little prospect of achieving
legal residence.

"I think many will participate simply because it will allow them for 18 months
and perhaps longer to leave their house every day without having to look both
ways for the immigration agent," said Mr. Sherry, executive director of the
National Immigration, Refugee and Citizenship Forum, a coalition of groups in
Washington.

"It will allow them to stand up to their boss who has been refusing to pay
overtime or making them work in poor conditions, to stand up to the landlord who
used to threaten to turn them in while gouging them with the rent, to go to
their child's school and talk to the teachers without the fear of being
reported," he said.

Dr. Rodenzo at El Rescate, a physician who fled the war in El Salvador in 1980,
said that for people who live with hardship, immediate needs can outweight
longterm risks.

"Life has been very hard for them and people think, 'What do I do right now in
order to survive?' " he said. "The consequences of 18 months are very far away."


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Faced with a decision on whether to seek temporary legal staus,
Andres Candido, his wife, Maria, and daughters, Elizabeth and Elva, background,
soughtadvice at Central American Refugee Center in Los Angeles. Mr. Candido said
he fled El Savador two years ago to escape retribution from the military. (Bart
Bartholomew for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 4, 1990, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Fight Is Intensified on Fake Documents for Aliens

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1236 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 3


Armando Huerta arrived here two months ago from Mexico and, like many of the
illegal aliens who continue to come to Southern California, went almost
immediately to a seedy part of Alvarado Street near downtown Los Angeles.

There, Mr. Huerta said, he quickly found a man who offered to sell him fake
identity papers. Mr. Huerta told the man he could afford to pay $19 - he had $20
but he needed to save $1 for the bus - and the deal was quickly struck. In a few
minutes the 23-year-old Mr. Huerta had a counterfeit ''green card'' and Social
Security card, allowing him to get temporary jobs in restaurants and
construction.

Now Mr. Huerta is looking for a permanent job in a factory, and is settling in
as a member of the region's huge illegal work force.

The Most Pressing Problem

The ease with which Mr. Huerta and other newly arrived illegal immigrants can
buy fraudulent documents and use them to find jobs has become one of the most
pressing problems Government officials face as they try to enforce the nation's
1986 immigration law.

As long as illegal immigrants believe they can find jobs and relative prosperity
in the United States, experts say, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
will continue to have difficulty stemming the flow of illegal aliens from Mexico
and other economically distressed nations to the south.

''This is the premier fraud problem facing the immigration service,'' said Lynn
Nelson-Paretta, the service's senior special agent for investigations in
Washington.

The 1986 law, the Immigration Reform and Control Act, gave many illegal aliens
already in the United States a chance to become legal residents. But it was also
meant to choke off further illegal immigration by making it more difficult for
illegal aliens to find jobs.

Proof From Job Applicants

The law requires employers to demand proof from job applicants of their right to
work in the United States, through documents like passports, driver's licenses,
Social Security cards and immigration papers. Employers found not to have
required such proof face fines or prison sentences.

Immigration officials say a vast majority of employers are meeting the law's
requirements by demanding documentation from prospective employees. In fact,
some employers are so fearful of the law's penalties, or so biased, that they
refuse to hire any aliens.

A study made public earlier this year by the General Accounting Office, the
investigative arm of Congress, found a ''widespread pattern of discrimination''
against people with a ''foreign appearance or accent.''

But other employers who are willing to check into an applicant's documentation
have no legal incentive for doing so. The law does not require employers to
verify the authenticity of documents, nor does it provide an easy way for them
to do so.

It's 'a Mushrooming Industry'

With fraudulent documents so readily available, officials say, employers in
regions and industries that have long relied on a low-wage illegal work force
are still hiring large numbers of illegal aliens, sometimes knowingly and
sometimes unknowingly.

''This loophole in the law has created a mushrooming industry of falsified
documents,'' said Jorge Bustamante, president of the College of the Northern
Border, in Tijuana, who has done extensive research on illegal immigration.

Counterfeiting is a problem in every city that attracts large numbers of illegal
aliens, officials said, but such activity is very brisk in Los Angeles.

A Survey of Illegal Aliens

To gauge how widespread is the use of fraudulent documents, the immigration
service surveyed 900 aliens who were arrested at work places last year. Of those
900, 233 admitted having counterfeit Social Security cards and 142 admitted
having a fake ''green card,'' the common name for a permanent residency
document. Officials said the survey probably understated the number of aliens
with fake documents.

Prices for such documents vary widely. Most new arrivals can buy a green card
and a Social Security card for $20 or more in central Los Angeles, with prices
generally higher in other regions, investigators said.

More elaborate documents, like the card used to identify an alien as someone who
has completed the first step in the process of becoming a citizen under the 1986
law, can cost at least $500. Fraudulent birth certificates and driver's licenses
are also widely available on the street.

''Some employers even refer the undocumented immigrants to where they can get
falsfied documents,'' Mr. Bustamante said. ''They are interested in reducing the
cost of labor, and they can comply with the law by just seeing a document, any
document.''

A Glance From the Bosses

After arriving here a year ago from Mexico, Guillermo Jacobo Abunader looked for
day work with gardeners, construction companies and other employers who hire men
from street corners without asking for documentation. But that type of work,
which pays less than a steady job, is not always available. So Mr. Abunader
bought a fake Social Security card and green card.

''It's much easier to find work with papers,'' he said. ''The bosses just want
you to show them something. They just glance at them and are satisfied.''

The immigration service is developing a pilot program to allow employers to
phone in and verify the documents being provided by job applicants. The agency
is also considering recalling all old versions of the green card, including the
mid-1970's version that counterfeiters have found particularly easy to copy.

For now, immigration officials say they are aggressively pursuing cases
involving fraudulent documents. William M. Griffen, the supervisory special
agent in charge of the immigration service's anti-fraud efforts in Los Angeles,
said the office had obtained 129 felony convictions on document-fraud charges in
the fiscal year ended last Sept. 30.

The pace of convictions this year is running slightly ahead of last year's, Mr.
Griffen said, with 101 cases successfully prosecuted throught the first nine
months of the fiscal year.

Search for the Counterfeiter

The agency's ultimate goal is to arrest the counterfeiters who are producing the
false documents. But in most cases investigators must work their way back up a
chain from the document sellers on the street through a variety of distributors
before they can identify the counterfeiter.

In a recent case, immigration investigators bought counterfeit documents from a
husband and wife team selling documents from a street corner in the Los Angeles
suburb of Inglewood. Investigators followed the husband to the apartment of
another couple in south-central Los Angeles, where the falsified documents were
prepared by placing the buyer's name and picture on the counterfeit documents.

Investigators raided the apartment and found 4,000 blank counterfeit documents,
$12,000 in cash and a stolen gun, said John Torres, a special agent for the
immigration service in Los Angeles. From there investigators were able to trace
the suppliers of one particular counterfeit identity card and arrest them as
well.

Although the case resulted in three guilty pleas and one conviction on felony
charges involving the possession of selling of falsified documents,
investigators have not yet been able to find their ultimate target, the
counterfeiter who made most of the documents being sold by those who were
arrested.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: William M. Griffen, the supervisory special agent for the
immigration service's antifraud efforts in Los Angeles, said the office had
obtained 129 felony convictions on document-fraud charges in the fiscal year
ended last Sept. 30. He is shown with fake identifications (Bart Bartholomew for
The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 7, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Agency Loses Boston Deportation Case

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 37, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 420 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Oct. 6


Two years after dozens of Hispanic people were rounded up at a racetrack,
lawyers say they have won a major victory over government officials who tried to
deport the people without proving they were illegal aliens.

The case was widely viewed as a test of alien rights. The defendants refused to
answer questions about how and when they entered the country, citing the Fifth
Amendment right against compelled self-incrimination.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service argued that the silence, on its own,
demonstrated that the defendants were illegal aliens. Last year, an immigration
judge agreed.

But the Federal Board of Immigration Appeals reversed that ruling three weeks
ago, ending the deportation proceedings against one of the defendants.

On Friday, lawyers who teamed up to fight the immigration service's move
gathered to discuss the decision. While it involved only one defendant, the
decision applies to all the others, said Dan Kanstroom, a Boston College law
professor who assisted in the appeal.

The clients can choose to have their deportation proceedings terminated or they
can take other steps, like seeking political asylum, Mr. Kanstroom said. The
appeals board said the immigration service's approach would shift the burden of
proof at a deportation proceeding.

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the immigration serice, said Friday that agency
officials were still reviewing the board's decision and had not decided what
action to take.

Since the decision, people have come forward to say Federal immigration
officials used similar tactics in other cases, Mr. Kanstroom said.

But he said the Boston case was the first national test of this strategy. ''It's
very important that it stopped here,'' he said. Daniel Levy, staff attorney at
the National Immigration Law Center in Los Angeles, said if the Government's
arguments had been upheld, it would have significantly broadened the powers of
the immigration service.

''They would have been able to stop anybody on the street, send them to court,
and if the person remains quiet, the person could be deported,'' Mr. Levy said
in a telephone interview.

In the raid at Suffolk Downs on Oct. 21, 1988, the authorities seized 83
Salvadoran, Mexican, Brazilian and Cuban stable hands. Of those, six were found
to be in the United States lawfully. Some of the remainder returned to their
homelands, while others admitted their illegal status and applied for asylum.

By the time the appeals board issued its decision, 30 defendants remained.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 21, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Agency to Be Sued Over Family From Zaire

BYLINE: By TESSA MELVIN

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 4, Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 866 words

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS


THE County Board of Legislators last week unanimously approved a lawsuit against
the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service in the case of a family
of illegal aliens from Zaire, whom the county has been housing at a cost of
$9,000 a month.

The suit is believed to be the first brought against the immigration service by
a state or local provider of social services. The county is charging that the
immigration service was notified of the family's immigration status but has
''for no apparent reason'' failed to act. ''I.N.S. should not be permitted,
without a rational explanation, to selectively enforce the law,'' the suit
argues in its request for Federal action and reimbursement. The county pays 25
cents of every dollar to house the homeless; the rest comes from state and
Federal funds.

The family of six children, aged 6 to 16, and their grandmother has been living
in two rooms at the Rye Town Hilton since last fall, when they were sent there
by the County Department of Social Services. They have remained while the
Appellate Division of State Supreme Court considers whether the county must
continue to provide food and shelter to them despite their lack of citizenship.

Canada Deports Mother

County officials said they have looked unsuccessfully for a less-expensive motel
or for an apartment.

The seven Zairians were abandoned in Rye when the relatives they were visiting
there, a Canadian diplomat and his family, returned to Canada.

When the children's mother, Jeanette Kayula, followed her sister and
brother-in-law, she was deported to Zaire by Canadian authorities. Mrs. Kayula
has asked American officials to let her children and mother remain here, saying
she has no money to provide for her family in Zaire.

The Zairians ''are not a priority,'' officials of the immigration service said
last week, repeating the position they have taken since the case first became
public last year. But they added that they planned to meet with the family and
its lawyer in November.

''Our priorities are with criminal aliens and that is definitely where our
resources are going,'' said Charles Troy, a spokesman for the New York State
District of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. ''All but a handful of
the approximately 1,000 aliens deported last year were criminals.''

National Importance Ascribed

Suggesting that the Westchester suit has national importance, a member of
Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato's staff said last week that it focuses public
attention for the first time on the costs of caring for illegal aliens.

''Who pays the bill if these people need help?'' asked Morgan P. Hardiman,
counsel to Senator D'Amato. It is an expense that has been undocumented, he
said, adding that large cities simply absorb the costs.

Mr. Hardiman suggested that the agency's inaction stemmed from limited
appropriations. Others say it also reflects a determination not to deport
children, old people or people from politically unstable countries because such
deportations could prove embarrassing.

Despite specific laws outlining eligibility for visas, the immigration service
is believed to have an internal policy providing for ''non-priority'' status in
certain categories, said Charles Wheeler, director of the National Immigration
Law Center in Los Angeles. The center provides assistance to nonprofit groups on
immigration issues.

John Lennon Case Cited

Mr. Wheeler said an internal memo outlining the policy came to light during John
Lennon's fight against deportation in the 1970's, when his lawyers obtained
internal documents on the case. Despite lawsuits since then, including one Mr.
Wheeler handled, ''the memo has never been made a due-process right,'' he said,
because the immigration service ''doesn't want to be seen as an agency that
prosecutes some and avoids others.''

Illegal aliens who are able to remain in the country because of Government
inaction may eventually obtain permanent status under the ''color of law,'' Mr.
Wheeler said, in which residency becomes permissible because laws prohibiting it
were not enforced.

Advocates for the Zairian family are hoping to use that argument to retain
social service benefits for them, said Jerrold M. Levy, staff attorney for
Westchester Legal Services, which is suing Westchester County and the New York
State Department of Social Services to force require them to provide benefits to
the family.

The lawsuit argues that the State Constitution protects people like the Zairian
children, who Mr. Levy called ''true victims'' of both Federal and county
policies. ''To single out these six abandoned children as the cause of the
county's diverting large amounts of resources is absurd,'' Mr. Levy said. He
criticized as a ''bankrupt policy'' the county's use of expensive hotels and
motels instead of rental apartments and charged that many apartments would be
available to house the homeless if the county pursued discrimination lawsuits
againsts landlords.

While awaiting the outcome of the various legal disputes, the Kayula children
are attending public schools in Rye. Mr. Troy said the childen had been warmly
received there and were doing well scholastically.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo; Members of the Kayula family at hotel in Rye. With them is
Jerrold M. Levy, staff attorney for Westchester Legal Services, and Elizabeth
Ford, a former neighbor in Rye (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 8, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Judge Suspends Deportation of Irish Alien

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 236 words


A Federal immigration judge in Manhattan suspended the deportation of an illegal
alien from Northern Ireland and granted political asylum to his family yesterday
on the ground that their return would expose them to danger.

Lawyers for the man, Sean Mackin, 33 years old, said the ruling by Judge Annette
S. Elstein was the first to extend political asylum to refugees from the
political violence that has taken thousands of lives in Northern Ireland.

Mr. Mackin, who came to New York in 1983 on a visitor's visa and then overstayed
it, contended that he would be killed by either British or Northern Ireland
security units if he were forced to return.

His wife and daughter, who also were born in Northern Ireland, were granted
asylum, in part so they would not be separated from two sons who were born in
New York City and who are United States citizens.

Mr. Mackin, a plumber in the Bronx who has been free on bail, had lobbied for
years in New York among Irish-American residents seeking support for his case.
His efforts paid off yesterday when Federal immigration lawyers in the courtroom
at 26 Federal Plaza said they would not appeal Judge Elstein's ruling, thus
giving Mr. Mackin virtually permanent residency.

Richard Harvey, one of Mr. Mackin's lawyers, called the ruling a landmark in
efforts to prevent immigration officials from forcing the return of illegal
aliens to Northern Ireland.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 7, 1992, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Temporary Sanctuary Tends to Get Permanent;
Parole Asylum Seekers

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 384 words


To the Editor:

You report that Thomas A. Coughlin, New York State Correction Commissioner, has
charged that "New York's crowded prisons are used "to warehouse 753 illegal
aliens who belong in Federal custody -- enough to fill a medium-security prison"
(news article, Feb. 25). The state demands that Federal immigration authorities
take alien prisoners into custody. You give the astounding information that in
1990, 188 known illegal aliens were released from state prisons, but not
detained by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Instead, they were released into society, subject to deportation. This is
rendered more bizarre by the Immigration and Naturalization Service's insistence
on detaining many arriving asylum applicants in immigration jails and airport
hotels, despite a clear showing that they are likely to appear for their
hearings and will not pose a community danger.

Since April 1990, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has been studying a
pilot program in New York in which certain asylum applicants were released. Of
those released with community support, 93 percent reported as required to the
agency, and 95 percent appeared for immigration court hearings. One out of five
have been granted political asylum in the United States in a lengthy
bureaucratic process, as they have been able to establish a well-founded fear of
persecution upon return to their home countries.

This pilot parole project was designed to determine whether or not the agency's
guidelines should be revised to permit release in the public interest, where
asylum applicants could show strong community ties and substantial claims for
refugee protection. However, despite strong evidence favoring such a policy, the
agency has not acted, and refugees remain unnecessarily detained in New York,
including asylum seekers from Somalia, Haiti, Sri Lanka, China and Afghanistan.

It is not always easy to discern when a Government policy is in the public
interest. No such ambiguity exists in this situation. Alien prisoners are being
released while Federal authorities insist on detaining innocent asylum seekers.
This perverse situation should be immediately rectified.

ARTHUR C. HELTON
Director, Refugee Project, Lawyers
Committee for Human Rights
New York, Feb. 25, 1992

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 21, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Trade in Fake Documents Thrives In Neighborhoods of Immigrants

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 25; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 875 words


Amid the shimmering saris, golden bangles and bustle of the bazaar that
stretches T-shaped along 74th Street and 37th Avenue in Jackson Heights, Queens,
an underground industry is flourishing almost out of hand: the trade in phony
work documents and promises of the real thing.

Like many other immigrant neighborhoods, Jackson Heights is the scene of a grand
new immigration fraud. The practitioners don't hang out shingles, but are easy
to find: corrupt storefront operators, immigration brokers, travel agents,
notaries, consultants, lawyers and freelance operators all over the shopping
district that caters to the area's Indian residents.

But the scope of the fraud is hardly local. False promises to immigrants range
from cottage-industry counterfeits to big business on an international scale.
Crude kitchen-table work permits sell for $100. Package tours sold on the
streets of New Delhi, including airfare to New York and the promise of
employment authorization, are going for 150,000 rupees, about $8,000.

The current boom in bogus documents started late last year, with rumors of "a
new amnesty program" for illegal aliens. Actually, the amnesty program ended in
1988, but there is a new, very small window under two California class-action
suits, pending before the United States Court of Appeals and referring only to
aliens eligible for the original amnesty who traveled abroad briefly.

1,000 New Cases a Week



Immigration offices in New York City have received more than 30,000 applications
for the new amnesty, with up to 1,000 new cases each week.

Only 12 percent of applicants receive temporary work permits because of the vast
amount of fraud. Immigration has seized fake affidavits, tampered airline
tickets, bogus passport stamps, false work authorizations, temporary residence
cards and a host of other fraudulent documents.

"Most of these people have been duped and many have spent their life savings on
the counterfeits," said Richard Berryman, deputy assistant district director in
the New York office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. He showed a
fake temporary residence card seized from a Haitian who said he paid $2,500; a
false employment authorization purchased by an Arab for $2,100, a blurred
amnesty card said to have cost its owner $6,000.

"The problem is that fraud works for some people, while most victims are afraid
to come forward," said Michael Phulwani, a lawyer in Jackson Heights. He told
the typical story of a 28-year-old Indian, whose family back home sold a piece
of land to help pay an agent $8,000 for his work authorization, but who got
nothing and is afraid to denounce the agent, fearing deportation.

Temporary Work Document



At a immigration information hot-line service that operates out of Jackson
Heights, an increasing number of callers complain about having been cheated and
ask how they can get their money back. For instance, a Central American said he
had paid $2,500 to a travel agency in Jackson Heights for a temporary work
document in November 1989, and he is still waiting.

An Indian who recently arrived in the United States and who refused to give his
identity said that he paid $9,000 for three documents: work authorization,
social security and drivers license, but that they were poor forgeries and he
wanted his money back. "He asked us to do something quickly because the broker
has a machine in his house and is making documents for other clients," said Mimi
Fei, coordinator of the hot-line service.

Immigration officials acknowledge that a new market for fraudulent documents has
grown out of the Immigration Reform Act of 1986, which made it illegal to hire
undocumented workers.

Elizabeth Aivars, who heads the Mayor's Office of Immigrant Affairs, says
employer sanctions are causing "a lot of damage" in New York City.

Educating the Public



To fight against immigration fraud, the Mayor's office has set up a task force,
which includes representatives of Federal, state and city law enforcement, the
I.N.S., the city's Department of Consumer Affairs and Traveler's Aid. The
panel's main mission is twofold: to educate the public against fraudulent
schemes and to channel cases of fraud to the proper authorities.

The task force will work with community-based organizations like the New York
Immigration Coalition.

In the past, fraudulent immigration documents have not been a top priority for
local law-enforcement agencies, swamped with cases of violent crime. Now there's
new interest, according to Steven R. Abrams, special assistant United States
attorney for the eastern district, who says that his office has prosecuted about
a dozen cases involving document fraud.

Evidence of new concern over the fakes was also seen in the recent announcement
that Immigration would issue fines of up to $5,000 for anyone caught trafficking
in phony documents.

But the risk of punishment is unlikely to end the market in illegal papers
intended for people afraid to admit their own illegal presence to the
authorities.

"As long as desperate people need documents and immigration programs limit
people, there'll be fraud," says Lilian Rubinsky, who heads the Jackson Heights
Traveler's Aid Service.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 4, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

NEW PLAN ORDERED ON HAITIAN EXODUS

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 852 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 3


In a ruling that maintains a temporary ban on the forced repatriation of
Haitians fleeing their country, a Federal District Court in Miami tonight
ordered the Immigration and Naturalization Service to devise new procedures to
screen refugees and assure that no Haitians with a legitimate fear of
persecution are sent back.

The decision, which Justice Department and immigration officials said would
immediately be taken to the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit
in Atlanta, orders the Government to submit a screening plan for Haitians in
American custody within seven days. Many of those involved left their Caribbean
country and ventured to the United States in small, rickety boats.

The ruling makes no provision for further refugees to enter the country. But it
suggests that the number of Haitian refugees will continue to grow. Some of
those being held are on United States Coast Guard vessels and some are at a
refugee center at the American naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

The decision was issued by Judge C. Clyde Atkins after a day of deliberation. He
rejected one of the Government's central arguments -- that because Haitians were
plucked from international waters, they had no right to protection under
American laws. The ruling also rejected arguments that the United States could
no longer shoulder the burden of the Haitian refugees.

Refugees at Greater Risk

Judge Atkins wrote that the Haitian plaintiffs had shown that the "threatened
injury" of their return "outweighs the potential harm an injuction would cause
defendants."

The Justice Department, other than saying it would appeal, had no immediate
comment on the ruling.

Expressing satisfaction over the ruling, Ira Kurzban, a lawyer with the Haitian
Refugee Center in Miami, which brought the case, said he had been able to show
that the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Coast Guard had carried
out a 1981 repatriation agreement with Haiti in a way that "deprives Haitians of
their rights."

Mr. Kurzban said that American officials who interview the refugees to determine
who is eligible to apply for political asylum should first be educated on
conditions in Haiti, and that "artificial limits" on the length of the typically
brief screening process should be lifted.

Besides the courts, the argument over the refugee issue is likely to be carried
on in Congress, where immigration advocates are expected to press for some form
of temporary protected status for Haitians, allowing those who have fled the
strife in their country to remain in the United States until the situation in
Haiti returns to normal.

Center to Be Expanded

While the issue works its way through the legal and political system, pressure
on the Coast Guard, whose ships patrol the Caribbean, and at the Guantanamo Bay
base is likely to increase. More than 4,000 boat people from Haiti are now being
temporarily housed at Guantanamo.

Last weekend, more than 400 Haitians heading for the United States were rescued
by Coast Guard patrols, bringing the total number saved since the current
refugee exodus began on Oct. 29 to more than 6,300.

Although Haitians have sought to reach the United States by boat for years,
there had been a lull in recent months before the current rush, which began a
month after the overthrow of the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the elected
civilian President.

To accommodate the rise in refugees, the Navy announced Monday that it was
expanding the size of the Guantanamo center to accommodate as many as 10,000
more refugees.

The urgency of a solution to the refugee crisis was underscored by the Bush
Administration's decision to have the Solicitor General, Kenneth W. Starr, argue
the case.

U.S. Government's Arguments

During a tense session of oral argument on Monday night, Mr. Starr urged that
there be no extension of the restraining order. It was scheduled to expire at 5
P.M. today.

"It is 'we the people' who are protected by U.S. law," said Mr. Starr, who
argued that the court had no jurisdiction in the case. "We do not see fit to
protect everyone, no matter how moving their case may be, outside our
territorial limits."

Mr. Starr said delaying the return of the refugees in United States custody
sends a "false beacon of hope which could result in a human disaster" if yet
greater numbers of Haitians are encouraged to attempt the perilous 700-mile sea
journey.

The Haitian Refugee Center's lawyers argued that shipboard interview procedures
used to winnow out those with a legitimate basis for seeking asylum, from those
thought to be economic refugees, were deeply flawed.

Many of those who would be returned under existing procedures, they said, had a
well-founded fear of persecution.

Jocelyn McCalla, director of the National Coalition for Haitian Refugees, who
toured the Guantanamo Bay base over the weekend to gather depositions for the
case, said, "Most of the Haitians that we interviewed said that the army had
either gone on a rampage and destroyed their house, or that they had lost a
brother, sister, father or mother."


LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 23, 1992, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Revises Detention Policy for Asylum Seekers

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 686 words


Immigration officials have issued a new policy on handling requests for
political asylum that could spare thousands of refugees detention.

Until now, those seeking asylum who arrived in the United States without proper
documentation were automatically detained, pending the results of their
applications, if there was space in detention centers. But where the centers
were filled, illegal aliens were not put in detention.

Under a directive issued Tuesday by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
in Washington, asylum seekers whose identity, grounds for asylum and means of
support appear to be credible may be released from or spared detention. This
directive, which took effect immediately, calls for immigration inspectors to
interview applicants at major airports and other ports of entry as well as at
all immigration detention centers. Applicants whose claims are considered
legitimate are put on "parole," and are required to report to local immigration
officials, appear at hearings on their cases and report for deportation if their
claims are denied.

With the directive, Immigration Commissioner Gene McNary is seeking to establish
a uniform policy on asylum seekers, which was previously at the discretion of
local officials, an I.N.S. spokesman, Duane Austin, said in a telephone
interview from Washington. The Commissioner also seeks to correct "what may have
been flawed criteria for detention -- a first come, first detained policy," Mr.
Austin said.

Mr. Austin noted that aliens without proper documentation were often released
because "there was no room at the inn," while others whose claims to asylum
"were clearly not frivolous" were detained.

The directive says, "By adopting the Parole Project, the Service will be able to
detain those persons most likely to abscond or to pose a threat to public
safety, rather than to base the detention decision solely or primarily on the
availability of detention space."

Arthur C. Helton, director of the Refugee Project of the New York Lawyers
Committee for Human Rights, which has strongly opposed the arbitrary detention
of asylum seekers, said the I.N.S. ruling represented "a fundamental change in
policy." He added, "It transforms an arbitrary and abusive detention policy into
a more enlightened and rational release policy."

Immigration authorities said they did not know how many aliens would gain
freedom as a result of the new policy. But the Lawyers Committee estimates that
there are more than 7,500 aliens now in detention in this country, 1,000 of whom
were asylum seekers detained upon arrival for lack of visa or valid passport.

Also critical of the former detention policy were major United States airlines
with overseas routes, because they were often held financially responsible for
feeding, guarding and housing asylum seekers while their applications were
processed. Last July, the Air Transport Association of America brought a suit
against the I.N.S. to end this policy. The suit is pending.

A Likely Benefit

One person likely to benefit from the new ruling is Abdurahman Osman Jirac, a
23-year-old clerk in the government of former President Mohammed Siad Barre of
Somalia. Mr. Jirac, his mother and five younger siblings went into hiding after
his father was killed during a coup on Jan. 26, 1991.

During their escape, Mr. Jirac said, his entire family disappeared while he was
away seeking food. He made his way to Italy and, facing deportation back to
Somalia, bought a ticket on Alitalia to Mexico with transit via New York.

Arriving at Kennedy International Airport on Dec. 4, Mr. Jirac presented himself
to immigration officials and requested political asylum. Denied entry, he was
placed in airline detention first at a Travelodge Hotel and then at a Holiday
Inn in Queens, where he is now detained, with costs paid by Alitalia.

Like the other airport detainees, Mr. Jirac was denied access to basic medical
care, exercise, legal representation and outside communication until his case
came to the attention of the lawyers committee. A volunteer lawyer has filed an
asylum application.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 8, 1991, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Expunge the 'Lookout List' Paranoia

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 402 words


In a welcome move last year, Congress made it harder to bar foreign visitors
whose views the Government finds offensive. Such power had been granted by the
McCarran-Walter Immigration Act, a paranoid vestige of the McCarthy era. Now, if
the full Senate concurs, the last mean trace of its "lookout list" can be
expunged.

The 1952 McCarran-Walter Act listed 33 grounds for excluding aliens. One of the
most troublesome allowed the Government to bar visitors or immigrants who would
advocate "economic, international and governmental doctrines of world Communism"
and other subversive activities.

To enforce the act, the State Department and the Immigration and Naturalization
Service have maintained lookout lists of supposed undesirables. According to the
Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, the list now consists of nearly 368,000
names.

Over the years, it has included luminaries like Gabriel Garcia Marquez, the
Colombian Nobel laureate; Carlos Fuentes, the Mexican writer; Dario Fo, the
Italian playwright; Graham Greene, the British novelist, and Pierre Trudeau, the
former Canadian Prime Minister.

Under the law passed last October, the Government can no longer exclude, as of
June 1, any visitor whose statements, beliefs or associations would be protected
by the U.S. Constitution for an American citizen. Another provision, also
effective June 1, allows aliens to petition individually to have their names
removed from the list.

But the bloated list remains, leaving a legacy of potential harassment for
visitors. Congress is now considering corrective legislation to put the burden
of purging the list on the Government.

Under a bill sponsored by Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York and
recently passed by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, the State Department
would be required to delete the name of any alien who is not excludable under
the new law. The bill also prohibits the department from adding the name of any
non-excludable alien. Purging of the list is to be completed within three years.

A similar bill sponsored by Representative Howard Berman of California and
already passed by the House would give the department only six months to purge
the list. Such differences can be worked out in conference once the Senate
agrees to the idea of updating the list. Approval would take a giant step toward
driving a stake through McCarran-Walter's heart.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 2, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Limit on Performers' Visas Likely to Be Delayed 2 Years

BYLINE: By IRVIN MOLOTSKY

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 5; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 343 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 1


Democratic and Republican leaders in Congress said today that they had agreed to
delay an immigration law that would have sharply restricted the number of
foreign artists who may enter the United States for performances.

A measure introduced on Monday night by Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of
Massachusetts, with Republican support, calls for a two-year suspension of a
limit of 25,000 visas a year for foreign artists. In the meantime, a study is to
determine just how many people actually enter the United States to perform and
whether they have an adverse impact on American performing artists and
entertainers.

In a statement that accompanied introduction of the measure, Senator Kennedy
said he shared a fear among people in the arts that the new law presented "a
serious threat to their artistic programs."

Arts organizations had complained that Congress passed the law without
consulting the industry and that the law threatened to limit their ability to
mount presentations. After the House passed the bill, the Senate approved it
without being fully aware of its provisions affecting artists, Senator Kennedy
said.

Jerry Tinker, an aide to Senator Kennedy, said that after the two-year study, he
expected passage of a new law that would permanently remove the limit if three
criteria were met: that American unions be consulted, that American artists have
reciprocal freedom to perform abroad and that the foreign performers entering
the United States be of high caliber.

The restrictive law was to have gone into effect today but will be delayed for
six months as part of an unrelated bill that President Bush signed today. Mr.
Tinker said passage of the principal bill was expected this year.

The main Republican co-sponsor in the Senate is Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming, the
Republican whip; his support virtually insures passage there. An aide to Senator
Kennedy's counterpart in the House, Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat
of Kentucky, said passage in the House and Administration agreement were
expected.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 29, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Two Reasons to Rejoice on Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 439 words


In one bold stroke, Congress has overhauled American immigration policy, making
it easier for people with skills or controversial views to enter the United
States. Negotiators first struck an agreement to expand legal immigration and
then, in a surprise move, decided to drive a stake through the heart of the
McCarran-Walter Act, one of the worst vestiges of the McCarthy era.

It's a wonderful development, but one that imposes on the Administration a duty
to act in good faith and be more tolerant of those who hold distasteful views.

Under the proposed law, 700,000 new immigrants would be allowed to enter each
year for three years, starting in 1992. After 1994, the total would drop to
675,000. Currently, about 540,000 immigrants are allowed. The increase would be
used, mostly, to bring in skilled workers, like scientists and engineers. That
will help keep America competitive in the next decade, while preserving the
traditional focus on family reunification.

Of the 700,000 new immigrants, 465,000 would be relatives of people already
residing here permanently; 140,000 would be skilled workers and their immediate
families; 40,000 would come from nations that have not obtained many visas in
recent years; and 55,000 would be related to aliens who gained legal status
under a 1986 law.

The first overhaul of legal immigration in 25 years would be accomplishment
enough. But Congress has gone even further, gutting a McCarthy-era law that
allowed the Government to bar controversial foreign visitors. The 1952
McCarran-Walter Act lists 33 grounds for exclusion. One is "sexual deviation";
others cite membership in the Communist Party or a belief that the visitor would
pose a threat to national security.

As global threats recede, Congress is taking a less hysterical view. Although
suspected terrorists could still be kept out, restrictions on Communist Party
members have been modified. Visitors or immigrants could no longer be denied
entry on the basis of sexual preference or mental conditions like depression or
retardation. And the Department of Health and Human Services would be allowed to
remove AIDS from the list of diseases for which people may be excluded.

The new law is not wholly free of ideological judgments. One troubling provision
allows an alien to be excluded if the Secretary of State determines that there
is a "compelling" U.S. foreign policy interest in doing so. Congress has made it
clear this power is to be used sparingly.

Working together, Congress and the Administration can make this new law a
monument -- to a nation of immigrants and a bastion of free speech.


LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 29, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Correction

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 126 words


An article on Friday about a Congressional agreement on immigration legislation
misstated in some copies the number of additional immigrants who would be
allowed into the United States as skilled workers or managers. The number would
be 140,000 people a year, counting the workers and their families, not 750,000.
The article also incorrectly named and dated the McCarran-Walter Act, enacted in
1952, which banned many categories of immigrants, including Communists. The
article also misidentified the chief House negotiator in the House-Senate
conference committee that worked out the agreement. The chief negotiator was
Representative Bruce A. Morrison, Democrat of Connecticut. An article on further
action on the legislation appears on page B10.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 5, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

For Skilled Foreigners, Lower Hurdles to U.S.

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1212 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 4


Responding to warnings that the United States is running short of skilled
professionals, a new immigration measure is about to open the nation's doors to
people like Kap Pyo Kwon, master of a rare and specialized computer art that is
vital to the airline and banking industries.

"It was very difficult to come over here," said Mr. Kap, a 34-year-old Korean
who was courted by companies in several nations but chose to endure the delays
of American immigration law.

The new measure, which is the first major revision of immigration standards in
25 years, demonstrates that the United States is now seeking not only the tired
and poor of the world but also its most highly skilled, its scientists,
engineers, artists, athletes, inventors, and even its millionaires.

"Since the labor market has become more international and since the business of
the United States has become more international, incorporating foreign workers
in a regularized way is something that has to be done," said Sam Myers,
president-elect of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

Businesses, universities and research institutions have supported this view,
asserting that American education is not meeting the nation's need for skilled
professionals, particularly in mathematics, engineering and the sciences.

But representatives of some minority groups contend that reliance on immigration
could lead to an abandoning of the nation's responsibility to develop the skills
of current citizens.

Proponents of the measure agree that education needs to be upgraded but say
there is a gap between the supply and demand for skills that can be filled only
by highly qualified immigrants.

And owing to trends in American education, growing numbers of the most highly
qualified graduates are foreigners who because of their immigration status under
the current law cannot easily be hired by domestic companies.

Raising the Quotas

In a declaration of Washington's intent to compete aggressively in the
international labor market, the measure, which President Bush has said he would
sign, nearly triples the quota for skilled professionals to 140,000 a year, from
55,000.

These numbers come within a broad new immigration framework that initially
increases overall annual quotas to 700,000 immigrants, from 500,000, maintaining
an emphasis on reunification of families while expanding quotas for European and
African immigrants. The measure also eases restrictions on the entry of certain
classes of people, including Communists, homosexuals and people with AIDS.

As much as anything, the measure is characterized by its recognition that the
United States has to secure its place in a world marketplace that has become
more interconnected since the last immigration law, in 1965.

"There is no question that we are moving in the direction of transnational
societies," said Doris Meissner, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace who is a former acting commissioner of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service. "With the way capital has moved around the world and
with the way companies compete internationally, it is going to become
increasingly possible and acceptable to have this kind of very free movement of
the highly educated and highly skilled."

Thus, along with the poorer immigrants who will take their places at the lower
levels of the work force, will come more of what an immigration lawyer, Carl
Shusterman, calls "upscale immigrants."

In fact, 10,000 slots are allocated for millionaires who are expected to invest
in businesses and create jobs, without the need to demonstrate special skills or
educational levels.

Mr. Shusterman's clients include a Chinese medical researcher whose discovery
formed the core of a new drug manufacturing company in California and an Italian
engineer who is helping to develop hydraulic lifts for equipment designed for
fighting fires in high-rise buildings.

They also include foreign health-care professionals, particularly nurses.

'International Superstars'

Among its categories, the measure provides virtually free entry for about 40,000
"priority workers" each year, people whom Demetrios G. Papademetriou, director
of immigration policy and research at the Labor Department, calls "international
superstars, your basic Einsteins."

Currently, companies seeking to hire highly skilled workers from abroad face
bureaucratic obstacles and long waiting periods that experts say may be largely
eased by the revised immigration policies.

Mr. Kap was hired, as part of a worldwide search, by the System One Corporation,
a Los Angeles-based subsidiary of Continental Airlines Holdings Inc. that
markets computerized reservations, flight operations and passenger handling
systems to airlines and travel agents.

A company spokesman, Dedra Howling, said Mr. Kap is one of no more than 4,500
people in the world who have mastered a highly complex and specialized computer
language.

As the company competes with airlines around the world for such specialists, Ms.
Howling said, it sometimes loses prospective employees whose visa applications
are rejected or who tire of the long wait that immigration procedures now
require.

Mr. Kap, who had been working for Korean Air Lines, said he had been offered
high-paying jobs in the Middle East but was determined to come to the United
States, where the working hours are congenial and life is comfortable for a
lover of classical music and golf.

Students Off Limits

Particularly painful for businesses is the situation described by Elisabeth L.
Wright, manager of legislative affairs for Texas Instruments Inc. in Dallas.
American companies seeking to hire the cream of the crop from American
universities find that some prospects are out of reach, she said, because they
are foreigners living in the United States on temporary student visas.

As many as 46 percent of full-time graduate students in engineering and 26
percent in science in 1988 were foreigners, according to the most recent
statistics published by the National Science Foundation.

"We are training these folks in American schools," Ms. Wright said. "It would be
nice to be able to put them to work for American industry."

Dr. Philip Schambra, director of the Fogarty International Center at the
National Institutes of Health, told a Congressional hearing this year that
one-third of the 5,000 scientists at the institutes' laboratories are
foreigners.

"The impending shortage of scientific manpower is perhaps one of the most
serious problems facing N.I.H and the biomedical research community in the
1990's," he said.

Most advocates of increased immigration agree that the long-term solution to
personnel shortages have to come not from the immigration service but from the
education establishment.

"Just providing immigrants really should be just a stopgap kind of answer," Ms.
Meissner said. "The real answer is that we shouldn't have to be importing
people."

Phyllis Eisen, director for risk management at the National Association of
Manufacturers, said: "The bottom line is that the talent isn't there. It
certainly might be there in 20 years. But we are where we are today because the
American educational system has failed us."

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kap Pyo Kwon of South Korea is one of no more than 4,500 people
worldwide who have mastered a rare and specialized computer art. He chose to
immigrate to the United States, where the working hours are congenial and life
is comfortable for a lover of classical music and golf. (Scott Robinson for The
New York Times)

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 25, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Act Aids Filipino Veterans

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1093 words


Thousands of Filipino veterans, who served in the United States military in the
Far East during World War II, hope that after 45 years of waiting a new law will
finally give them recognition.

The legislation, which is awaiting President Bush's signature, allows the
naturalization of Filipinos who had active duty status under the United States
command, in the Philippine Army, in the elite Philippine Scouts or in any
recognized guerrilla unit.

"At last, justice will be done, even though it has taken a long time," said Col.
Mariano Aureus, retired, former secretary general of the Veterans Federation of
the Philippines. "After all, we were American nationals, had American education,
could sing 'The Star-Spangled Banner' better than our own anthem and MacArthur
was our idol."

For the Filipino veterans, citizenship will allow them to remain in this country
or immigrate, to work legally and to bring immediate family members here. Many
of them also hope this will be the first step toward their obtaining veterans'
benefits, although the legislation does not deal with that issue.

Colonel Aureus, once a resistance leader, met with a small group of Filipino
veterans in his home in Jersey City recently to celebrate the passage of the
Immigration Act of 1990, which includes the measure on Filipino veterans. The
bill is expected to be signed by President Bush in the next few days.

Long-Delayed Opportunity

Senator Daniel K. Inouye, Democrat of Hawaii, whose bill on Filipino veterans
was incorporated into the Immigration Act, said after its passage, "They deserve
the opportunity to become citizens of the nation for which they put their lives
on the line in defense of our principles of freedom and democracy."

Representative Stephen J. Solarz, the Brooklyn Democrat who is chairman of
theHouse Subcommittee on Asian and Pacific Affairs, said, "This legislation will
fulfill the promise made by the United States to these courageous freedom
fighters nearly half a century ago."

The story of the Filipino veterans began in July 1941, when President Franklin
D. Roosevelt sent an order to Gen. Douglas MacArthur, calling the Philippine
Army into the service of the United States. At the time, the Philippines was a
commonwealth under United States control.

The next year, Congress passed a law authorizing the naturalization of all
aliens serving in United States forces. Immigration officers were sent to
various war zones, but the Philippines, which by then was under Japanese
occupation, was excluded.

After the liberation of the Philippines, naturalization proceedings began in
Manila but were soon halted. United States officials said the Filipino
Government feared a mass emigration of able-bodied men, but many Filipinos today
say that was a pretext for not according citizenship and benefits to the
thousands of veterans. The naturalization law expired at the end of 1946.

Up to 50,000 Eligible

Nobody knows how many Filipino veterans will benefit under the new law. It is
generally estimated that half of the 200,000 Filipino soldiers who served in
World War II were killed, and many have died since.

Alex A. Esclamado, president of the Filipino-American Association, in San
Francisco, who led the fight for the veterans, estimates that up to 50,000 World
War II soldiers will be eligible for United States citizenship, and most of
those live in the Philippines.

Most Filipino veterans who came to this country live in California and have been
battling in the courts for years to become American citizens, said Mr.
Esclamado, who is also publisher of The Philippines News, a weekly newspaper.
Federal District courts have ruled in favor of their claims, but the Supreme
Court ruled in 1988 that only Congress had the authority to remedy the
situation.

In Jersey City, the group of veterans who met in the Aureus living room spoke of
bitter memories and new hopes. Colonel Aureus, 69 years old, who headed the
Veterans Federation from 1975 to 1984, said the legislation was "a vindication
after so much humiliation."

No Official Announcement

During the war, he recalled, there was no official announcement about the
naturalization, just word of mouth. He tried to apply at the Veterans
Administration office in Manila in October 1945 but was told the immigration
officer had departed.

After the war, Mr. Aureus worked in government and after retiring came to New
York, where his sons lived in 1985 to apply for citizenship as a veteran. His
petition is still pending.

Braulio Panopio, 79, a retired major who works in the mail room of the Bank of
New York in Manhattan, petitioned for citizenship in 1980, with the same
results: pending. He recounts vividly how he survived the Bataan death march and
spent time in a Japanese prison camp. He later organized a guerrilla group.

Alfredo Diaz, 74, who also lived through the Bataan march, worked in government
and the hotel business in the Philippines, and while attending an American
Legion convention in this country in 1986 applied for naturalization. There has
been no decision on his application. He now lives in Jersey City.

Isidoro Bringas, 74, was officially informed in 1987 that his service with the
Philippine Commonwealth Army "is not considered as active service in the United
States Army." The former staff sergeant has the Distinguished Unit Emblem with
two oak-leaf clusters and half a dozen other decorations.

Initial opposition to the naturalization measure came from the Department of
Veteran Affairs, which was concerned it might create new eligibility for
veterans' benefits. But in its final wording, the legislation is "clear that
Congress's intention is to give naturalization preference to Filipinos who
served in the Commonwealth Army but not create any other entitlements," said
John Thompson of the department's General Counsel's Office.

Last year, a Federal court in the District of Columbia ruled that a 1946 law
denying benefits to Filipino World War II veterans was unconstitutional. That
ruling is now being appealed by the Government. Under the law, Filipino veterans
were denied all benefits except compensation for service-connected disability or
death, paid at a reduced rate.

Representative Mervyn M. Dymally, Democrat of California, who first introduced a
Filipino veterans bill in February 1984, said that denying the veterans full
benefits "is a gross injustice" and expressed confidence that courts would find
that the 1946 law unconstitutionally discriminated against Filipino veterans.


LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: "At last justice will be done, even though it has taken a long
time," said Col. Mariano Aureus, left, former secretary general of the Veterans
Federation of the Philippines, of the status of Filipinos whofought in World War
II. With him at his home in Jersey City were fellow veterans, Braulio Panopio,
seated at left, and Alfredo Diaz, survivors of the Bataan death march, and
Isidoro Bringas, right. (Eddie Hausner/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 17, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Bill Invests in America's Future

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 464 words


To the Editor:

''Give Me, Also, Your Skilled'' (editorial, Aug. 27), arguing for immigration
reform, graciously mentions my family unity and employment opportunity bill,
H.R. 4300, pending before the House of Representatives. You are wide of the mark
in criticizing as ''punitive'' the proposed assessment of a fee on medium- and
large-size businesses that import workers to pay for education and training for
United States citizens.

And it is hard to take seriously the charge that a bill that increases family-
and employment-based immigration could smack of the old-time fear of foreigners.
The most sweeping immigration reform in 25 years shows no fear of foreigners. It
is hardly punitive to make it easier for employers to hire immigrants.

Common sense shows the connection between American industry's unfilled needs for
highly skilled workers and the failure of our schools to provide them. In
charging larger companies a modest fee for immigrant workers, all my bill
proposes to do is make a contribution to solving our long-term educational
problem while answering our immediate need.

The fees are not large - $500 for a medium-size company, $1,000 for a large
company, and small businesses and nonprofits would be able to hire immigrants
free. Large companies that import workers for highly skilled jobs that cannot be
filled from our domestic labor pool pay much more just for the paperwork. The
employment-based immigration system I propose will be far simpler. Employers
will save money bringing in workers -and they'll make money when the workers are
here.

My bill proposes to use most of the fees to help states establish education and
training programs. For example, Connecticut workers need to begin shifting from
defense industries to high-tech, export-oriented industry. The rest of the fees
will go for math and science scholarships for students in need.

American unemployment is relatively low, except where it is shockingly high. How
can that be? The answer is that we have a swiss-cheese economy. Let's use
expanded immigration to help fill in the holes. Let's not forget those Americans
who are not ready, but who could be prepared in the future, if education and
training are improved.

The classic liberal formation that everybody should pay for education and
training is flawed. It is the same lesson taught by our budget mess: When
everybody is supposed to pay, nobody seems to get the bill.

Fees to establish an American workers educational trust fund will not raise
enough to pay for the massive investment we must make in better education and
training. However, it will be a step in the right direction.

(Rep.) BRUCE A. MORRISON
Chairman, Subcommittee on
Immigration, Refugees
and International Law
  Washington, Sept. 4, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 3, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Supreme Court Case May Determine Fate of Thousands Seeking Asylum

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk; Law Page

LENGTH: 1848 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Jairo Jonathan Elias Zacarias was 18 years old in January 1987 when two masked
guerrillas armed with machine guns went to his parents' home in Guatemala at
dusk, asked him to join their army and, when he refused, told him: "Piensalo
bien," or, think it over well.

Several weeks later, with the equivalent of only $20 in his pocket, Mr. Elias
fled, making his way to Mexico and then toward the United States, sometimes
sleeping outdoors and working for a few weeks to save money for the next bus
ride. He crossed the border near Nogales, Ariz., on July 12, 1987, and was
immediately picked up by officers of the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Mr. Elias applied for political asylum and it was denied. His appeal, which is
now before the United States Supreme Court, could decide the fate of thousands
of other young men who say they fled their homelands to avoid forcible
recruitment into guerrilla armies.

Case May Provide Answers

More than 100,000 petitions for political asylum are pending, more than half
from citizens of Guatemala, El Salvador and Nicaragua. No one can say exactly
how many of these requests involve accusations of forcible recruitment into
guerrilla forces, but immigration lawyers say such complaints are common.

A decision in the Elias case is likely to provide guidance on which of these
applicants are entitled to asylum.

Under the Refugee Act of 1980, asylum is limited to people who are unwilling to
return to their native countries "because of persecution or a well-founded fear
of persecution on account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a
particular social group or political opinion."

For several years immigration officials have rejected most such applications
from Central Americans on the ground that their fears of persecution were not
based on their political opinions. In addition, the immigration service has
argued that granting such applications will open the country to more refugees
than can be assimilated.

At the same time, the change of government in Nicaragua and the conclusion of a
peace accord for El Salvador could prompt some of the applicants for asylum to
return to their homelands voluntarily.

Mr. Elias's application for asylum was rejected because the immigration judge
and the Board of Immigration Appeals, an arm of the Justice Department that is
separate from the immigration service, said that the guerrillas had not directly
threatened to harm him and that any implicit threat was not "on account of" his
political opinion.

The Political Issue

But in July 1990, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit found
him eligible for asylum, ruling that the Guatemalan guerrillas' practice of
forcible recruitment made it reasonable for him to take the admonition to "think
it over" as a threat. The court said a person resisting forced recruitment by
guerrillas was indeed expressing a political opinion, meeting the Refugee Act
standard.

The immigration service disagreed and appealed to the Supreme Court, arguing
that resisting recruitment by guerrillas is not necessarily a political act but
something more neutral, akin to turning down an unwanted job offer.

"A person might be entirely sympathetic to the goals of the guerrillas and share
every one of their political beliefs, but not want to serve in their army," the
Government said in its Court papers. "That person is faced with the same threat
of forcible conscription as one who is entirely hostile to the guerrillas'
program. Conversely, a person might share none of the guerrillas' views but be
happy to sign for a decent wage. It should be obvious that neither of those
persons has any fear of persecution on account of political opinion."

In any case, the immigration service said, the appeals court's approach would
flood the country with young men from Central American countries ravaged by
decades of civil war.

"The Ninth Circuit has opened eligibility for asylum to every candidate for
military service in countries torn by domestic strife. Needless to say, the
class of such persons is large," the immigration service said in its petition
for Supreme Court review. "The looming burden for the I.N.S. in processing
applications from such individuals, and for the nation in assimilating them into
society, necessitates this Court's review."

Mr. Elias, now 23, did not take the day off from his job removing asbestos in
the District of Columbia to hear the Supreme Court argument on his case in
November. The Court's ruling, expected in the next few months, will determine
whether he will have to return to his parents' two-room adobe house on a hill in
Olintepeque in southwestern Guatemala.

'They Are Still Scared'

In a recent interview, Mr. Elias said he had left home only at his parents'
urging. "I did not want to leave them," he said. "They said the men would be
back, and I should stay far away, or they might take me and kill me. My parents
still don't want me to come back. They are still scared and so am I."

Mr. Elias's life in this country has not been easy. Immigration officials jailed
him in Phoenix for several months, until John Hilsdorf, the volunteer chaplain
at the Maricopa County Jail, paid his $1,000 bail and took him home. With Mr.
Hilsdorf's help, Mr. Elias found a job and saved enough money to go to
Washington, where he has a cousin.

"It bothered me that his only crime was wanting to be free, and he was housed
with criminals," said Mr. Hilsdorf, who has bailed out and housed several other
Central Americans. "He got a job at a car wash, he paid us back, and I have
absolutely no question of his sincerity or his ability to be a model American
citizen."

Most Central Americans who arrive in this country illegally never get the chance
to become citizens, model or otherwise. Many agree to be deported after spending
months in jail. And even those who do wait out their asylum petitions are
usually turned down.

Over the last six years, the immigration service has been repeatedly criticized,
and sued, on the ground of discriminating against the Central American
applicants for asylum.

The American Immigration Lawyers Association, which is backing Mr. Elias's case,
says that although the standard for eligibility for asylum is supposed to be
applied without regard to political considerations, immigration officials do not
apply the law consistently. For example, the association said, those who
resisted forcible recruitment in Afghanistan generally won political asylum,
while those who did the same in El Salvador or Guatemala were usually rejected.

Suspicion About Politics

Similarly, a 1987 General Accounting Office report concluded that asylum had
been granted with much greater frequency to people from countries that were not
on good terms with the United States Government in the early 1980's, including
Afghanistan, China, Cuba, Poland and Iran, than it was to those from countries
whose regimes were supported by the United States. These included El Salvador,
Guatemala and Haiti.

And in an out-of-court settlement last January of American Baptist Churches v.
Thornburgh, a class action suit asserting discrimination against Salvadoran and
Guatemalan applicants for asylum, the immigration service agreed to reconsider
all requests from Guatemalans and Salvadorans since 1980. Although Mr. Elias
would have the right for such a rehearing, whatever the Supreme Court rules in
his situation will provide the guidelines for deciding his and other such cases.

The Government briefs in the Elias case cite another asylum case last year,
Perlera Escobar v. Executive Office for Immigration, in which the United States
Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit turned down an application from a
Salvadoran who had joined a guerrilla group, then deserted, and, after hearing
that the guerrilla commander had issued orders for his arrest, fled to the
United States.

The appeals court said that although that refugee might well fear persecution,
it was not because of his political opinion, but because the guerrillas needed
to punish deserters in order to maintain discipline.

The immigration service argues that similar reasoning should govern in the Elias
case.

Mr. Elias's lawyer, Peter von Mehren of Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering in
Washington, said his client's case was different in that the plaintiff in the
other case, unlike Mr. Elias, had voluntarily joined the guerrillas.

Nevertheless, the immigration service said, the fundamental issue is whether the
Refugee Act was intended to create a right to political asylum for all those who
fear persecution by guerrilla groups for which they would not fight.

"The flaw in the Ninth Circuit's opinion in this case is not simply a matter of
words; it goes to the heart of the purpose of the Refugee Act," said the
Government petition seeking Supreme Court review of the Elias case. "It was the
goal of that statute to extend eligibility for asylum not to all victims of
coercion or even terror, but only to those who were threatened with persecution
for certain reasons. Refusal to serve in someone's army is not one of those
reasons."

The definitions in the Refugee Act grew out of the 1946 Constitution of the
International Refugee Organization and were incorporated in United Nations
protocols in 1951 and 1967.

"Refugees, as defined by the examples in these instruments, were not just the
unwilling conscripts of the respective national combatants, or the victims of
war's dislocation; they were instead those who were made to suffer for their
race, their beliefs or their nationality," the immigration service said in its
brief.

But the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees disputed the immigration
service's interpretation, and filed a brief backing Mr. Elias, saying that
"forced recruitment or retaliation for refusal to join a guerrilla group
deprives its victims of life or physical freedom and clearly constitutes
sufficient harm to support a claim of persecution."

The United Nations brief also expressed concern that the decision in the Elias
case could influence other countries' policy because so many rely on the refugee
definition in the United Nations protocols.

'I Have to Work'

As the legal arguments over this country's immigration policy grind on, so does
the war in Guatemala. Mr. Elias' father has written to tell him that the
guerrillas have come twice more, looking for him. The State Department, in its
Country Reports on Human Rights Practices, said that in 1989, Guatemalan
guerrillas "were involved in extrajudicial killing in rural areas," and that
among those killed were two repatriated refugees.

Mr. Elias has no contact with his life in Olintepeque, except for the letters he
and his parents exchange every two months. He stares straight ahead, seeming a
bit lost, when asked about the kind of life he expects to have if he is allowed
to stay here.

"All I know is I have to work," he said. But he says he is content here: "In
this country, no one bothers you," he said quietly.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The case of Jairo Jonathan Elias Zacarias, right, who was denied
political asylum and is now appealing to the Supreme Court, could help decide
the fate of thousands of Central Americans who say they fled to avoid forcible
recruitment into guerrilla armies. With him is his lawyer, Peter von Mehren.
(Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

Graphs: "Seeking Political Asylum" shows the number of applications for asylum
in the U.S. for all of fiscal 1989, all of fiscal 1990 and first six months of
fiscal 1991. (Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 14, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Appeals Decision Is Victory For 220,000 Rejected Aliens

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 5; National Desk; Law Page

LENGTH: 557 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 13


Immigration officials must consider residency applications from at least 220,000
aliens who left the United States briefly before applying for amnesty, a Federal
appeals court ruled today.

If the decision is upheld by the United States Supreme Court, it would be a
major victory for aliens whose attempts to remain in this country were thwarted
amid conflicting interpretations of the 1986 immigration law.

"This will put an end to uncertainty for thousands of would-be immigrants," said
Steve Rosenbaum, a lawyer in the case who represents California Rural Legal
Assistance.

He said the Immigration and Naturalization Service estimated last September that
the ruling would affect 220,000 aliens, a number that has grown as thousands of
new amnesty applications come in each month.

Review of New Applications

Today's ruling, issued by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit, does not entitle any aliens to amnesty, the legal residency status
provided by the 1986 law for illegal aliens who have lived in the United States
continuously since Jan. 1, 1982. But it requires the immigration service to
consider applications of a large group nationwide that had been rejected because
of brief absences during that period.

Those aliens were allowed to stay in the country and hold jobs while the case
was pending.

Officials at the immigration agency's headquarters in Washington did not return
a telephone call seeking comment on the ruling. But the Government, which has
fought the case since 1986, is expected to appeal to the Supreme Court, which
has reversed several of the appeals court's decisions favoring aliens.

The case involved a provision of the 1986 law that let an alien make a "brief,
casual and innocent" trip outside the United States without violating the
requirement of continuous presence since 1982.

The immigration service declared in November 1986 that any alien leaving the
country without the agency's approval in advance would not qualify for the
exemption. The agency then started deporting those who had left without
approval.

California Rural Legal Assistance has said that those caught by the rule
included several aliens who had made brief trips to Mexico to see dying
relatives.

Judge Lawrence Karlton of Federal District Court in Sacramento, Calif., rejected
the agency's interpretation of the law and barred further deportations. The
agency eventually dropped its requirement of advance approval but appealed Judge
Karlton's order extending from May to November 1988 the deadline for aliens
affected by the rule to apply for amnesty.

In a companion case, Judge William Keller of Federal District Court in Los
Angeles also extended the application deadline after disagreeing with the
immigration service's view that those who had left briefly and re-entered using
fraudulent documents were ineligible.

The appeals court ruled 3 to 0 that the judges were authorized to extend the
deadlines. Since the time periods set by the judges have expired, the court said
new deadlines must be set and applications already received must be considered.

Judge Procter Hug said aliens did not get ample opportunity to apply because the
agency's mistaken interpretation of the law was not overturned until the
agency's one-year deadline for amnesty applications had almost expired.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 15, 1992, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Appeals Decision Is Victory For 220,000 Rejected Aliens

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 507 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 14


Immigration officials must consider residency applications from at least 220,000
aliens who left the United States briefly before applying for amnesty, a Federal
appeals court ruled on Thursday.

If the decision is upheld by the United States Supreme Court, it would be a
major victory for aliens whose attempts to remain in this country were thwarted
amid conflicting interpretations of the 1986 immigration law.

"This will put an end to uncertainty for thousands of would-be immigrants," said
Steve Rosenbaum, a lawyer in the case who represents California Rural Legal
Assistance.

He said the Immigration and Naturalization Service estimated last September that
the ruling would affect 220,000 aliens, a number that has grown as thousands of
new amnesty applications come in each month.

Review of New Applications

The ruling on Thursday, issued by the United States Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit, does not entitle any aliens to amnesty, the legal residency
status provided by the 1986 law for illegal aliens who have lived in the United
States continuously since Jan. 1, 1982. But it requires the immigration service
to consider applications of a large group nationwide that had been rejected
because of brief absences during that period.

Those aliens were allowed to stay in the country and hold jobs while the case
was pending.

Duke Austin, the immigration service's spokesman in Washington, said today that
the agency was reviewing the appeals court ruling and that no decision had been
made on whether to appeal it to the Supreme Court.

The case involved a provision of the 1986 law that let an alien make a "brief,
casual and innocent" trip outside the United States without violating the
requirement of continuous presence since 1982.

The immigration service declared in November 1986 that any alien leaving the
country without the agency's approval in advance would not qualify for the
exemption. The agency then started deporting those who had left without
approval.

Visiting Dying Relatives

California Rural Legal Assistance has said that those caught by the rule
included several aliens who had made trips to Mexico to see dying relatives.

Judge Lawrence Karlton of Federal District Court in Sacramento, Calif., rejected
the agency's interpretation of the law and barred further deportations. The
agency eventually dropped its requirement of advance approval but appealed Judge
Karlton's order extending from May to November 1988 the deadline for aliens
affected by the rule to apply for amnesty.

In a companion case, Judge William Keller of Federal District Court in Los
Angeles also extended the application deadline after disagreeing with the
Government's view that those who had left briefly and re-entered using
fraudulent documents were ineligible.

The appeals court ruled 3 to 0 that the judges were authorized to extend the
deadlines. Since the ones set by the judges have expired, the court said new
deadlines must be set and applications already received must be considered.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 19, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Weighs New Limits on Asylum

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 789 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 18


The Bush Administration is considering a plan to curtail sharply the rights of
foreigners to seek asylum in the United States.

In a draft document now circulating in the Justice Department, the
Administration is proposing to introduce the concept of "summary exclusion,"
which would give immigration authorities the power to forbid entry to foreigners
with fraudulent documents. The plan, an amendment to the immigration law that
would need Congressional approval, would also allow authorities to deport
immediately any applicant for asylum who is declared ineligible.

No review or appeal would be allowed in such cases.

The Administration's draft includes proposals similar to those introduced by the
Reagan Administration in the 1980's. None ever became law.

Political Motive Suggested

In Congress today, staff members said there was no indication that the new
amendments would be introduced immediately. Several members of Congress
suggested that the legislation may be politically motivated in an election year.
The Administration would appear to be strictly limiting illegal immigration and
extensive asylum during a recession when jobs are already scarce for Americans.

Lawyers representing refugee groups argue that the amendment would be
unconstitutional because it would deny people the right to due process. These
refugee advocates also say that such a law would be incompatible with
international humanitarian standards.

Under present practice, thousands of foreigners who enter the United States with
suspect documents -- or no documents at all -- or with what are considered
insufficient grounds for asylum claims, are nevertheless allowed hearings and
often repeated appeals.

Difference in Status

To gain asylum, a foreigner must be on American soil. To apply for refugee
status, which is governed by other procedures and laws, a person must be outside
the United States. An asylum seeker can be ordered deported if the claim fails,
even under present laws, though the applicant now has the right of appeal. A
refugee arrives in the United States with legal status and does not have to
clear further hurdles.

About 177,000 asylum cases are pending in the United States.

The amendment to the Immigration and Nationality Act would deal with two
immediate problems, according to the Administration's draft document. The first
provision, denying entry to foreigners with fraudulent documents or no documents
at all, "is designed to deal with the increasingly common practice of presenting
fraudulent documents to common carriers and then destroying or discarding them
prior to immigration inspection."

The second part of the proposed amendment, allowing for the immediate
deportation or repatriation of asylum seekers who do not qualify, the draft
says, would "alleviate the present situation in which aliens encountered on the
high seas must either be given pre-asylum interviews and processing aboard
vessels or on foreign soil, or brought to the United States and effectively
allowed to remain indefinitely."

The first provision would address directly the several dozen foreigners in
custody at Kennedy Airport in New York or other ports of entry.

Blocking Haitians From U.S.

The second provision is intended to plug the route through which many Haitians
hope to enter the United States to make applications for permanent asylum.

Exceptions to summary deportation would continue to be made for people with a
credible fear of persecution, according to the draft, which also accepts that
some foreigners will arrive with false documents because they were necessary to
leave a dangerous situation safely.

Warren R. Leiden, executive director of the American Immigrations Lawyers
Association, said in an interview today that the Administration's proposals may
sound good in concept but will run into problems "in the practical world."

Mr. Leiden said the Administration seems to be restating current law but making
it more extreme, and questions why so much effort is being put into seeking news
legislation when current laws could do the same job.

At the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights. Arthur C. Helton, director of the
refugee program, said that when asylum rules were last adjusted in 1990, there
was an understanding between the Government and independent organizations
representing foreigners that new centers would be set up around the country to
handle asylum cases expeditiously.

These centers are not functioning as promised, he said, and "deficiencies still
keep the asylum system from being capable of dealing with cases in any
meaningful way."

The new amendment, he said, would contradict the agreement and in a sense
acknowledge that the system was not working.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 27, 1992, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Topics of The Times;
Fairness for Refugees

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 188 words


Imagine you're a foreigner seeking political asylum in the United States. You
arrive without valid papers and are immediately detained without a hearing in a
Federal jail -- often in isolated, harsh conditions. Many foreigners don't have
to imagine this sequence. They've lived it.

Before 1980, aliens were usually released on their own recognizance until their
cases could be adjudicated. But when Cubans and Haitians began arriving in large
numbers, detention became routine, especially for foreigners fleeing political
persecution.

Currently, about 7,500 people are imprisoned. Perhaps as many as 2,000 of them
had sought protection as refugees; the rest are mainly illegal immigrants who
may be subject to deportation.

Reversing course, the Immigration and Naturalization Service will now detain
only those asylum seekers who are unlikely to show up for a hearing to determine
eligibility or who pose a threat to public safety. Others will be freed until
their day in court.

The I.N.S. deserves praise for restoring the presumptions of freedom that draw
asylum seekers to the U.S. in the first place.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 14, 1991, Monday, Late Edition - Final

For Salvadoran Refugees, an Empty Promise?

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 590 words


To the Editor:

As an immigration lawyer involved primarily in representing asylum seekers, I
will reserve any praise of the Justice Department's agreement to readjudicate
150,000 cases of asylum denial ("For Refugees, the Door Swings Open," editorial,
Dec. 24), pending proof from the Immigration and Naturalization Service of a
truly evenhanded treatment of Salvadoran asylum applicants.

Under the settlement, the agency has only agreed to reconsider those
applications under regulations in effect since last Oct. 1. In theory, these new
regulations should insure fairer adjudication by creating a new corps of
centrally supervised asylum officers, who receive special training from outside
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, researching country conditions in
a new documentation center to reach decisions with less reliance on State
Department "advisory opinions."

Although the State Department's opinions, required by statute for all asylum
requests, are only advisory in nature and not legally binding on the agency, in
practice the immigration service has denied most, if not all, applications that
fail to receive a positive State Department response. These State Department
opinions are usually colored by foreign policy considerations. The new
regulations, 10 years in the making, were applauded by human rights advocates as
a major step toward an objective and humane asylum policy in accord with United
States obligations under international law.

However, there is no evidence yet of real change under these regulations. In the
New York immigration service district, for example, the new corps of asylum
officers consists of the same personnel who had been adjudicating and denying
asylum applications for years. Their intensive training consisted of a two-week
course in Georgia, which apparently provided a very generalized overview of the
asylum laws. Some of these officers have commented offhand that they see no real
change from the previous procedures.

Futhermore, in a November memo, William P. Cook, then the immigration service's
general counsel, accused agency officials of trying to kill the new asylum
regulations by withholding resources.

Assuming that the Immigration and Naturalization Service is serious about the
new regulations, it will have to make a great effort to reverse the shameful
history of its treatment of Salvadoran refugees. For eight years, the agency has
detained Salvadorans seeking asylum at the United States border. These refugees,
including children, are held without bail indefinitely, enduring overcrowding,
inadequate toilet facilities, poor diets and forced inactivity.

Many Salvadorans have been coerced into signing "voluntary" departure agreements
before being allowed to consult with a lawyer. Although a United States District
Court in Texas issued restraining orders against several of these practices, the
immigration service refused to obey these orders.

In its adjudication of Salvadoran asylum applications, the agency has denied
some 98 percent. A 1988 training video shown to immigration service asylum
examiners featured a State Department official mocking the asylum claim of
Salvadorans and stating that 99 percent of Salvadoran asylum cases should be
denied.

In light of these long-term policies, and the meager efforts to reform the
system, the settlement is less likely to prove "an extraordinary gift to half a
million potential refugees," as you express it, than another empty promise.

JEFFREY S. CHASE
New York, Dec. 24, 1990

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 1, 1991, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Judge Approves Plan Blocking Deportation

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 261 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 31


A Federal district judge gave final approval today to a settlement that blocks
deportation of up to 500,000 immigrants from El Salvador and Guatemala and
allows them to reopen their cases seeking political asylum.

Under the settlement, reached in December and approved today by Judge Robert F.
Peckham, the Bush Administration and refugee advocacy groups have agreed to
resolve a suit filed in 1985 that accused the Government of using improper
political considerations to deny claims of asylum. Judge Peckham, who was named
to the Federal bench in 1966 by President Lyndon B. Johnson, had rejected
repeated attempts by the Government to dismiss the suit.

Since 1983, fewer than 3 percent of Salvadoran applicants and 2 percent of
Guatemalans have been granted asylum by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, while applicants from Communist countries have been approved at far
higher rates.

The settlement includes a Government statement that neither foreign policy nor
"the Government's opinion of political or ideological beliefs of the applicant"
is a proper consideration in an asylum case.

The immigration agency will now reconsider all cases of Salvadorans and
Guatemalans whose asylum claims have been denied since 1980 but who have not yet
been deported. Lawyers for the plaintiffs estimate the number of these refugees
at 150,000.

The agency will also entertain asylum applications from a larger group of
Salvadoran and Guatemalan immigrants who, the advocacy groups say, were deterred
from seeking asylum by fear of improper deportation.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 21, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Supreme Court Roundup;
High Court Rules Aliens Can Sue Over Procedures in Amnesty Law

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1451 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 20


The Supreme Court ruled today that the Government could be sued over the way it
administered the 1986 immigration law.

Lower courts had differed as to whether such suits could be brought. The 7-to-2
decision today opens the door to broad legal challenges in Federal court on
behalf of large numbers of aliens, perhaps hundreds of thousands, who are still
seeking legal status under the two amnesty programs established by the 1986 law.

The Court decisively rejected the Federal Government's argument that the Federal
courts lacked jurisdiction even to entertain class-action lawsuits of this type.
The Government had argued that Congress had intended the 1986 law to bar
judicial review of the immigration service's procedures, permitting only appeals
by individual aliens who had been denied amnesty and were facing imminent
deportation.

In a majority opinion written by Justice John Paul Stevens, the Court upheld a
1989 decision by a Federal appeals panel in Atlanta on behalf of some 20,000
Haitians who had been denied amnesty under one of the programs, intended to
benefit agricultural workers. The Haitians successfully challenged various
aspects of the hearings provided by the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
including the absence of Creole translators.

The American Bar Association filed a brief supporting the Haitians. John J.
Curtin Jr., the bar group's president, today called the ruling "one of the most
important immigration decisions in the last quarter century."

More than two dozen broad lawsuits, known as "pattern and practice" suits, have
been filed in Federal district courts around the country, raising a variety of
challenges to the way the law is being administered. The common element in the
lawsuits is the assertion that the challenged procedures violate the aliens'
constitutional right to due process of law.

One suit was brought in California on behalf of 70,000 aliens who were barred
from filing their amnesty applications because they had missed a deadline. In a
case in Washington, 5,000 aliens are challenging a regulation that requires
applicants for amnesty to have made their illegal status known to the
immigration service before 1982. Another California case challenges a
requirement that aliens who are temporarily released from custody while awaiting
deportation may not be employed.

100,000 Affected

Some lower courts have accepted the Government's view that there is no
jurisdiction to hear such cases, and others have rejected it. Final
determination in cases affecting nearly 100,000 people has been deferred as
Federal judges have waited for the Supreme Court to rule in the Haitian case.

The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 established two amnesty programs
under which eligible aliens could establish the legal right to remain in the
country. One was the farmworkers program at issue in the case today. The other
was a general amnesty program open to those who had been in the country before
Jan. 1, 1982. Because the jurisdictional provisions governing the two programs
are essentially identical, the ruling today applies to both.

The two programs drew more than three million applications and generated
numerous lawsuits. The Government is bracing for even more lawsuits now that the
general amnesty program is entering its second phase, during which aliens who
established the right to temporary residence now seek to become permanent
residents.

Misconstrued by Administration

In his opinion today, McNary v. Haitian Refugee Center, No. 89-1332, Justice
Stevens said the Government had misinterpreted the jurisdictional limits that
Congress placed on challenges to the amnesty program.

He said that while the law barred suits by individual aliens except in the
context of their own deportation proceedings, that limitation did not apply to
the more general "pattern and practice" lawsuits that challenged policy rather
than individual determinations.

"Were we to hold otherwise," Justice Stevens said, "meaningful judicial review"
of the aliens' "statutory and constitutional claims would be foreclosed." He
said that had Congress meant to impose such a drastic jurisdictional limit, "it
could easily have used broader statutory language" and done so explicitly.

The majority opinion was joined by Justices Thurgood Marshall, Harry A.
Blackmun, Sandra Day O'Connor, Anthony M. Kennedy, David H. Souter, and in all
but one section by Justice Byron R. White. Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist
filed a dissenting opinion that Justice Antonin Scalia joined.

Constitutional Issue Avoided

By reading the 1986 law to permit the broad lawsuits, Justice Stevens did not
have to address a question that was implicit in the case: whether the
Constitution itself would have permitted the Government to not provide a forum
for the aliens' constitutional challenges.

While the case did not directly present a constitutional issue, Justice Stevens
observed, almost in passing, that amnesty is an "important benefit" that the
Government cannot withhold from illegal aliens without due process of law.

Noting that a denial of amnesty means that the alien cannot be legally employed,
Justice Stevens said, "Even disregarding the risk of deportation, the impact of
a denial on the opportunity to obtain gainful employment is plainly sufficient
to mandate constitutionally fair procedures in the application process."

In his dissenting opinion, Chief Justice Rehnquist took issue with Justice
Stevens's assumption that constitutional rights were ultimately at stake in the
case. "The Court never mentions what colorable constitutional claims these
aliens, illegally present in the United States, could have had that demand
judicial review," he said.

'Ponderously Reasoned Gloss'

The Chief Justice said that in his view, Congress intended to bar lawsuits of
this kind, and was constitutionally free to do so. "The Court's ponderously
reasoned gloss on the statute's plain language sanctions an unwarranted
intrusion into a carefully drafted Congressional program," he said.

The Haitians' lawsuit was brought in 1988 in Federal District Court in Miami by
the Haitian Refugee Center, an organization based in Miami, and the Roman
Catholic Diocese of Palm Beach.

In the district court and the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th
Circuit, the plaintiffs prevailed both on the jurisdictional issue and on the
merits of their lawsuit. The Government now provides the Creole translators and
has made other changes required by the District Court's injunction.

Ira J. Kurzban, the Haitians' lead lawyer, said today that the ruling was
important because it will permit lawsuits that "attack the machinery of how
these cases are decided."

There were these other developments at the Court today:

Interstate Commerce

The Court ruled that people can bring lawsuits under the Civil Rights Act of
1871 to challenge state actions that place undue burdens on interstate commerce.

The 7-to-2 ruling, with a majority opinion by Justice White, permitted an Ohio
truck owner to sue Nebraska officials over the state's policy of taxing certain
out-of-state trucks. The decision overturned a ruling by the Nebraska Supreme
Court that the Reconstruction-era civil rights law does not encompass lawsuits
based on the Constitution's grant of authority to Congress to regulate commerce
between the states.

The Civil Rights Act of 1871, usually referred to as Section 1983, permits suits
against state officials for violations of "any rights, privileges, or immunities
secured by the Constitution and laws" of the United States. Justice White said
that "under the ordinary meaning of those terms," the Commerce Clause was
covered by the law.

In a dissenting opinion, Justice Kennedy, joined by Chief Justice Rehnquist,
argued that the Commerce Clause "is a grant of power to Congress" that "does not
purport to secure rights" for individuals. The case was Dennis v. Higgins, No.
89-1555.

Union Elections

The Court ruled unanimously that labor unions cannot impose rules that have the
effect of denying "reasonable" requests by union members to distribute campaign
literature in union elections.

The decision, written by Justice Stevens, upheld a ruling by the United States
Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, in Richmond. That court had ruled in
favor of a dissident candidate for the presidency of the International
Organization for Masters, Mates and Pilots, a maritime union, who wanted to
distribute his literature before the nominating convention, rather than after
the convention as required by a union rule. The case was Masters, Mates and
Pilots v. Brown, No. 89-1330.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Associate Justice John Paul Stevens wrote the majority opinion
in an illegal aliens case. (The New York Times) (pg. B7)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 2, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Clarification Sought On Visas for Performers

BYLINE: By IRVIN MOLOTSKY,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 65; Column 5; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 627 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May, 31


Organizers and producers who bring foreign artists to the United States for
performances have learned to their dismay that an immigration measure passed by
Congress without debate last fall could sharply restrict their activities. But
the Administration and Congress are expected to act shortly to ease their
concerns.

One of the major concerns about the new law, which goes into effect on Oct. 1,
is the cap of 25,000 that it will place on the number of foreign performers who
may receive visas to enter the United States each year. It cannot be calculated
if that number is greater or smaller than the number of visas allowed under
present law.

The reason, said Richard L. Kenney, a spokesman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, is that performers have been part of a larger category -
with a maximum of 78,000 visas - that included "doctors, lawyers, skilled
craftsmen, journalists; anybody recognized in a field or as a professional." No
records have been kept to show how many were in the arts.

A key Senate aide involved with the new bill agreed with Mr. Kenney's
assessment. Jerry M. Tinker, principal subcommittee staff officer to Senator
Edward M. Kennedy, chairman of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and
Refugee Affairs, said th bill would be changed.

"The artificial cap of 25,000 came out of the blue," Mr. Tinker said. Since the
25,000 figure is in the statute, he added, changing it would require a
Congressional bill known as a technical correction.

Another section of the new law that would be changed by administrative process
or in the technical correction, he said, is a prohibition against applying for a
visa more tha 90 days before the scheduled trip. Presenters of operas and
ballets have complained that such performances have to scheduled years in
advance and that the performers need to apply early so they can be sure they
will be admitted.

Lobbying for Change

Representatives of arts organizations remain concerned. One group, the League of
American Theaters and Producers, is lobbying to change some of the provisions,
particularly the 90-day limit on applying for visas. George Wachtel, the
league's research director, said, "They went about this without consulting the
industry affected."

That charge was disputed by Bruce A. Morrison, a former Representative from
Connecticut who, as chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration,
Refugees and International Law, led the House's work in drafting the new law.

"This provision was drafted after extensive consultation with workers as well as
owners," he said. "The legitimate interest of U.S. workers were protected
without denying entry to a full range of foreign artists."

Mr. Morrison said the number of performers who could be admitted under the new
law was almost certainly larger than before.

Recognized or Unique

Mr. Kenney of the immigration service said the rules establish the criteria
under which up to 25,000 visas may be issued each year to entertainers and
athletes. Applicants will have to demonstrate that they are "internationally
recognized," performing under a reciprocal arrangement, or participating in a
culturally unique area. Performers who do not meet those criteria will be able
to apply in a separate category for people of "extraordinary ability."

Mr. Morrison said he thought most performers would be admitted under one
category or another.

Mr. Tinker said the measure was approved in the rush to adjourn Congress last
October and that Senate negotiators would not have agreed to the changes had
they known of the difficulties the measure would cause.

"We were led to believe it was housecleaning," Mr. Tinker said. "There's a broad
consensus on what ought to be done."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 14, 1991, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. to Delete Almost All Names From Political Blacklist of Aliens

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 899 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 13


Ending a 40-year practice that has its roots in the McCarthy era, the Bush
Administration has agreed to remove almost all the 250,000 names on a secret
list of aliens it has considered ideologically unacceptable to enter this
country.

The action is largely symbolic because a revision of the immigration law last
year barred the State Department from excluding a person because of beliefs,
statements or political associations that would be protected under the
Constitution for American citizens.

Burden on the State Dept.

Under last year's law, people on the list would have had to apply to have their
names removed. But the measure approved 18 to 0 on Wednesday by the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee would require the State Department to take the
initiative in purging the list. The action came on a bill that authorizes the
department's policies and spending for the next fiscal year. The House of
Representatives approved a similar measure last month.

Over the years, the ideological exclusion in the McCarran-Walter immigration act
had been used to bar individuals like the Nobel laureates Gabriel Garcia Marquez
and Pablo Neruda, the novelist Graham Greene, the actor Yves Montand and the
naturalist Farley Mowat. Political leaders who were barred included Ian D.
Smith, the former Prime Minister of Rhodesia; Daniel Ortega Saavedra, former
president of Nicaragua, and Yasir Arafat, head of the Palestine Liberation
Organization.

The law also barred thousands of other people who did not know of the existence
of the list or that their names were on the list or why. The list was compiled
by State Department officials in Washington and in embassies and consulates
around the world, based on information provided by other governments as well as
their own observations.

In addition to the 250,000 "political undesirables," the list also includes the
names of about 100,000 people cited for national security and foreign policy
reasons, said Arthur C. Helton, the director of the Lawyers' Committee's Refugee
Project, a public interest group committed to the removal of the names. These
people will continue to be listed because they may still be excluded under the
immigration law.

Interviewed by telephone from Geneva, Mr. Helton said the list had grown rapidly
in the 1980's, to 367,000 names from 100,000, because the Reagan Administration
was especially hostile to people with left-wing political views. Of the 367,000
names, 69 percent were included for ideological reasons, he said.

Mr. Helton said another list included the names of more than three million
criminals, immigration violators, drug traffickers, prostitutes and those with
certain health problems. Those names will also remain on the list.

Compromise on One Aspect

The State Department agreed to support the bill after the Senate committee
accepted a proviso that would enable the Secretary of State to retain an alien's
name on the list by certifying that there was a compelling reason to do so,
including the individual's statements, beliefs and political associations. The
compromise was worked out by the American Civil Liberties Union and Senator
Daniel P. Moynihan, Democrat of New York and chief sponsor of the Senate
measure.

A State Department official, who spoke on condition on anonymity, said, "We've
been in agreement pretty much all along," but added, "We can't announce anything
until the bill is passed."

Jeanne M. Woods, the A.C.L.U.'s legislative counsel, said: "We negotiated a
compromise that everybody can live with. It allows them to maintain certain
names on the list of people not excludable under the new law."

She said the State Department wanted to retain a small list of aliens whose
activities should be monitored if they entered the United States or even just
applied for a visa.

The Immigration and Nationality Act, known as the McCarran-Walter Act, was
passed in 1952 over the veto of President Harry S. Truman. In that period,
conservatives said it was needed to protect American citizens from subversive
ideas, mainly communism. The ideological restrictions in the law were modified
in 1977 to give the Secretary of State discretion. But the law still barred the
entry of many people for ideological reasons. The restrictions were temporarily
lifted in both 1987 and 1988, and permanently repealed last year.

A Grab Bag of Names

The A.C.L.U. contends that the alien list is a grab bag of names, similar to raw
files compiled by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. For instance, Ms. Woods
said, the list includes Jim Hunter, a Canadian trade unionist, "whose crime was
that as a teen-ager he belonged to a Little League team organized by the
Communist Party."

The State Department said it would take up to three years to purge the list of
those cited for ideological reasons. Under the House-passed bill, the agency
would have six months, while the Senate bill would give the State Department the
three years it sought.

A Senate aide, who spoke on condition of anonymity, suggested why the measure
enjoyed broad bipartisan support. The list cut all ways, the aide said, and
discomfitted everyone.

"Jesse Helms doesn't like the list because they used it to keep out Roberto
d'Aubuisson" the aide said, referring to the right-wing Salvadoran leader.
"Moynihan doesn't like it because they used it to keep out Farley Mowat."

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 15, 1991, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Citizenship For 6,000 In Ceremony In Queens

BYLINE: By DONATELLA LORCH

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 747 words


In the largest naturalization ceremony in New York City since 1954, more than
6,000 people from 100 different countries crammed a Queens auditorium yesterday
and pledged allegiance to the United States.

The pipes and drums of the New York City Police Department Emerald Society band
brought roars of approval from the crowd. And when the keynote singer did not
arrive to sing the national anthem, half a dozen immigration lawyers improvised
a chorus and asked the 6,050 new American citizens to sing along.

The hourlong swearing-in ceremony was the largest since 1954 when 9,000 new
Americans were sworn in at the Polo Grounds in upper Manhattan. The crowd
yesterday was a result of immigration housekeeping. In one fell swoop, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service cleaned up a backlog caused by the
increasing numbers of qualified applicants in the Eastern District of New York,
which encompasses Brooklyn, Queens, Staten Island, Nassau and Suffolk Counties,
immigration officials said.

Auditorium at St. John's

"We figured 9,000 would wipe out our backlog but we couldn't find a place to do
9,000," said Charles Troy, a spokesman for the I.N.S. Officials did not want to
risk inclement weather by having the ceremony outside. The largest auditorium
they could find held 6,000 people and was at St. John's University in Hillcrest,
Queens.

Such ceremonies are not uncommon in other parts of the country. Joe Flanders, an
information officer for the I.N.S. in Southern California, said, "We average
ceremonies with 7,000 to 8,000 people, two or three times a year."

Most of the immigrants yesterday were from Brooklyn and Queens, two boroughs
that have come to embody a changing New York City, reshaped in the last decade
by a large immigrant influx. The New York City branch of the I.N.S. interviews
an estimated 60,000 immigrants a year, Mr. Troy said. Most become citizens.

Immigration requires all citizens to hold resident green cards for at least five
years before becoming American citizens. Yesterday's crowd was a mixture of
races and religions and reasons for becoming citizens. Becoming an American made
it easier to get a job and travel and made it possible to vote, they said. They
all planned to celebrate: dinners with family, a barbecue bash in upstate New
York, a date with a new boyfriend.

Flags Are Distributed

"Most probably came here through other family members," Mr. Troy said. "They may
have come for economic reasons. When they become citizens it's easier under
immigration laws to turn around and petition for other immediate relatives."

As the thousands poured into the auditorium dressed as if they were going to a
fancy reception, they were all given miniature American flags. The largest
representation was 547 people from Guyana. The next largest groups were from
China, Barbados, Jamaica and the Dominican Republic.

Dressed in a brown suit, holding an American flag, Iftikar Aziz Nazmi, 27, had
trouble letting his not-yet so nimble English express his emotions. Mr. Nazmi, a
printing product manager in Brooklyn, left Bangladesh six years ago and is the
first of his family -- seven siblings and his parents -- to get citizenship. His
father had worked in the United States embassy in Dacca for 38 years before
coming to this country, he said.

"Today, I am finally free," he said. "Sometimes I miss Bangladesh. But today I
am an American. I am a passport holder."

Yesterday evening, the entire family planned to go out to dinner.

Won Ju Kim believes his greatest privilege will be to vote. A native of Seoul,
South Korea, Mr. Kim, 31, arrived as a student eight years ago. Since then he
has moved from Illinois to Brooklyn where he works in a Korean importing
business. Aside from economic incentives, his reasoning for becoming an American
is simple and straightforward. "I can now do what I believe," he said. "My life
is more wide open."

Victoria Eugenia Nieto left Barranquilla, Colombia, when she was 25. She did not
speak English, had few friends and no job. She did not even know how to drive a
car. Now, six years later, she works at Macy's at Roosevelt Field on Long Island
as a sales associate.

Miss Nieto said she brought her values from Colombia and that she will never
forget where she came from. First thing yesterday morning, she called her father
in Colombia to tell him the news. "Tonight," she said, opening her eyes wide and
laughing, "I have a date! We're going out for sushi."

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Palia Arviv, an immigrant from Israel, and her son, Rachal,
during the naturalization ceremonies yesterday in Queens. (Dith Pran/The New
York Times) (pg. 26)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 26, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Salvadorans, Victims of a Glitch

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 283 words


Imagine someone from El Salvador who's living in the U.S. and is afraid to
return home because of the civil war. Under a program approved by Congress last
year, he would be granted safe haven and temporary work here in exchange for
combined fees of $255.

Now imagine a Kuwaiti afraid to return home after the Persian Gulf war. He, too,
could win safe haven and employment -- but for a mere $50. Why the unequal
treatment? An incredible glitch in the law. Amends are due the Salvadorans.

An overhaul of the immigration law last year established a process to protect
foreigners trapped here because of civil strife or natural disaster at home.
Under one section of the law, the Attorney General can grant temporary protected
status to nationals of certain countries like Lebanon, Liberia and Kuwait. For a
$50 fee, they're allowed to live and work in the United States for 6 to 18
months.

Another section of the law specifically singles out Salvadorans for protection,
but makes no mention of a $50 fee; it merely authorizes the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to charge a "reasonable" amount to cover program costs.
The I.N.S., which says it's losing money on those who pay $50, is charging
Salvadorans $75 to register, $60 for a work permit and $120 to renew the permit
at six-month intervals. The $255 total has inhibited Salvadorans from
registering.

With the registration deadline fast approaching, Congress isn't likely to reopen
the entire law to change the fees. But the House is prepared to pass a new law
extending the deadline in order to coax more Salvadorans to come forward. That's
a small concession to fairness; the Senate and White House should go along.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 28, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Limits Adoptions of Romanian Children

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 143 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 27


Immigration officials have moved to restrict adoptions of Romanian babies by
Americans, saying that only orphans or abandoned children will be allowed in the
United States after Aug. 15.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said on Friday that the authorities
generally would make exceptions.

Under Federal law, abandoned children or orphans who are adopted by Americans
can enter the country on immigrant visas. But to cope with recent requests for
Romanian babies, the immigration service has allowed 177 children into the
country, even though they had parents in Romania.

Since the December 1989 revolution in Romania that overthrew President Nicolae
Ceausescu, 5,000 children have been adopted by Westerners, about 1,500 of them
by American families.

This month, Romania enacted a law intended to end the black-market sale of
babies.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 21, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S., in New Step, Will Let In 1,000 Tibetans

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 688 words


A group of Tibetans and their American supporters are preparing to resettle
groups of Tibetan refugees in the United States for the first time.

Until now, only a trickle of Tibetans have entered the United States -- a total
of 500 in the last 30 years, officials say -- largely because Washington has
been reluctant to displease China by giving Tibetans either refugee or immigrant
status. China claims historical sovereignty over Tibet, reinforced by military
occupation in 1950.

Now, 1,000 "displaced Tibetans," their spouses and children will be admitted to
this country over three years. Special legislation for the Tibetans is included
in the 1990 Immigration Act, and goes into effect on Oct. 1.

Under the Section 134 Tibetan Provisions, introduced by Representative Barney
Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, 1,000 immigrant visas will be made available
to "qualified displaced Tibetans." The law does not refer to the Tibetans as
refugees, thereby avoiding a delicate issue that might well anger Beijing. The
law specifically refers to natives of Tibet, including their children and
grandchildren, who have lived continuously in India or Nepal since the enactment
of the Immigration Act. The Tibetans will receive permanent residence and work
authorization, but no benefits for three years and no Federal funds, things that
are generally accorded to refugees.

As many as 20,000 people are expected to apply for the 1,000 visas, people close
to the program say, with preference under the law given to people "not firmly
resettled" or who are "most likely to be resettled successfully in the United
States." Some 120,000 Tibetan refugees have been resettled in India and Nepal,
and hundreds are fleeing Tibet each year.

Support for the resettlement comes from the Dalai Lama, spiritual leader of six
million Tibetan Buddhists and winner of the 1989 Nobel Peace Prize. The Dalai
Lama fled his homeland in 1959 after an unsuccessful uprising against Chinese
occupation and now heads a government in exile at Dharamsala, India.

China is not known to have reacted strongly to the legislation.

In essence the legislation gives immigrant visas to Tibetans, who would not
normally qualify. If the Tibetans applied for normal immigration visas, they
would have to wait for years since China, India and Nepal are all
oversubscribed, officials say.

It took two years of lobbying to get around China's stand that recognition of
Tibetans as refugees would be considered an unfriendly act. Washington does not
recognize Tibet, and the agreement to receive "displaced Tibetans" was an
apparent shift in policy.

Under the project, the Tibetans will be grouped in 10 cluster sites around the
country to maintain "social cohesiveness," said Edward J. Bednar, president of
the resettlement organization, a nonprofit group supported by contributions. The
sites include New York City; Ithaca, N.Y.; San Francisco; Minneapolis; Madison,
Wis., and Amherst, Mass.

"This is an opportunity for Tibetans to gain expertise not available to them now
and to uplift themselves and their children," said Rinchen Dharlo, the Dalai
Lama's representative. "At the same time, the Tibetan refugees will preserve our
rich culture and serve as ambassadors to help promote our cause."

New York City, home to about 150 Tibetans, has been designated as the first
cluster site because most Tibetan organizations are based here, in the Tibet
Building in Manhattan.

One of the groups, the Resettlement Project, has organized a support system
among some 60,000 people whoreceive the project's newsletter.

The organizers at Tibet House are working hard to find sponsorship and concrete
jobs offers, which are required for the special visas.

In Ithaca, Gerri Jones, local coordinator for the Resettlement Project, said she
had found difficulties in securing sponsors, employment and housing for the
expected 50 Tibetans.

Ms. Jones said that 35 people had volunteered to be sponsors, but that only 14
job offers had come in for Tibetans. Many employers are hesitant to provide job
letters without interviews and for some unknown date.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 25, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Battered Alien Spouses Find a Way to Escape an Immigration Trap

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 40; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 857 words


A young woman who came to New York City from a village in South China three
years ago says her husband beat her so fiercely that she feared for the safety
of their unborn child. But she was even more afraid to report the abuse to the
police.

Like many other immigrants, the woman, who is 24 years old and said her name is
Raco M., came to this country with "conditional residence" as the wife of an
American citizen. Until the Immigration Act of 1990, Raco was faced with the
choice of remaining with an abusive husband or risking deportation.

But a little-known amendment to the act insures that a battered spouse or child
who is an alien can file for permanent residence without the cooperation of the
batterer.

Providing an Escape Route

Representative Louise M. Slaughter, Democrat of Rochester, said she introduced
the amendment on behalf of "thousands of immigrant spouses and their children,
terrorized by domestic violence."

Representative Slaughter said she hoped the new law, which amended the 1986
Marriage Fraud Act, would provide immigrant spouses in legitimate marriages "an
escape from beatings, insults and fear." She said Asian women were particularly
vulnerable because of the common practice of arranged marriages.

Congress passed the Marriage Fraud Act in an effort to reduce the number of fake
marriages in which an immigrant and a United States citizen were married simply
to enable the immigrant to qualify for immediate permanent residence status as a
spouse. The fraud act required that an alien live with the husband or wife for
two years and that the alien's petition for permanent residence be made jointly
with the spouse.

But the law did not address the question of abusive treatment and allowed a
waiver of the joint petition only if the alien began divorce proceedings.

Threat of Deportation

"Batterers invariably used the threat of deportation as a weapon in the abuse of
their alien wives," said Pat Eng, founder of the New York Asian Women's Center.
She said most Asian women with conditional residence were unwilling to speak out
against domestic violence for fear of losing their legal status.

"Many Asian women, who have been trapped in abusive relationships, will now have
the courage to come forward," said Ignatius Bau, staff lawyer with the San
Francisco Lawyers' Committee for Urban Affairs. For the first time, he said, the
law permits a foreign spouse to waive the joint petition requirement if it can
be demonstrated that he or she was battered by an American spouse.

On the West Coast, the first shelter for abused Asian women, with 12 rooms, was
opened in 1981 in Los Angeles. Another shelter, in the San Francisco Bay area,
can house 20 abused women and their children.

The New York center operates an emergency shelter program for battered Asian
women and receives referrals from local hospitals, the police, churches and
social-service groups.

In April, the New York center received the President's Volunteer Action Award in
a ceremony at the White House. "We chose them because of their extraordinarily
high level of volunteer commitment, which is so vitally important for the
community," said Suzanne Israel Tufts, regional director of Action, the Federal
Government's domestic volunteer agency.

Situated in a cubbyhole of an office in the Family Court Building in lower
Manhattan, the center runs a score of safe houses and safe apartments. The
voluntary organization was founded in 1982 and its staff includes women who have
been battered by their mates or survived sexual assaults. Also on the staff are
relatives of battered women, as well as other concerned women.

The center also operates a multilingual 24-hour hot line, (212) 732-5230, for
Asian women in need of help as a result of battering or sexual assault. Last
year, Ms. Eng said, the center received more than 2,000 calls and helped about
250 battered women.

Raco's Plea for Help

One of those who called the hot line was Raco, who was six months pregnant last
year when, she said, her husband beat her so badly that she fled into the
streets and asked the police for help. They took her to a public shelter and put
her in touch with the center.

Raco, who looks like a teen-ager, fears retaliation from her husband, a
Chinese-American who courted her by mail for 10 years.

Three months after arriving in this country, Raco said, her husband began
hitting her in the face because she could not get along with his parents, who
lived with them in an apartment in Manhattan. Then the beatings increased, she
said, because she did not want a child right away.

"He threatened not to sponsor me for permanent residence if I didn't carry the
pregnancy to term," she said through an interpreter. But the violence continued
even after she agreed to have the baby.

The center provided Raco with a safe house and help in the birth of her
daughter. It also provided a lawyer to begin divorce proceedings. She has since
received her green card.

Ms. Eng said women like Raco should have fewer difficulties in obtaining
permanent residence as a result of the new legislation.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pat Eng, founder of the New York Asian Women's Center. (Bill
Swersey for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 25, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

40,000 Aliens to Win Legal Status in Lottery

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1211 words


At one minute past midnight on Columbus Day, would-be immigrants and their
lawyers will dump tens of thousands of applications into bins at a Virginia post
office as part of one of the stranger and more controversial innovations in a
new immigration law.

Under the 1990 law, the first 40,000 applications received after 12:01 A.M. on
Oct. 14 from people born in 34 nations will qualify for the green card that
signifies legal permanent residency in the United States.

With some people planning to dump off or mail in hundreds of duplicates to
increase their chances, the post office could receive as many as five million
applications by the cutoff date five days later, according to some estimates.

While there have been similar lotteries in 1986 and 1989, they were smaller,
with 10,000 and 20,000 winners, and were intended as one-time programs.  The new
lottery will become a permanent annual feature under the new immigration law.

Effort to Add 'Diversity'

Among the applicants is Derek McMahon from Dublin, who has worked in the United
States illegally for the past six years and said he would mail in 200 copies.
"I've tried everything to get a green card and nothing has worked," he said.
"This is my only chance."

The lottery was written into the law -- which allows for overall immigration of
up to 700,000 people a year -- with the stated intent of bringing "diversity" by
aiding countries whose immigration numbers dropped after the passage of a broad
new statute in 1965.

The 1965 law lifted stringent quotas on immigration from Latin America and Asia
and gave preference to immigrants closely related to citizens. Both changes
reduced the influx from many European countries. Most of the 34 countries on the
list for the new lottery are in Europe.

"This is kind of a white person's lottery," said Michael Maggio, a
Washington-based immigration lawyer.

In particular, the new law, co-sponsored by Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat
of Massachusetts, favors the Irish, who are allotted at least 40 percent of the
places. Some critics describe it as a disguised amnesty for the more than
100,000 undocumented immigrants from the Republic of Ireland who are living
illegally in America; supporters say it is merely addressing years of
discrimination against Irish immigrants.

Natives of Northern Ireland will be considered to be citizens of Britain, one of
the 33 other countries included in the lottery.

Latin and Asian Influx

With most immigrants now entering the country under the immigration law's
provisions for family reunification, the flow of people from Latin America and
Asia has continued, building on an initial influx from those nations after 1965.

Many European nations, and particularly the Irish, do not have that recent base
of legal immigrants who can apply for entry for immediate family members.

"This is like a once-off effort to give these people an avenue into the family
unification system," said Sean Benson, executive director of Emerald Isle
Immigration Center, a nonprofit community organization in Queens that counsels
illegal Irish immigrants.

Critics of what one lawyer called an "Irish sweepstakes" approach to immigration
assert that it a mockery of the nation's immigration ideals, with possible
racial undertones. They say it reinserts into immigration law the principle of
national origin that was erased by the 1965 law. That law, among other things,
ended a restriction on immigration from Asia.

Cecilia Munoz, an official of the Washington-based Hispanic rights lobbying
group, National Council of La Raza, said, " 'Diversity' is clearly a euphemism.
'Diversity' under this law means larger numbers of white Europeans, and I think
there is some irony in that."

Lotteries Aid the Irish

She added: "Clearly, members of Congress are more comfortable with immigrants
with last names similar to theirs. People who would fight us tooth and nail
didn't bat an eyelash when the Irish got their amnesty. It says something about
the politics of immigration. We are more comfortable with some people than with
others."

Through vigorous organization, the Irish did well in the two previous
immigration lotteries. Ms. Munoz also marveled as well at how effective the
Irish had been in lobbying Congress, saying, "We talked to Congressional office
after Congressional office that just was charmed by the Irish lobbyists."

Critis also say the lottery injects an element of randomness at a time when
United States immigration law is attempting to attract what are considered to be
desirable immigrants, with new provisions inviting people with particular job
skills or large amounts of money to invest in businesses.

"It's not a true lottery, but more of a crap shoot," said Cornelius D. Scully,
the State Department official who prepared the regulations under the guidelines
of the new law.

After the first three years, during which at least 54,000 people are to be
admitted from the Republic of Ireland, the Irish preference is to be dropped,
Mr. Scully said. The total number of visas offered under the lottery each year
will rise to 55,000.

An analysis of the legislation printed in the Federal Register this month noted
there would be "the unseemly spectacle of thousands of applicants and their
representatives going through bizarre gyrations in an effort to guarantee that
their applications were processed early."

"This is a hell of a way to run a railroad," said Alan Nelson, a former
Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service who is now a private
consultant on immigration issues. "It sort of cheapens the immigration process."

Responding to the criticisms, Senator Kennedy said yesterday, "The provision is
a long-overdue step to end this unfair discrimination against Irish immigrants,
who for decades were limited to less than 1,000 visas a year."

He pointed out that the increase for the Irish was accomplished without
restricting any other visa categories.

Supporters also argue that the Irish have historically been an important part of
the nation's immigrant heritage that should not be lost. They say economic
conditions in European nations, including Ireland, did not create the heavy
immigrant flow from other parts of the world in recent decades.

Fine Points Decisisve

Another widely raised objection is that some lawyers are charging fees that
range into the hundreds and even thousands of dollars, essentially to stamp and
mail envelopes containing very simple application letters.

The lawyers respond that as in any legal process, the fine points can be
decisive. One group of 15 immigration lawyers from around the nation is holding
regular telephone conference calls to discuss questions that include whether
envelopes can be machine metered or must carry a postage stamp.

One member of the group has advertised a 95 percent success rate in the last
lottery. Another said she had filed 150 applications and won all but six of
them.

"We have spent hours and hours and hours going through the minute points," said
one of the lawyers, Allen E. Kaye, who said he would be filing 100 applications
for each of his 100 clients, for a total of 10,000 letters, and would probably
rent a van to carry them.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Allen E. Kaye, an immigration lawyer, said he would be filing
100 applications for the green-card lottery for each of his 100 clients. (Joyce
Dopkeen/The New York Times) (pg. A1); The first 40,000 applications received on
Oct. 14 from people born in 34 nations will qualify them for the green card that
signifies legal permanent residence in the United States. According to the law,
the Irish are allotted 40 percent of the places; applicants filled out forms at
Emerald Isle Immigration Center, a nonprofit community organization in Queens
that counsels illegal Irish immigrants. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)
(pg. A19)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 3, 1991, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Congress Eases Curbs On Visas For Artists

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

SECTION: Section C; Page 17; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 363 words


In its rush to adjournment last week, Congress passed a bill easing severe
restrictions on the number of foreign artists who may enter the United States
for performances. The bill rescinds or modifies important provisions of a 1990
immigration law under which only 25,000 foreign performers and other
professionals could receive entry visas to the United States annually.

The bill was passed last Monday by the House and last Tuesday by the Senate, in
both cases by voice vote. The principal sponsors were Representative Romano L.
Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, and Senators Edward M. Kennedy, chairman of the
Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Refugee Affairs; Alan K. Simpson,
Republican of Wyoming, and Paul Simon, Democrat of Illinois.

The bill will now go to President Bush for signing, within the next two weeks.
Senator Simpson, the Republican whip, has said in interviews that the President
will approve the bill.

A coalition of a dozen arts organizations supported the new bill, complaining
that Congress passed the restrictive provisions in 1990 without consulting the
industry. They said it would seriously affect their ability to mount foreign
presentations in the United States.

"This bill addresses the problems we had with the old bill," said Frank J.
Donatelli, a lobbyist for the League of American Theaters and Producers, one of
the sponsors of new legislation.

"Basically, the new bill returns the immigration law to the status that existed
before the 1990 immigration bill," said Mr. Donatelli.

The original 1990 measure would have gone into effect on Oct. 1, but was
postponed because of the strong protests from arts groups, producers'
organizations and labor unions.

These critics also objected to a prohibition in the 1990 bill that prevented
performers from applying for a visa more than 90 days before a scheduled visit
to the United States. Presenters of operas and ballets and theatrical
productions complained that such performances have to be scheduled years in
advance, and that the performers need to know early if they will be admitted to
the country. This restriction was eased in the bill approved last week.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 5, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

HAITIANS WIN STAY ON FORCED RETURN

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 361 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 4


In a ruling that maintains a temporary ban on the forced repatriation of
Haitians fleeing their country, a Federal District Court in Miami has ordered
the Immigration and Naturalization Service to devise new procedures to screen
refugees and assure that no Haitians with a legitimate fear of persecution are
sent back.

The decision, which Justice Department and immigration officials said would be
taken to the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit in Atlanta,
orders the Government to submit a screening plan for Haitians in American
custody within seven days.

The ruling makes no provision for further refugees to enter the country. Some of
those being held are on United States Coast Guard vessels and some are at a
refugee center at the United States naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

The decision was issued by Judge C. Clyde Atkins Tuesday night after a day of
deliberation. He rejected the Government's argument that because the Haitians
were picked up in international waters, they had no right to protection under
American laws.

"It is 'we the people' who are protected by U.S. law," said Solicitor General
Kenneth W. Starr, who argued that the court had no jurisdiction in the case. "We
do not see fit to protect everyone, no matter how moving their case may be,
outside our territorial limits."

Judge Atkins wrote that the Haitian plaintiffs had shown that the "threatened
injury" of their return "outweighs the potential harm an injuction would cause
defendants."

Ira Kurzban, a lawyer with the Haitian Refugee Center in Miami, expressed
satisfaction with the ruling. He said that American officials who interview the
refugees to determine who is eligible for political asylum should first be
educated on conditions in Haiti.

More than 6,300 Haitians heading for the United States have been picked up by
Coast Guard patrols since the current refugee exodus began after the overthrow
of the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, Haiti's elected President.

To accommodate the rise in refugees, the Navy announced Monday that it was
expanding the size of the Guantanamo center to accommodate as many as 10,000
more refugees.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 9, 1991, Monday, Late Edition - Final

The Ghost of McCarran-Walter

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 543 words


For nearly 40 years, the McCarran-Walter Immigration Act allowed the United
States Government to exclude and even deport aliens because of their political
beliefs. Last year, Congress finally repealed the most odious provisions of the
law.

Why, then, is the Government keeping the ghost of McCarran-Walter alive in a
five-year effort to deport two Palestinian immigrants?

The Government insists they are dangerous troublemakers but has refused to give
any evidence of that in public. The Palestinians insist that their political
advocacy is limited to ideas and that they pose no terrorist threat. Even the
F.B.I. agrees. The Government ought to present its evidence or drop the case.

The Palestinians are among eight immigrants living in Los Angeles who were
arrested at gunpoint in 1987. They were taken into custody by the Immigration
Service and detained in maximum security for nearly three weeks.

Why such harsh treatment? The Immigration Service first charged the group --
seven Jordanians and the Kenyan wife of one -- with belonging to the Popular
Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a self-described Marxist organization.
Under the 1952 McCarran-Walter Act, aliens affiliated with a group advocating
world Communism could be deported. The Popular Front was also involved in
several hijackings in the 1970's, most notably that of an Air France jet flown
to Uganda, where Israeli commandos killed the hijackers.

But the eight immigrants, who were mostly students in their 20's and 30's at the
time of their arrest, denied membership in the Popular Front. In Federal court,
they successfully challenged certain advocacy provisions of McCarran-Walter as
unconstitutional. And the Government refused to make public any evidence that
they engaged in any dangerous acts.

Eventually, the Government filed new charges against six, mainly involving
technical visa violations. That left only two defendants, Khader Hamide and
Michel Shehadeh, charged under McCarran-Walter's ideological provisions. Last
year, while these cases were still pending, Congress gutted those provisions.
The new law rightly restricts suspected terrorists but, also rightly, recognizes
aliens' rights to free speech.

But because the cases of the "L.A. eight" preceded the new law, the Government
has been allowed to proceed under the old McCarran-Walter constraints. Last
month, the Immigration Service told an administrative judge that Mr. Hamide and
Mr. Shehadeh should be deported because they are affiliated with an organization
that advocates the unlawful destruction of property and the assassination of
government officials.

Those are surely offensive ideas, but deporting aliens solely on the basis of
ideas has been repudiated by the new law. Even William Webster, former head of
the Federal Bureau of Investigation, has testified that, after a three-year
investigation, the agency concluded the eight had committed no crimes and had
not engaged in terrorism.

Without evidence of terrorist acts, the case against Mr. Hamide and Mr. Shehadeh
is a terrible throwback to the hysteria that first produced McCarran-Walter.
Communism is dead. Congress has sensibly given up McCarran-Walter's ghost. Why
can't the Immigration Service?




LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 8, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Free Speech Is at Issue as a Palestinian in U.S. Fights Deportation

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 34; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1187 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 27


Khader Hamide is the kind of immigrant the United States says it does not want.
Although he arrived here legally and holds a regular job as an airline ticket
salesman, Mr. Hamide, a Palestinian, holds politically unwelcome views and
expresses them loudly.

In a deportation case the Government has pursued against him since 1987, Mr.
Hamide and seven other immigrants who entered the country legally are accused of
being members of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a
self-described Marxist group that was involved in several airline hijackings in
the 1970's in its quest for a Palestinian state. The Federal authorities say the
eight were distributing literature of the popular front, advocates subversive
activities.

Mr. Hamide and the seven others have denied being members of the group, though
Mr. Hamide says he supports the Palestine Liberation Organization, of which the
popular front is a radical faction.

The deportation case against the eight, which is now expected to be heard by an
immigration judge next spring, raises questions about the free-speech rights of
non-citizens and about the Government's right to exclude foreigners who may
voice unwelcome views or who may advocate terrorism. The case also demonstrates
the Government's continuing effort to bar foreigners for their political views,
although last year Congress repealed a provision of the 1952 McCarran-Walter
Immigration Act that provided for such restrictions.

New Charges Are Added

That repeal allowed for the completion of pending prosecutions under the act and
also provided a new standard for exclusion of aliens, the advocacy of terrorism.
Now Mr. Hamide and one of his seven colleagues face deportation charges under
both statutes.

The Government said that if it was forced to choose between the statutes it
would elect to proceed on the old ideologically based charges rather than the
new charges of advocacy of terrorism.

The Government's lawyer in the case, Michael P. Lindemann, who is in the Justice
Department's office of immigration litigation, said he could not discuss the
case because "there are an awful lot of aspects that are in litigation."

The continuing vigor of the Government's effort to exclude the eight takes on a
new perspective in light of the opening of peace talks in the Middle East, which
include the P.L.O.

"You would hope the Administration would be more tolerant of the Palestinian
viewpoint, given that the P.L.O. and the Palestinian people have made a genuine
step towards peace," said Mr. Hamide, 37 years old, whose wife, Julie Nuangugi
Mungai, is expecting a child. Ms. Mungai, a native of Kenya, is the only
non-Palestinian among the group.

Mr. Hamide said he believed that the prosecutors' tenacity reflected a desire to
win a case that would allow for the deportation of all foreigners who espouse
views hostile to those of the United States Government.

Prosecutors acknowledge using a double standard for non-citizens in terms of the
First Amendment's guarantee of free speech. "It goes without saying that if they
were United States citizens, nothing would be applicable to them," said Mr.
Lindemann, referring to prosecution on the basis of their expressed views.

It is this double standard, in part, that has delayed the proceedings for so
long. In December 1988, a Federal district judge blocked the deportation order,
a ruling that was overturned for technical reasons on appeal.

"In this case the Government is trying to stifle certain ideas from entering our
society from certain aliens through its immigration power," said Judge Stephen
V. Wilson in issuing the ruling. "Our society, however, was built on the premise
that only through the free flow of ideas can our nation grow and prosper.
Logically, to say that resident aliens have First Amendment rights in the
domestic context but not in the deportation context is to deny them First
Amendment rights at all."

The repeal of the ideological sections of the McCarran-Walter Act made clear
that foreigners are entitled to the same rights of free speech as citizens.

The act, a product of the Communist scares of the McCarthy era, was promoted as
protecting citizens from subversive ideas. Over the years, the Government used
it to keep out thousands of foreigners, including the leader of the P.L.O.,
Yasir Arafat.

The act set up 33 categories for barring foreign visitors and those seeking to
become residents, including espionage, drug trafficking, polygamy and deviant
sexual behavior. It also included ideological provisions barring advocates of
Communism or totalitarian dictatorship.

'I Have Strong Views'

Despite the Congressional repeal of these ideological provisions, Mr. Hamide
said the case itself has served to curtail the range of his public speech as he
stays away from statements that could offer fuel to his prosecutors. But he is
far from silenced, and accepts invitations to speak out in public about his own
case as well as about Middle East issues.

"I have strong views about the right of the Palestinian people to an independent
Palestinian state," he said. "I believe the Israeli occupation is wrong and
illegal. I support the P.L.O. as the sole legitimate representative of the
Palestinian people. And I will continue to express these viewpoints."

When Mr. Hamide and his colleagues were arrested early in 1987 by the Federal
authorities, they were charged with subversion and held for almost three weeks.
An immigration court judge ordered them released, some on bond and others on
their own recognizance, saying the Government had failed to show evidence of
specific illegal actions. The Government later acknowledged that the eight had
not committed any criminal act.

"The initial statement by the Immigration and Naturalization Service was that
they were arresting a group of terrorists in Los Angeles," said Marc Van Der
Hout of the National Lawyers Guild, the lead counsel for the defendants. "Then
it came out that they were charging them with distributing literature,
publications, and they were deporting them because they didn't like the content
of the publications.

"This has been a relentless attack on Palestinians doing lawful, legitimate,
First Amendment-protected activities."

As the case moved slowly through the courts, the charges of subversion were
dropped against all eight, and the ideologically related charges under the
McCarran-Walter Act were dropped against all except Mr. Hamide Michael Shehadeh.
These charges against the two were augmented by charges of advocating terrorism.
The other six are now only charged with technical violations of the immigration
laws.

Mr. Hamide, who was born on the West Bank now occupied by Israel, came to the
United States as a student in 1971 and later received both a bachelor of arts
degree in psychology and a master's degree in business administration from the
University of Oregon.

As his case has dragged on, he has adjusted. "My wife and I delayed having a
child but now we gave up delaying because it looks like this case has taken on a
life of its own," he said.

NAME: Khader Hamide

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Khader Hamide, a Palestinian who is one of eight immigrants the
Government is trying to deport because the Federal authorities say they are
members of a group that advocates subversive activities. (Bart Bartholomew for
The New York Times)

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 21, 1991, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Challenging the Cold War Today: Scholar on L.I. Battles the 'List'

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1354 words

DATELINE: STONY BROOK, L.I.


It has been almost five years since Choichiro Yatani's life was interrupted by
an accusation that, even then, seemed to echo from another time: immigration
officials charged that he was on a sealed Government list of Communists.

Ever since, he said recently, he has been searching for an answer. "My question
is: Why did this happen to me?"

On a summer day in 1986, immigration agents at Kennedy International Airport
stopped the Japanese scholar on his way from a conference in the Netherlands to
his home near the State University campus here. Despite his denial that he had
ever been a Communist, they detained him for 44 days, never told him the
evidence against him, and began proceedings to deport him as an undesirable
alien.

Then, after a flurry of news coverage, he was allowed to return to the
university. He had lived in the United States with his wife for nine years, and
his two children were born here.

In the years since, the Cold War has ended. But not for him.

Relying on what officials still say is classified information, the Government
has refused to remove his name from the "lookout list" of ideologically suspect
aliens that it maintains under the 1952 McCarran-Walter Act. This week, a
five-year fight Mr. Yatani has waged to clear his name is to draw toward a
close. It amounts to a test on the place of the McCarthy-era law in a changed
world.

Congress amended the law last year to provide that an alien cannot be denied
entry for ideological beliefs or associations if such expression would have been
protected under the Constitution if it had occurred in this country.

The amendment also provided that aliens should be permitted to request removal
of their names from the list. A lawsuit by Mr. Yatani, making such a request, is
the first under the new law.

On Friday, Judge John E. Sprizzo of Federal District Court in Manhattan is to
hear Mr. Yatani's suit. The Government argues that he has no right to challenge
whether his name should be on the list, and that whatever rights he might have
do not outweigh the Government's obligation to enforce its immigration laws.

To the softspoken doctoral candidate in psychology, the case has become not only
a personal cause, but a campaign on behalf of some 250,000 others from around
the world whose names, like his, are recorded for ideological reasons on a list
that continues to grow as fast as ever.

In all, according to information gathered by Mr. Yatani's lawyers at the Lawyers
Committee for Human Rights, about 100,000 aliens were on the list in 1980. By
1990 that number had grown to 367,771, with 69 percent listed on ideological
grounds, said Arthur C. Helton, the director of the Lawyers Committee's Refugee
Project.

Others who have been barred from this country under the law include Patricia
Lara, a Colombian journalist, the authors Graham Greene and Gabriel Garcia
Marquez, and the actor Yves Montand.

Now 44, Mr. Yatani sat on the campus here not long ago saying he was not
important like those people. But during the last five years, he said, he has
learned the damage that can be done to anyone by a simple charge.

Questions and Phone Calls

He is afraid to travel, he said, even to see his aging parents in Japan, because
it might all happen again. His sons, ages 8 and 10, have had to answer questions
at school about why their father was arrested and whether he is a terrorist.
There were angry telephone calls to his house by people who would not give their
names.

"So many things happened," Mr. Yatani said with a catch in his voice.
"Questioning myself. My wife questioning me."

For a time, he virtually put his work on his doctoral thesis aside as he helped
prepare his case, testified in Congress, worked for changes in the law and wrote
a book in Japanese about his experiences. "It harms him and preoccupies him,"
said his thesis adviser, Dana H. Bramel, a psychology professor here. "It
worries him all the time. It is a very heavy burden which he carries."

His teaching career, Mr. Yatani said, has not moved as quickly as he had
expected before that day at the airport when the immigration officers murmured
something about an "order from D.C." And he never knows, he said, whether the
whispers and the questions he has heard from colleagues have meant lost
opportunities.

"They believe the Government must know something about me: 'But Choichi is
hiding something.' This hurt me a lot. Because whatever I say, whatever I do,
they think, 'Choichi is a Communist. Choichi is a radical.' "

Much of that worry, Mr. Yatani said, comes because the Government, having made
the charge, has yet to give him a way to answer it. He has maintained from the
beginning that he was never anything more than the student body president at
Doshisha University in Kyoto during the stormy days of the Vietnam War. Once, in
1968, he was arrested in an anti-war demonstration.

Mr. Yatani sued at first under the Freedom of Information Act to find out why he
had been listed. The Federal Magistrate who heard that case in 1987, David F.
Jordan, criticized the Government for "disturbing" conduct in dragging its feet
in supplying documents.

When classified documents were finally supplied to the court, Magistrate Jordan
read them in secret and wrote an opinion concluding that if the information in
those documents formed the Government's basis for treating Mr. Yatani
differently from others seeking entry into this country, "said information does
not provide a reasonable basis for such treatment."

'Devoid of Merit'

Still, the Government refused to remove his name or even, at times, to confirm
that his name was ever on the list, and so Mr. Yatani filed the suit.

The assistant United States Attorney handling the case, Diogenes P. Kekatos,
said the Justice Department would not comment. But in court papers, Mr. Kekatos
said Mr. Yatani's constitutional claim "is utterly devoid of merit and borders
on the frivolous."

When he was asked directly by Judge Sprizzo, Mr. Kekatos said the Justice
Department believes there is no way for anyone to contest being included on the
list.

In a recent interview, Cornelius D. Scully 3d, the director of the State
Department's Office of Legislation, Regulations and Advisory Assistance of the
Visa Office, said the State Department stands by its position that Mr. Yatani's
name belongs on the list.

Magistrate Jordan was wrong in Mr. Yatani's Freedom of Information Act case, Mr.
Scully said. "I have the alien's visa file," he said. "There is in that file
classified information which, under the prevailing standards, would have
warranted the alien's exclusion regardless of what the judge may have thought or
said."

Some national security experts say battles like Mr. Yatani's are inevitable as
the world adapts to a new political climate. Deep inside the Government's
security agencies, some of them say, people who were schooled on decades of fear
of the Soviet bloc are clinging to old ways of doing business.

Alien blacklists, in that view of the world, are necessary tools of the trade,
said Doris Meisner, a former acting commissioner of immigration who is now with
the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. After all the years and all the
fears that went into making them, she said, the lists are likely to be modified
only because of external pressure like the suit from Mr. Yatani, no matter how
much the world changes.

"So much of this kind of mentality was based on the idea of a Soviet presence
and an international Communist threat," Ms. Meisner said. "But I don't think
that one should be lulled into thinking that change will come from the inside."

On campus the other day, Mr. Yatani let himself imagine for a minute what it
might have been like if he had simply decided to give up on America and gone
back to Japan after he was released five years ago. By now, all of the suspicion
and the fighting might be behind him, he said.

"I could have kept myself away from this case," he said. "Why didn't I? Because
it is them who did this, not me. And the real problem is it is not only me."

NAME: Choichiro Yatani

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Choichiro Yatani, a Japanese scholar, whose name appears on a
"lookout list" of ideologically suspect aliens. (Michael Shavel for The New York
Times) (pg. B7)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 26, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

LANDMARK ACCORD PROMISES TO EASE IMMIGRATION CURBS

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1297 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 25


House and Senate negotiators today approved a landmark revision of the nation's
immigration policy, voting at the last moment to ease restrictions on the entry
into the United States of entire classes of people, including Communists,
homosexuals and people with AIDS.

But as they removed flat prohibitions on some immigrants, the negotiators added
a new clause, giving the Secretary of State the power to bar the entry of others
with unpopular political bents.

Congressional officials said the net effect of the changes was to reduce the
scope and severity of restrictions on new citizens and other immigrants,
eliminating some barriers that dated from the anti-Communist crusades of the
1950's.

Second Change in 5 Years

The legislation, the second broad change of the immigration law in the last five
years, would open the nation each year to 750,000 new immigrants who are skilled
workers and managers.

The conference bill, which is still subject to approval by the full House and
Senate, makes sweeping changes in the numbers and classes of people who would be
granted entry into this country. It would permit a total of 700,000 immigrants
annually in 1992, 1993 and 1994 and 675,000 a year thereafter, up from the
current figure of 500,000.

The mix of immigrants would also change, to grant entry to more skilled workers
like scientists and engineers, who are expected to be in short supply in the
next decade.

140,000 Skilled Workers

Of the 700,000 people allowed to enter in the first year, 465,000 would be
relatives of American citizens and permanent resident aliens; 140,000 would be
skilled workers or their immediate family members, up 80,000 from current
levels; 40,000 would be residents of nations that have been allowed relatively
few immigrants in recent years, and 55,000 would be spouses or children of
aliens who gained legal status under the last major immigration law, in 1986.

After 1994 the 675,000 immigrant visas would be parceled out this way: 480,000
to relatives of citizens and permanent resident aliens; 140,000 to workers with
special skills, and 55,000 to citizens of nations that have sent few immigrants
in past years.

The legislation would also effectively offer amnesty to about 30,000 Irish
citizens who are residing illegally in the United States, granting them
permanent residence cards.

Several Provisions Added

In last-minute action, negotiators from the House and the Senate added several
provisions that would end many political and medical restrictions remaining in
the law from the 1950's, when Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, a Wisconsin
Republican, fought to ban many categories of immigrants as part of his crusade
against Communists and others he considered subversives.

"This bill finally exorcises the ghost of Joe McCarthy from the law," said Tom
Stoddard, director of the Lambda Legal Defense Fund, an organization
representing homosexuals. He said it was a historic change that would bury ugly
aspects of the McCarran-Walter Immigration Act of 1954 and end the dispute over
AIDS and immigration.

Over the years, thousands of people foreigners have been barred from visiting
the United States by a clause in the McCarran-Walter Act applying to political
beliefs. Legislation temporarily repealing the restrictions was passed in 1987
and again in 1988, and the provision was permanently repealed by Congress in
February.

Senator Alan K. Simpson, a Wyoming Republican who was a chief Senate sponsor of
the bill, said he was pleased that the new immigration bill met two of his
conditions: increasing the number of skilled workers entering the country and
focusing on letting into the country the close relatives of immigrants already
here rather than more distant relatives.

"My major goal," Senator Simpson said, "was to direct more of the immigration
flow to the skilled, employer-based immigrant -- the guy ready to work. This was
the classic immigrant, the guy who comes to America for opportunity."

He added: "I also was looking for a national level of immigration. If we're
going to bring in families, bring in spouses and minor children, not uncles and
aunts. Bring in precious family."

AIDS Removed From List

One clause would give the Department of Health and Human Services the power to
remove AIDS from the list of diseases for which a visitor may be excluded from
the United States.

Dr. Louis W. Sullivan, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, has said
there is no public health reason to exclude people with AIDS or the AIDS virus
from entering the country, chiefly because the disease is not passed casually,
but only by exchanges of blood or bodily fluids or by sexual contact.

The Bush Administration has refused to eliminate AIDS virus infections from the
list of reasons for which someone may be excluded, but has set up a system under
which those infected could get special waivers to enter the country. They would
first have to declare themselves infected and would have to carry documents
noting the waiver in their passport, requirements that AIDS advocacy groups say
are stigmatizing.

Public health officials and AIDS groups reacted with relief to the clause
lifting the AIDS restrictions. Dr. David Rogers, co-chairman of the National
Commission on AIDS, said: "This is good news. I am delighted to hear this may
finally move forward, because what is now on the books has embarrassed our
country."

Daniel Bross, director of the AIDS Action Council, said the issue now is Dr.
Sullivan's to resolve because Congress is giving him the power to list any
diseases for which people should be excluded from entry into the United States.

The Health and Human Services Department's current policy is to consider only
tuberculosis as grounds for exclusion, but Dr. Sullivan's office said today that
he would not comment on his next action until he has reviewed the provision.

Ideological Restrictions

In another provision, the conferees followed court rulings and earlier changes
in the law as they eliminated ideological restrictions on who could enter the
country. But they added one exception, allowing the Secretary of State to
exclude people for ideological reasons when the Government has a "compelling"
foreign policy interest in doing so.

A further change ends "homosexual exclusion" under the McCarran-Walter Act, as
well as dropping most mental disorders like depression and mental retardations
from the exclusions.

Salvadorans and others will also receive new protection under the law, and may
be granted a temporary protection like asylum, but lasting 18 months.

Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who was the chief House
negotiator in the conference committee, said the new provisions worked out
Wednesday night and today "made rational the reasons a person can be excluded,"
and added, "We are saying you can't exclude someone because of their speech,
their beliefs, or their associations." The law had eliminated such ideological
exclusions, but only for visitors.

Under the new legislation, Mr. Frank said, immigrants may not be excluded merely
on the basis of "obnoxious beliefs." For example, he said, formal waivers will
be easier to get for Communists to enter the country.

The sole provision that Mr. Frank said he opposed but had to accept in order to
pass the bill permits the Secretary of State to prevent the entry of certain
persons into the United States for political reasons "under exceptional
circumstances."

Asked to provide examples of such exceptional cases, Mr. Frank cited past
controversies over permitting the entry of the Shah of Iran and the Philippine
President, Ferdinand E. Marcos. The law makes clear that the Secretary must
personally decide each case, Mr. Frank said.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 29, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final

CORRECTION:

An article on Friday about a Congressional agreement on immigration legislation
misstated in some copies the number of additional immigrants who would be
allowed into the United States as skilled workers or managers. The number would
be 140,000 people a year, counting the workers and their families, not 750,000.
The article also incorrectly named and dated the McCarran-Walter Act, enacted in
1952, which banned many categories of immigrants, including Communists. The
article also misidentified the chief House negotiator in the House-Senate
conference committee that worked out the agreement. The chief negotiator was
Representative Bruce A. Morrison, Democrat of Connecticut. An article on further
action on the legislation appears on page B10.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Barney Frank said the new immigration bill "made
rational the reasons a person can be excluded." (Associated Press) (pg. A24)

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 5, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Cold War Lives in Immigration Proposals

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 364 words


To the Editor:

"Landmark Accord Promises to Ease Immigration Curbs" (front page, Oct. 26)
refers to changes in new immigration legislation to restrictions on the entry
into the United States of certain classes of aliens. Representative Barney
Frank's assertion that the changes have "made rational the reasons a person can
be excluded" is not completely accurate.

The new provisions would permit exclusions of aliens whose entry into the United
States is considered to have "potentially serious adverse foreign policy
consequences." After a "personal" determination by the Secretary of State, they
could be denied entry because of past, current or expected beliefs, statements
or associations. If these aliens were United States citizens, the First
Amendment would protect them against such treatment. These changes may actually
expand an exclusion power curbed by recent Federal court decisions and statutory
amendments.

Also, despite a general increase in the number and diversity of immigrants, the
new provisions would deny visas to members of a "Communist or other totalitarian
party." Only those immigrants with close family in the United States would be
eligible for a waiver to this provision.

A personal determination by the Secretary of State is not a sufficient safeguard
against potential abuses.

Unchanged provisions in the law permit the authorities, in excluding aliens on
political grounds, to withhold evidence "of a confidential nature." A celebrated
case, among many, victimized by this provision was that of Patricia Lara, a
Colombian journalist, who was denied permission to visit the United States in
1986. This summary exclusion provision should be repealed forthwith.

These lingering traces of a cold-war mentality, which have somehow found their
way into 1990 immigration proposals, contain real potential for abuses. As
Justice Robert H. Jackson warned in an analogous context, "The principle then
lies around like a loaded weapon, ready for the hand of any authority that can
bring forward a plausible claim of an urgent need."

ARTHUR C. HELTON
Director, Refugee Project, Lawyers
Committee for Human Rights
New York, Oct. 26, 1990

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 30, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Is Planning Faster Border Crossings for a Fee

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 528 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 29


The Immigration and Naturalization Service plans to establish express lanes at
some border crossings to Mexico and Canada and to charge a fee for the faster
service as a way of financing improved security at the nation's borders.

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the agency, said it would start the system next
year. Express-lane locations and the amount of the fee have not been decided, he
said.

The idea is drawing opposition from Hispanic rights advocates.

Supporters of a border-crossing fee said the agency's proposal was a start, but
they added that the agency could adopt a more ambitious program to pay for
improved border security under legislation passed by Congress this year.

'Ducking for Cover Already'

"They have an opportunity for an aggressive, intelligent program, and the
results could provide for a permanent, effective financing vehicle for sound
border security, and they're ducking for cover already," said Dan Stein,
executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a lobbying
group based in Washington.

Advocates of the rights of Hispanic people questioned the establishment of any
fee, even if optional, for crossing the border. Cecilia Munoz of the National
Council of La Raza expressed discomfort about "paying to get into a country."

"We're living in an age when walls are coming down in other parts of the world,"
Ms. Munoz said, "and yet the United States is considering a fee for coming in."

She also questioned whether the immigration agency, which is part of the Justice
Department, could handle the new program, given its current management and
financial difficulties. The General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of
Congress, was critical of the agency's administration and budget process in a
recent draft report.

Shortages of Inspectors

The accounting office said the I.N.S. has critical shortages of inspectors at
the largest border crossings. Delays of several hours are not uncommon for
travelers at some crossings, the accounting office said.

In an interview on Friday, Mr. Jervis said the agency would not be tackling a
new program "if we didn't think we could handle it."

Ms. Munoz said a fee was likely to hit hardest those least able to afford the
cost, including poorer residents of the Southwest who travel frequently between
the United States and Mexico visiting relatives, those who commute legally over
the border or who have businesses in both countries.

Called a Boon to Commerce

But the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which proposed a fee for
border crossings two years ago, said quicker inspections paid for by the fee
would be a boon to commerce.

"The biggest detriment to trans-border commerce is the two- to three-hour wait
currently encountered in cross-border excursions," Mr. Stein said. "Those who
are crossing the border for legitimate reasons will be more than happy to pay
for better and faster inspections. Time is money."

Mr. Stein said a $2 fee would increase the budget for the immigration service by
50 percent. The money could also be used to help control drug smuggling and
violence on the border, he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 29, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

200 Aliens Seeking Asylum Could Be Paroled in a Test

BYLINE: By FRANK J. PRIAL

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 28, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 764 words


About 200 aliens now held in custody as they seek asylum here could be paroled
in an experiment set to begin this week in New York and other cities.

In what could augur a major change in the way the United States views those
seeking political asylum, selected detainees will remain free while the
Immigration and Naturalization Service reviews their cases.

To qualify, an alien has to establish his identity, have a lawyer or accredited
representative and have a job and residence while awaiting a resolution. A
participant also has to agree in writing to report monthly to the immigration
agency, to appear at all hearings before an immigration judge, to return to
detention if parole ends and to leave the country if exclusion is ordered.
Participants will also have to post a bond of $500 to $2,500.

The immigration agency said there were 5,000 to 6,000 aliens in its detention
centers, not including the Cubans from the Mariel boatlift who are considered
criminals. The Lawyers Committee for Human Rights said that the total was more
than 7,500 and that more than 500 were subject to automatic detention because
they arrived without passports or visas.

Four Cities in Project

Immigration officials said 250 excludable aliens were in two centers in New York
City, in Rosedale, Queens, and Manhattan. About 75 are expected to qualify for
the test.

The 18-month project will be in New York, Miami, Los Angeles and San Francisco.
Those cities were chosen because they are the gateways through whose airports
most excludable aliens arrive, officials said.

The director of the refugee project for the Lawyers Committee, Arthur C. Helton,
said the policy emanated from talks he had with the new Immigration
Commissioner, Gene McNary.

Under the law, aliens requesting political asylum are held in custody while
their claims are reviewed. For some, the process takes several days, and for
others years.

Chance of Foreign-Policy Conflict

''We hope that this release project will demonstrate that many refugees are
being unnecessarily incarcerated in the United States,'' Mr. Helton said. ''At
the conclusion of the 18-month period, we plan to request a change in the I.N.S.
rules concerning the detention of asylum applicants. This project may indeed
signal the beginning of the end of one of the harshest elements of the I.N.S.'s
detention policy.''

In a briefing paper, the Lawyers Committee contended that the detention policy
conflicted with foreign-policy goals. ''On the one hand,'' the paper said,
''U.S. authorities publicly express support for the freedom fighters in opposing
the Communist regime in Afghanistan, yet jail and treat like common criminals
those Afghans who make their way to the United States.''

Because of what the group called a capricious detention policy, undocumented
aliens who arrive requesting asylum are detained, and the vast majority of those
apprehended after illegally crossing a border remain free while seeking asylum.
The immigration agency refers to aliens caught in the country as deportable, as
opposed to excludable.

''This project will enable us to reduce detention time for certain aliens whose
asylum claims appear to be genuine,'' Mr. McNary said.

Services for Participants

Guidelines for the test have been sent to the four district immigration
directors, Mr. McNary said. ''However,'' he added, ''this does not preclude
district directors from exercising their authority to grant parole to excludable
detainess for other reasons.''

Mr. Helton said legal and community groups would represent the participants and
help them obtain jobs.

Traditionally, the immigrants used to be briefly detained for medical
examinations. When Ellis Island closed in 1954, a more relaxed policy was
introduced, under which just those who might prove a danger to national security
or public safety were detained.

The arrival of 125,000 Cubans in 1980 in the Mariel boatlift signaled a change.
They were detained ad hoc. The Reagan Administration continued that policy and
applied it particularly to Haitians. When a Federal court ordered the release of
1,800 Haitian detainees in 1982, the immigration agency devised the current
policy.

As of October, I.N.S. figures show that the agency has 7,641 aliens in custody,
including 2,232 Cubans, 739 Nicaraguans, 655 Haitians, 497 Mexicans, 476
Salvadorans and 77 Afghans. About 10 percent of were women and 3 percent minors.
More than 25 percent had been confined for more than six months. The Lawyers
Committee said the annual cost of the detentions was more than $50 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 16, 1990, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Faster Deportation for Crimes to Be Proposed

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 316 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 15


The Bush Administration will offer legislation on Wednesday to expand the power
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service to deport people convicted of
crimes, Administration officials said today.

The legislation results from proposals made by the Administration last January
in a national drug strategy report, the officials said. Some lawmakers and legal
scholars then questioned whether Administration plans for more aggressive steps
against illegal drugs would infringe on civil liberties.

In addition to proposing summary deporation of aliens who are otherwise legally
in the United States but commit drug crimes and other offenses, the legislative
package calls for the death penalty for leaders of drug operations, new
authorization for immigration agents to carry guns, new laws against
drug-related corruption and new powers for the law-enforcement agencies and the
military to force planes suspected of carrying drugs to land for inspection.

Officials said the deportation provision, which was not part of the drug
strategy report and was first reported by The Washington Post, would streamline
the process when aliens were convicted of crimes.

Immigration officials have complained that major drug criminals have delayed
their departures from the United States with time consuming hearings before
Federal administative judges. Under the proposal, rights to such hearings would
be curtailed, although appeals would be allowed in Federal courts.

''We believe this could have a major effect on getting some of the worst of
these people out of the country,'' said an Administration official who discussed
the proposals on condition of anonymity. ''Frankly, we were surprised when we
discovered that the I.N.S. didn't already have this authority.''

The package of legislative proposals is to be unveiled by the national drug
policy adviser, William J. Bennett, on Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 3, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Centralized Immigration Control Urged

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1083 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 2


Over objections from the Bush Administration, a Federal advisory committee will
recommend creation of an independent Government agency to formulate immigration
policy and to enforce laws now administered separately by three Cabinet
departments.

In a report to be submitted to President Bush and Congress in July, the panel
will also recommend a new strategy to curtail illegal immigration: using foreign
aid to promote economic growth in those areas of Mexico, Central America and the
Caribbean that have sent the most migrants to the United States.

''Greater economic opportunity at home will reduce the pressure to emigrate,''
said the report, which calls for a free-trade agreement between the United
States and Mexico, like the one signed in 1988 by the United States and Canada.
''Only sustained economic growth will reduce emigration over the long term.''

A Major Shift in Thinking

The report signals a major shift in thinking, to the view long advocated by
Hispanic groups in the United States. The 12-member panel is headed by Diego C.
Asencio, a former Ambassador to Brazil and Colombia, who served as Assistant
Secretary of State for Consular Affairs from 1980 to 1983.

The advisory panel, the Commission for the Study of International Migration and
Cooperative Economic Development, was established by Congress under the
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. The members were appointed by
Democratic and Republican leaders of the Senate and the House of
Representatives.

Their recommendations are based on public hearings in the United States,
consultations with the presidents of seven Latin American countries and research
done for the commission by more than 70 scholars.

The panel said there was a stark choice for many Latin American countries:
''They either export goods and services to create jobs at home, or they export
people,'' many of whom come to the United States illegally.

Under the 1986 immigration law, employers in this country can be punished for
hiring illegal aliens. But the report says such employer sanctions must be
supplemented with economic incentives to keep would-be emigres from leaving
their home countries.

Enforcement 'Less Necessary'

''Enforcement measures should become less necessary over time as economic
development succeeds'' in Latin America, the report said.

The bipartisan panel said immigration must be given much higher priority in
decisions about foreign policy and trade policy. For this reason, the panel
proposes creation of an independent Agency for Migration Affairs, to consolidate
responsibilities now divided among the Departments of Justice, State and Labor.
The new agency would not be under the control of a Cabinet department and would
be able to set policy independently of the President.

The panel said, ''The development and administration of immigration policy is
far too important to be relegated to a stepchild agency such as the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, which falls uncomfortably within the Department of
Justice and which historically has been beset with serious management and
resource problems.''

Opposition From White House

Officials at the White House, the State Department and the Justice Department
said they opposed creation of an independent agency. They said such an agency
would undermine the President's ability to control immigration policy.

Under the panel's proposal, the Border Patrol would remain in the Justice
Department. The new agency would take over most I.N.S. activities, including
reviewing petitions for citizenship, asylum and other benefits under the
immigration law. The new agency would also take over two tasks performed by the
State Department: the admission of refugees and the issuance of visas to million
of visitors and immigrants.

The panel said immigration policy had historically been neglected by the White
House and the State Department. ''The Secretary of State does not spend his
waking hours concerned about immigration policy,'' said Mr. Asencio.

Nine of the 12 panel members met this week with Ivan Selin, the Under Secretary
of State for Management, who supervises the State Department's work on
immigration and refugee issues.

State Department Objects

Mr. Asencio said State Department officials did not like the recommendation for
an independent immigration agency and did not agree that immigration would get
more attention if responsibilities were centralized. Moreover, he said, Mr.
Selin asserted that the commission had ''exceeded its mandate.''

An aide to Mr. Selin said the Under Secretary did not want to discuss his
concerns publicly.

In an interview, Mr. Asencio said, ''The real reason State Department officials
dislike our proposal is that it would eliminate a substantial part of their
budget and many entry-level jobs in the department.''

Duke Austin, a spokesman for the immigration service, said officials there had
no immediate comment.

In its report, the panel said some United States trade policies had the
unintended effect of encouraging illegal immigration. For example, it said,
United States quotas on imports of textiles, clothing, steel, sugar, coffee and
other products retard economic growth in Latin America, and as a result many
Latin Americans come here to get jobs they cannot find at home.

More Foreign Trade Urged

''Expanded trade between the sending countries and the United States is the
single most effective remedy to the problem'' of illegal immigration, the panel
concluded.

The panel also said the Federal Government and private banks should help emigres
send money home and channel money into ''productive small business
investments.'' Such investments could generate jobs, raise incomes and reduce
the pressure for people to migrate to the United States, the panel said.

Besides Mr. Asencio, these are the panel members:

Donna M. Alvarado, former director of Action, the Federal volunteer agency.

Toney Anaya, a former Governor of New Mexico.

Eric H. Biddle Jr., a Virginia lawyer.

Representative John Bryant, Democrat of Texas.

Garner J. Cline, former staff director of the House Judiciary Committee.

Dale S. de Haan, former United Nations Deputy High Commissioner for Refugees.

The Rev. Theodore E. McCarrick, the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Newark.

Edward C. Rivera, a California businessman Michael S. Teitelbaum, a demographer
Art Torres, a California State Senator Esther Lee Yao, an educational
psychologist at the University of Houston.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 9, 1990, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

A.C.L.U. and Gay Groups Vow Legal Test on Immigration Policy

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 657 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 8


The American Civil Liberties Union and homosexual groups said today that they
would take legal action to stop Federal immigration and health officials if they
try to bar self-declared homosexuals from entering the United States to attend
an AIDS conference this month in San Francisco.

Gay groups said today that some people coming to the Sixth International
Conference on AIDS would declare themselves in order to test a law under which
homosexuals can be barred from the country. The conference begins on June 20.

The civil liberties union and the gay groups said the policy under which the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Department of Health and Human
Services planned to enforce the law was ''disturbing and illegal.'' The groups
asked the agencies to reverse the policy. If it is not reversed, they said, they
will defend in court one or more of those detained by the immigration service in
a test case.

The groups made their views known in a letter to Dr. Louis W. Sullivan, the
Secretary of Health and Human Services. Besides the A.C.L.U., they are the
Lambda Legal Defense Fund, the National Gay Rights Advocates, the National Gay
and Lesbian Task Force and the Human Rights Campaign Fund.

Under Federal law, anyone with a ''psychopathic personality, or a sexual
deviation or a mental disorder'' may be barred from entry to the United States.
The Supreme Court ruled in 1967 that homosexuals can be barred as sexual
deviates.

The issue does not ordinarily arise because immigration officials do not
normally ask people arriving in the United States about their sexual
orientation. But when confronted with a challenge to the law by people who
declare themselves to be homosexual, immigration officials said their service
feels obliged to take steps to determine if they should be barred from the
country.

In the area covered by a 1983 appeals court ruling, which includes California,
the immigration service policy is to detain professed homosexuals at the
airport, ask a Public Health Service doctor to issue a certificate saying they
are homosexual, and then to turn them over to a judge for a hearing on whether
they should be excluded from the United States. The court ruling requires the
I.N.S. to take these steps, officials say.

''We will enforce the law,'' said Duke Austin, a spokesman for the immigration
service.

Mr. Austin said that while the immigration service would enforce its policy, the
agency had made ''no special plans whatsoever in regard to the AIDS
conference.'' Recent discussion of enforcement, he said, came from the Public
Health Service, the Department of Health and Human Services and gay leaders, not
the I.N.S.

A few weeks ago the Public Health Service took steps to locate doctors who could
issue certificates. In March, the immigration service issued a legal opinion
saying that a policy first laid down in 1984 still held: In most jurisdictions,
homosexuals can be barred from the country based on their self-declaration; in
the area covered by the 1983 court decision, immigration officials can exclude
them only after obtaining a certificate of homosexuality from a Public Health
Service doctor.

Law Is Sharply Assailed

''The law on this was enacted in a time when homosexuality was regarded as an
illness,'' said Urvashi Vaid, a spokeswoman for the National Gay and Lesbian
Task Force. ''We now understand that it is not a medical condition, not an
illness, not a criminal condition.''

Tom Stoddard, executive director of the Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund,
said the statute ''leads to actual discrimination, and even more than that casts
an aura of untouchablity on lesbian women and gay men in the United States as
well as abroad.''

Both the immigration service and the health service have said they are only
reluctantly enforcing the law.

''We didn't want to implement the statute, but we are under a court order to do
that,'' said Mr. Austin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 18, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Officials Brace for Exodus Of Foreigners from Panama

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 773 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 17


Immigration officials say the arrest of 63 Chinese on an isolated Alabama
airstrip last week was a sign that thousands of foreigners may soon try to enter
the United States illegally from Panama.

The officials say the Chinese represent a painful legacy of the corruption rife
in the regime of Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega and are among tens of thousands of
foreigners in Panama who bought Panamanian passports, visas, residency permits
and identity cards to escape their troubled homelands.

The officials said a large alien smuggling ring flourished under General
Noriega. The aliens detained near Mobile were from mainland China and arrived by
chartered aircraft from Panama in two groups on Saturday and Monday after paying
up to $15,000 each for illegal passage to the United States, the immigration
officials said.

They were sent to immigration detention centers in Texas and Florida, where they
face expulsion proceedings.

'Targeting the United States'

''We are aware that there are significant numbers of aliens in Panama that do
not have legal residence there, and we're certainly sensitive to the possibility
that they might be targeting the United States to arrive here illegally,'' said
Duke Austin, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Estimates of the number of foreigners with uncertain legal status in Panama as a
result of the ouster of General Noriega vary widely. Immigration officials in
Washington estimated there are 7,000 Chinese and 2,000 Cubans in Panama. But
some immigration officials and Panamanian government experts said there were up
to 35,000 Chinese and 13,000 Cubans along with several thousand others,
including Nicaraguans, Indians and Pakistanis.

The traffic in Panamanian immigration documents was sanctioned by the Noriega
government, but was cut off after the United States invasion last December. The
Government of President Guillermo Endara halted the sale of Panamanian documents
overseas, and faced with daunting economic problems and high unemployment, it
has grown increasingly reluctant to allow those in Panama to remain.

The arrival of Chinese in Panama increased dramatically last year with the
Chinese Government's crackdown of the student democracy movement. Panamanian
officials estimated that nearly 9,000 Chinese bought documents, most of them
through the Panamanian consulate in Hong Kong, to enter Panama.

As Visas Expire, Desperation

But now the temporary visas and residency permits, some issued for a year, are
beginning to expire. Many foreigners, living in Panama in poverty, are willing
to risk illegal entry to the United States following routes and using smuggling
techniques used by drug traffickers.

The Chinese apprehended near Mobile, including some with $1,000 bills sewn into
their clothing, told investigators that they paid up to $20,000 each for
passports and visas to enter Panama and spent an additional $15,000 to enter the
United States, said Thomas P. Fischer, the immigration service regional director
in Atlanta, whose jurisdiction includes Alabama.

He said they reported traveling a circuitous route from China to Hong Kong and
then to London or Amsterdam before arriving in Panama. Most of those detained
said they had left China two or three years ago.

Federal prosecutors in Mobile have charged Alfonso Mock-Castillo, a Panamanian
restaurateur of Chinese ancestry, as the ringleader of the operation. They have
accused him of arranging the flights through an undercover agent of the Customs
Service. Mr. Mock-Castillo was arrested along with a woman, described by
investigators as his accomplice, on charges of alien smuggling.

Suggestion of Noriega Role

Immigration officials suggested that Mr. Mock-Castillo had planned to transport
up to 35,000 Chinese into the United States. Some of these officials suggested
that the ring was part of an alien smuggling operation controlled by General
Noriega and his associates.

But Dexter Lehtinen, the Federal prosecutor in Miami, who is prosecuting Gen.
Noriega on drug trafficking charges, issued a statement denying that smuggling
charges were likely. ''There is no indictment currently planned or contemplated
against General Manuel A. Noriega in this district that includes any allegations
of alien smuggling.''

Some immigration officials in Washington said they suspect that Federal
prosecutors in Miami are wary of pursuing a case that would inevitably involve
the politically volatile issue of Cuban immigration in South Florida, where
Cuban-Americans form a powerful constituency. But immigration officials and
prosecutors in Miami denied it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 20, 1990, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Protesters at U.S. Consulate In Sydney Assail AIDS Curb

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 126 words

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, June 19


Demonstrators protesting American immigration restrictions on people infected
with the AIDS virus surged into the United States Consulate today after
destroying an American flag and scrawling graffiti on the building.

Scuffles broke out between the police and protesters who flooded the foyer, and
seven people were arrested.

The protest, organized by the AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power, or Act-Up, was
timed to coincide with the Sixth International AIDS Conference, which opens in
San Francisco on Wednesday.

International AIDS groups, major health organizations and several governments
have boycotted the conference to protest a United States law under which people
who test positive for the AIDS virus can be barred from entering the country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 1, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. to Make It Easier to Gain Asylum

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 811 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 30


After a decade of debate, the Justice Department has drafted new rules to
protect the rights of foreigners who seek asylum in the United States and fear
persecution in their homelands.

Immigration lawyers said the new procedures, if carried out properly, would help
remove political considerations from asylum decisions and could make it easier
for some victims of persecution to gain refuge in this country.

Last year 9,229 people were granted asylum, and 31,547 applications were denied.
The Immigration and Naturalization Service, a part of the Justice Department,
received a record number of asylum applications last year, 101,679. More than
77,000 are pending. A confidential draft of the new rules shows that the Justice
Department intends to establish ''a corps of professional asylum officers who
are to receive special training in international relations and international
law,'' so they could rule on asylum applications with full knowledge of
political conditions in the alien's home country.

Ruled Delayed Over Cost

Immigration officials said they expected to issue the final rules this summer,
but the Office of Management and Budget has delayed publication of the rules and
is insisting that the Justice Department find a way to offset the cost.
Immigration officials said the cost, mainly for personnel and office equipment,
would be $5.5 million a year. Budget officials say it could be five times that.

Arthur C. Helton, director of the refugee project of the Lawyers Committee for
Human Rights, said this week that the new rules ''could be a positive step
forward and could help aliens get asylum, assuming the rules are carried out in
good faith, with sufficient resources and adequate training for the new asylum
officers.''

Under the rules, the Government would ''maintain a documentation center with
information on human rights conditions'' in various countries. Asylum officers
would use such information in deciding whether aliens faced persecution at home.

The Justice Department has been operating under ''interim rules'' since the
Refugee Act of 1980 established a uniform standard for granting political
asylum. Federal efforts to rewrite those rules over the last decade prompted
objections from immigration lawyers, who said the Government was undercutting
the rights of aliens.

Giving Aliens Benefit of a Doubt

Under the 1980 law, an alien in the United States may qualify for asylum if it
can be shown there is ''a well-founded fear of persecution on account of race,
religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political
opinion.'' A person granted asylum may later become a permanent resident and a
United States citizen.

Numerous studies have concluded that decisions to grant or deny asylum were
often influenced by political bias, reflecting United States foreign policy or
the law-enforcement priorities of the immigration service.

The new rules would give aliens the benefit of the doubt in several areas and
would encourage asylum officers to make independent decisions, without
necessarily following State Department recommendations.

The new rules say an alien seeking asylum in the United States need not prove
that he or she would be ''singled out individually for persecution'' in the
person's homeland if it can be shown there is ''a pattern or practice of
persecuting the group of persons similarly situated.'' In the past, the
immigration service and some Federal courts required aliens to show that they
would be singled out for persecution.

No Right of Appeal

Moreover, the new rules say an alien may qualify for asylum on the basis of the
applicant's own statements, without corroboration, if the testimony is
''credible in light of general conditions'' in the home country.

In cases where the immigration service issued a ruling, the approval rate last
year varied from 3 percent for Salvadorans to 32 percent for Poles, 33 percent
for Nicaraguans and 62 percent for Iranians.

Under the new rules, the immigration service would interview each person seeking
asylum and would solicit comments from the State Department on each case. The
rules say the alien ''shall be given a copy of such comments and be provided an
opportunity to respond.''

Under the new rules, an alien would have no right of appeal. But if the
application for asylum is denied by an asylum officer, the alien may renew the
application at a deportation hearing before an immigration judge.

The new rules say an alien seeking asylum would normally be allowed to work in
the United States while the Government considers the application. In addition,
the alien would be allowed to have a lawyer present when interviewed by an
asylum officer. Under the rules, if an alien is granted asylum, a spouse and
children, if any, would ordinarily be allowed to join the alien in the United
States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 10, 1990, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Still a Cold War for Aliens

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 381 words


For 38 years, the McCarran-Walter Immigration Act has allowed the U.S. to bar
foreign visitors whose ideas the Government finds offensive. The number of
visitors kept out each year varies, but the Government maintains a list of more
than 350,000 people to be excluded. At a time when world tensions are easing,
that's an astounding victory of narrow-mindedness over good sense.

Passed in 1952, the McCarran-Walter Act reflects the hysteria of the McCarthy
era. One of the most troublesome of the law's 33 exclusionary provisions allows
the Government to bar visitors or migrants who would advocate ''economic,
international and governmental doctrines of world Communism'' and other
subversive activities.

Those foreigners deemed inadmissible are put on a ''lookout'' list, formally
known as the National Automated Immigration Lookout System, or Nails, and kept
by the State Department and Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Last month the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, a civil liberties group,
received an edited copy of the list under the Freedom of Information Act.
Although names and occupations were omitted, the list contained 353,324 entries,
of which 238,140 had been added since 1980. Duplication accounts for some
inflation in the total, but the Lawyers Committee estimates that at least
300,000 individuals have been denied visas, the vast majority because of their
ideological beliefs.

An overhaul of McCarran-Walter is still pending in Congress. But earlier this
year, President Bush signed into law a sensible prohibition on excluding
visitors solely because of ''past, current or expected beliefs, statements or
associations'' that the Constitution protects for American citizens. In
practice, however, visitors seeking visas must first declare whether they have,
or have ever had, Communist affiliations. Only then may they obtain a waiver for
admission.

That undermines the spirit of the new law. If the State Department and the
I.N.S. were faithful to that spirit, they would eliminate such background
questions. And for those seeking to stay for longer periods, the Government
ought to purge the ''lookout'' list on a regular basis. Until the Government
thus acknowledges a changing world, McCarran-Walter's fearful ghosts will reign
triumphant.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 19, 1990, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Issues Asylum Rules Praised as Fairer to Aliens

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 578 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 18


The Bush Administration announced major changes today in immigration rules to
protect the rights of aliens who seek asylum in the United States and fear
persecution abroad.

The new rules, in preparation for a decade, will establish a corps of asylum
officers, trained to judge whether applicants for asylum have ''a well-founded
fear of persecution'' in their homelands.

Attorney General Dick Thornburgh said decisions on asylum would become more
''fair and sensitive'' as a result of the new rules.

Arthur C. Helton, who has campaigned for such changes as director of the refugee
project of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, said the new rules would
probably make it easier for aliens to obtain asylum in the United States. But
Gene McNary, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, declined to
predict whether asylum would in fact be granted more often.

The new rules replace temporary rules used since 1980, when Congress passed the
Refugee Act, setting a uniform standard for asylum from all countries.

'Tolerated a Double Standard'

Last year 9,229 people were granted asylum, and 31,547 applications were denied.
The Immigration and Naturalization Service, a part of the Justice Department,
received a record number of asylum applications last year, 101,679. More than
77,000 are pending. About 85 percent of the applications are from Latin
Americans.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, commended the ''fairer and
more generous rules.''

''Too often in recent years we have tolerated a double standard, under which
asylum has been unfairly denied to legitimate refugees for fear of embarrassing
friendly but repressive governments,'' said Mr. Kennedy, who is chairman of the
Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration.

Benefit of the Doubt

The new rules give aliens the benefit of the doubt on several legal issues and
encourage asylum officers to make independent decisions, without necessarily
following State Department recommendations.

Under the new rules, an alien may qualify for asylum on the basis of the
applicant's own statements, without corroboration, if the testimony is
''credible in light of general conditions'' in the alien's home country.

Moreover, the rules say that an alien need not prove that he or she would be
''singled out individually for persecution'' at home if ''there is a pattern or
practice of persecuting the group of persons similarly situated.'' In the past,
the immigration service and some Federal courts required aliens to show that
they would be singled out for persecution.

Mr. McNary said the immigration service would train 70 to 90 asylum officers by
April of next year. A new ''documentation center'' is to hold information about
political conditions in various countries.

Like 'A Medical Specialist'

Decisions on asylum have been made by immigration examiners with many other
responsibilities. Mr. McNary said the difference between examiners and asylum
officers would be ''like the difference between a general practitioner doctor
and a medical specialist.''

''In the long run,'' he said, ''you will get a more accurate determination''
from the specialists and the asylum officers.

The Commissioner said the new asylum procedures would cost $7 million to $9
million a year. The money will come from fees charged by the immigration service
for handling various petitions and applications. But no fee will be charged for
the review of asylum applications.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 7, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final

In Memoirs and Novels, Literary Testimony to How It Was

BYLINE: By RICHARD F. SHEPARD

SECTION: Section C; Page 23, Column 5; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 754 words


Among the immigrants in that year was a 10-year-old boy, Edward Corsi, whose
future distinguished public career included the office of United States
Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, the boss of the Ellis Island
that had greeted him as a child. In a 1935 memoir, ''In the Shadow of Liberty:
The Chronicle of Ellis Island,'' he recalled the trip from ship to the island:
''During this ride across the bay, as I watched the faces of the people milling
about me, I realized that Ellis Island could inspire both hope and fear. Some of
the passengers were afraid and obviously dreading the events of the next few
hours; others were impatient, anxious to get through the inspection and be off
to their destinations. I have never forgotten the scene.'' Fiorello H. La
Guardia, American-born of Italian parents, was an interpreter at Ellis Island in
1907, at the beginning of an adult life that was to see him become Mayor of New
York City. In his autobiography, ''The Making of an Insurgent,'' he describes
the process from a different perspective: ''The work on the island was difficult
and strenuous. For two years we worked seven days a week, for immigration was
very heavy at this time. All of us were glad, however, to have the jobs, despite
the long hours and tiring tasks. Immigrants were pouring in at the average rate
of 5,000 a day, and it was a constant grind from the moment we got into our
uniforms early in the morning until the last minute before we left on the 5:30
boat in the evening . . . The immigration laws were rigidly enforced, and there
were many heartbreaking scenes on Ellis Island. I never managed during the three
years I worked there to become callous to the mental anguish, the disappointment
and the despair I witnessed almost daily. Some of the employees did become
callous to the suffering after a while, but on the whole they were a hardworking
lot, conscientious and loyal.'' In 1923, Henry H. Curran, a literate New York
political figure, became Commissioner of Immigration for the Port of New York.
In his autobiography, ''From Pillar to Post,'' he describes the duties he
undertook just as the first general restrictive immigration laws were taking
effect.

''At 5 o'clock in the morning of the first of July,'' he writes, ''I reported
for duty at Ellis Island. At 6 the first bare load of immigrants came to be
examined.'' Scattered among the ships at their piers, he says, ''were 2,000 men,
women and children who were 'excess quota.' Here by our country's permission,
the 2,000 would now be turned back, at the very gate by our country's mandate.''

''In a week or two they all went back,'' he continues. ''I was powerless. I
could only watch them go. Day by day the barges took them from Ellis Island back
to the ships again, back to the ocean, back to -what? As they trooped aboard the
big barges under my window, carrying their heavy bundles, some in the quaint,
colorful native costumes worn to celebrate their first glad day in free America,
some carrying little American flags, most of them quietly weeping, they twisted
something in my heart that hurts to this day.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Immigrants, circa 1910, arriving by ferry at Ellis Island to
begin their entry into the United States with high hopes. (Brown Brothers)

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 4, 1990, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

IMMIGRATION BILL APPROVED IN HOUSE

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 880 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 3


The House today approved broad changes in the country's immigration law that
seek to open the nation's doors to three-quarters of a million foreigners a
year, particularly educated workers with technical and managerial skills.

By a vote of 231 to 192, the House approved legislation that would increase the
number of legal immigrants to 775,000 a year from the current 540,000, speed the
process of uniting families and seek to attract a larger pool of highly skilled
workers to meet expected labor shortages in fields like engineering, medicine
and basic science.

''If this country is to continue to advance, we must not fear the talents and
intelligence of those who want to come to this country and contribute their
skills,'' said Representative Robert T. Matsui, Democrat of California. ''All
Americans owe their citizenship to immigration.''

While President Bush has not said he would veto the bill, the Department of
Labor and the Department of Justice have warned that they would recommend a veto
because the legislation is too heavily weighted in favor of family immigration,
at the expense of business-sponsored immigration.

Hope for Compromise

But some lawmakers today held out hope for a compromise. They noted that the
Senate passed similar legislation that placed a lid on immigration at 630,000 a
year, legislation that the White House said it would support. A House-Senate
conference to work out the difference could be held as soon as next week, but
budget deliberations may not allow time for a vote before Congress recesses.

Under the House bill, legal immigration would rise to 775,000 beginning next
year. Of that total more than 500,000 people would be permitted entry on the
basis of ties with family members who are either American citizens or have been
granted permanent residence status.

The balance would be made up of educated workers sponsored by corporations,
under a new expedited process, and greater levels of immigration from areas that
in recent years have been under-represented, like Africa, Eastern Europe and
Western Europe.

Opponents say the bill would take jobs from Americans and allow an excessively
high number of immigrants.

Criticism Is Voiced

While the House bill, the Family United and Employment Opportunity Immigration
Act, deals with legal immigration and represents the most significant change in
immigration laws in more than two decades, it comes four years after one of the
most controversial pieces of immigration legislation, a measure that permitted
1.7 million foreigners who had come into the country illegally before 1982 to
apply for amnesty from deportation.

The current bill has generated its own debate, but nothing akin to that of four
years ago.

Today, Republicans and Democrats questioned how the Government could justify
such a major increase in the number of legal immigrants a year.

''We already permit in more immigrants than all of nations of the world
combined,'' said Representative John Bryant, Democrat of Texas.

Representative Jim Cooper, Democrat of Tennessee, said, ''Bringing lot of
foreigners into the country does not get a lot of support back home.''

Turmoil in Administration

The Bush Administation appears to be in some turmoil over the legislation. While
parts of the Administration object to some technical aspects of the bill, the
President's advisers have embraced the bill's underlying economic policy. The
1990 Economic Report of the President said the ''long-term benefits of
immigration greatly exceed any short-run costs.''

Much of the debate centers on economics, and claims by advocates of the bill
that promoting immigration of skilled workers would generate economic growth and
that these workers would fill critical positions in industries.

While few dispute the humanitarian aim of uniting families, many question
whether immigration will actually improve the nation's economy. Instead, they
claim that immigrants tend to fill the ranks of those on welfare. Others say
that by embracing educated workers from abroad, the country is abandoning
citizens like inner-city blacks.

Groups Are Singled Out

The bill also singles out specific immigrant groups for special treatment.

For example, the number of visas for Hong Kong residents would increase to
20,000 a year from 5,000, plus an additional 15,000 visas for workers who are
employed by American companies in Hong Kong and who can also be employed in the
United States.

Countries like Italy, Poland and Argentina would gain thousands of new visas
annually under a provision that grants preferential treatment to 55,000
applicants a year from countries that have accounted for less than 50,000
immigrants in the previous five years.

Over the next three years, 14,000 visas would be set aside for citizens of
Eastern European countries who have been living in another country since Oct. 1,
1989, 1,000 visas for natives of Tibet living in India or Nepal, and 15,000
visas for natives of African countries. Under another provision, Northern
Ireland would be considered a separate region rather than a part of Britain or
Ireland.

The law would also grant a stay of deportation and expedited asylum procedures
to more than 15,000 refugees from El Salvador, Liberia, Kuwait and Lebanon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 7, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Irish-Americans Praise New Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 47, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 689 words


In the heavily Irish community of Woodside, Queens, they are already celebrating
new immigration legislation approved in the House last week, as if it were
raining green cards.

''We're euphoric at this juncture,'' said Claire O'Gara Grimes, publisher of The
Irish Echo, who said she hoped some 30,000 illegal Irish immigrants would
receive the much coveted permanent residence cards under the bill, known as the
Family Unity and Employment Opportunity Immigration Act of 1990. The bill, whose
chief sponsor was Representative Bruce A. Morrison, Democrat of Connecticut,
seeks to open the nation's doors to three-quarters of a million foreigners a
year - particularly family members of American citizens or permanent residents.
The bill raises the ceiling to 775,000 aliens a year from 540,000 and also makes
it easier for workers with technical and managerial skills to immigrate.

For the Irish, the most important part of the Morrison bill is the section that
gives virtual amnesty to all the illegal Irish immigrants in the country, and to
aliens from some other Western European countries.

Opponents of the bill, headed by the lobbying group, the Federation of American
Immigration Reform, complain that it significantly increases the number of legal
immigrants.

''The reform will be a shot in the arm for New York, whose economy has always
thrived on immigration,'' said Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn
Democrat who serves on the House immigration subcommittee.

Support From Broad Coalition

In New York City the bill has been supported by a broad coalition from labor,
business, church and civil rights and neighborhood organizations.

The Irish Immigration Reform Movement, an organization based in Woodside that
has led support for the bill, is optimistic but cautions that there are still
''two more hurdles'': a House-Senate conference later this week to resolve
differences between the House bill and a similar one adopted by the Senate last
year and a possible Presidential veto.

Major corporations and hospitals have shown considerable interest in the
immigration bill. Eileen Rowland, the assistant director for nursing recruitment
at Beth Israel Medical Center, expressed approval of ''the spirit and intent of
the legislation that will enable us to access foreign health providers from
abroad.'' She said that New York City had a shortage of registered nurses and
other medical personnel.

Some companies applaud changes in the law because it would be easier to recruit
aliens who are in the United States to get advanced degrees.

Other New Yorkers appear less enthusiastic and have expressed reservations.

Arthur Helton, who heads the political asylum project of the Lawyers Committee
for Human Rights, described the bill as ''good news for an immigrant city like
New York,'' but he said that it had ''an element of bias'' in favor of northern
Europeans. Mr. Helton, however, applauded a provision granting safe haven to
political refugees, specifically those from El Salvador, Kuwait, Liberia and
Lebanon.

Some community and ethnic organizations, critical of the ''regional diversity''
provision favoring western Europe, have been won over to the bill because of its
family provisions. ''We support the family side of the bill, which is beneficial
to Asians,'' said Stanley Mark, a leader of the Asian-American Legal Defense and
Education Fund.

''We think the bill is positive overall because it preserves and improves the
family-based immigration system,'' said Marla Kamiya, a staff member at the
Center for Immigrants Rights. The Manhattan advocacy group recently voiced
support for the Morrison bill. But it objected to special visas for the 36
mainly European countries. Those countries, it said, were ''adversely affected''
by the 1965 Immigration Act. But before the 1965 Act those countries had
historically been favored.

Although the City Bar Association in New York has not taken a stand on the
change, Allan Wernick, chairman of the association's Committee on Immigration
and Nationality Law said the legislation reflected ''an important shift in
public understanding.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 21, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Lawmakers Agree on Immigration Rise

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 26, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 809 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 20


Congressional negotiators will meet early next week to work out final details of
a bill that would allow a substantial increase in legal immigration to the
United States.

The compromise bill would allow 700,000 immigrants a year in 1992, 1993 and 1994
and 675,000 annually in subsequent years. The United States has been admitting
about 500,000 immigrants a year, not counting refugees, people who are fleeing
persecution.

Under the bill, the United States would increase the allowable number of skilled
immigrants, including scientists, engineers and medical technicians, so as to
compensate for expected shortages of skilled labor in the 1990's. Congress, the
Labor Department and many economists see immigration as a way to correct the
imbalance between labor supply and demand.

'An Excellent Compromise'

Representative Bruce A. Morrison, the Connecticut Democrat who heads the House
Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, said he and other key members of the
House and the Senate reached the agreement on Friday night.

''There are details still to be worked out,'' Mr. Morrison said in an interview.
''But the basic outline of the bill is agreed to. It is an excellent
compromise.''

The tentative agreement was unexpected. The Senate passed a version of the
legislation in July 1989, and the House passed a major immigration bill on Oct.
3 of this year. But disagreements among lawmakers responsible for immigration
policy were so profound that the Senate, which wanted to set immigration levels
much lower than the House did, refused to enter formal negotiations.

But after four hours of informal talks on Friday, senators and representatives
agreed on the outline of the compromise. They plan to convene a formal
conference committee early next week. Much of the conference report has already
been written by Congressional aides.

The conference report is subject to approval by both chambers and by the
President.

Splitting the Difference

The compromise sets the total number of immigrants in between the 630,000 a year
specified in the Senate bill and the 775,000 in the House measure.

Under the compromise, the 700,000 immigrants permitted in each of the first
three years would be chosen as follows: 465,000 would be relatives of United
States citizens and permanent resident aliens; 140,000 would be workers with
special job skills, or close family members (an increase in this category of
more than 80,000); 40,000 would be residents of countries that have been allowed
to send relatively few immigrants to the United States in recent years, and
55,000 would be spouses and children of aliens who gained legal status under the
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.

In 1995 and later years, the 675,000 immigrant visas would be distributed as
follows: 480,000 to relatives of citizens and permanent resident aliens; 140,000
to workers with special skills and their relatives, and 55,000 to citizens of
countries that have sent relatively few immigrants to the United States in
recent years.

Reservations Voiced

Mr. Morrison said: ''The basic goals of the House bill that I sponsored have
been attained. We will get a substantial increase in employer-sponsored
immigration. We have expanded family immigration. And we will have a substantial
program for countries previously disadvantaged under the immigration law, like
Ireland, Poland and Italy.''

Senator Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming, the sole Republican member of the Senate
Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, said in an interview after the informal
negotiations on Friday night: ''We struck a deal. We haven't got it all in
writing, but we struck an oral deal, and I think it's in the national
interest.''

Representative Howard L. Berman, a California Democrat who has worked closely
with Hispanic groups, said today that he endorsed the overall agreement on
numbers of immigrants, even though he had reservations about some parts of the
compromise bill.

''It is better than existing law, but it's a far cry from the House bill,''
which was more generous to aliens wishing to join relatives already in the
United States, he said.

Mr. Morrison said he believed the House-Senate conference would be ''smooth
sailing because we have sailed all the rough waters already.''

'Far From Over'

But Rick Swartz, an immigration lawyer in Washington, said it was possible that
Hispanic groups and some religious organizations would find the agreement
unacceptable because of the way it treated family-related immigration. ''This
process is far from over,'' he said.

Under current law, there is no immigration limit on American citizens' immediate
relatives, who include spouses, unmarried minor children and, in some cases, the
citizen's parents. The compromise bill would count immediate relatives under the
overall ceiling for legal immigration.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 4, 1992, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Cuban Pilot Defects With 33 Others in a Daring Helicopter Flight

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1390 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 3


In a daring escape from one of the world's last remaining Communist nations, a
pilot for the Cuban national airline commandeered a helicopter in Havana today
and flew 33 relatives and friends to a small suburban airport here.

The group, which included nine children and infants, immediately requested
political asylum and was taken to an Immigration and Naturalization Service
detention center here to be processed.

"We just could not stand it there anymore," one female passenger said shortly
after landing at Tamiami Airport, a small strip south of Miami normally used by
pleasure craft and other small planes.

'I Truly Feel Complete'

"Do you have any idea what it is like to be able to bring out four children and
my grandchildren like this?" asked another passenger, who identified herself as
Maria Lopez. "Now I truly feel complete."

Immigration officials said they expected all 34 Cuban refugees to be released
quickly to their relatives here, perhaps as early as this weekend. Unlike people
from Haiti and other Latin American countries, Cubans are eligible for a special
immigration program that grants them legal residency in the United States in
little more than a year.

More than 7,000 Haitians, for example, are currently being detained at a United
States military base at Guantanamo, Cuba, while American courts decide if they
can be forcibly repatriated to their homeland, a policy favored by the Bush
Administration.

The Haitian exodus began after a military regime overthrew an elected civilian
president last fall, but Washington, which has refused to recognize the new
government, says it nonetheless regards the Haitians as economic, rather than
political, refugees.

Based at Cuban Resort

The leader of today's mass defection was identified as German Pompa, a pilot
with Cubana Airlines who also holds the rank of lieutenant in the Cuban Air
Force. Mr. Pompa was based in Varadero, a beach resort east of Havana catering
to foreign tourists and members of the Communist Party elite, and regularly flew
visitors and officials on helicopter excursions from the local airport.

Orestes Lorenzo Perez, a former Cuban military pilot who defected to the United
States last year and said he had once been Mr. Pompa's commanding officer,
talked to Mr. Pompa minutes after his arrival this morning. Mr. Perez said Mr.
Pompa told him he went to the Varadero airport early this morning and boarded
the craft. Mr. Pompa was accompanied, he said, by two friends who wore the
uniforms of crew members so that the suspicions of airport security officers
would not be aroused.

"They then flew to a prearranged spot nearby, where family members and friends
were waiting," Mr. Perez said. "The passengers climbed on board in a hurry, and
they flew off, keeping an altitude of less than 30 feet above the water so that
the Cuban Air Force would not detect them and shoot them down."

United States Customs Service officials said a "slow, low-flying object" was
first detected flying over the Straits of Florida shortly after 8 A.M.  Two
Government airplanes sent to intercept the aircraft quickly identified it as a
Russian-made MI-8 helicopter, and accompanied the craft until it touched down
around 9:15.

New Year's Greetings

"The first thing he said to me was, 'Happy New Year,' " said Sebastian Ortega, a
customs official who was in radio contact with Mr. Pompa during the flight.
"Other than that we didn't do very much talking. We just wanted to make sure we
got him down on the ground safe and sound."

Late this morning some small plastic flight bags that the passengers brought
with them, including one that proclaimed "Cuba Awaits You," were still on board
the helicopter as it sat on the tarmac at Tamiami Airport, with customs agents
and Miami police officers guarding it.

Under the terms of an international air hijacking agreement that both the United
States and Cuba have signed, the helicopter must be returned to Cuba. A
spokesman for the Cuban Interests Section in Washington said this afternoon that
the Cuban Government expected to send a crew to Florida to pick up the craft and
fly it back to Havana as soon as arrangements could be made.

Inside the commandeered helicopter were seats for three crew members and seat
belts for 18 passengers, indicating that the craft made its 200-mile journey
dangerously overloaded.

"I was a little bit nervous in the beginning," said one of the passengers, a man
in his 30's. "But after 30 minutes I knew we were out of danger."

Mr. Perez and other friends of the passengers said today's escape had been
carefully planned for several weeks and that there had been at least one
attempted escape that was aborted at the last moment. Shortly after their
arrival several of the passengers used mobile telephones to call relatives in
Miami, and their conversations made it clear that those family members also knew
that some sort of escape effort was in the works.

As news of the helicopter flight spread on Spanish-language radio and television
stations here, curious Cuban-Americans drove to the airport in the hope of
catching a glimpse of the latest additions to Miami's flourishing exile
community and the craft in which they escaped.

"The next thing you know, they will be coming in submarines," said one radio
commentator, rejoicing that "once again the Cuban people have made a fool of
Fidel Castro."

Today's flight to freedom comes amid Cuba's worst economic and political crisis
since Mr. Castro seized power 33 years ago this month. Deprived of subsidies,
oil and markets for its sugar exports as a result of the collapse of Communism
in the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, the Cuban economy has over the
last two years sunk virtually to a subsistence level.

Food and fuel have long been rationed, but new restrictions on electricity and
gasoline consumption, including the elimination of many bus lines, went into
effect on Jan. 1. Television, newspapers, movie theaters and sports arenas have
also cut back their operations, leaving the population with little diversion
during what Mr. Castro calls a "special period" that he has admitted will
intensify this year.

'No Freedom of Expression'

At the same time, state security has stepped up its vigilance. "There is no
freedom of expression there," one of the passengers on the helicopter, a
teen-ager, told reporters today. "The minute you say something they throw you in
jail."

In the first nine months of 1991 more than 2,000 Cubans fled to Florida aboard
rafts, inner tubes or small boats, compared with 467 during the previous year,
according to the immigration agency. The State Department says an additional
30,000 Cubans arrived in the United States to visit relatives and are believed
by the United States authorities here to have overstayed their visas.

In a desperate attempt to flee the island just last week, an unknown Havana
resident hooked a trapeze-like device to the wing of a charter flight leaving
the Havana airport for Miami. As passengers watched helplessly, the man lost
consciousness and fell from his perch into the sea shortly after takeoff.

Last March, Mr. Perez, flying a supersonic MIG-27 jet fighter, landed at a
United States naval air station just north of Key West. That defection raised
questions about the efficiency of the Pentagon's air defense network.

This time, however, the helicopter, which has a maximum speed of about 150
knots, was spotted soon after it left Havana. Michael Sheehan, a spokesman for
the Customs Service in Miami, said two aircraft based at Homestead Air Force
Base south of here were then ordered into the air, and spotted the helicopter
about 20 miles south of Marathon, in the Florida Keys.

Customs officials said tail markings indicating the craft belonged to Cuba's
state airline and the absence of guns quickly made it clear to them that they
were dealing with a mass defection.

"We had no reason to believe this group was hostile," said the customs agent who
piloted the Citation jet that intercepted the helicopter and accompanied it to
the airstrip.

The pilot, who spoke on condition that he not be named, added: "As we approached
we could see the people inside, smiling and waving at us. When they landed they
were even more excited. It looked like they were kissing the ground."

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Cubana Airlines helicopter that was used in a daring escape
from Cuba yesterday being attached to a tow bar in Miami. (Agence
France-Presse); German Pompa, center, the pilot, celebrating with other refugees
after the flight from Cuba. (Associated Press)

Map of Cuba showing location of Varadero.

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 18, 1992, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Sues Over Dismissal for Accent

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 720 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan 17


Citing a rarely used Federal law, the Bush Administration has for the first time
charged a company with discriminating against an employee because he speaks
English with an accent.

The suit, filed today by the Equal Employment Opportunities Commission in
Federal District Court in Los Angeles, charged that Eiki International Inc. of
Laguna Niguel violated the civil rights of an Indian-born employee when it
dismissed him because of the way he spoke English.

The commission charged that in dismissing the employee, Rambhai Patel, from his
job as a credit manager in November 1987, Eiki International maintained that his
accent was not good for the company's image. Federal law prohibits
discrimination on the basis of national origin, and commission officials said
that to deny a person a job or promotion because of a foreign accent would be
considered a violation of that statute.

The company, which sells audio-visual aids equipment, did not return a telephone
call seeking comment.

More Suits Predicted

Commission officials say such lawsuits filed by either the agency or individuals
will be increasing because of the changed patterns in emigration to the United
States. In the 1970's and 1980's, nine countries -- Mexico, the Philippines,
Korea, Hong Kong, China, the Dominican Republic, Haiti, India and Jamaica --
provided 51 percent of the legal immigrants under changes in the immigration
laws in the 1960's.  Commission officials say immigrants from these nations were
more likely to face discrimination in hiring and promotion because of their
accents than were immigrants from Western Europe.

"We'll see more and more similar cases," said Joy Cherian, the first naturalized
citizen to be appointed a commissioner of the agency.

Mr. Cherian's executive assistant, Raj K. Gupta, who wrote the commission's 1980
guidelines covering discrimination on the basis of accent, said, "We have not
seen any case of discrimination on the basis of accent involving any Western
European immigrant.

"Generally," he added, "if an employer has an applicant who speaks with a French
accent, they say, 'How cute,' or with an English accent, they say, 'How cute.'
But if he speaks with a Hispanic accent they say, 'What's wrong with this guy?'
"

Last month, an appeals court in Washington State upheld a $390,000 damage award
granted to a Cambodian-American, Phanna K. Xieng, who had been denied promotion
by a Washington bank because of his accent.

Commission officials said this was the first case to their knowledge in which a
plaintiff successfully sued for damages in such a case.

The damage award covered back pay and wages that the employee is expected to
lose because of the emotional trauma associated with the discrimination. The
court held that the discrimination revived a post-traumatic stress disorder that
the plaintiff had suffered because of the loss of his family at the hands of the
Khmer Rouge. Medical experts retained by Mr. Xieng at his trial testified that
he would be unable to work for at least five years.

"This is a very significant vindication of employment rights of millions of
foreign-born Americans who may have no problem communicating effectively in
English but who cannot hide their foreign accent," Mr. Cherian said of the Xieng
ruling.

Mr. Cherian said that the Xieng case was the first in which a court ordered an
employer to pay damages because of the emotional stress brought about by
discrimination on the basis of accent. The civil rights bill signed by President
Bush in November now gives plaintiffs the right to receive up to $300,000,
depending on the size of the company, in compensatory and punitive damages
damages for intentional discrimination.

In a statement released today by the E.E.O.C., Mr. Cherian said, "Now, with the
additional availability of compensatory and punitive damages under the newly
enacted Civil Rights Act of 1991 for this kind of discrimination, it behooves
employers to pay serious attention to this kind of discrimination."

While discrimination suits based on national origin are fairly common, legal
experts say, such suits based on forign accents are rare. The E.E.O.C. has
investigted a number of such claims in recent years, Mr. Gupta said. But until
today it had not filed a suit on behalf of a plaintiff.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 1, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Woman Denied Asylum Despite Others' Pleas

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 403 words

DATELINE: DENVER, Feb. 29


After eight years of legal maneuvers, a 35-year-old woman who fled her native
Northern Ireland a decade ago after her apartment house was bombed faces
deportation now that immigration officials have denied her request for political
asylum.

To prevent the woman, Maureen Farrell, from being deported, seven men have
proposed marriage to her, and Representative Patricia Schroeder, Democrat of
Colorado, has urged the commissioner of the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service to review her case.

"Ms. Farrell presents no plausible threat to this country," Mrs. Schroeder wrote
Commissioner Gene McNary. "Indeed, she has been a hard-working and productive
member of her community."

Daughter Is American

Verne Jervis, an agency spokesman in Washington, said Friday that the agency had
accepted a petition from the woman's sister, an American citizen, for an
immigrant visa for Mrs. Farrell, who is a widow. But he said it would take about
three years for her name to reach the top of a waiting list for the visa.

Mr. Jervis said Mrs. Farrell had failed to prove that she qualified for
political asylum and had agreed, in a stipulation filed in January in Federal
court in Denver, to leave the United States by May 16.

Mrs. Farrell, a legal assistant in Denver, has a 4-year-old daughter, Jamie, who
was born in the United States and thus is an American citizen. The child's
father, an Irish citizen, died of complications from diabetes three years ago in
Denver.

The immigration service rejected Mrs. Farrell's application for asylum and
refused to grant her a deferment on account of her daughter, saying its policies
do not take children into account when a parent is seeking residency, even if
the children are American.

On Dec. 24, the agency ordered Mrs. Farrell to leave the country by Jan. 17, but
extended the deadline four months on the condition that she drop further
appeals.

Mrs. Farrell came to the United States in 1981, after her apartment building was
rocked by a terrorist's bomb.

"I've never asked for favors or handouts," she said. "All I ask is to be allowed
to stay here and work and give my daughter what I can't give her anywhere but in
America."

Mrs. Farrell said she has declined the marriage proposals, which could help her
stay. She said a marriage of convenience was out of the question.

"What kind of example would I set for my daughter?" she said.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 20, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Ex-Rep. Michael A. Feighan, 87; Architect of '65 Immigration Law

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 495 words


Michael A. Feighan, a 14-term Democratic Congressman from Ohio who was chief
architect of the 1965 immigration act that abolished the system of quotas by
national origin, died yesterday at a hospital in Washington. He was 87 years old
and had homes in Washington and Cleveland.

He died of a brain tumor, his family said.

Tall, spare and taciturn, Mr. Feighan (pronounced FEE-an), who represented parts
of Cleveland and its suburbs for 28 years in Congress until 1971, seemed an
unlikely champion of the Federal Immigration Act of 1965.

The legislation, which he shaped and shepherded through in 12 weeks, overturned
a rigid quota system that had allowed more immigrants from northern and western
European countries than from other parts of the world.

The LBJ 'Treatment'

Mr. Feighan had been regarded as a bedfellow of conservative and patriotic
groups standing firmly on the status quo. But many of Mr. Feighan's constituents
had Polish, Hungarian or Slovak ancestry, and Mr. Feighan was a staunch
anti-Communist.

His decision to work for the bill was helped along by its powerful backer,
President Lyndon B. Johnson, who put Mr. Feighan on his fabled list for "the
treatment." That meant White House dinners, consultations in the Oval Office and
trips on Air Force One. Mr. Feighan, who headed the Judiciary subcommittee on
immigration, got the message and Mr. Johnson got his bill.

The act, which because of House protocol bore the name of Emmanuel Celler, the
Brooklyn Democrat who was chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, established
preferences based on such criteria as being a professional, a refugee or the
relative of an American. As a result, many thousands of Hungarians fleeing the
Soviet-led invasion of their country in 1956 became American citizens.

Michael Aloysius Feighan was born in Lakewood, Ohio. His father, a banker, was a
former owner of the Cleveland Indians.

The younger Mr. Feighan, a 1927 graduate of Princeton University who received
his bachelor of laws degree from Harvard University, began his career as one of
five brothers in the Ohio law firm of Feighan, Feighan, Feighan, Feighan &
Feighan. He entered the Ohio State Legislature in 1937, becoming its minority
leader two years later.

Election to Congress

He was elected to represent the 20th Congressional District in 1942, when Time
magazine commended him as a promising new face on Capitol Hill.

He left office in January 1971 after failing to win renomination. He then turned
to political consulting.

Mr. Feighan's wife of 50 years, the former Florence Mathews, died in 1980. His
companion was Lelah Rodenberger.

He is survived by a son, William, of Paradise Valley, Ariz.; a daughter, Fleur
Jones of Greenwich, Conn.; a sister, Anne O'Brien of Lighthouse Point, Fla., and
two grandsons. A nephew, Representative Edward F. Feighan, a Democrat, has
represented the 19th District from suburban Cleveland since 1983.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 17, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

What U.S. Is Doing for Hong Kong

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 404 words


To the Editor:

In "What Democrats Owe Hong Kong" (editorial, Jan. 4), you call on the West to
"respond with visa programs and diplomatic efforts now" for Hong Kong, which is
scheduled to return to the hands of China, the world's last totalitarian
Communist regime, in 1997, "or bear the shame of its inaction for years to
come."

The United States Government has indeed already taken the initiative in this
area.

Last Nov. 27, President Bush signed into law a statute that, among other
amendments, has drastically changed United States immigration law relating to
Hong Kong. The Immigration Act of 1990 contains several provisions assisting
Hong Kong.

First, it doubles the annual quota of Hong Kong natives eligible for United
States immigration, raising the figure from 5,000 to 10,000 for the next three
years, after which it raises the quota to more than 25,000 a year.

Second, it provides for 12,000 visas above the annual quota for each of the next
three years in a special provision that relates to employees of United States
companies operating in Hong Kong. For employees who reside in Hong Kong and have
worked there for qualifying United States companies for the last 12 months in
executive, managerial or other supervisory-type capacities, there is a special
opportunity to obtain immigrant status in the United States if sponsored by a
qualifying employer. (For an employer to qualify, it must be owned by a United
States company that has more than 100 employees in the United States and more
than 50 outside the United States, and $50 million in annual business volume.)

Qualified applicants need not use their visa immediately, but may use it at any
time until Jan. 1, 2002, so long as they remain in the employ of the United
States company in Hong Kong. This should do much to remove the competitive
disadvantage that United States companies in Hong Kong feel, as they lose many
of their key employees to the frenzy of emigration and the special benefits
offered by other countries.

The new law also includes a provision for certain United States Government
employees at the Hong Kong Mission who are the object of any threat because of
their employment. I believe that we can be quite proud of the first steps taken
by our Government to extend its hospitality to the industrious, hard-working
people of Hong Kong.

LEON WILDES
New York, Jan. 7, 1991

The writer is an immigration lawyer.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 24, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Jackson G. Cook, Lawyer, 82

SECTION: Section D; Page 23; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 131 words


Jackson G. Cook, an immigration lawyer, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan.
He was 82 years old.

He died of Parkinson's disease and pneumonia, his wife, Dorothy, said.

Mr. Cook was born in Manhattan and received a bachelor's degree from New York
University and a law degree from Fordham. Entering private practice in 1930, he
was an early practitioner of immigration law, with offices in Manhattan and in
Honolulu. He worked to help Chinese immigrants in the face of restrictive
legislation.

He was a lieutenant in the Army in World War II.

Mr. Cook is survived by his wife, the former Dorothy Goldfarb; a stepdaughter,
Sunny Becker of Sonoma, Calif.; two brothers, Fred, of Manhattan and Harry, of
North Miami, Fla.; a sister, Hannah, of North Miami, and two grandchildren.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 14, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Loses Aides in Shake-Up

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 921 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 13


The Justice Department has ordered the removal of three top career managers at
the Immigration and Naturalization Service as the first step in a shakeup to
bring better leadership to the long troubled agency, Bush Administration
officials said today.

The reorganization is being interpreted by some career officials in the
immigration service as a thinly disguised ultimatum from Attorney General Dick
Thornburgh to Gene McNary, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization,
to improve the agency's performance. Mr. McNary has been on the job for 15
months.

The changes seem unlikely to have much effect on the enforcement of immigration
law; instead, they are aimed at correcting decades-old management problems most
recently highlighted in a General Accounting Office report issued last month.

The report said that the immigration service had "degenerated into a group of
segmented autonomous programs," that it lacked "coherent overall direction" and
used a "chaotic budget development process." The report concluded that the
agency was "unable to effectively address changing enforcement and longstanding
service and delivery problems."

Management Lapses Cited

Previous audits have shown how management lapses at the agency translate into
frustration and mismanagement in the field where applicants wait, sometimes for
years, for their immigration claims to be decided.

In addition, chronic shortages of inspectors at some major border crossings have
sometimes caused delays of several hours in entering or leaving the United
States. And poor scheduling of inspections has led to heavy overtime charges,
resulting in some inspectors being paid $10,000 to $20,000 a year in overtime.

The changes already being imposed include the replacement of two of the four
associate commissioners who manage the agency's internal affairs, as well as the
comptroller and a number of middle managers.

Still under review is the precise nature of the reorganization. The main goal is
centralizing the agency. It has long operated through four independent regional
commissioners, and their roles are likely to be sharply reduced.

Three Managers Named

The three managers, all career employees rather than political appointees, are
H. F. Sylvester, the associate commissioner for management; Elizabeth Chase
MacRae, the associate commissioner for information systems, and Thomas N.
Perrelli, the comptroller.

It was not clear today whether the managers had been advised of the decision to
replace them or whether the decision could be reversed. Efforts to reach Mr.
Sylvester and Mr. Perrelli were unsuccessful. Ms. MacRae said she had heard
"rumors" about the personnel changes but had not been officially advised of any
change in her status.

The immigration service, which is responsible for controlling the nation's
borders as well as processing foreign visitors and immigrants, has been long
regarded by Mr. Thornburgh as one of the most troubled of the satellite agencies
under his jurisdiction.

Before Mr. McNary's arrival in October 1989, his predecessor, Alan C. Nelson,
became embroiled in a dispute with the department after an audit criticized his
management of the immigration service, and Mr. Thornburgh's aides made it clear
that the Attorney General did not want Mr. Nelson to stay.

A Thin Executive Team

But several officials suggested that the reorganization was not intended to
single out Mr. McNary as responsible for longstanding failings. "He is very
happy to have the assistance," an Administration official said of the I.N.S.
commissioner.

Some career officials at the immigration service said the major personnel
changes could further weaken an already thin executive team surrounding Mr.
McNary and appeared to be an attempt to undercut his authority. They noted that
his own reorganization plans had languished at the department for more than a
year without being acted upon by the Attorney General.

Mr. McNary, a former prosecutor and onetime chief executive of St. Louis County
in Missouri, had little experience in immigration law before taking the I.N.S.
job.

But he is a Presidential appointee who cannot be removed except by President
Bush, and the commissioner has influential friends at the White House. Mr.
McNary headed Mr. Bush's 1988 election campaign in the St. Louis area and is
friend of George Herbert Walker, Mr. Bush's cousin, and William T. Bush, the
President's brother.

Mr. McNary denied a request to be interviewed, but a spokesman for the service
said immigration officials were cooperating with the Justice Department in
putting the reorganization plan into effect.

The reorganization comes as another trauma for an agency already stretched to
the limits to meet an Oct. 1 deadline to prepare regulations to carry out last
year's immigration act, which would increase legal permanent immigration by more
than 35 percent.

Management Review Group

In addition, the immigration service is struggling to put into effect a program
providing temporary residency status for an estimated 150,000 Salvadorans, and
must review its decisions denying political asylum to 350,000 Salvadorans and
Guatamalans under recent court settlement.

The changes are being proposed by a management review group chosen by Mr.
Thornburgh and headed by Norman A. Carlson, the former head of the Bureau of
Prisons. On Feb. 1, the group reported its findings to William P. Barr, the
Deputy Attorney General, who is supervising the reorganization.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 26, 1991, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

WAR IN THE GULF;
51,000 Refugees to Get Year's Reprieve in U.S.

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 231 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 25


About 51,000 people who fled political upheavals in Kuwait, Liberia and Lebanon
will be permitted to remain in the United States for at least another year,
Attorney General Dick Thornburgh has announced.

"This will insure that persons from those countries will not be forced to return
to their homelands while present dangers exist," Mr. Thornburgh said in his
announcement on Friday.

He granted the refugees temporary residency status for a period of one year
based on his authority under the Immigration Act of 1990. The law, enacted last
November, permits the Attorney General to grant such residency to aliens from
countries subject to armed conflict, natural disasters or other extraordinary
conditions.

Citizens of the three countries will be eligible whether they entered the United
States as short-term legal visitors whose visas have expired or as illegal
aliens. The new protected status means that they will not be subject to
deportation proceedings and will be granted work authorization permits.

There is no starting date for the program, which will take effect as soon as
regulations are formally published in the Federal Register. At the end of a
year, the Attorney General can extend the residency status or terminate the
program at his discretion.

Immigration officials estimate that 27,200 Lebanese, 10,100 Kuwaitis and 14,100
Liberians are eligible.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 31, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Hong Kong Agrees to Screen 8 Boat People Again

BYLINE: By BARBARA BASLER, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 670 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG, March 30


Eight Vietnamese boat people who were part of a landmark legal challenge to the
refugee screening process here will be screened again under an agreement reached
with the Hong Kong Government.

The plaintiffs agreed on Wednesday to an adjournment of their court cases in
return for new hearings.

All eight plaintiffs had been denied refugee status under the screening
procedures conducted by Hong Kong Immigration officers and monitored by the
local office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.

The eight were among nine cases organized by human rights lawyers in the United
States, Britain and Hong Kong, to challenge the colony's process for determining
who is a refugee eligible for resettlement and who is an illegal immigrant.

In the first case, which was heard in its entirety, the High Court ordered in
February that the plaintiff, Do Giao, be screened again because a decisive error
had been written into his record by an immigration officer.

"Taken together with the Do Giao case, this latest settlement is nothing less
than an acknowledgement by the Hong Kong authorities that the screening and
review procedures used in these cases were not adequate," said Arthur C. Helton,
director of the Refugee Project of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, based
in New York.

But Hong Kong officials have contended that while the Do case overturned a
specific screening decision, it upheld the screening process.

And in a statement on Wednesday, the Government said it had agreed to new
hearings for the remaining eight plaintiffs, "to avoid prolonging a conclusion
at further public cost."

Lawyers for the Vietnamese and several legal experts questioned the Government's
contention that it agreed to the new hearings to save time and money.

"If Government officials were confident of winning, they would never have agreed
to the settlement," said David Clark, a professor of law at Hong Kong
University. "I think this was a decision to minimize political damage by getting
these cases out of court."

He said that through the challenges, "the Government has come to realize that
the courts are willing to review and rule on these Vietnamese cases," adding,
"Once, they thought they could ignore all critics."

But a spokesman for the Government's Security Department, which deals with boat
people, said: "You can say people have won or lost, but I'm not sure that's
wholly appropriate in this case. I think a satisfactory conclusion has now been
reached in the case."

In the past, the screening process has been criticized by international human
rights groups as flawed and often unreliable, sometimes rejecting genuine
refugees fleeing persecution.

New Members for Board

Under the agreement, the Government said, the eight Vietnamese and their lawyers
will be able to present to the refugee review board all of the material that
would have been used in their court case, and their cases will go before new
members of the board, not members who had previously ruled against them. If any
part of the agreement is breached, the Vietnamese can return to court.

Critics have contended that boat people are given little help in preparing and
presenting their cases before the refugee board, and that mistakes are often
written into their accounts of their lives in Vietnam because of unskilled
interpreters and antagonistic immigration officers.

Vietnamese who are screened out are deemed to be illegal immigrants and are held
in detention centers until they can eventually be forced to return to Vietnam.
Currently about 45,000 boat people are held in detention centers here, and since
the process was set up in the summer of 1988, only 20,000 of them have been
screened.

Government officials say the screening procedures have been improved. But
lawyers for the Vietnamese say the reason more people are now being accepted as
refugees -- the percentage has risen from less than 10 to about 17 percent -- is
because the procedures are being challenged in court.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 26, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Official Accused of Terrorizing Immigrants

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 41; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 538 words


An immigration official accused of seizing cash and other valuables without
search warrants during raids on Hispanic-owned businesses in upper Manhattan was
a human "juggernaut" who led a reign of terror against recent immigrants, a
Federal prosecutor told jurors on Friday.

The case arose from complaints by grocery-store owners in the Washington Heights
section of Manhattan last year, who said they had been plagued by immigration
officials who ransacked their stores, took their money, and in some cases forced
them to sign written statements saying they had consented to the searches. The
Fourth Amendment protects people from illegal searches and seizures.

The defendant, Joseph Occhipinti, is charged with 25 counts of conspiracy, civil
rights violations, embezzlement and making false statements. If convicted, he
faces up to 10 years in prison on each count.

"He cast aside the Constitutional limitations on his ability to conduct these
investigations," the prosecutor, Jeh cqC. Johnson, said of Mr. Occhipinti. "The
badge he wore became a weapon of intimidation, rather than a symbol of the law."

But Mr. Occhipinti's lawyer, Norman J. Mordkofsky, told the jury that the
Government's evidence against his client was "basically a series of
half-truths."

At the time, Mr. Occhipinti was leading an official Immigration and
Naturalization Service investigation of possible links between Hispanic-owned
grocery stores and the smuggling of illegal aliens. Mr. Johnson said on Friday
that no arrests for harboring or employing illegal aliens were ever made.

Instead, according to the indictment, Mr. Occhipinti and his subordinates
searched the stores, taking money and other valuables. Print shops, travel
agencies and other businesses were also among the 56 targets. About $16,000 of
the money seized from safes was never accounted for in official reports, the
indictment charged.

Detained Without Probable Cause

Business owners and employees were detained and questioned without probable
cause; search warrants were never presented, and some store owners, usually
those who could not speak English, were ordered to sign forms written either in
English or "badly translated" Spanish that said they had consented to have their
premises searched, after the fact, Mr. Johnson told the jury.

A second and smaller investigation, called Project Kuala Lumpur, was aimed at
illegal immigrants from Malaysia who were working as prostitutes. During that
investigation, Mr. Johnson said, a brothel in lower Manhattan was improperly
searched as well.

Mr. Mordkofsky contended that the grocery store owners were in fact powerful
executivesmagnates who had the sympathy of City Hall, since the 1990 census was
at that time getting under way and city officials feared anything that might
result in the immigrant population being undercounted. "The city was going to be
unable to get its fair share," he said.

Mr. Mordkofsy also attacked the credibility of the witnesses the Government
plans to present, including several store owners and a confidential informant
used by Mr. Occhipinti. "Generally, you will find that each and every one of
these storekeepers is involved in criminal activity," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 15, 1991, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Scholar Says U.S. Shift Allows Him to Travel

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 293 words


A Japanese scholar who lives on Long Island said yesterday that he plans a visit
to Japan for the first time in years because of an agreement this week by the
State Department to remove almost all of the names on a secret list of aliens
the Government considered idelogically unacceptable to enter this country.

The scholar, Choichiro Yatani, has been fighting the State Department in Federal
courts for five years to get his name removed from the "lookout" list maintained
under the McCarthy-era McCarran-Walter Immigration Act.

Mr. Yatani says he has been afraid to leave the United States since he was
detained by immigration officials for 44 days in 1986 because his name was
apparently included on the list as a Communist. He has always denied that he was
a Communist, and his case has attracted wide public attention.

Under the agreement reported yesterday, the State Department pledged to support
legislation that would require the purging of the list within three years.

Diogenes P. Kekatos, the assistant United States attorney who is defending the
Government in Mr. Yatani's suit, said the State Department agreement would not
necessarily have an immediate impact on Mr. Yatani's case. But he said it was
likely the Government would respond within days to Mr. Yatani's request that his
name be removed from the list.

Mr. Yatani, 44 years old, said yesterday that news of the agreement to purge the
list made him decide to visit his aging parents in Japan. But he said he
remained afraid that he could, once again, be detained when he returns to Long
Island.

He said he was not yet sure that the State Department agreement is a sign that
the cold war has ended. "As of now," he said, "it's getting over. But it's not
over."

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 14, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Two Soviet Dancers Want to Stay in the U.S.

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 621 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 13


Federal immigration officials said today that two 20-year-old dancers with the
Kirov ballet have asked for "immigration benefits," a phrase that usually means
a foreigner has requested asylum in the United States.

But bizarre circumstances surrounding the request by the two women underscored
how the changes in the Soviet Union and the end of the cold war had transformed
the artistic and political landscape.

In 1974, the defection of a Kirov star, Mikhail Baryshnikov, was seen as a grand
statement about the artistic and personal freedoms of the West. Recent moves by
Soviet ballet artists to work with American troupes seem decidedly more prosaic,
involving questions of money, visibility and opportunity.

Against this backdrop, the apparent asylum request made by Aleksandra Koltun and
Zhanna Sinitsina seemed more a fumbling gesture of dissatisfaction with their
other alternatives than a carefully considered statement about artistic freedom.

"The people who talked to them Tuesday night said they didn't really seem to
know what they wanted," said one official of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, speaking on condition of anonymity.

Harder to Show Persecution

While the collapse of the Soviet economy has given many more people a motive to
leave, the demise of Soviet Communism has made it harder to prove a
"well-founded fear of persecution," the customary reason for granting political
asylum. As Soviet travel restrictions have eased over the past five years, the
number of Soviet citizens requesting political asylum has grown exponentially,
from 40 in fiscal year 1986 to 1,043 in fiscal year 1990 and 1,891 in the first
half of fiscal 1991.

These requests are no longer granted routinely. Duke Austin, a spokesman for the
immigration agency, said that 264 Soviets were granted asylum and about 100 were
denied in 1990.

The two dancers left the Kirov on Oct. 26. They showed up at the New York City
Ballet on Nov. 1, took some classes but received no job offers, City Ballet
officials said.

Oleg Vinogradov, the Kirov's artistic director, said the two called his wife
Nov. 7 asking to rejoin the troupe. Mr. Vinogradov's wife, Yelena, sent a car to
meet them in New York and brought them back to the Vinogradovs' home in
northeast Washington. The home is near the studios of the Universal Ballet
Academy, a school founded by the Unification Church of the Rev. Sun Myung Moon.
Mrs. Vinogradov supervises Soviet teachers there.

A Strange Confrontation

The dancers' apparent request for asylum came after a strange confrontation
outside the house Tuesday afternoon. As Mr. Vinogradov and his wife, accompanied
by the two dancers and a Bolshoi ballet star, Vladimir Vassilyev, pulled out of
his driveway in a van, a car driven by Alexei Avrin, an emigre who had
apparently befriended the two before and during their time in New York, pulled
over and blocked the driveway.

The argument was loud enough to prompt a call to the police, who responded to
find "the subjects had various reasons for being there," according to a sergeant
from the Washington Police, who was at the scene.

The two women, speaking through a translator, made a request for political
asylum, the sergeant said, so the police called in the immigration agency and
the State Department.

Over the past few years, several dozen ballet artists have found temporary
employment with American companies, who usually obtain special work visas for
them under a category designated for those with "distinguished merit and
ability."

It is unclear whether the two Kirov dancers believed they could follow this
pattern when they went to New York at the end of the Kirov's guest engagement in
Washington.


LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 18, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Court Backs Ex-Nazi Guard

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 292 words

DATELINE: CINCINNATI, Dec. 17


A man who inadvertently provoked deportation proceedings when he told
immigration officials he had been a guard in a Nazi prison camp won a legal
victory last week when a Federal appeals court refused to rehear the case
against him.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit on Friday rejected the
Federal Government's request that all 15 of its judges reconsider the case of
the former guard, Leonid Petkiewytsch of Cincinnati.

A three-judge panel of the appeals court ruled in September that the Government
could not deport Mr. Petkiewytsch, 68 years old, who has lived in the United
States on an immigrant visa since 1955 and who disclosed his Nazi ties on an
application for United States citizenship.

The panel ruled that Mr. Petkiewytsch had been only a reluctant civilian guard
at the Kiel-Hassee camp and said there was no evidence that he had abused
prisoners.

Mr. Petkiewytsch's lawyer, Doug Weigle, said the latest ruling should persuade
the Government to give up the case. The next avenue for appeal would be to the
Supreme Court.

"You would think with the entire Sixth Circuit voting not to give them a
rehearing, the Government would think it was high time to drop the matter," Mr.
Weigle said.

Susan Siegal, a Justice Department lawyer in the case, did not return a
telephone call for comment today. A Justice Department spokesman, Doug Tillett,
declined to say whether the Government would appeal further.

Mr. Petkiewytsch's deportation was ordered by the Federal Board of Immigration
Appeals and the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The immigration board
agreed that he was forced to serve at the camp and had not abused prisoners, but
said he should be deported for serving as a Nazi guard.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 16, 1990, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Florida Center Holding Aliens Is Under Inquiry

BYLINE: By JAMES LeMOYNE, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1277 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 15


Amid a growing Justice Department investigation into complaints of mistreatment
of aliens at the Krome Detention Center here, additional former detainees at the
center are making complaints of sexual harassment and physical abuse.

Concern over the complaints at the Krome center has been heightened among
Haitains living in Miami by the dismissals of three people working there. Each
of the three was a whistle-blower who said that aliens had been mistreated at
the center, which is under the supervision of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. Two of the people were dismissed this month and one in January.

In addition, officials of the immigration service now concede that the Krome
center, where more than 350 detainees are held, has long been severely
understaffed, with only half the guards who are needed. A spokesman for the
agency said 27 guards are being hired to assist the 68 now working. But Krome
would still be understaffed, the spokesman said.

''These are serious complaints that need to be resolved,'' said Representative
Dante B. Fascell, a Florida Democrat and head of the House Foreign Affairs
Committee who, among others, called for the current investigation. ''Krome is
not my idea of where we should put people who are being considered for political
asylum.''

Symptom of Deeper Problems

The investigation of the Krome center for illegal aliens highlights deeper
problems of an immigration system overburdened with an influx of illegal aliens
whose detention and frequent deportation are proving increasingly costly.

Several immigration officials and lawyers for detainees say the immigration
service is choked with appeals for political asylum from aliens who have entered
the country illegally. Because the cases can take up to two years to resolve,
the Government holds aliens in the meantime in centers like Krome. A few are
released on parole.

For those who are eventually deported, there are new problems. The Haitian
Government has detained at least 29 Haitians who had been deported from Miami
over the last 10 days, said American officials and officials of the Haitian
Center for Human Rights in Haiti. Haitian rights groups have said such
detentions without trial violate an understanding between the United States and
Haiti that deportees will not be arrested or punished on return to their
country.

Budget Pressure Is Cited

Immigration officials who acknowledge problems at American detention camps like
Krome say they are under budget pressure, as shown by the low starting annual
salary for guards, $14,500.

''The system simply cannot handle the workload,'' said Richard B. Smith, the
chief immigration agency official for the region.

Critics charge that the immigration agency is more interested in trying to cover
up problems and abuses than in correcting them.

''They fired me because I spoke out,'' said Janine Todaro, a teacher at Krome
for six years who was dismissed this month after she said she had seen detainees
with bruises that were the apparent result of beatings in 1987 and had seen
mental harassment by guards in the years since then. ''The message this sends to
others working at Krome is: Don't complain, because they'll get rid of you.''

Mark Dow, the other teacher who lost his job this month, agreed. He said he was
dismissed after he complained that an immigration guard had taken the personal
books, papers and photographs of a Haitian detainee.

Constance K. Weiss, a Krome administrator, said papers and books were taken from
detainees because guards feared that the aliens might try to start a fire to
protest their detention. She said she would make an effort to return the
prisoners' belongings, but acknowledged that no inventory had been made.

Punitive Action Is Denied

Mr. Smith and other officials responsible for work at Krome, denied that the
dismissals of the three workers were punitive. They said the dismissals were
coincidental, having occurred for reasons like changes in work schedules, lack
of security guards and lack of attendance in classes by detainees.

Several of those interviewed said that most guards at the camp are professional
and that it is a minority who provoke complaints.

The Krome camp is bare and feels like a prison. Despite the barbed wire and
regulation orange uniforms, though, the 400 detainees from more than 30
countries have access to telephones, lawyers, a weight room, a ceramic workshop,
several sports, classes and three meals a day.

But most detainees are from countries like Haiti and El Salvador, where men in
uniform are feared. In addition, the camp is next to a government firing range,
so it frequently resonates with gunfire, a disturbing sound for prisoners from
countries where gunfire means people are being killed.

All three of those recently dismissed point to the timing of the action against
them as evidence that they were punished for speaking out: two of those who lost
their jobs were dismissed within five days of complaining about prisoners'
treatment. One was discharged a month after making a public complaint. Of 27
teachers working at Krome, only Mrs. Todaro and Mr. Dow were dismissed.

John A. McKinney, the official in charge of teaching at Krome, said Mrs. Todaro
was let go because of ''a lack of security guards to work on the weekends when
she was teaching.'' He said Mr. Dow was dismissed because his class was
virtually unattended.

Maria Soto, a nurse's assistant in the camp clinic, was the other person to lose
her job. She was dismissed in January after trying to stop a guard she said was
harshly treating a mentally ill Cuban detainee, Orlando Torres. Mrs. Soto says
the guard jerked Mr. Torres onto the floor, pinned his arms down and slammed him
into a wall, before forcing him to take a bath.

She says she strongly protested the incident to her superiors and was dismissed
five days later.

Dr. Ada Rivera, the official in charge of the clinic, and Clara Salazar, an
assistant on duty when the incident occurred, denied that the patient had been
mistreated. They said he had refused to bathe for two weeks and there was no
choice but to force him into the shower.

Detainee Tells of His Fear

Dr. Rivera said she dismissed Mrs. Soto because ''we no longer needed her, since
we had other nurses to work her shift.''

Mr. Torres is still hospitalized in the camp clinic. In an interview there
conducted in Spanish without officials around, he said he felt he had been
abused but had been afraid to say so because he feared the guard who pushed him.
He conceded that he was filthy at the time and so ill that he resisted all
appeals to go to bathe.

In another accusation involving the camp clinic, a former woman detainee, Marie
Yolene Vital, charged in a telephone interview that she was sexually harassed by
a camp psychologist at the clinic in September of 1989. Mrs. Vital has been
released on parole pending consideration of a petition for political asylum and
is living in New Jersey.

She charged that the psychologist, Dr. Justin Anestin, ''Told me I was a very
pretty high-spirited girl. He said he wanted me to go to bed with him.''

Dr. Anestin, in a telephone interview, strongly denied any wrongdoing on his
part, saying he was shocked by the charge. ''That's ridiculous,'' he said.
''That's nonsense. Detainees will say anything to get out of here and to get
asylum.''

Semet Jermine, a Haitian detainee who was released from Krome last month on
parole pending consideration of an asylum plea, contended in an interview that
when he refused to be deported to Haiti last year, immigration guards handcuffed
him and left him in a van for 12 hours.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: New complaints of abuse, which have been made by former
detainees at the immigration service's Krome Detention Center in Miami, have
been met with the admission by officials that the center is severely
understaffed. Guards checked inmates for hidden food after a recent meal. (Tom
Salyer for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 24, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final

92 Captive Aliens Are Rescued in a Raid

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 213 words

DATELINE: LA PUENTE, Calif., Aug. 23


Los Angeles County sheriff's deputies raided a house here Wednesday night and
rescued 92 illegal aliens who were being held captive by nine smugglers
demanding ransom from the aliens' relatives, the authorities said today.

The deputies said that the aliens, from El Salvador and Mexico, had been kept at
the house for several days and that dozens of them had been locked inside one
8-by-20-foot room. Others were locked inside three small bedrooms, the
authorities said.

The deputies raided the house, about 25 miles east of downtown Los Angeles,
after receiving word from one of the captives' relatives about the ransom
demand. Nearly $19,000 in cash was also found, said Sgt. Bob Olmsted of the
Sheriff's Department.

The nine captors were taken into custody, and the illegal aliens were turned
over to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Investigators believe that the captors, whose identities were not immediately
disclosed, were ''coyotes'' - people who make a clandestine business of bringing
aliens across the border illegally. Sergeant Olmsted said the smugglers had
demanded up to $1,000 from each of the captives' relatives for their release.
Many of the aliens had already paid the smugglers similar amounts to be
transported to Los Angeles, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 30, 1991, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

11 Chinese Are Arrested In Abduction

BYLINE: By LEE A. DANIELS

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 424 words


A kidnapping victim was rescued in Brooklyn and 11 Chinese men were arrested in
what law-enforcement officials said yesterday was one in a growing number of
abductions in the trade of smuggling illegal aliens from China.

The victim, who the police would identify only as a 36-year-old recent
immigrant, was stabbed twice in the side when he was abducted on Wednesday night
in front of an apartment building at 83 Henry Street in Chinatown. He was listed
in stable condition yesterday at Beekman Downtown Hospital.

Lieut. Raymond O'Donnell, a police department spokesman, said the police had
drawn no conclusions about the kidnapping because it was still being
investigated. But other law-enforcement officials, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity, said it was virtually identical to a recent series of kidnappings and
assaults in the smuggling of illegal immigrants between Fujian province in
southern China and the United States, particularly New York City.

$15,000 to $50,000 Fees

In the last year, the police and Federal immigration officials have increased
efforts to reduce what they say is the highly organized pattern of illegal
smuggling. Typically, immigrants recruited from villages are given counterfeit
working papers and food, shelter and protection as they are directed to the New
York, home to the country's largest Chinese-American and Chinese immigrant
population.

Fees for being transported range from $15,000 to $50,000, which is often
impossible for the illegal immigrants to pay. With limited English and few
skills, they are often forced by the smugglers into drug trafficking or
collecting extortion payments.

The police say they believe that the smuggling network from Fujian is connected
with Chinese organized crime and has grown as the emigrants from Fujian have
taken over a large part of the drug trade in New York.

$23,000 Ransom

In the abduction on Wednesday, the police said the victim was grabbed by a group
of Asian men, stabbed and thrown into a car. Relatives of the victim received a
call demanding a $23,000 ransom soon after.

But the police had traced the car used in the abduction through a license plate
number seen by a witness, they said. They said they found the victim at 417
Ralph Avenue, in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, and arrested the 11 men there.

They were seeking two more suspects yesterday.

Kidnapping of undocumented Chinese immigrants is relatively new in the city, the
police have said. They say it is impossible to know how many such cases have
occurred.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 30, 1991, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Illegal Aliens And Guards Hurt in Melee

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 544 words


A violent confrontation erupted among about 25 detainees and their guards at a
detention center of the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service in lower
Manhattan Saturday night. Eight to 12 people suffered minor injuries, the police
and emergency medical workers said.

Police and one relative of a detainee said that the violence began after a
hunger strike by some inmates, while an official of the immigration service said
that it was caused by ethnic squabbling among the detainees.

The trouble began about 7 P.M. in a cellblock on the fourth floor of the
12-story cinder-block Federal building at 201 Varick Street, between Houston and
King Streets, the police said. They said it lasted 10 to 15 minutes.

No detainees escaped, the police said, and no hostages were taken. Five of those
hurt were Federal corrections officers.

Word of Hunger Strike

Immigration officials in New York did not return repeated telephone calls, but
an official in Washington said preliminary reports indicate the disturbance was
caused by ethnic tensions.

"The report that came to me last night was that our officers became involved
when there was some conflict going on between two groups, in particular two
individuals who were going at it pretty good," said Michael T. Lempres,
executive associate commissioner for operations of the I.N.S.

"I can tell you that this is not an extraordinary situation," said Mr. Lempres.
"I know that in this case it was prompted at least in part by ethnic tension. We
have a lot of nationalities in there."

But Sgt. Edelle James, a spokeswoman for the Police Department, said the
disturbance began as a hunger strike by the detainees and escalated into
violence.

One woman leaving the detention center yesterday after an unsuccessful attempt
to visit her 17-year-old son said he told her on Saturday that the detainees
were planning a hunger strike to protest the quality of the food.

"They claim that it's synthetic," said the woman, who gave her name only as
Beverly and who refused to give her son's name. "In other words, it's not real
food. There isn't enough, and it tastes terrible."

Detainees have often complained about poor conditions in the center, citing an
absence of medical treatment and windows in addition to bad food.

The police said all 25 detainees who took part in the disturbance were unarmed,
except for one who wielded a piece of pipe.

After the fighting began, Federal corrections officers invaded the cell block
and quickly suppressed it, Sergeant James said. "The ringleaders were put into
isolation," said Lieut. Ric Renz of the Emergency Medical Service.

The five injured corrections officers were taken to St. Vincent's Hospital,
where they were treated for fractures, bruises and cuts, the police and the
Emergency Medical Service officials said.

The police said three or four detainees were injured, while Deputy Chief Paul
Maniscalo of the Emergency Medical Service put the number at seven. The injured
detainees were all treated at the detention center. None was said to have been
seriously hurt.

In the last six years, there have been at least three other hunger strikes at
the detention center, which holds about 300 immigrants whose appeals for asylum
are pending.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A confrontation erupted Saturday night between detainees and
their guards in a cellblock at an immigration center at 201 Varick Street in
lower Manhattan. Guards being treated in an ambulance by medical workers.
(Andrew Savulich for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 1, 1991, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Raise Bolsters the Judiciary, Rehnquist Says

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 394 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 31


Chief Justice William Rehnquist said today that the 25 percent raise for Federal
judges that becomes effective on Tuesday would help them cope with a sharply
rising caseload of drug crimes and bankruptcies.

By providing the raise, Congress "averted a crisis in the judiciary by fairly
addressing what had been one of the most important issues affecting our branch
in the late '80's," the Chief Justice said in his year-end report on the Federal
court system.

In testifying before Congress in 1989, Chief Justice Rehnquist had urged large
raises for all Federal judges. He called judges' salaries at that time
inadequate and said they would cause "more resignations from the bench, more
damage to the morale of those judges who remain and more difficulty in
recruiting new judges."

In his report, the Chief Justice said that the Federal courts' budget for the
current fiscal year had topped $2 billion for the first time and that the
growing Federal caseload, "fueled by drug cases and an ever-rising tide of
personal bankruptcies," was sure to require even greater spending.

More and More Prosecutions

In 1990 drug prosecutions in Federal courts rose 6 percent, he said, "while
filings for violations of weapons and immigration laws climbed more than 23
percent each, as the Immigration and Naturalization Service and Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms used their expanded resources to attack drug
networks."

The Chief Justice said 725,000 new Federal bankruptcy petitions were filed in
1990. Personal bankruptcy filings rose 14 percent, and business bankruptcies 3
percent.

As 1990 ended, 975,000 bankruptcy cases were pending in Federal courts, he said.

The raise increases the Chief Justice's annual salary to $160,600, from
$124,000. The salaries of the Supreme Court's eight associate justices rise to
$153,600, from $118,600.

Salaries for Federal appellate judges jump to $132,700, from $102,500; Federal
trial judges will earn $125,000, from $96,600.

In 1980, the Chief Justice earned $75,000 a year, associate Supreme Court
justices $72,000, appellate judges $57,500 and trial judges $54,500.

President Bush recently signed into law a measure creating 85 new Federal
judgeships, raising the total to 828. In his year-end report Chief Justice
Rehnquist said, "The judiciary was in desperate need of additional judgepower."

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 12, 1991, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Citing Role in a Nazi Project, Canada Bars Ex-U.S. Scientist

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 555 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, Jan. 11


An immigration court today barred entry to Canada to Arthur L. Rudolph, the
84-year-old German-born engineer who managed the development of the Saturn 5
rocket used in the American moon landings.

The court ruled that there were "reasonable grounds" to believe that Mr. Rudolph
aided his superiors in a forced-labor project at a Nazi rocket factory, and that
this amounted to assisting in a war crime.

The hearing here was closely watched in the United States, since it was the
first court test of the case against Mr. Rudolph.

In a step that he subsequently described as a mistake forced on him by pressure
from United States investigators, Mr. Rudolph averted an American court test by
signing an agreement in 1983 with the Office of Special Investigations, the
Justice Department unit that investigates Nazi war crimes.

Surrendered U.S. Citizenship

After spending more than 35 years in the United States, much of it working for
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Mr. Rudolph, by then in
retirement in California, agreed to surrender his American citizenship and to
leave the country for Germany.

He remained in Germany until he visited Canada last summer and mounted a legal
challenge to the Justice Department's case, something he had agreed in 1983 not
to attempt in an American court.

For Mr. Rudolph and the Office of Special Investigations, which aided the
Canadian inquiry, the ruling was a mixed one.

The Canadian immigration official who conducted the inquiry found that Mr.
Rudolph "aided and abetted" what the official called "a crime against humanity
and a war crime" by using forced laborers from countries that were to be
attacked with the V-2 rocket, and by requesting additional forced laborers from
SS units. But the official appeared to cast doubt on the core of the American
investigators' case.

Among other things, William K. Willougby, the Canadian immigration adjudicator,
said in his ruling that he found no "reasonable grounds" to conclude that Mr.
Rudolph had been a "principle offender," as charged by the Canadian Government,
in the mistreatment of the thousands of forced laborers at the Mittelwerk plant
in Germany between 1943 and 1945.

Many of the laborers, from Nazi-occupied nations of Europe, including some Jews,
died of mistreatment, or were executed after being accused of sabotaging
production.

In his ruling, Mr. Willougby appeared to accept Mr. Rudolph's contention that he
was an unwilling participant at Mittelwerk. "It appears that he felt he had no
choice," he said, referring to the orders Mr. Rudolph said he received to shift
from his role as a research engineer to production manager of the V-2 plant.

The ruling added, however, that having accepted the position, Mr. Rudolph
resolved to do the work "to the best of his ability," knowing that the workers
were from the forced-labor battalions of the SS.

Mr. Rudolph, who returned to Hamburg after attending the hearing here in July
and August, was told of today's ruling in a telephone call from his Canadian
attorney, Barbara Kulaszka. She said that Mr. Rudolph had approved an appeal of
the ruling to the Federal Court of Canada, but added, "He's very, very pleased
that they found that he himself never committed any wrongdoing, such as
inflicting cruelty on the prisoners."

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 3, 1990, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

IMMIGRATION BILL DEBATED IN HOUSE

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 25, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 746 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 2


The House of Representatives began debate today on legislation that would
significantly increase the number of skilled foreign workers who could move to
the United States each year and increase the overall number of immigrants to
this country by more than a quarter of a million people a year.

The legislation, which many describe as one of the biggest changes of the
nation's immigration laws in 25 years, faces the threat of a veto by President
Bush and complaints by many conservative members of Congress that increasing
immigration from the current limit of 540,000 a year to 775,000 would allow an
excessively high number of immigrants, take jobs from American citizens and
enlarge the unemployment and welfare roles.

Congress last addressed immigration in 1986 when it passed legislation that
granted amnesty to almost 1.7 million illegal immigrants who had come to the
United States before 1982 and imposed fines and other sanctions on employers of
illegal aliens. The law aimed to slow the flow of illegal aliens into this
country.

Passage Seems Near Certain

Passage of the new legislation seemed almost certain today as the House rejected
an amendment proposed by Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas, on
behalf of the White House, that would have reduced the number of immigrants
permitted by the measure from 775,000 a year to 630,000, a level more acceptable
to President Bush. That measure lost by a vote of 143 to 266.

''I think the vote on the Smith cap shows we will pass the bill,'' said
Representative Bruce A. Morrison, Democrat from Connecticut and chief architect
of the legislation.

Advocates of the legislation argue that while a major purpose of the bill is to
accelerate family unification, the bill's fundamental effort is to attract a
large number of more highly skilled foreign workers to the United States.

For more than a year, economists and policy experts have been arguing that the
country will face critical labor shortages among highly skilled workers, and
that one solution is to open up the doors to such workers from abroad.

Arguments for Skilled Workers

These economists argue that such a lack of skilled workers, like engineers,
scientists and technicians, could seriously undermine the competitiveness of
American industry in this decade and the next century.

While the White House has opposed the House bill, it has supported a Senate
provision that limits the total number of immigrants at 630,000 a year and
places the same emphasis on attracting skilled workers.

Under the House bill, the number of skilled workers who could enter the United
States, based solely on sponsorship by employers, would rise to 65,000 each year
from less than 30,000.

The bill would seek to expedite the process for companies seeking to sponsor
workers. Companies now have to wait up to three years to get visas for foreign
skilled workers.

But in order to secure the visas, companies would have to attest in filings with
the Department of Labor that they could not fill the positions with American
workers. Unions could challenge such applications and the business community
continues to be concerned that such a plan might prove difficult.

The legislation also would create a special category of ''priority workers,''
like professors, researchers, business executives and managers who would be able
to immigrate without company sponsorship or claim of labor shortages and without
having to claim family ties.

''If you don't do that, what you get is an immigration policy that may be
turning away Albert Einsteins,'' said Stephen K. Moore, senior fellow at the
Alexis de Tocqueville Institute in Stanford, Calif., a public policy
institution.

Unifying Families

The legislation also seeks to expedite the process of unifying families. It
would, just as current law, place no limit on the number of children and spouses
of citizens who can immigrate. But the new legislation would increase to 115,000
a year the number of spouses and children under 21 years old of permanent
residents who could enter the country, and permit 35,000 adult children of
permanent residents. This is up from 70,000 under current law.

Moreover, the legislation would waive the limit of 20,000 immigrants from any
one single country in the case of spouses and minor chiildren of permanent
residents. This is considered one of the most significant measures, since in
some instances the 20,000 limit has created huge waiting lists.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 24, 1991, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Mexican Population Gives U.S. a Problem

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 191 words


To the Editor:

The difficulty with illegal immigration from Mexico ("Mexicans Head North
Despite Rules on Jobs," front page, Dec. 13) isn't "the impossibility of keeping
poor foreign workers from better-paid jobs." Mexico has a birth rate headed for
the moon, a fact no one seems to recognize.

In 1940, Mexico had a population of 19.5 million; in 1990, 88.3 million, and in
2025 it is projected to be 150 million. Mexico simply can't create the jobs
necessary to keep up with its population growth, so able-bodied workers,
desperate for their survival and that of their families, cross the border
looking for work. That shortfall is projected at 7.7 million by the year 2000.

Our immigration policy has overtones of ignorance and poor planning. Not only is
the pressure of continued and possibly heightened illegal immigration from
Mexico not taken into account, but we are also slated to admit something like
one million immigrants a year for the next decade. If Mexican fertility remains
near the present level, we can plan on doubling our population by 2080. That's
planning.

MARVIN GREGORY
Renton, Wash., Dec. 13, 1991

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 13, 1992, Monday, Late Edition - Final

D'Amato Proposes Bill for Criminal Aliens

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 199 words


Saying that New York and a handful of other states were bearing too much of the
cost of incarcerating foreign-born criminals and illegal aliens, Senator Alfonse
M. D'Amato yesterday proposed that the Federal Government hold these prisoners
in unused military bases.

At a news conference outside the Immigration and Naturalization Service
Detention Center at 201 Varick Street, Senator D'Amato said he would introduce a
bill allowing for the conversion of three closed military bases into
correctional centers. He did not say which bases could be used.

The bases would house convicted aliens whose crimes would qualify them for
deportation after their sentences are served, as well as those who have served
their sentences and are awaiting deportation hearings.

The legislation would save New York millions of dollars a year, he said, citing
figures provided by the Governor's office showing that 12 percent of the nearly
58,000 inmates in the state correctional system were illegal or criminal aliens.

The bill seems likely to arouse opposition from civil rights groups, on the
ground that most criminal aliens, until they were convicted, were legally living
in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 14, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

In Recession, Illegal Aliens Find a Cold Reception on L.I.

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1564 words

DATELINE: CENTRAL ISLIP, L.I., Feb. 12


Shortly after her grueling overland journey here from El Salvador, Rosa R. lay
terrified in an ambulance, about to give birth. She feared not the labor or
delivery, but that her first encounter with American authorities would end in
her deportation.

Now, at four months old, her son, William, has a fever, but Rosa is afraid to
apply for aid: the last time she did, a social worker accused her of lying and
threatened her with jail. This time, she fears deportation, and will likely send
William to El Salvador.

Rosa's dread is shared by thousands of illegal aliens on Long Island, where a
deepening recession and swelling public assistance rolls are cutting into the
sympathy immigrants once found here, and where an estimated 100,000 Central
Americans have settled in the last 10 years.

Caseloads Surge

Advocates report growing hostility toward foreigners, even from social workers,
whose caseloads have increased sharply as a result of the recession. There are
no statistics that specifically track hostility toward foreigners here, but
accounts from recent immigrants and the people who work with them, as well as
steps to enact laws that would limit their rights, suggest they have become
especially vulnerable as hard times set in.

In a stark example of the mood here, the Suffolk County Legislature is
considering repealing a 1986 law promising illegal aliens that they will not be
reported to the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service should they
seek government assistance.

The 1986 law, the Illegal Aliens Access Act, was passed during a time of
economic boom that translated into a more generous approach to social welfare,
and signaled Suffolk County's interest in the well-being of refugees fleeing
civil fighting in El Salvador. It is far from certain that the repeal will be
adopted. But immigrants and social workers say the drive for repeal reflects a
rising impatience with the presence of foreigners, legal and illegal, as
unemployment and economic difficulties spread.

So far, the turn against immigrants has not occurred in other areas of the
state. In New York City, where one in four residents is foreign born, city
agencies generally interpret Federal laws as liberally as possible, granting
Federal benefits to low-income immigrants.

"The city has long had a policy of not seeking to use the immigration law to
deny people benefits, and of not becoming an enforcement agent for the Federal
Government's immigration laws," said David Grunblatt, chairman of the New York
County Lawyer's Association's immigration committee.

Still, Mr. Grunblatt is concerned that the Suffolk County bill, if passed, could
ignite similar measures in other areas New York State hard hit by the recession.
"It's one of those cases where the first one to jump in the hot water cools it
for everyone else," he said.

The current Suffolk County proposal follows other recent attempts on Long Island
to roll back any welcome once extended to immigrants and refugees.

Several months ago, an Elmont school principal reported two undocumented
children to the immigration service when their parents tried to enroll them in
school, and found broad public support at a subsequent public hearing before the
local school board -- despite a United States Supreme Court ruling guaranteeing
the children of illegal immigrants access to public education. The parents,
fearful of deportation, quickly disappeared with their children.

The Glen Cove City Council, fed up with Central American labor pools on its
street corners, passed an ordinance forbidding people to seek work or donations
in public. The 1990 law, upheld by a district court, is being appealed by the
New York Civil Liberties Union and the Central American Refugee Center.

And before that, the "English only" bill, defeated in the Suffolk County
Legislature, would have made English the official language of the county, and
forbidden using public funds to print posters and other documents in Spanish.

"The county is dying right now," said Rose Caracappa, a Republican, who is
making her third attempt to repeal the Illegal Immigrants Access Act. "We can't
provide health services for our residents. I'm going to set my priorities on
them."

"With the recession going on and the increase in health and social services
rolls, we don't have the caseworkers to handle the influx of cases coming in,"
she said. "I feel that as a legislator, it's my responsibility to address the
needs of the legal residents, before we address the needs of the illegals."

Experts on immigration, as well as the bill's supporters and detractors, appear
uncertain of the practical consequences for Suffolk County should the 1986 law
be repealed. Because the illegal aliens are eligible for only life and death
medical attention, childbirth and prenatal care, a legislative review of the
proposal found savings would be "minimal."

Hazy Prospects for Bill

It would only save the county significant funds, the review said, if it
discouraged immigrants from seeking benefits for their American-born children.

While the prospects for the bill are unclear, its importance, advocates for the
aliens say, lies in the tough new stance against outsiders it represents, and in
the chills it is sending through the county's clandestine communities.

"Just discussion of the law is enough to intimidate immigrants," said Victor A.
Jordan, president of the Caribbean, African-American Olive Branch, an advocacy
group for American and Caribbean blacks, and a professor of economics at Empire
State College. "It's used to get rid of them in general. To make them feel
they'll never succeed in Suffolk County."

Under Federal law, caseworkers must "refer" an undocumented family seeking
public assistance to the immigration agency, a sufficiently vague formula that
allows them to tell illegal aliens they should go to the I.N.S. rather than
report their names. The 1986 law specifically prohibited county workers from
handing over names to the I.N.S., and was meant largely to reassure illegal
aliens that they could come forward for help.

The move to repeal the law "goes against everything we are trying to do," said
one public health nurse who does outreach work among immigrants, and who spoke
on condition of anonymity. "Sometimes, people are afraid to talk, and we have to
tell them we're trying to make sure the baby is healthy, not get them deported."

On a broader level, some here worry that turning against illegal immigrants who
seek aid could open the way for discrimination against other groups, including
legal immigrants and AIDS patients.

"People are reacting to new groups by trying to bring legal terms that are not
practical, that go against the constitutional foundations of this country," said
Ruben Quiroz, director of public policy at the New York-based Center for
Immigrants Rights. "You cannot undercut people just because they are different
from you."

Cathy Spiridon, a caseworker at La Union Hispanica, which runs a health clinic
here in Central Islip, said employees at the Suffolk County Department of Social
Services had in recent months become more hostile toward immigrant parents who
seek benefits for their American-born children. She said immigrants had been
badgered and called liars by social workers, denied permission to bring their
own translators to interviews and had benefits cut to their children without
adequate investigation.

"People look at us as if we're from another planet," said Maria D., a Mexican
mother of four whose children were dropped from all public assistance on the
first of the month. She spent the week with only rice to feed her children for
dinner, unable to pay for a prescription to treat a severe infection that was
swelling a gash on her 4-year-old son's lip.

Ruth Brandwein, the county's Social Services Commissioner, said caseloads on
some public assistance programs had increased by as much as 20 percent over last
year, increasing the pressure on employees. Some of them had spouses out of
work, she added, and may be turning against the foreigners out of resentment.
She said her office would investigate the allegations.

The Commissioner said the bill would hamper, rather than ease, the work of
Suffolk County social workers in helping needy aliens. "Most of them are hidden,
and don't seek help when they need it," she said. "We're dealing with a very
large problem, and this bill is not allowing us to do what little we have in the
past."

Many of the immigrants, like 24-year-old Rosa R. -- who did not want her last
name used for fear of detection -- work under false Social Security numbers,
paying full Social Security and Federal, state and local taxes while drawing few
benefits. "Many of them are contributing their fair share," said Kenneth Drange,
director of La Union Hispanica.

A social worker back in El Salvador, Rosa found an assembly-line job here
wrapping sandwiches at a local catering concern at $4.50 an hour. She worked
until the day William was born, and picked up again five days later. Her pay
stubs show Social Security and all taxes deducted from her hourly wages. She
lives in a house with 13 other aliens.

The better life she had once sought elusive, Rosa will be sending William home,
not knowing when or how she will see him again. And she will continue to toil,
in a far less welcoming world.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: As the recession deepens, advocates of illegal aliens on Long
Island are reporting growing hostility toward foreigners. Carman Correa, right,
counseled Norma R. and her 2-year-old daughter at La Union Hispanica health
clinic in Central Islip. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 18, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

For Hispanic Immigrants, a Higher Job-Injury Risk

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1852 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


Hispanic factory and industrial workers in the United States get hurt on the job
more often and more seriously than non-Hispanic white and black workers in
similar jobs, according to state health officials, private research groups and
the doctors who treat them.

Most of the workers are immigrants and like immigrants historically, they take
the hazardous, low-paying jobs that other Americans spurn. But studies in
Illinois, California and New Jersey show that Hispanic workers, both legal and
illegal immigrants, also have injury and illness rates that are two or three
times higher than non-Hispanic white Americans who take the same jobs. Black
workers suffer higher rates than whites, too, but lower rates than Hispanic
workers.

Experts on health and safety in the workplace say that many Hispanic workers are
young and inexperienced, usually with only grade-school educations and little
knowledge of English. Employers rarely provide training in Spanish, so when
operating complex machinery and handling chemicals, the workers run greater
risks than other Americans. Being weak in English also makes it harder to find
other work, so the workers are less likely to quit unsafe jobs than other
Americans.

The safety experts say the workers invite exploitation. The workers often do not
understand their rights in the workplace as well as other Americans, and the
illegal immigrants among them fear deportation if they complain. And when
illegal workers are injured on the job, they are less likely than other workers
to get good care. Illegal or not, workers are entitled to medical treatment
under the workers compensation insurance system. But illegal workers fear that a
doctor or a hospital will report them and so they seek less-qualified care, the
experts say.

"What we have here is a fairly vicious economic situation where employers are
chasing lower costs, which leads them to Hispanic workers," said Joseph A.
Kinney, head of the National Safe Workplace Institute, an organization here that
promotes safer working conditions and closer government regulation of the
workplace. "Part of the dictum of lower costs is to squeeze the people on wages,
benefits and safety. Their expectations are low, so abuse is invited."

No one keeps national figures on the ethnic origins of workers who get sick or
are injured. But several doctors and agencies have conducted studies that show
the same phenomenon:

*Sidney J. Blair, the chief of hand surgery at Loyola University Medical Center
near Chicago, conducted a study last year showing that 57 percent of Hispanic
patients who came to him had the most serious kinds of work-related injuries,
like crushings and amputations, as against 22 percent for non-Hispanic white
workers. The study examined 103 Hispanic patients and 110 non-Hispanic patients.

*The New Jersey Department of Health found that the finger amputation rate for
Hispanic workers was 52.8 for 100,000, as against 28.9 for 100,000 for blacks
and 9.5 for 100,000 for non-Hispanic whites and that the fatality rate for
Hispanic construction workers was 34.8 for 100,000 workers as against 24 for
blacks and 10.6 for non-Hispanic whites. The studies involved finger amputations
in 1985 and 1986 among a random sample of 134 workers in many industries, and
200 fatalities among construction workers in the state from 1983 through 1989.

*The California Department of Health, which requires that medical laboratories
report blood tests showing elevated levels of lead, found that 49 percent of the
workers in such reports had Spanish surnames, a proportion nearly double the
state's 26 percent Hispanic population, said Linda Rudolph, a doctor with the
department. The reports were on 4,000 workers with excessive lead levels at 328
businesses from the years 1987 through 1990.

*The Los Angeles County District Attorney's office has prosecuted 45 employers
for serious workplace health and safety violations over six years, with most of
the cases involving injuries to Hispanic workers, said an assistant district
attorney, Jan Chatten-Brown, who added: "There's no question that a
disproportionate numbers of workers who were non-English-speaking -- and most of
them have been Hispanic -- got these injuries."

In Chicago, where about 20 percent of the population is Hispanic, Francisco
Calito, a 40-year-old Guatemalan, is unable to work and collects $386 a week in
worker's compensation for a shoulder injury he sustained at the Tommy Armour
Golf company here, where he assembled golf clubs for that division of Hanson
Industries. Mr. Calito slipped across the border at Brownsville, Tex., in 1970
in a van; five years later, he gained legal status.

Mr. Calito carries his left arm folded at waist level, and grimaces as he slides
off his jacket. He tells a story of injury, intimidation and discrimination that
differs only in the details from those told by other injured Hispanic workers.

"I made 2,300 golf clubs a day," he said. "I worked there 40 hours a week for 10
years." His job involved attaching golf club heads to their shafts. A machine,
driven by rapid-fire pulses of compressed air, pounded the shafts onto the
heads, which Mr. Calito held in his palm, against his shoulder.

After seven or eight years, he said his shoulder, which took the blows of the
machine, began to ache. "I told them about the pain," he said. "They said, 'If
you don't work, you'll be fired.' My supervisor would shake his finger at me. He
would kick me. He would tell me, 'I don't like you because you're a Latino.' "

Mr. Calito said he stuck with the job because he needed the $5.50 an hour he was
paid to support his family. "I worked for two years with the pain," he said.

One day in November 1990, he said, bending his arm, "my arm was like this."

"They sent me to their doctor," Mr. Calito said. "The doctor gave me a shot and
uncrooked my arm. He sent me back to the company. Then the company told me I
could not work. I went to another doctor who told me that little by little the
bone had worn away. He said I have a frozen shoulder."

'Standard Operation'

James Phillips, vice president for manufacturing at Armour, said there was no
question about the seriousness of Mr. Calito's injury. "But I'm not sure what
caused it," he said. "Other workers have been doing that job for longer than he
has. It's a pretty standard operation done by a lot of companies, not just us."

Mr. Phillips said he had never heard Mr. Calito's charges of race-baiting. He
said the company had a harmonious work force of white, black and Hispanic
employees. "Kicking?" he said. "That's impossible. We're not running a sweatshop
here."

No one may ever establish whether Mr. Calito was simply careless or whether he
was driven too hard or improperly trained and supervised. But Kenneth S. Lewis,
a lawyer at Lewis, Davidson & Hetherington, a firm here that specializes in
minority-group workers' compensation claims, said, "What we see in many of these
cases are unsophisticated workers put into situations that are extremely
dangerous and put under pressure where they have to perform."

Molly Coye, director of the California Department of Health Services, said
Hispanic workers were more vulnerable because of employers' reluctance to
provide training and instructions in Spanish.

"Even in the same workplace, Hispanic workers have both more dangerous jobs and
a higher risk of injury in the same job," she said. The state has begun several
programs to persuade employers to provide training in Spanish, she said.

Illegal aliens are exploited the most, occupational health officials say,
because an employer can threaten them with dismissal, reporting them to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and deportation.

Often these threats are empty, because employers face civil and criminal
penalties for hiring illegal immigrants. And the employers can be fined hundreds
of dollars a day for not carrying workers' compensation insurance. But the
workers are usually not informed enough to call their employers' bluff, or they
think that protecting the employer serves the interests of the worker as well.

"They are the type of workers who are threatened by exposure or other problems
if they raise safety and health questions, or any other questions," said John B.
Moran, an official of the Laborers Health and Safety Fund, a research group
supported by business and labor unions.

Touch It and It Hurts

David Perez, a 45-year-old legal alien from Mexico, has the scars of four
operations on his left hand from an industrial accident. He lost his left little
finger down to the second knuckle from an earlier accident at the same factory,
which has since gone out of business.

Mr. Perez points to the spot where the thumb joins the inside of his wrist.
"Just touch it with a finger, just a little, it hurts," he said. "My sleeve rubs
against it and it hurts. Any movement I make hurts.

"I always keep it a little covered so people can't see it," Mr. Perez said. "I
have problems with my family, my wife. How do I say this: She never wants to be
with me because she's afraid she will hurt me. She's very different than she was
before. The children always want to play with me, and I because of the pain am
not in the mood to play with them."

Mr. Perez set dies into punch press machines that stamped out metal parts. He
described the accident that mangled his hand this way:

"I was repairing a machine because the part was coming out wrong. I accidentally
hit the pedal. My hand was pressed and it stayed there. I called the operator to
help me get my hand out. They put it in reverse and it hit my hand again. I told
the guy to get the boss, so that manually they could lift the machine and get my
hand out.

"The boss, and he was a Latino, would always give the worst jobs to Hispanics
and cut their salaries. According to him, they didn't give the same production
as the ones who spoke English, which was a lie. We didn't know how to defend
ourselves.

"After my accident, all the time I had discrimination. They would fire me, then
call me back. When I went back, I did the same work, but it was impossible to do
it well. They switched me to a job that was harder and paid less money."

Mr. Perez received about $200,000 in workers' compensation for the permanent
damage to his arm and for the settlement of a lawsuit against the maker of the
machine. Despite the injury to his arm, he still works, driving a small truck
part time and earning about $190 a week.

In some cases, the workers and the employers do serve one another's economic
needs. Together they have created an underground cash economy. It can invite
more exploitation and injury, but also offers opportunity.

Now, a new group of illegal immigrants is entering Chicago and getting hurt at
work.

"We see a fair number of undocumented Poles," said Dr. Steven Hessl, director of
the Cook County Occupational Medicine Clinic, which caters to the poor. "I just
saw one. He worked with chemicals and didn't want us to call the company. He was
afraid the company would get him deported."

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Francisco Calito, a 40-year-old Guatemalan in Chicago, is unable
to work and collects $386 a week in worker's compensation for a shoulder injury
he sustained at the Tommy Armour Golf company here, where he assembled golf
clubs for that division of Hanson Industries. (Peter T. Kilborn/The New York
Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 19, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

96 Chinese Held as Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 261 words

DATELINE: HONOLULU, Feb. 18


In the largest seizure of illegal aliens on record here, 96 Chinese were
arrested on Monday when they tried to sneak into Honolulu Harbor aboard a
Taiwanese fishing boat, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said.

The boat was boarded by the authorities after she had approached the harbor
early in the morning without permission to enter.

The crew had apparently intended to bring the boat just close enough to the dock
for the passengers to jump off and run, said Donald Radcliffe, district director
of the immigration service.

'Mother Ship' Is Suspected

The 96 passengers, all but two of them men, were charged with trying to enter
the United States illegally. They and the nine members of the Taiwanese crew,
who are also being held, face the possibility of conspiracy charges, the
authorities said.

Some passengers said they boarded the boat, the Yun Fong Seong, three weeks ago
near Singapore, and others said they had boarded in China.

But Mr. Radcliffe said the passengers might have boarded the vessel, which was
designed to hold only 20 people, from a large freighter in the last few days.
The men were clean-shaven and all were wearing clean clothes, he noted, while
the boat was filthy. The authorities are looking into whether the passengers had
transferred from "mother ships."

"I believe it's an organized smuggling operation," Mr. Radcliffe said. "They're
paying a professional smuggler -- or relatives and friends in the United States
are paying that smuggler -- to get them into the United States by any means
possible."

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 25, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

New York Seeks to Shed Illegal Alien Prisoners

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 808 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, Feb. 24


The State Correction Commissioner, Thomas A. Coughlin 3d, charged today that New
York's crowded prisons were being used to warehouse 753 illegal aliens who
belong in Federal custody -- enough to fill a medium-security prison.

Mr. Coughlin and Gov. Mario M. Cuomo threatened to sue the Federal Government if
it did not assume responsibility for the convicts. They asserted that a 1990
Federal law requires the Federal Government to take into custody any illegal
alien who has been convicted of an aggravated felony and who has served enough
time in state prison to be eligible for parole or work release.

Mr. Coughlin and Raul Russi, chairman of the state Division of Parole, pressed
their demand in a letter sent today to the United States Attorney General,
William P. Barr, and to the regional director of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

"It means come get them, take them into your custody, and hold them in your
custody with no bail until they're deported," Mr. Coughlin said at a news
conference.

Impact in Other States

Mr. Coughlin estimated that if all of the known illegal aliens in state prisons
could be transferred to Federal custody, the state would save $38 million a year
in operating expenses alone.

Douglas Tillett, a spokesman for Mr. Barr, said the Attorney General had not
reviewed the letter and would have no comment.

New York, whose prison system is operating at 121 percent of capacity,
apparently is the first state to use the law to try to empty its prisons of
illegal aliens, a Justice Department spokesman said. But if successful, the
legal challenge could have significant financial benefits for other states with
large numbers of imprisoned illegal aliens, such as California and Texas.

While New York officials calculate that at least 1,452, or 2.5 percent, of the
state's 58,598 inmates are illegal aliens, the number is 4 percent in Texas and
11 percent in California, according to prison officials in those states. The
problem is less severe in states with smaller immigrant populations, including
New Jersey and Connecticut.

Some of the illegal aliens imprisoned in New York ultimately are paroled to the
streets when they finish serving their sentences because the I.N.S., which also
has insufficient prison capacity, will not pick them up, Mr. Coughlin said.

A Factor in Overcrowding

In 1990, 188 of the 526 known illegal aliens who were released from state
prisons were paroled while the rest were taken into custody by the Federal
government, said Jim Flateau, a spokesman for Mr. Coughlin.

"We have no choice," Mr. Flateau said. "They've done their state sentence and we
have no legal reason to hold them."

The 753 illegal aliens who Mr. Coughlin believes should be in Federal custody
account for nearly 13 percent of the state's prison overcrowding problem. The
state projects that it will have 6,000 more prisoners than beds by the end of
the next fiscal year on March 31, 1993.

It costs the financially strapped state $26,413 to house an inmate for a year
and $87,000 to build prison space for a single inmate.

The Legislature and Mr. Cuomo currently are discussing the prison crowding
problem as part of their negotiations to close a $4.8 billion gap in the $30
billion budget for the coming fiscal year. The talks have focused on a number of
possible solutions, including building more prisons, increasing prison capacity
with bunk beds and changing sentencing laws to permit shorter prison terms.

The State Senate, which has a Republican majority, passed a bill in December
that would give illegal aliens the right to waive their chance at parole if they
would agree to deportation.

But Mr. Cuomo said the initiative would not work because the Federal Government
would not volunteer to collect the inmates awaiting deportation.

Mr. Coughlin said the demand made today was an effort to force the Federal
Government to provide the resources needed to house illegal aliens in Federal
prisons. He said he expected the courts to settle the issue, just as the state
and Federal courts forced New York State in the 1980's to take custody of state
prisoners being housed in county jails.

Mr. Coughlin said today that at least 7,083 of the state's 58,598 state
prisoners, or 12 percent, are foreign born. Of that number, at least 1,452 are
known to be illegal aliens. And of that number, at least 753 currently what he
believes to be the criteria for Federal custody.

Those criteria, according to Mr. Coughlin's interpretation of Federal law, cover
any illegal alien who has committed a state crime defined as an aggravated
felony and who is eligible for either parole or work release. An aggravated
felony would include any offense involving drug trafficking, firearms
trafficking, money laundering or violence that carries a sentence of at least
five years.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 7, 1991, Monday, Late Edition - Final

One Last Deadly Crossing for Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1261 words

DATELINE: SAN CLEMENTE, Calif., Jan. 4


Hundreds of illegal immigrants coming north from Mexico have been killed or
injured in the past four years as they try to run across highways in an effort
to avoid capture by immigration agents.

Many of them are rural people unfamiliar with speeding traffic who are often
dumped at the side of the highway by smugglers trying to avoid arrest. They can
be seen in the early evening hesitating by the side of the road before dashing,
often hand-in-hand, into the oncoming traffic.

Some victims have been struck more than once by cars that often travel 60 or 70
miles an hour. Some have been killed as they run back to rescue a friend.

Police officials say it is often impossible for drivers to avoid them. "Often
what you get is a group of people running in different directions at the moment
of panic," said Capt. Ronald Phulps, commander of the Oceanside office of the
California Highway Patrol. "Much like a pinball machine, you don't know which
way an individual may be darting."

Since 1987, when the state first began keeping records on the problem, at least
227 people have been struck by traffic; 127 of them have been killed. Alarmed by
the rising toll, California highway authorities are scrambling to find ways to
reduce the casualties.

The state has erected signs warning motorists about people trying to cross
highways, and it plans to begin distributing in Mexico and Southern California
"prayer cards" that carry a warning about crossing highways. The state is also
planning to spend about $3 million to build an eight-mile fence, 10 to 12 feet
high, down the median strip at one of the most dangerous stretches of Interstate
5, which runs up the coast from the border to Los Angeles.

That stretch runs past a Border Patrol checkpoint here about 70 miles from the
Mexican border, where vehicles are checked by agents in the last barrier faced
by illegal aliens on their way to Los Angeles.

More Deaths Each Year

A second danger area is nearer the border, at San Ysidro, where the intersection
of three highways creates a challenge to aliens that is at least as daunting as
the heavily patrolled border itself.

Since 1987, 65 pedestrians have been struck, including 40 killed, in the San
Clemente area. In the San Ysidro area, 162 have been struck, 87 of them killed.

"These two areas have been identified as the worst auto-pedestrian fatality
areas in the nation," said Captain Phulps.

He said the numbers of accidents and deaths had risen steadily every year,
probably because of an increase in illegal immigration and a shift in the
strategies of the smugglers who bring aliens north from the border.

Perilous Crossing

To avoid capture, the smugglers usually drop off their passengers at the
shoulder of the highway or on the median strip just south of the checkpoint. The
smugglers then wait on the north side to pick them up again.

To avoid the checkpoint, which is on the northbound side, the immigrants must
cross up to eight lanes of traffic to walk up the opposite side of the highway,
and then recross eight lanes to rejoin the smugglers. If the immigrants tried to
pass the checkpoint on the east, they would face a range of hills and occasional
patrols from the adjacent Camp Pendleton Marine Corps Base.

"You drive to the area we are talking about at 5 in the morning and you may see
groups of 200 or 300 people waiting by the side of the road to be picked up,"
said Ben Davidian, Western Regional Commissioner for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Many of the immigrants have little understanding of their danger.

'They Don't Realize the Speeds'

"They don't have any concept of the freeway," said Roberto Martinez, a leading
advocate for aliens' rights in Southern California. "Many of them are from rural
areas, and they don't realize the speeds. Can you imagine the terror when they
have to run across it?"

The area near the checkpoint here has become the scene of such carnage because
of a cat-and-mouse game involving the smugglers and immigration agents.

Agents at the San Clemente checkpoint seized 75,000 illegal aliens last year,
most of them from the floors or trunks of vehicles, Mr. Davidian said. "This
little checkpoint here is one of the best law enforcement tools in the country,"
he said.

Most of the crossings are made at night, with most accidents occurring between 8
P.M. and midnight, Captain Phulps said. The victims have ranged in age from 3
years old to 80.

Clasped Hands Torn Apart

"They usually cross in groups of people, rather than one or two at a time," he
said. "Often they are holding hands, forming human chains, and the chain gets
broken as these people try to cross the highway."

Claudia Smith, regional counsel for a private immigrant-rights group called
California Rural Legal Assistance, said: "They are disoriented. They are tired.
And they are crossing 16 lanes of freeway. It's a terrible situation."

She added: "I won't drive down the freeway to San Ysidro now. I take the train
instead."

Ms. Smith strongly opposes plans to build the fence, saying it would not solve
the problem and could even make the crossings riskier by forcing aliens to make
longer hikes.

'People Crossing' Signs

Instead, she supports a campaign to educate both drivers and aliens about the
dangers of the highway.

The California Department of Transportation has begun erecting bright yellow
signs, some with flashing lights, with messages like, "Caution Watch for People
Crossing Road." Some show silhouettes of a man and woman, with a child in tow,
running toward the highway.

The sign carries the one word, "Caution," and Captain Phulps said some officials
were concerned that Hispanic aliens, encountering the sign as they walk
alongside the highway, might see it as a symbol that says, "This is the
crosswalk."

To try to educate aliens about the dangers of the highways, the transportation
department has begun issuing tens of thousands of small yellow cards carrying a
picture of a man being struck by a car.

Lights and Prayer Cards

A prayer on the cards, in Spanish, reads, "My holy guardian angel, sweet
companion, do not abandon me, night or day." In larger type it adds, "For the
love of God, don't cross the highways."

Ms. Smith advocates a broader campaign that would include showing videos about
highway safety in the bus station in Tijuana, Mexico, where many aliens
congregate before heading for the border.

Other proposals include clearing away the foliage on the shoulders and medians
where aliens can hide and adding more lighting in some areas. They also include
lowering the speed limits, narrowing the highway to two lanes or introducing
speed bumps to slow traffic.

There have been proposals to bring manslaughter charges against smugglers if
they can be connected to a highway death. More fanciful ideas have included
issuing reflective shirts to aliens at the border or placing motion detectors
along the highway shoulders that would trigger warnings on loudspeakers.

Everyone involved agrees that none of these plans will end the highway killings,
which are part of a broader problem of illegal immigration. Mr. Davidian said
475,000 illegal aliens were seized in the San Diego sector last year, nearly
half of all such apprehensions in the country.

But Captain Phulps voiced a general sense that something had to be done, no
matter how limited its effect. "If we don't do anything to deter the attempt to
cross the freeways then we are simply burying our heads in the sand," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Signs have been posted in California warning motorists of
illegal aliens crossing highways. (Bart Bartholomew for The New York Times) (pg.
A1); Dozens of illegal aliens have been killed crossing highways like Interstate
5 near San Clemente, above. (Bart Bartholomew for The New York Times) (pg. B8)

Map of California highlighting San Ysidro and San Clemente (pg. B8)

Diagram of the San Diego Freeway highlighting where illegal aliens are droped
off and where they cross the road (pg. B8)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 8, 1991, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Abducted Chinese Illegal Aliens Rescued

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 846 words


For the second time in less than a week, the police said they have rescued
illegal Chinese aliens kidnapped and tortured by smugglers to force immediate
payment for their passage. The rescues have interrupted what appears to be a
widespread, highly-organized ring smuggling hundreds of immigrants here from the
mainland's impoverished Fujian Province.

Meanwhile, one of four Chinese men charged with the execution-style slaying of
three Vietnamese youth-gang members last October was himself severely wounded,
the police said, in a wild shooting by a half-dozen men described as Asians in
downtown Manhattan on Sunday night.

The incidents were the latest in a wave of violence plaguing New York's fast
growing Chinese community. Youth gangs are struggling for control of territory
and the new immigrant groups, particularly, the police and other experts say,
those from Fujian Province, are expanding into new criminal enterprises. Those
activities include the smuggling of heroin and of illegal immigrants.

Raiding a guarded "safe house" apartment near the Brooklyn Navy Yard on Sunday
night, the police freed four illegal aliens from Fujian from a gang that
abducted them when they arrived at Christmas, Lieut. Joseph A. Pollini of the
Major Case Squad said. Two other men had already been released by the gang, he
added, after their relatives paid $20,000.

Beaten With a Hammer

Last Tuesday morning, Lieutenant Pollini's unit freed Kin Wah Fong, a
30-year-old restaurant worker who was kidnapped and beaten with a hammer because
he had not made payments to the Hong Kong-based organization that helped him
slip into the country with false documents. Thirteen of his captors, like Mr.
Fong illegal immigrants from Fujian, were arrested.

In what appeared to be a reprisal shooting, Tommy Tam, 28, was approached by
five or six Asian men near 180 Maiden Lane at about 7 P.M. on Sunday. They
opened up with a fusillade of bullets that, the police report said, caused
"extensive damage" to nearby buildings and struck Mr. Tam once in the abdomen.

He was listed in critical condition last night at St. Vincent's Hospital.

Mr. Tam was one of four men arrested and charged with the execution-style
killing of three Vietnamese members of the Born to Kill gang in a Chinatown
parking lot last October 15. The police said the killings, in which the three
Vietnamese youths were shot in the back of the head and their bloody bodies
piled atop each other, was not directly gang-related, but stemmed from an
argument over a cellular telephone and an insult to a girlfriend.

Shot Dead on Canal Street

The shooting, however, came amid mounting tensions in Chinatown as the
Vietnamese youths -- who had established a reputation for reckless violence --
staked out part of Canal Street as their territory. One Born to Kill leader had
been shot dead on Canal Street in July, and at his funeral in New Jersey, young
men pulled weapons hidden in funeral wreaths and sprayed the mourners, wounding
a dozen.

In the immigration case, Lieutenant Pollini said that six illegal aliens had
arrived at Kennedy Airport on Dec. 25, but that immigration officials
confiscated their forged documents. After they provided the names of relatives
in Queens, they were allowed to enter the country until the case was settled.

The six then went to the Bingo Sea Food Restaurant at 104 Mott Street for a
meeting with the smugglers, who were to provide them with food and shelter, he
said.

Instead they were taken first to a Chinatown apartment, then to another
apartment at 165-167 Sands Street in downtown Brooklyn, where the entire payment
of $20,000 was demanded from relatives.

Hidden in a Sink Cabinet

The police were notified by a relative of one of the men who had already made an
advance payment of $8,000 and still had $12,000 due.

When the police arrived at the fenced-off building, they found three of the
illegal aliens fully clothed down to their shoes under bed covers and the fourth
hidden in a sink cabinet. They broke into tears as they finally told their story
through an interpreter, Lieutenant Pollini said.

The apartment's guard, Chang Shu Li, 37, who had been here for three years and
had a green card was arrested and charged with kidnapping. The police said a
fully-automatic machine pistol with two 32-round clips of ammunition was
confiscated.

'They Can't Pay the Money'

Few of the tenants would speak to a visitor yesterday, but those who did were
matter-of-fact about the smuggling rings.

"These people who are smuggled into the United States, when they come to the
United States they have to pay a lot of money, about $10,000 to $20,000," said
Liang Po, 32, a doctoral student in electrical engineering. "They think the
United States is a very rich country, when they come here they will find gold in
the streets. They are not rich. They are very poor people. They can't find a job
so they can't pay the money.

"That is why they are beaten," Mr. Po said. "These people are quite poor people.
They are quite miserable people."

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: One of four Chinese men charged with the execution-style slaying
of three Vietnamese gang members in October was wounded on Sunday night in
ashootout involving a half-dozen gunmen. Investigators viewed the bodies of the
Vietnamese victims in a parking lot at 75 Reade Street on Oct. 15. (John
Sotomayor/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 18, 1991, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Caution Signs Lure Aliens to Road Death

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 170 words


To the Editor:

In "One Last Deadly Crossing for Illegal Aliens" (front page, Jan. 7), you
report that hundreds of illegal immigrants from Mexico have been injured or
killed running across California highways to avoid capture. To educate aliens
about the dangers, you report, the California Transportation Department has
begun issuing cards carrying a picture of a man being struck by a car, with a
prayer in Spanish and a message of caution.

However, your accompanying photograph shows a highly ambiguous sign, depicting a
family crossing the highway. Although it is surmounted by the word "Caution,"
this would not be understood as a warning by a Spanish reader, because the
cognate "caucion" means "security," as in a bail bond. The sign could therefore
be interpreted as an invitation to cross.

Most effective would be a broad "X" overlay, universally understood as "Don't."
Better would be to add "Cuidado" (Careful) or "Peligro" (Danger).

ARISTIDE R. ZOLBERG
VERA L. ZOLBERG
New York, Jan. 7, 1991

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 21, 1991, Monday, Late Edition - Final

More Mexicans Come to U.S. to Stay

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1154 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


In a marked shift in immigration trends, increasing numbers of Mexicans are
coming to the United States to stay rather than to work for a few months as
seasonal farm laborers, new studies show.

Since many of the illegal aliens are bringing their families to join them, the
shift is expected to produce a greater demand for social services like schooling
and health care. In addition, experts say, the trend is likely to reinforce the
increasing dependence on low-cost immigrant labor by some urban enterprises and
to add to social frictions that are already being felt in some communities.

Those who are staying include people like Leonardo Vilchis, a 28-year-old church
social worker who emigrated from Mexico City. "The longer you stay here," he
said, "the easier it becomes for you to blend in with the whole society and the
more comfortable you become."

He said his parents, both architects in Mexico, had found work in San Diego 10
years ago washing dishes and now own a small restaurant.

"We were thinking we would make some money and then go back," he said.
"Afterwards, with time, we adapted. Everyone started enrolling in school and
getting more stable jobs, and we decided to stay."

Drop in Seasonal Changes

In one sign of the shift from seasonal labor, recent figures on apprehensions of
illegal aliens by the United States Border Patrol show a reduction in seasonal
fluctuations. Until recently, monthly figures showed a consistent dip by as much
as 50 percent or more in winter, when agricultural workers have typically
returned to Mexico.

But last year, Border Patrol officials said, there was little seasonal
variation. In both November and December, the Border Patrol said, it apprehended
about 33,000 illegal aliens, an increase of more than 20 percent over the
previous year.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service figures also show an increase in the
number of women and children stopped as they tried to enter the United States.

"We have seen a changing trend for the past five or six years," said Ted
Swofford, a supervisory agent with the Border Patrol, "but it has just become
more pronounced in the last year."

The number of apprehensions represents only a fraction of those who entered the
United States, but precise numbers of illegal aliens working either in seasonal
or year-round jobs are not available.

More Work in Cities

More and more migrants seem to be coming from Mexican cities and finding work
not in the fields and orchards of America but in cities, where they are
increasingly filling the need for low-paid workers.

"People start getting to understand the system, getting to know the language,"
Mr. Vilchis said. "They develop networks of friends who know where to go to
school, how to find jobs. If there's papers you need, they know where to find
the papers. As we develop confidence in the country, we see the possibility for
bringing the family."

At the same time, returning home becomes a less attractive option. "There's no
way you can leave your stable job when everything is so unstable in Mexico," Mr.
Vilchis said.

Although some experts dispute the figures, Wayne A. Cornelius, the director of
the Center for United States-Mexico Studies at the University of California in
San Diego, said: "The I.N.S. statistics are just another indicator of the
general process. Mexican migration to the United States has become much less
tied to seasonal agriculture in this country. That's a permanent shift, and
nothing's going to reverse it."

Signs of a New Approach

He quoted recent studies by immigration experts that estimated that no more than
10 percent to 15 percent of Mexicans in California, Texas and Arizona now work
in agriculture.

Mr. Cornelius said the greater numbers of women and children crossing the border
also appear to be signs of a more long-term approach to migration, reflecting
the resettlement of entire families in the United States.

In 1986 the Border Patrol in California apprehended and expelled an average of
three to five unaccompanied children, ages 5 to 17, each day, according to
figures compiled by Jorge Bustamante, the director of the Center for Border
Studies in Tijuana, Mexico. In the first quarter of last year, the daily average
had risen to 15.

Poverty has driven more Mexican women and children into the work force, where
they are subject to the same pressures as men to migrate in search of
employment, Mr. Cornelius said.

In the San Diego area, women now go door to door seeking housecleaning work, as
men seeking work as gardeners have done for many years. Here and in other border
cities, domestic work has become almost institutionalized as an occupation
performed almost exclusively by female illegal aliens.

Mr. Cornelius, who is publishing a study on the shift by illegal aliens toward
permanent residence in the United States, said the increasing number of poor
immigrant families settling in American cities would place more demands on such
social services as schooling and public health.

Growing Reliance on Migrants

He said that urban employers, much like American farmers who have long been
dependent on Mexican labor, may increasingly find themselves relying on recent
immigrants to work in enterprises like car washes, restaurants, hotels,
laundries, hospitals and factories.

He also forecast a rise in hostility toward the illegal aliens where they are
highly visible, as American society struggles to accommodate itself to their
presence. Such hostility is already evident in some communities in San Diego
County, where immigrants camp in shantytowns and stand on street corners seeking
work for the day.

Mr. Cornelius said the increasing demand in the United States for cheap
immigrant labor was the primary reason for the shift from seasonal migration.

The continuing economic crisis in Mexico that has driven increasing numbers of
rural people to Mexico City is another factor, he said. The Mexican capital is
becoming something of a way station as migrants who cannot find work there
continue on to the United States.

In addition, he said, the amnesty provisions of the 1986 immigration law allowed
many illegal aliens to acquire stable, year-round jobs. Many are now sending for
their families and becoming anchored in the United States.

Finally, he said, a "chain of migrants" has become established in which those
already in the United States help the new arrivals find jobs and housing.

"The shift from a Mexican immigrant population dominated by transient, 'lone
male' agricultural workers to a much more socially heterogeneous, year-round,
urban-dwelling immigrant community is unlikely to be reversed," Mr. Cornelius
wrote in his study.

"High emigration communities in central Mexico are being transformed
increasingly into rest and recreation centers for families whose principal base
is now in the United States."

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: "The longer you stay here the easier it becomes for you to
blend in with the whole society and the more comfortable you become." said
Leonardo Vilchis, a California social worker who emigrated from Mexico City.
(Bart Bartholomew for The New York Times); Wayne A. Cornelius, who heads the
Center for United States-Mexico Studies at the Univeristy of California in San
Diego (Robert Burroughs for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 26, 1991, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

12 Held in Ring to Obtain Papers for Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By ARNOLD H. LUBASCH

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 341 words


Four immigration workers and two Army recruiting sergeants were charged
yesterday with taking bribes as part of a ring that obtained green cards and
other documents for more than 1,000 illegal aliens, mostly West Indians living
in Brooklyn and Queens, Federal authorities said.

Six other people were also taken into custody in a series of early morning
raids, the authorities said.

Among those arrested were a supervisor and three clerks for the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service at 26 Federal Plaza in Manhattan. The
authorities identified the leader of the ring as John Felix, 53 years old, of
Brooklyn. He does not work for the immigration service.

All the suspects were charged with conspiring to pay and receive bribes to
obtain official documents. They could be sentenced to up to 15 years in prison,
said Andrew J. Maloney, the United States Attorney in Brooklyn.

A defense lawyer, David L. Lewis, said the suspects denied the charges.

The scheme mostly involved obtaining documents for aliens who sought to stay
beyond the time their temporary visas allowed, prosecutors said.

The ring charged fees of up to $6,000 the arrest complaint charged. Gordon
Mehler, a prosecutor, said Mr. Felix had boasted in a taped conversation of
making millions of dollars.

The ring was uncovered after an immigration worker became suspicious of a
supervisor, Johnnie Boston, who later agreed to cooperate, Mr. Mehler said. He
said Mr. Boston received about $100,000 in bribes.

The Army sergeants, Prakash Ramsingh and Edward Shuler, work in recruiting
offices in Queens. They obtained documents from the ring so that aliens could
enlist, the prosecutors said. An alien who completes three years of Army service
can be naturalized immediately.

The clerks, accused of receiving lesser bribes, were identified as Carol Pelzer,
Tara Gilliam and Cheryl Kelly. The other defendants are Mr. Felix's wife,
Rosanna Felix, George Grant, Thomas Johnson, Trevor Selman and a woman
identified only as Pearl, all of Brooklyn.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 12, 1991, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Organizing for Visas: Irish, Lottery and Luck

BYLINE: By DONATELLA LORCH

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1369 words


In the shadow world of the more than 30,000 Irish living illegally in New York
City, this weekend has become a symbol of their hopes and dreams.

It is the culmination of a maddening but strangely coordinated frenzy of
millions of mailings, their one chance to leap overnight from a barely visible
realm into an established world, part of the largest legal migration of the
Irish since 1965.

Only 16,000 citizens of the Republic of Ireland can win a coveted residence visa
this year. But over the last couple of weeks, Irish people living illegally in
New York -- nearly a third of the 100,000 Irish thought to be living illegally
in the United States -- have come out of their gray world, gathering in pubs and
organized seminars to study every possible angle to reduce the random nature of
the Government lottery. In fact, the Irish have organized so extensively that
they have also become the leading experts for many of the citizens of the 34
other countries that are participating in the lottery.

For most, the permanent residence visa, which allows immigrants to work and live
in this country legally, will lift them out of a world ruled by fear of
deportation, paranoia and insecurity.

"This is the opportunity of a lifetime," said Moira Philbin, 26, who has been
working illegally under an assumed name, jumping from job to job, for the last
three years. She has worked without health insurance and any other benefits. "I
want to get on with my life, go to school, get a good job. I'm so, so hopeful.
If I don't get it, I'll be a basket case." If she does not win, she said, she is
not sure if she will have the courage to apply again in next year's lottery.

For the Irish, one of the largest groups of illegal immigrants in the city, this
fight for legitimacy has taken on added significance. "There has been terrific
networking, and it has given them a new sense of security," said Adrian
Flannelly, who is the host of an Irish radio program and has helped organize the
preparation campaign.

On Monday beginning at 12:01 A.M. the people who mailed the first 40,000 letters
deposited by postal workers in a cage in a post office in Merrifield, Va., will
qualify to become permanent resident aliens. Any letters deposited before 12:01
A.M. Monday will be discarded. As many as 5 million pieces of mail are expected
to arrive at the post office in suburban Washington between 12:01 A.M. and the
Oct. 19 deadline for receiving such letters.

Among the factors expected to determine which of the 5 million pieces will be
among the prized first 40,000 is pure luck. For example, a postal truck
delivering these letters may run a few minutes late or a mail sorter may pause
in his work. To increase their chances of winning, applicants are mailing
hundreds of applications each.

An additional 10,000 envelopes will be picked and held as a reserve in case some
of the first 40,000 are disqualified because of things like having a criminal
record, carrying the AIDS virus, having syphilis or active tuberculosis.

This unusual lottery system for obtaining permanent resident visas is being
conducted by the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service and is a
result of a 1990 law that gives preference to European countries to compensate
for the preference given Latin Americans and Asians in the last 26 years. It
guarantees the Irish at least 40 percent of the places. Most of the Irish who
will win the lottery are already in the United States, Irish-Americans say.

Fear of Deportation

In this new visa program, the Irish are guaranteed 48,000 resident alien permits
over the next three years and the lottery will become a permanent annual
feature.

Although critics describe the lottery as a disguised amnesty for the illegal
immigrants from the Republic of Ireland, its supporters say that it is merely
addressing years of discrimination against Irish immigrants and that its main
goal is to legalize the Irish already in the United States.

"The impact is unbelievable," said Sean Benson, director of the Emerald Isle
Immigration Center in Woodside, Queens. "Many have been invisible for four or
five years. It's a real coming-out session."

And it has also pulled the community together. While in the past the new Irish
rarely even admitted to their friends that they were illegally working, the new
social pastime at the hundreds of Irish pubs throughout the city has been
licking scores of envelopes and stamps for the applications. Lottery
announcements have been plastered on the doors of Irish pubs and delicatessens.

Since their first wave of immigration more than 200 years ago, the Irish have
consistently flowed into America. The large Irish communities in the city are in
Woodside and Sunnyside in Queens and around Bainbridge Avenue in the north
Bronx. Most of the illegal community here in the city came after 1965, when
immigration laws became much stricter, and they reflect a very different
Ireland. The two communities -- the one with the brogue and the one without --
while supportive of each other, are also separated by a cultural and
generational gap.

"The younger Irish think the older ones have an antiquated view of Ireland," Ms.
Philbin said. "They idealize Ireland in a way we don't."

While the older generation is much more nationalistic, the younger arrivals view
themselves as part of an integrated European community. The majority of the new
Irish are young and single, escaping a collapsing economy in Ireland with 20
percent unemployment.

Careers and Visits

A survey taken by the Irish Immigration Reform Movement shows that the new
arrivals come from all parts of Ireland, many from rural backgrounds and that
most have completed a high school education. They enter the country on tourist
or student visas and then never leave, taking tough jobs for which they are
frequently overqualified and over-educated, often as nannies, maids, bar and
restaurant employees and construction workers. For most of the women, legality
has come to symbolize career advancement. For the men, it meant finally being
able to go back home for visits.

Despite their differences, there has always been a tremendous wave of sympathy
and support among the established Irish here for their younger counterparts.
Under the premise that the key to winning is sending in an application letter
that will be part of the first batch to be selected, local Irish newspapers,
radio stations, immigration centers as well as the Catholic Archdiocese have set
up more than 18 seminars in the city to discuss how, when and where to mail
application letters as well as how to prepare for the I.N.S. interview that will
follow the winning of the lottery.

To increase their chances, most people are mailing 500 to 1,000 application
letters each, staggering the mailing over several days and mailing in different
areas of New York as well as taking letters directly to Virginia. A three-day
mail strike in Ireland has increased the chances for those already in the United
States. The Irish Voice, Adrian Flannelly and scores of other organizations are
trucking down hundreds of thousands of letters to Virginia.

On a recent evening in Manhattan, more than 400 people gathered at a seminar
sponsored by The Irish Voice. The majority were Irish, but there were English
and Dutch and Poles and Italians as well. For all, a resident alien permit was
the unattainable dream finally at their fingertips. Even if legalization meant a
stricter payment of taxes -- that was fine, too, they said.

It was a room full of hope.

One woman who has been working here on a student visa for more than a year,
would identify herself only Susan McK., 24 years old, from Dublin. Winning, she
said, for her meant an end to exploitation. As a waitress, she has survived
without a salary, merely on tips for more than eight months. "My other choices
are nannying and I'm not really into child care," she said. "I want to continue
my postgraduate work in art here."

Ms. Philbin is counting the hours for the letter that will tell her she won. "I
feel like my 300 letters will be lost among the 5 million. I want it so badly.
I'll be the first person greeting the postman every morning."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Irish Voice and other organizations are trucking hundreds
of thousands of letters to Virginia from immigrants entering the resident visa
lottery. Debbie McGoldrick, right, and Breeda McGarry helped pack letters at the
Voice office on Park Avenue South (Keith Meyers/The New York Times) (pg. 31);
Immigrants who are participating in the immigration lottery taking part in a
seminar sponsored by The Irish Voice at the Manhattan Club. From left were
Abigail Zedley, Lindsay Smith and Peter McGinness. (Edward Keating for The New
York Times) (pg. 33)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 5, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Unregistered Aliens Have Right to School

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 292 words


To the Editor:

Your report on the economic fears of Long Islanders refers to a case in which an
elementary school principal reported to Federal authorities two illegal
immigrants, children who had come to register at his school (news article, Nov.
5). The case illustrates how immigrants become scapegoats in times of economic
distress. The school principal's action reflects not only a blatant disregard
for the law, but also widely prevalent misconceptions that immigrants are a
drain on our economy.

The right of undocumented children to public education was firmly established by
the Supreme Court in 1982 in Plyler v. Doe. In that case, the Court thoroughly
examined, and rejected, the argument that undocumented children were a drain on
public funds and should therefore be denied equal access to public schools.
Instead the Court concluded that society's interests were best served by
assuring these children a public education, particularly because many will
become United States citizens, who will be unable to assume the responsibilities
of citizenship if they have been deprived of an education.

The Court also noted that "illegal aliens underutilize public services, while
contributing their labor to the local economy and tax money to the state fisc."
This conclusion is consistently underscored by research studies indicating that
immigrants have a net positive effect on our economy.

The economic crisis in Long Island that fueled this incident is, unfortunately,
real enough. But targeting immigrant children is a misdirected and dangerous
response, which keeps us from addressing the real problems we face.

JUDY RABINOVITZ
Counsel, Immigrants' Rights Project
American Civil Liberties Union
New York, Nov. 21, 1991

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 13, 1991, Friday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Mexicans Head North Despite Rules on Jobs

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1133 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico, Dec. 6


For months, as the United States has raised a heavy metal barricade along its
border with Mexico here, officials of the two countries have argued over the
symbolism. The Mexicans call it a wall, like the Berlin wall; the Americans say
it is just a strong fence.

But each night around midnight, hundreds of men and women clamber over the
10-foot-high structure to offer another definition: It has become a monument,
their numbers suggest, to the impossibility of keeping poor foreign workers from
better-paid jobs.

After a decline following the immigration-control law of 1986, illegal
immigration has rebounded strongly, according to recent United States Government
statistics and other evidence. And despite stepped-up border enforcement, and a
barrier that officials say will eventually close off 12 miles of the border just
south of San Diego, experts say that the flow will almost certainly remain high
for years.

Both President Bush and President Carlos Salinas de Gortari of Mexico have
pointed to the free trade agreement they are negotiating with Canada as an
important step toward solving the problem. But a growing number of researchers
say free trade would take years, if not decades, longer than officials have
suggested to raise Mexican wages and employment enough to dim the attraction of
American jobs. For some time, many experts say, the disruptions of free trade
might even cause illegal immigration to rise.

"Free trade has been oversold as a quick fix to the immigration problem," said
Wayne A. Cornelius, the director of the Center for U.S.-Mexican Studies at the
University of California at San Diego.

"Most people are focusing on two, three years," Dr. Cornelius said. "You've got
to think in terms of 10, 15, 20 years for a free trade agreement to have a
demonstrably significant impact on the volume and kind of labor migration that
is occurring between the two countries."

For the moment, debate over what free trade might achieve has been overtaken by
questions about whether political concerns might prompt the White House to keep
a treaty from Congress until after the 1992 elections. The timing of a trade
agreement is expected to dominate talks between Mr. Bush and Mr. Salinas at Camp
David on Saturday.

American officials have kept immigration questions out of the free trade
negotiations. Undocumented immigration has also virtually disappeared as a point
of friction, reflecting better relations between the United States and Mexico.

But immigration itself has surged.  New figures released last month by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service show that for the fiscal year that ended
Sept. 30, apprehensions at the Mexican border rose slightly to 1,077,511 from
1,049,680 in 1990. Both years were up considerably from the 854,128 arrests
recorded in 1989, the last of three years that registered a decline.

The numbers represent an uncertain fraction of the people entering the United
States illegally, and immigration officials attribute part of the rise to better
enforcement.

'Business as Usual'

Jorge Bustamante, president of Tijuana's College of the Northern Border, a
leading center for immigration research, said the institute's projections showed
the illegal traffic stabilizing near pre-1986 levels.

"It has returned to business as usual," Dr. Bustamante said.

Immigration experts and U.S. officials say the 1986 Immigration Reform and
Control Act, which require employers to verify that their workers are not
illegal immigrants, has been undermined by a series of developments, including
weak I.N.S. enforcement of penalties against those who do hire undocumented
workers.

Researchers say the law's legalization of 3.1 million foreigners has also
created a magnet for those immigrants' relatives and friends. Mexicans call
these immigrants "los rodinos," after Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., a New
JerseyDemocrat who sponsored the 1986 law in the House.

But most important, underlying economic reasons for the flow have not changed on
either side of the border.

In Mexico, inflation has dropped sharply and economic growth is up to 4 percent
a year after nearly a decade of crisis. Yet 44 million Mexicans still qualify as
impoverished, underemployment remains high, real wages are at about what they
were in 1980 and, on average, Mexico pays its workers about one-eighth what they
can earn in the United States.

To the north, meanwhile, low-paying jobs in agricultural and service industries
remain easily available. In California, for example, lawn and gardening services
have roughly doubled their workforce since the early 1980's.

The economics were simple to Fernando Lopez, 24 years old, who waited recently
to hop the barricade into California with three other "chickens," as the
migrants are called.

Their guide had led them into California four times in two days, and into the
Border Patrol's clutches each time. "That's equal to two days of work," said Mr.
Lopez, who earned $30 or $40 a week as a carpenter in the central state of
Michoacan. But, he added, "Next week, I will make $300."

To stem the tide of such migration, , economists say, Mexican wages do not have
to rise to United States levels, but merely come closer. Philip L. Martin, an
agricultural economist at the University of California at Davis, said European
experiences suggest that migration would begin to ebb when Mexican pay rises
from one-eighth the American equivalent to one-fourth.

But some Mexican analysts have argued that such a shift would run counter to a
basic equation of free trade: that new jobs will be created in Mexico precisely
because of its low labor costs. And while most economists consider it inevitable
that the wage gap will narrow, they said that could take anywhere from 10 years
to two generations.

In the meantime, new laws allowing Mexican peasants to sell their community
lands, along with an expected end to the subsidies that Mexico pays its corn
farmers, could propel more people northward. And experts wonder if the jobs that
free trade might create in northern Mexico could actually foster illegal
immigration by drawing people to the edge of the United States.

The idea of a free trade agreement seemed far off the other night for Luis
Campos, another Michoacan native, who earns $10 an hour collecting trash in
Anaheim, Calif.; in his hometown of Puruandiro, he said, he made barely $500 a
year growing beans and corn.

As for the barrier that the I.N.S. and a military construction corps have
halfway completed, Mr. Campos said that it did not make sense. His life is in
the United States, he said, and all five of his children were born there.

"We don't do anyone any harm," he said as he leaned against the barricade. "We
work hard. I don't know why they just don't let us in."

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 14, 1991, Saturday

CORRECTION:

An article yesterday about the flow of illegal immigrants across the border with
Mexico misidentified the home state of former Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr.
in some copies. He is from New Jersey.


GRAPHIC: Photos: "We don't do anyone any harm," said Luis Campos from Michoacan,
Mexico, leaning against a barricade that separates Mexico from the United
States. "We work hard. I don't know why they just don't let us in." (Roberto
Cordoba for The New York Times) (pg. A1); Mexicans walking in the dry riverbed
of the Tijuana River near a barricade that separates Mexico from the United
States. Each night around midnight, hundreds of men and women clamber over the
structure. (Roberto Cordoba for The New York Times) (pg. A28)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 22, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final

As Sun Sets, Tempers Rise at Border

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 843 words

DATELINE: SAN YSIDRO, Calif.


As the sun went down here at the nation's southern border one recent evening,
the headlights of nearly 300 cars parked along a narrow gravel road flicked on,
shining toward Mexico in an angry demonstration against illegal immigration.

On the other side of the road, half a mile from the border, counterprotesters
with placards charging racism held up mirrors and aluminum foil to reflect the
headlights back again.

In the growing darkness beyond the reach of the headlights, the lights of Border
Patrol vans raced back and forth along the hills, as they do every night, in
pursuit of groups of men running through the underbrush from Mexico into the
United States.

The protest, the counterprotest and the cat-and-mouse game that continued
unabated in the background emphasized what the demonstrators along Dairy Mart
Road said was the failure of the United States Government to bring this often
lawless border under control.

Resentment and Anger

The continuing chaos of illegal immigration, which the 1986 Immigration Reform
and Control Act seems to have done little to dampen, has caused growing
resentment among people living north of the border.

Their anger has found an outlet in monthly ''Light Up the Border'' protests
organized by Muriel Watson, a resident whose late husband was a Border Patrol
pilot. At the most recent protest, she hired an airplane to trail a banner
reading, ''Viva la Migra'' - long live the Border Patrol.

''We're lighting up the border, basically, to try to light up Washington,'' said
Rodger Hedgecock, a radio talk-show host who has become the voice of the
protests. ''We've got a hypocritcal law - quotas, bureaucrats, forms - and
everyone just ignores it. And everyone knows that they ignore it.''

His radio appeals have brought increasing numbers of people to the
demonstrations, and the gathering the other night had a Middle American feel to
it, with dogs, children, picnic coolers and American flags.

It was on the opposite side of Dairy Mart Road that the organized anger could be
felt, as members of immigrants-rights groups with loudspeakers chanted and
raised banners reading: ''No Apartheid on the Border'' and ''End Racism Now.''

These groups, from both Tijuana and San Diego, came armed with packets of press
releases and enthusiastic spokesmen, and their anger and energy seemed to
overwhelm some of Mrs. Watson's demonstrators.

When a young man, standing by a pickup truck, wondered aloud whether the answer
to the problem of illegal immigration might be ''a big old fishing net to catch
them all,'' he was outshouted by a group from across the road, chanting, ''Somos
un pueblo sin fronteras,'' or, ''We are all one people without borders.'' His
only reply, reflecting the bewilderment of a community that feels itself
overwhelmed by an influx of foreigners, was, ''Speak English: this is America!''

When some demonstrators shouted, ''Go back to Mexico, you pigs,'' others from
across the road drowned them out with a chorus of: ''Go back to Europe. Go back
to England.''

No Simple Answers

Aida Mancillas, a spokeswoman for the counterdemonstrators, said there were no
simple answers to the border questions. ''We've been here longer than the
border,'' said Ms. Mancillas, a lecturer at the University of California at San
Diego. ''So it's not the same thing as coming out of Bremen or out of London or
out of Italy.''

The ''Light Up the Border'' demonstrators say they worry that the immigrants are
bringing with them third-world problems, camping out on hillsides in crowded and
unsanitary settlements, soliciting jobs on street corners and raising fears of
crime and violence.

The counterdemonstrators argue that poor Mexicans are lured across the border by
menial jobs and that, indeed, commerce in California depends on their low-paid
labor.

Susan Moore, whose family owns the Hilltop Stables just beyond Dairy Mart Road,
said immigrants from Mexico have crossed their property as long as she can
remember. But lately, she said, they have become more numerous and more brazen.

''They come every day, every day,'' she said. ''Sometimes you'll see 50 of them
in one pack coming across. When they come off that hill they're exhausted and
they need a drink before they go on. A lot of times they come and ask for change
to use the Coke machine.''

Waiting for Sunset

An hour before sunset on the night of her latest demonstration, Mrs. Watson led
two reporters on an inspection of the border situation. At the top of a hill,
just this side of the toll road that forms the border, several hundred men and a
few women stood waiting for the sun to set.

Many of them, if statistical averages applied on this particular evening, had
come this way before on travels back and forth between the two countries.

''Look, look, look!'' Mrs. Watson called out suddenly as a small group broke
away and began trotting downhill through the underbrush in the direction of Miss
Moore's stables. ''Look at them run! There's a woman with a suitcase! My God,
gentlemen, what can we do?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Immigrant-rights supporters holding a banner across the Mexican
border from San Ysidro, Calif., in a counterprotest against opponents of illegal
immigration who light up the road with their headlights. (Robert Burroughs for
The New York Times); map of California showing location of San Ysidro (The New
York Times)

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 15, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration And Poverty

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 19; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 237 words


It is becoming increasingly obvious that our political leaders are oblivious to
the demographic future of the United States. In the year 2010 there will be 284
million Americans, 33 million more than in 1990. By the late 21st century the
population is projected to reach an astounding half a billion. Is that the
future America seeks? Illegal immigration can only exacerbate the dismal future
that awaits our nation through overpopulation.

One may feel compassion for the illegal immigrant Josman from Guyana
["Immigrants Wait Years for Legal Status," Feb. 27], but the idea of her
bringing her three children here is not a happy prospect for the U.S. Our
ability to eradicate poverty for our present citizens is seriously threatened by
this unrestricted flow of illegal aliens. The importation of this poverty is a
far greater danger to this country than the importation of Japanese cars.
Unskilled jobs in the U.S. are rapidly vanishing. The last thing we need is a
crushing overload of unskilled and uneducated illegal aliens.

When will our politicians have the courage to say, "Enough is enough," and the
will to put into effect a massive interdictive effort to repel this wave of
illegal aliens? It is simply not rational to suggest that there is no limit to
the population that the United States can support and yet maintain a decent
quality of life for its citizens.

DONALD HAVERSTROM
Commack

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 18, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

A Flood of Illegal Aliens Enters U.S. Via Kennedy

BYLINE: By DONATELLA LORCH

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1158 words


Taking advantage of bureaucratic paralysis, hundreds of illegal immigrants are
entering the country through Kennedy International Airport every week, even
after it is determined that they lack the proper documents.

In the last six months, Kennedy, more than any other airport in the country, has
been flooded by travelers with forged papers, tampered passports or no passports
at all who walk off their planes and ask for political asylum. They may be
illegal, but most of them simply vanish into the immigrant world.


By law, these travelers cannot be sent back without a hearing. But with a court
backlog of more than 14 months and with only 190 beds in detention centers, most
of them are allowed into the country and many remain in the New York area.
Ultimately, more than two-thirds do not show up for their hearings.

An Open Border

Immigration officials say the airport has become an open border to the United
States, the most easily entered in the country.

"The word has gone out," said Roseanne C. Sonchik, director of immigration for
New York City's airports and seaports. "It's easy to come through here. The
people just basically laugh at the inspectors. They're going to tell us when
they are going to immigrate."

When Ashiq Hussain walked off Alitalia Flight 600 from Milan the other day, he
used the only two words of English he knew. "Political asylum," Mr. Hussain said
to an immigration officer checking passports at the door of the plane.

He held out a Pakistani passport lacking the required visa and, when questioned,
shook his head and said he spoke only Urdu. Without a trace turned him over to
another officer, who asked him a few questions in Urdu, ordered him to appear at
a hearing before an immigration judge, then let him into the country.

Like children wanting a dream to come true, the men and women awaiting
questioning in the detetion area stick stubbornly in the detention area stick
stubbornly to their stories and wait in intense quiet.

"I have only $350 with me," said Afial Hussain, another Pakistani who arrived on
an Egypt Air flight from Cairo and who said he had been beaten by Pakistani
troops. "I don't mind getting beaten here. I'll don't mind getting beaten here.
I'll do any job there is. Here I am happy."

20,000 a Day

These immigrants are but a small fraction of the estimated 20,000 passengers a
day coming through Kennedy. On the day Ashiq Hussain arrived, 48 people came
without proper documents and more than 350 arrived for the first time with their
permanent residency documents.

But in January, a record 1,286 illegal immigrants were caught coming through
Kennedy, almost double the amount of six months ago. Ms. Sonchik estimated that
the numbers could reach 14,000 by the end of the year, an increase of 9,000
since 1990. Since 1987, the number of people caught entering the country without
proper documents has more than doubled, reaching 43,580 in fiscal 1990,
immigration officials said.

They arrive at Kennedy on a spectrum of airlines from places as far flung as
Brazil, Nigeria, Russia and Britain. Some come via professional smuggling
organizations and others buy documents on the black market. Often lawyers for
immigrants will call the Immigration and Naturalization Service even before the
flights land, Ms. Sonchik said.

An Increase Last Fall

Last fall, there was a marked increase of illegal arrivals at Kennedy soon after
Los Angeles International Airport opened a new detention center with 800 beds.
In Miami, the Immigration and Naturalization Service's large center also acts as
a deterrent. On the smuggling route, Kennedy, which receives 22 percent of the
nation's transoccanic traffic, has become the odds on favorite.

The question of fraudulet immigration is politically sensitive. Recently, the
Bush Administration began considering a plan to curtail sharply the rights of
foreigner's seeking political asylum by allowing immigration authorities to
forbid entry to those with fraudulent documents. There have also been proposals
to expand a program that places immigration officers abroad for pre-inspection
purposes.

Airlines Feel Victimized

The issue has also become a bone of contention between the immigration service
and the airlines. The airlines, responsible for insuring that arriving
passengers have proper documentation, say they feel victimized and unfairly
fined by immigration authorities. Last year, airlines paid $21 million in fines,
said Richard Norton, senior director of the Air Transport Association of
America, which represents the airlines. The fines are $3,000 a person if
passengers arrive without documents, and airlines are liable for all detention
costs of any transit passengers who ask for political asylum.

Sames Stories, Word for Word

Airlines insist they canot be responsible for passengers who destroy their
documents druing the flight or hand them off to smuggling couriers. In January,
the Air Transport Association filed a lawsuit against the Immigration and
Naturalization Service over the agreement under which the airlines may be fined.

"We're just seeing the tip of the iceberg and it's moving fast," Mr. Norton
said. "The I.N.S. is not going to solve this by sitting back and fining the
airlines."

The stories that these immigrants tell immigration officers are often repeated
word for word. Ashiq Hussain, a small man on jeans and a gray leather jacket,
admired without emotion to destroying his entry docuemnts while on the flight to
New York. His only luggage was a black leather attache case that contained no
clothes. Like several other Pakistani questioned that evening, he said he was a
member of the opposition Pakistan People's Party and had been jailed by the
present Government and risked death if he returned.

"I know the answers by heart," said an immigration officer as he questioned a
Pakistani in Urdu. "I could write them in my sleep." "

There were 15 questions in all and Mr. Hussain's answers were polite but vague.
"I will go back only when there is peace in Pakistan," he insisted. He added
that he knew no one in.

New York

Next to him, Bahia Singh, 24 years old, tall and lanky, smiled throughout the
entire interview. He carried an Indian passport but the picture inside was of
another man. Mr. Singh said he knew no one in New York and has fled the Punjab
because of the civil war between Sikh militants and the Indian military.

"I am just a farmer," he said "The police said I gave shelter to the militants.
I paid $3,000 for the passport from a man called Bajinder Singh in Jullundur. If
I go back I will be killed by the militants or the Indian police."

Several hours after his flight had landed, when the questions were finished,
Ashiq Hussain signed a document and walked out into the crammed jostle of the
arrivals area. He sat stone-laced in a corner, oblivious to the hugs and
excitement around him, then melted into the crowd.


LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: In January, a record 1,286 illegal immigrants were caught coming
through Kennedy International Airport. In the last six months the airport has
been flooded by travelers with forged papers, tampered passports or no passports
at all. Bahia Singh waited for inspection officers after landing in New York
from India. He said he left because of the fighting between Sikhs and the Indian
military in the Punjab. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 18, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

METRO DIGEST

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 518 words



KENNEDY AIRPORT: AN OPEN BORDER

Taking advantage of bureaucratic paralysis, hundreds of illegal immigrants are
entering the country through Kennedy International Airport every week, even
after it is determined that they lack the proper documents. In the last six
months, Kennedy, more than any other airport in the country, has been flooded by
travelers with forged papers, tampered passports or no passports at all who walk
off their planes and ask for political asylum. They may be illegal, but most of
them simply vanish into the immigrant world. B2.

GOTTI ON TAPE: 'I'M INNOCENTS.'

John Gotti told a lawyer in a taped conversation played by the defense that he
was not involved in the murder of Paul Castellano, a central charge in his
racketeering-murder trial. "If, if I'm gonna get pinched," he told his lawyer on
the tape, "I';ll break their (obscenity). When you're innocent, it's easy
enough. I'll win on the merits. But this case, I'm innocent. I'll win it. I
ain't worried about it." B3.



EX-POLICE OFFICER PLEADS GUILTY OF RAPE

A former police officer, still under investigation in the killing of his first
wife, pleaded guilty to charges that he raped and sexually abused his second
wife's two young daughters. The former officer, Robert Fioretti, had remarried a
month after his first wife vanished from their Bronx home in August 1986. The
Bronx District Attorney's office has named Mr. Fioretti as a suspect in the
killing of his first wife, but no charges have ever been filed in that case. B2.


17-year-old arrested in a Brooklyn subway shooting. B2.

5 people shot in Brooklyn, apparently in a drug dispute. B2.

After former editor's killing, staff of Spanish-language daily receives death
threats. B4.

REGION

REPORT CARD ON THE SCHOOLS

New Jersey's Education Commissioner released the second annual "report cards" on
New Jersey schools today, saying that there had been improvements but too few of
them to keep the state competitive. The report cards grade each of New Jersey's
555 public school systems in three major areas: finances, teacher-to-student
ratio and student performance on national tests such as the Scholastic Aptitude
Test. B5.

ASSESSING NEW JERSEY'S GROWTH

New Jerseyans are willing to give up one of the stat'e most hallowed political
traditions, control over local land-use rules, to keep sprawl from eating up too
much open space, according to a recent Rutgers University opinion poll. B5.

A MODEST PROPOSAL

Until this month, Lee A. Samowitz was little known beyond the Bridgeport
district that he represents in the connecticut General Assembly. But thanks to a
recent legislative proposal that could be characterized as somewhere between
radical and off the wall, the 39-year-old Democrat has been cast into the
limelight. B5.

LANDFILL TRIAL IS POSTPONED

A trial to determine the fate of three landfills on eastern Long Island that the
state wants to close has been postponed. B5.

Mrazek says he didn't abuse House Bank account. B4.

About New York     B2

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph of On-Time Performances of Commuter Railroads (Source:
Metropolitan Transportation Authority; New Jersey Transit)

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 12, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Majority of Immigrants Capable and Decent

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 15; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 127 words


I'm infuriated! How dare Donald Haverstrom [Letters, March 8] bunch all aliens
as unskilled and uneducated illegal aliens. Just because we are forced by
circumstance to do work that is not considered prestigious but is humane, are we
to be labeled unskilled and uneducated? The majority of us are very capable,
decent, well educated. Just because of the lack of official recognition, we are
forced into taking humble positions while waiting for the unraveling of red
tape, are we therefore to be labeled unskilled and uneducated. What lack of good
judgment I must accuse Mr. Haverstrom of having! Poor prejudiced man! It's
people like him who make life insufferable for us who want to become "good
useful American citizens."

J. BAPTISTE
Belle Harbor

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 16, 1992, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants Redefine Underclass

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 249 words


To the Editor:

For years, the United States, and New York City in particular, have been
struggling with the problem of the underclass. There have been endless plans and
programs to raise the living standards of our poorest citizens. Most have
failed.

In "Crammed in Tiny, Illegal Rooms, Tenants of the Margins of Survival" (news
article, March 23), we see evidence that we may have hit on a solution that
works: Create a new, even more impoverished and hopeless underclass that makes
the old one seem not so bad by comparison. Compared with living in an
unventilated, windowless electrical closet, a run-down cold-water flat in the
Bronx doesn't seem so terrible.

This is what our failure to control immigration -- particularly illegal
immigration -- is leading to. You conjure up a picture of life in New York
reminiscent of Dickens's London of 150 years ago. Abdulaye Kamara, a Senegalese
immigrant (presumably illegal), can't get a raise, though he puts in an 11-hour
workday for only $45, because his boss "can get two Mexicans for $45 a day."

Mr. Kamara's boss is probably right. For the same $45 he could also probably get
three Chinese or four Haitians or five people from some other desperately poor
country. Is this the American future we want? Should it be our national goal to
see how cheaply we can get the rest of the world's destitute to do our menial
tasks?

DAN STEIN
Executive Director, Federation for American Immigration Reform
Washington, March 30, 1992

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 2, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

13 Held in Kidnapping of Illegal Alien

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 744 words


The New York City police arrested 13 illegal immigrants from China yesterday and
accused them of kidnapping another illegal alien because he had not made
payments to a Hong Kong organization that had helped him slip into the country
with false documents.

The victim, Kin Wah Fong, a 30-year-old restaurant worker, was taken to
Bronx-Lebanon Hospital with bruises and ribs cracked by blows from a hammer,
said Lieut. Joseph A. Pollini, who led the mid-morning raid in the Bronx by the
Police Department's Major Cases Squad.

After Mr. Fong was abducted from a Third Avenue restaurant owned by his in-laws,
the family received a telephone call demanding a $30,000 ransom, the police
said.

The 11 men and two women arrested, all from Fujian province in China, were
charged with weapons possession and first-degree kidnapping, which carries a
penalty of 15 years to life in prison, Sgt. Tina S. Mohrmann, a police
spokeswoman, said.

Weapons, Cash and Kidnap Victim

The police found three illegal handguns and an AR-15 semiautomatic rifle in the
apartment building at 2327 Arthur Avenue in the East Tremont section of the
Bronx, where Mr. Fong was held. They also found more than $50,000 in cash.

People associated with the illegal immigration ring were the only occupants of
the three-story building, Lieutenant Pollini said.

He said Mr. Fong's immigration would be determined by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. "It's possible that he will be deported," he said.

Mr. Fong was seized about 10:30 P.M. on Monday by three men who burst into the
Kam Pam restaurant at 92 Third Avenue in Manhattan waving handguns. Mr. Fong was
living with his wife in lower Manhattan and working at her parents' restaurant,
Lieutenant Pollini said.

Used Hong Kong Smugglers

"One hour later his relatives received a telephone call demanding $30,000
ransom," the lieutenant said.

He said Mr. Fong arrived illegally in the United States about four months ago
from Fujian province, which is on the southeast coast of China directly across
the Taiwan Strait from Taiwan. Mr. Fong used a Hong Kong organization that
provides immigrants with transportation and forged immigration documents for
$25,000 to $30,000, Lieutenant Pollini said. In some cases, immigrants made
payments to the organization after arriving here, he said.

"The victim in this case had not paid the full sum for obtaining entry to this
city, so apparently the network in Hong Kong felt like they had to take some
enforcement action," he said.

He said the Hong Kong group sometimes sent over illegal immigrants without
charge to enforce its payment schedules. The 13 arrested yesterday were
enforcers for the group, he said.

Raid Astonishes Neighbors

The neat brick building where Mr. Fong was held is behind a defunct butcher shop
on a lively commercial strip of Arthur Avenue festooned with glittering
Christmas decorations.

The police raid took away 23 people, 10 of whom were shortly released. Neighbors
were very surprised at the number of people taken out, saying they had not seen
any Asians in the building since a Chinese family moved out several months ago.

"The police went in with their guns and everything, and then I couldn't believe
it when they came out with all those people," said a woman whose apartment
overlooks the building. "I can't tell where they came from because I never saw
them go in."

After receiving a tip from a source whom the police did not identify, about 35
detectives crept down the alley, strewn with rubble and sand, that leads to the
building. When they burst into the building, they found Mr. Fong handcuffed to a
bed.

Similar Kidnapping Recently

"We believe he was beaten with a hammer and sustained several broken ribs," the
lieutenant said.

Six Asian detectives were brought in to translate, but only one speaks the
Fujian dialect, he said.

Lieutenant Pollini said there was a similar kidnapping about six weeks ago, when
the police rescued two illegal immigrants, also from Fujian, from a house in
Queens. Their abductors had demanded $27,000 in ransom.

The lieutenant said the Major Cases Squad had investigated 54 kidnappings in
1989 and 26 in 1990.

Lieutenant Pollini said unusual brutality accompanied both recent kidnappings
involving Fujian immigrants. "The two in Queens were found with burns on various
parts of their bodies and severely beaten," he said. "These people apparently
mean business."

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Five of 13 illegal immigrants from China who were arrested
yesterday. They were charged with the kidnapping of a man who had not made
payments to a Hong Kong organization that had helped him enter the United States
with false documents. His family had received a call demanding a $30,000 ransom.
(Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 21, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Illegal Aliens And U.S. Border

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 17; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 211 words


In your article on illegal aliens on Long Island ["Illegal Aliens Say Census
Missed Thousands," March 24] you quote a Salvadoran as saying, "I find the North
Americans are cold to the suffering of our people." I submit that the question
is not a lack of compassion, but rather concern about if the United States is to
remain a sovereign nation. Sovereignty implies that a nation controls its own
borders and determines who may or may not enter.

To my knowledge, no country in the world is as generous as the United States in
opening its borders to legal immigration. Although our present population of
almost 250 million is already stressing our environment and straining our
natural resources, we continue to grant immigration rights to millions of aliens
from all over the globe.

However, it is our right and our obligation to our own citizens to restrain the
unregulated flow of aliens into this country. Immigration only makes sense if it
is done in a limited, orderly and equitable manner.

Must we accept the idea that America's doors are open to all who choose to come,
or that certain overpopulation is our future? Surely, it is within our power to
develop a humane, but firm policy to regain control of our borders.

D. HAVERSTROM

Commack

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 3, 1991, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

On My Mind;
A Haitian Father

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 714 words


Almost always now, when I read about Haitians who risk the seas to get to this
country but wind up on distant shores behind barbed wire, I think of an illegal
immigrant I happened to know myself, and of his daughters and his son.

Then a shiver of shame and embarrassment goes through me, for a particular and
large group of Americans.

This fellow I am talking about needed work to help support his wife and six
children. He was living at the time in Canada, where he had once found the
outdoor work he loved -- farming, laying track, traveling to the far country to
trade. But work dried up in Canada, so he took the night train from Toronto to
New York.

There he found employment as a house painter, which he hated. But he was an
excellent painter as he had been an excellent farmer and fur trader. One day he
fell off the scaffold; he died.

This man, who was known as Harry, never told his children exactly how he managed
to cross the border. After Harry died, immigration authorities could never
discover any record of his entry, or of his son's, who was also on that train
from Toronto. They both were declared illegals -- night-train wetbacks.

But in the meantime Harry's daughters and son had grown up in the United States.
Always Harry, his wife and his children blessed America. Many years later, when
his children told the story of their father and his determination to find work
in America, to hell with borders, people smiled in admiration of this man. And
always, his children were filled with pride about him, and gratitude.

So of course when I read about the Haitians I think of my father, Harry, the
illegal who came in search of work. Of course, Harry never went through the
hells of the Haitians. He had left Russia for Canada, sick of the stench of
czarism and longing for the clean air of political and religious liberty. But
when he left Canada he was not in fear of being shot in the streets, as are the
Haitians. He was just looking for work, which means not only bread but
self-respect.  But I know that if he had been born in Haiti or lived there, he
would have broken every law that stood between him and work in the U.S. But
where are Harry's children now?

Where are all the American Jews, and Poles, and Irish, and Balts, and Italians
who can remember a parent or a grandparent who came to this country looking for
work, when visas were bought by steamship agents, or who borrowed a cousin's
papers, or who just took a night train from someplace to someplace?

Don't they ever feel like getting on their knees and thanking God that at least
their folks never had to crawl into stinking, pitching boats out of fear and
hunger?

American Jewish organizations are proud that their money helped Ethiopian Jews
get to Israel, and Irish-American groups rally round the thousands of illegal
Irish immigrants. The Eastern Europeans of America struggled to get to America's
grace, and for their parents' homelands to be free of Communism.  Does not one
of these organizations understand their causes would be stronger and cleaner if
they could manage, in their sympathy for refugees and work-hunters, to cross
religious, national and color lines?

Forget about blaming the White House and the bureaucrats. Blame ourselves,
children of Harry. Imagine what a quick pickup lobby, or parade, demanding
succor for Haitians could do if it were headed by a few Irish-American
Cardinals, a batch of rabbis and the presidents of Eastern European, Greek,
Italian, Arab and Turkish organizations. American blacks and wasps welcome, too!

We are told, be reasonable, America can't open its doors to economic refugees.
Pull up the gangplank, Jack, I'm aboard. Maybe, but the Pakistanis, who have
barely a half-penny to our dollar, give refuge to millions of Afghans and
Washington scolds Hong Kong and Britain for not accepting the Vietnamese
refugees.

But even reluctantly recognizing some economic limitations, this country should
have the moral elegance to accept neighbors who flee countries where life is
terror and hunger, and are run by murderous gangs left over from dictatorships
we ourselves maintained and cosseted.

If that were a qualification for entry into our golden land, the Haitians should
be welcomed with song, embrace and memories.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 6, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Judge Upholds Job Rights of Undocumented Aliens

BYLINE: By KATHERINE BISHOP, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 612 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, March 5


A Federal judge has ruled that undocumented aliens can bring lawsuits under the
1964 Civil Rights Act maintaining that they are the victims of racial or sexual
discrimination at work.

The ruling, by Federal District Judge Robert E. Coyle, held that Title VII of
the 1964 law, which prohibits discrimination by employers on the basis of race
or sex, applies to workers who entered the country illegally. The decision,
issued Feb. 20, was announced here today at a news conference held by lawyers
for the plaintiff.

The lawyers said the ruling, in the Eastern District of California in
Sacramento, if upheld on appeal, could potentially affect hundreds of thousands
of immigrant workers who would be free to pursue discrimination lawsuits against
employers.

Francisco Garcia, a lawyer with the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund, which assisted the plaintiff, said the ruling appeared to
cover all undocumented workers, not simply those now applying for amnesty under
the 1986 immigration law that offered amnesty to hundreds of thousands of
undocumented aliens.

Lawyers in the case acknowledged that most illegal aliens not covered by the
amnesty law would be unlikely to bring such discrimination suits because it
would expose them to deportation proceedings.

But illegal aliens who have applied for amnesty are not subject to deportation
proceedings while their applications are pending. These aliens may legally seek
work, employers may legally hire them and the judge's ruling could open the door
to many discrimination complaints concerning them.

William Tamayo, a lawyer with the Asian Law Caucus, one of the groups
representing the plaintiff, said today, "Immigrant workers do have rights, and
employers should not be abridging them because of the worker's immigration
status."

I. Singh Aulakh, a lawyer for the defendant, said he expected to appeal the
ruling to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit here. He
called Judge Coyle's decision "a classic example of judicial activism."

"There is nothing in the law that grants Title VII protection to undocumented
aliens," Mr. Aulakh said. "You can't make a decision expanding rights when there
is no law to do so."

Amnesty-Seeking Process

The case was brought in 1987 by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission on
behalf of Alicia Castrejon, an undocumented worker from Mexico. She accused her
employer, Tortilleria La Mejor, of sexual discrimination because it had refused
to reinstate her as promised after she tried to return to her assembly-line job
after a pregnancy leave.

The ruling clarifies the issue of whether undocumented workers are protected by
Federal employment discrimination law while they go through the process of
seeking amnesty under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, as Ms.
Castrejon has. Her former employer, a tortilla factory in Farmersville, a small
town in the San Joaquin Valley, argued that because the Immigration Act
prohibited the employment of undocumented workers, its purposes would be
undermined if those workers were entitled to bring civil lawsuits under Federal
law charging discrimination in the workplace.

Ms. Castrajon, who is now free to pursue her lawsuit against the tortilla
factory, has worked packing fruit and at a plant nursery over the last several
years. She is seeking reinstatement in her job and back pay, the only remedies
available under Title VII. Judge Coyle, who was appointed to the bench by
President Ronald Reagan in 1982, set Oct. 1 for the trial to begin.

Lawyers for Equal Rights Advocates of San Francisco also represented Ms.
Castrejon in the case.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 15, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Proposal Urges Shift of Illegal-Alien Inmates

BYLINE: By LINDSEY GRUSON,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 39; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 362 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 14


Two New York lawmakers have introduced a proposal in Congress to relieve state
prison overcrowding by converting three closed military bases into lockups for
4,500 illegal aliens convicted of the most serious crimes.

The bipartisan bills, offered this week by Charles E. Schumer in the House and
Alfonse M. D'Amato in the Senate, also would provide $100 million a year in
Federal funds to reimburse states for incarcerating about 35,000 other illegal
aliens.

Mr. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat, and Mr. D'Amato, a Republican, billed their
proposal as an overdue attempt to stop a decadelong pattern of the the Federal
Government foisting responsibilities onto the states without providing the
necessary financing.

"It's a classic 1990's problem where Federal Government cuts back, even in
something that clearly is in its domain, and says to the states and localities,
'You take care of it,' " Mr. Schumer said.

The proposal was offered as Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and State Correction
Commissioner Thomas A. Coughlin 3d seek to relieve overcrowding in New York's
prisons by threatening to sue the Government under a 1990 law requiring it to
take custody of incarcerated illegal aliens as soon as they become eligible for
parole or work release.

The bill does not identify the three closed bases to be converted, but Mr.
Schumer said he assumed one would be in the region, probably in New York.

New York State, whose prison system is operating at 121 percent of capacity,
calculates that at least 1,452, or 2.5 percent, of its 58,598 inmates are
illegal aliens.

Mr. Schumer said the Immigration and Naturalization Service had not determined
the status of another 2,500 inmates in New York prisons and that 7,083 are
foreign born, most of whom face deportation upon release. But many are likely to
be paroled onto the streets because the immigration service, with its
overcrowded detention centers, cannot take them into custody.

New York officials said at least 753 inmates in state custody currently meet the
criteria to be transferred into Federal custody: they are illegal aliens
convicted of an aggravated felony and eligible for parole or work release.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 17, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Seeks to Stem Flow of Illegal Aliens and Drugs

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The United States Border Patrol and Navy Seabees have begun work
on reinforcing a seven-mile strip of fencing along the border between San Diego
and Tijuana, Mexico, in an attempt to stem the flow ofdrugs and undocumented
immigrants into the United States. A forklift positioned a thick steel "landing
mat," used by the military to construct temporary airfields, along a portion of
the fence. (Reuters)

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 27, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Another Kind of Peace Dividend?

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 302 words


Peace is breaking out in Central America -and maybe north of the border, too.

Four years ago, President Reagan warned that the Sandinistas in Nicaragua were
consolidating ''a privileged sanctuary for terrorists and subversives just two
days' driving time from Harlingen, Texas.'' Mr. Reagan's histrionic threat of
invasion never materialized. Now, as Nicaragua's democratically elected
President, Violeta Barrios de Chamorro, is taking office in Managua, Border
Patrol stations near Harlingen and San Diego are reporting something like the
opposite: fewer undocumented immigrants from Central America.

O.T.M.'s, they're called, ''other than Mexicans.'' In Texas and California, the
vast majority of them come from Central America. Arrests of O.T.M.'s dropped by
50 percent in Harlingen and 43 percent in San Diego, comparing the first three
months of 1990 and 1989. This reverses a three-year pattern in which O.T.M.
arrests increased steeply. By contrast, apprehensions of Mexicans in the San
Diego area increased by more than 60 percent in the first three months of 1990.

What accounts for the drop in non-Mexican arrests? The obvious speculative
interpretation is that the border is a barometer of political violence and
economic stress to the South. It may well be that Nicaraguans otherwise inclined
to flee are now staying home to test the fruits of peace.

Political violence robs ''the slim waist of the Americas,'' as the
Nicaraguan-born poet Ruben Dario lovingly called his home, of its greatest
resource, its people. Refugees from El Salvador and Guatemala, where war and
death squad violence drag on, also dream of the day they can return to their
villages. If the O.T.M. pattern continues, diminished illegal immigration from
Central America will be another, welcome kind of peace dividend.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 12, 1991, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Army Building 6-Mile Fence to Halt Mexican Smugglers

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 289 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Oct. 11 (AP)


Army reservists are building a 10-foot-high steel-panel fence near a border
checkpoint at Otay Mesa, Calif., in the hope that it will shut down close off a
popular route for smugglers who are bringing drugs and illegal aliens into the
United States from Mexico.

The fence, which started going up Thursday, will eventually stretch six miles
east from the checkpoint and will run parallel to a road on the Mexican side
that leads to an airport in Tijuana.

The fence, being built at the behest of the United States Border Patrol,
replaces strands of cable that have been torn down in many places by drivers of
vehicles entering the United States illegally. The material being used is
military surplus, and the builders are welders provided by the Defense
Department. There is no timetable for completion, said Gustavo De La Vina, chief
of the Border Patrol's San Diego office.

Other Fence Effective

A similar fence, five miles long, was recently built west of a checkpoint on
Interstate 5 at San Ysidro, Calif., which is about three miles west of the Otay
Mesa checkpoint. That fence has proved effective in helping the Border Patrol
arrest illegal immigrants, since they can now cross around San Ysidro only at
points where they are easily seized, Government agents say.

The barrier near San Ysidro has engendered resentment among some Mexican
officials, who have portrayed its construction as an "unneighborly act." But the
Otay Mesa fence is aimed largely at smugglers, many of whom cross the border in
vehicles.

Steve Kean, a spokesman for the Border Patrol, said its agents were able to stop
only 31 of 905 vehicles that they spotted crossing illegally near Otay Mesa in
the 12 months ended Sept. 30.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 19, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Motor-Vehicle Employees Charged in Fake-ID Ring

BYLINE: By RONALD SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 637 words


About 40 employees of the New York State Department of Motor Vehicles have been
arrested and charged with selling at least 700 fake driver's licenses and other
documents, many of them to illegal aliens, Federal authorities in Manhattan said
yesterday.

The United States Attorney, Otto G. Obermaier, said that an 18-month
investigation had smashed a loosely organized ring of state workers and others.
In all, 57 people were charged with fraud, bribery and trafficking in false
documents, including driver's licenses, registrations, learner's permits and
other Department of Motor Vehicle documents.

Law-enforcement officials said the arrests constituted one of the biggest
roundups of public employees on corruption charges in recent memory.

Raids and Searches

In a series of raids, city police officers and investigators from the United
States Attorney's office, the Bronx District Attorney's office, and the office
of the Inspector General of the Department of Motor Vehicles descended on four
motor vehicle offices in the city -- two in Manhattan, one in the Bronx and one
in Brooklyn.  At the same time, several suspects' homes or businesses were
searched.

At the state motor vehicle branch office at 2265 East Tremont Avenue in the
Bronx early yesterday morning, about 100 patrons were startled and some ducked
for cover when nearly 20 law-enforcement officers wearing bulletproof vests and
carrying shotguns swooped in and arrested eight employees.

All of the suspects were to be arraigned later before United States magistrate
judges.

At a news conference, Mr. Obermaier said the investigation uncovered a large
underground market in the city for false motor vehicle ID's. He said the network
was based on the cooperation of corrupt motor vehicle employees and others in a
loose-knit gang that "engaged in a systematic pattern of corrupt transactions."

Each ring member had a specific role. For instance, he said, some were "runners"
who funneled bribes to state employees.

Cost: Up to $1,000

Mr. Obermaier said individual ID's cost anywhere from $250 to $1,000. The
purchasers included illegal aliens, scofflaws cited for motor-vehicle
violations, convicted criminals seeking to change their identities, and others
who could not get the documents legally.

The heavy demand for the ID's stemmed, he said, from the wide acceptance given
to them by the police, department stores, banks, credit card companies and other
institutions.

For example, the police rely on driver's licenses to determine identity,
residence and criminal histories, while government agencies use them to trace
public benefit payments.

The conspiracy, law-enforcement officials said, relied on motor vehicle
employees who had access to computers, ID supplies, official documents and
validating stamps. They said the employees also had to know how to circumvent
internal controls and security measures.

Mr. Obermaier said the investigation involved the use of undercover police
officers, informers, and videotape and audio surveillance.

Widespread Thefts

Although Mr. Obermaier did not disclose what set off the investigation, other
officials said it was in response to widespread thefts in every motor vehicle
office in the city.

For example, a number of document-validating machines were stolen, and officials
said false documents recovered by the police were traced to the stolen machines.

Thousands of blank driver's licenses and other documents were also stolen from
the offices. Mr. Obermaier said more than 1,200 vehicle registrations were
stolen from the Harlem branch in a single theft, and 232 blank driver's licenses
were stolen from the Bronx.

In July 1990, the authorities said, about 900 vehicle registrations were stolen
from the department office at 40 Centre Street in Manhattan.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 28, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. SEIZES YACHT CARRYING 85 ALIENS

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 538 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 27


A yacht carrying 85 people from the People's Republic of China was seized this
week by Federal authorities, who said the people were apparently being smuggled
into the United States.

It was the fourth time in six months that officials have reported capturing a
large group of illegal Chinese immigrants who had crossed the Pacific Ocean
aboard a Taiwanese fishing vessel.

Coast Guard officers and immigration agents boarded the 57-foot yacht Liberated
Lady in United States waters near Los Angeles on Tuesday and found the vessel
packed with human cargo.

"It was deplorable," said Robert M. Moschorak, regional director of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. "They were literally stuck in every nook
and cranny."

He said the aliens may have been at sea for months.

16 Men Arrested

A few hours after stopping the yacht, the Coast Guard intercepted a Taiwanese
fishing trawler that the authorities believe transported the aliens across the
ocean before transferring them to the Liberated Lady.

Sixteen men aboard the two vessels were arrested and face criminal charges. The
men, who remain in prison, could not be reached for comment. Mr. Moschorak would
not say whether they are believed to part of a larger alien smuggling operation.

Interviews with the aliens disclosed that they were to be taken to New York
City, where work awaited them, Mr. Moschorak said. He declined to say whether
officials had identified any of the prospective employers.

Mr. Moschorak said the 85 people on the yacht were the fourth large group of
illegal Chinese aliens to be caught in the United States since September, when
immigration officials found 135 Chinese aliens being held by smugglers in a
house in a Los Angeles suburb. Two smaller groups were later caught off the
coast of Hawaii.

The cases were unprecedented, in terms of both the numbers of aliens and the
amount of money involved, Mr. Moschorak said. "Some of the fees paid to the
smugglers are as much as $25,000" a person, he said. "As long as people have
that kind of money to offer, there's going to be someone who's willing to do the
smuggling."

In the most recent case, the immigration service and the Coast Guard put the
Liberated Lady under surveillance three weeks ago, when a group of Asian men
bought it for $70,000 in cash.

The authorities say the boat picked up the aliens on Monday in a rendezvous with
the Jinn Yin No. 1, a 150-foot Taiwanese trawler, 300 miles southwest of Los
Angeles. The Coast Guard seized the smaller vessel when it re-entered United
States waters, and caught the trawler in international waters about 400 miles
offshore.

Mr. Moschorak said the citizenship and immigration status of the six-man crew of
the yacht, including five ethnic Vietnamese and one ethnic Chinese, had not been
determined. The entire 10-man crew of the trawler is believed to be from Taiwan.

The 16 crew members, who have not yet been indicted or arraigned, could face 85
counts of illegally bringing an alien into the country. Each count carries a
penalty of up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine.

Some of the aliens will be held for a time as witnesses in the criminal case,
but all 85 will eventually be returned to China.

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 21, 1992, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Chinese Smugglers' Lucrative Cargo: Humans

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1189 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 20


In growing numbers, ships from mainland China are sailing toward America, their
holds packed with a frightened and seasick human cargo destined mostly for labor
in the restaurants and sweatshops of New York's Chinatown.

Five ships carrying a total of about 600 people have been discovered since
January and as many as nine more are being monitored now as they head for Los
Angeles, said Bruce J. Nicholl, an official at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Washington.

The new tactic represents a major expansion of the far-flung smuggling networks
that for years have brought small groups of Chinese laborers to the United
States through Canada and Central America.

International Chinese crime syndicates, many with roots in ancient secret
societies called triads or tongs, have begun to add their resources and muscle
to the enterprise of human smuggling, Mr. Nicholl said.

The immigration service is barely keeping pace, and even in cases where
immigrants are caught here they often are released pending hearings, or for lack
of detention centers, and simply disappear into an underworld of forced labor,
drug dealing and crime.

"This is kind of 19th-century stuff now where the tongs are not just shipping
illegals but trafficking in people as human slaves," said Peter Kwong, a
professor of political science at the State University of New York College at
Old Westbury.

For a price of $25,000 to $30,000, part of which goes to bribe Chinese
officials, poor farmers and laborers from southern China are following earlier
immigrants in search of prosperity in America. And like their predecessors who
helped build the nation's railroads, most are destined for years of servitude as
they labor to pay off the cost of their passage.

"Most of them end up in pretty squalid conditions as indentured servants in
restaurants and packing houses and garment factories," said Mr. Nicholl, who is
the immigration service's expert on Chinese smuggling. Others "can end up
actually enslaved to the triads as prostitutes or enforcers or drug runners or
pickpockets."

He said as many as 25,000 Chinese have entered the country illegally, mostly
smuggled in by air, in the last three years; the ocean routes appeared to have
been put into operation about a year ago.

Most of the new immigrants come from Fujian, a southern coastal Chinese province
with a history of migration and human smuggling, and most are headed for the
Fujianese enclave of New York's Chinatown, he said.

Kidnapped and Beaten

There, Mr. Kwong said, they are subject to exploitation and to a growing wave of
violence by the syndicates enforcing the repayment of their debts with torture,
kidnapping and sometimes murder.

"Mostly they are handcuffed within an apartment and severely beaten with
anything from claw hammers to sticks," said Lieut. Joseph Pollini of the New
York City Police Department. "They are told they have to pay $10,000 or $15,000
above their original fee, and a lot of drastic things take place."

Just today, he said, the last of eight men was convicted of kidnapping in the
first such incident to have been uncovered, in November 1990. Since then,
arrests have been made in seven similar kidnappings.

Partly because of the violence surrounding the smuggling operations, the
department is forming a new unit to deal with Asian organized crime.

"The tragic thing is that these illegals are so desperate to get money that they
are willing to work at any price," Mr. Kwong said. "So the situation in
Chinatown is that wages are getting lower and lower."

A Fujianese service economy has sprung up in New York, including "travel
agencies" that help coordinate contacts and payoffs to the smugglers.

"I heard of one woman on East Broadway who emptied her village, which was about
2,000 people," Mr. Kwong said, "and she was not the only one doing that."

The Fujianese are known as tough and hard-working, he said, and those who have
paid off their debts after several years of labor are beginning to enjoy the
rewards of their rough passage by opening Chinese takeout restaurants, mainly in
poor areas of New York City.

Dreams of Success

Dreams of such success inspired the 84 men packed for 50 days into the fetid
hold of the 150-foot Taiwan-registered trawler Jinn Yin No. 1, which was seized
off the California coast last month.

"It was my goal and my dream to come to the United States," said G. Ling, a
22-year-old student who comes from a family of truck drivers and who is now
being held at an immigration service detention center in Long Beach pending a
hearing on his status. "But we suffered so much: so crowded, so cold in the
ship, not enough food, no water to drink, no place to wash."

C. Chen, 31, a professional diver who, like Mr. Ling, declined to give his full
name, said the terrified passengers wept, prayed and vomited as the rusting
boat, with its crew of seven, struggled through a typhoon and survived two
fires.

He said many people from his grandparents' village near the Fujianese city of
Fuzhou had come to America and prospered and that some of these had returned
home for visits, tempting others to follow with stories of prosperity.

"Since the day I was born I wanted to come to America," Mr. Chen said, speaking
through an interpreter. "We wanted to apply to the United States government to
come the legal way, but too many people want to come. With so many people in
China how long would it take us? The rest of our lives?"

In 1990, the most recent year for which figures are available, 31,800 people
succeeded in immigrating legally to the United States from mainland China,
putting that country in sixth place as a source of legal immigration.

Gu Kechen, a 21-year-old carpenter, said he had made a $2,500 down payment in
China and that relatives in New York had guaranteed the balance of his $25,000
passage. "I don't know how I will pay them back," he said.  "The important thing
was to get to America."

Though they are now subject to deportation, the men under detention here still
stand a chance of completing their journey to New York. Many will be released on
bond either because of overcrowding at detention centers or because they apply
for political asylum, officials and immigration lawyers said. When that happens,
the chances are that they will simply disappear.

The results are hundreds of millions of dollars in profits for the traffickers,
who operate what Mr. Nicholl called "the most sophisticated and largest and most
expensive smuggling operation that exists in the world today."

As of last year, he said, "We have identified as many as 30 different smuggling
routes coming into the United States."

People who cannot pay the full price for passage, Mr. Kwong said, sometimes
travel as couriers on a drug-smuggling run from Fujian through Burma and
Thailand, with stops in Latin America.

"Every time we get a handle on what they are doing and how they are doing it,
things change," Mr. Nicholl said.  When the first shipload was captured off Los
Angeles last September with 118 smuggled passengers, he said, "We were sort of
in a state of shock."

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gu Kechen of China, caught illegally entering the United
States, at a detention center in Los Angeles. (Gary Moss/Outline for The New
York Times)(pg. 1); Three unidentified Chinese aliens being held at a detention
center in Los Angeles are among a growing number of aliens that are being
smuggled by ship from mainland China. They had been destined mostly for labor in
the restaurants and sweatshops of Chinatown in New York City. (Gary Moss/Outline
for The New York Times)(pg. 7)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 15, 1991, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

U.N. Group in Hong Kong Taken To Task on Advice to Boat People

BYLINE: By BARBARA BASLER, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 697 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Jan. 14


Responding to complaints from the United Nations refugee agency, the Hong Kong
Government has curtailed the activities of a legal assistance group that has
been advising Vietnamese boat people held in detention camps here.

The action has prompted charges that the United Nations agency is more concerned
with sending refugees back to Vietnam than in looking after their best
interests, the organization's official mission.

The top local official with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees,
Robert Van Leeuwen, confirmed last week that his office had complained to the
Government that lawyers from the group, Legal Aid, were raising "false hopes"
among the thousands of boat people held here.

After the refugee agency's complaints, which were filed in November, a senior
Legal Aid lawyer involved in a successful court challenge that freed 111
Vietnamese from detention was barred from the camps.

Harassment Charged

Relief workers inside the camps said the Government also had barred Legal Aid
from distributing leaflets detailing the legal rights of the boat people and
offering aid, and banned notices signed by two other refugee groups.

In addition, several groups of Vietnamese have complained that after they spoke
with lawyers, they were harassed by camp guards.

"We are outraged at the role the refugee agency has played in having people of
integrity barred from counseling the Vietnamese," said Suzy Comerford, spokesman
for Refugee Concern Hong Kong, an umbrella organization of relief groups here.

She added that the refugee agency, which is officially charged wtih looking
after the thousands of refugees here, "has made numerous complaints and
accusations about groups and individuals disrupting the camps.

They are no longer an advocate," she said. "They have taken on the role of judge
and jury."

Arthur C. Helton, director of the Refugee Project of the Lawyers Committee for
Human Rights in New York, who also condemned the refugee agency's action, said
during a recent visit here that "it is a terribly cynical argument to suggest
that people should not be given information or access to redress, in order to
keep their expectations low."

No Lawyers Pinpointed

Mr. Van Leeuwen told reporters that he had never pinpointed any lawyers
specifically, but he acknowledged that the refugee agency had filed complaints
about Legal Aid and asked that action be taken. He added that it had also
"requested that action be taken to address a number of problems of this kind in
the camps."

He said what his agency objected to was raising "false hopes" of resettlement
because it prevented the Vietnamese "from exercising the real decisions of what
to do with their lives."

He added that all Vietnamese inside the camps "are entitled to unhindered access
to legal assistance," noting that his agency had 10 legal consultants at
present.

Recently, Mr. Van Leeuwen said that the refugee agency's repatriation programs,
which encourage boat people to voluntarily return home, were being ignored by
many who were pinning new hopes on legal challenges to the screening process.

John Torgrimson, director of Community and Family Services International Hong
Kong, a relief group that works in the camps, said the goal of Mr. Van Leeuwen's
agency "is clearly to send people back to Vietnam." That, he added, raises the
question of whom it "is accountable to, who it is really working for."

52,000 in Hong Kong

There are 52,000 Vietnamese boat people in Hong Kong camps and only 8,000 of
them are classified as refugees awaiting resettlement. About 30,000 Vietnamese
are awaiting screening to determine their status, while the remaining 14,000
have already been told they are not eligible for resettlement.

The refugee agency oversees the controversial screening process carried out by
immigration officials, who interview boat peopleand determine which Vietnamese
deserve resettlement as refugees and which will ultimately be forced to return
home.

Currently, nine Vietnamese are challenging the process in court, in a case
mounted by legal rights groups in Britain, the United States and Legal Aid in
Hong Kong.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 23, 1991, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Camps Victimize Vietnamese Boat People

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 382 words


To the Editor:

"Far Fewer Boat People Coming to Hong Kong" (news article, Feb. 7) refers to
Vietnamese television crews being brought to Hong Kong and Thailand to film
difficult living conditions in the Vietnamese refugee camps to discourage
further arrivals of boat people. I have visited these detention camps in Hong
Kong and Thailand. This seemingly innocuous tactic masks serious human rights
violations -- both detain the Vietnamese under harsh and deliberately deprived
circumstances as a deterrent.

Last December, we wrote to Sir David Wilson, Governor of Hong Kong, about the
Vietnamese boat people detained in camps in Hong Kong and to present a sworn
statement by a Vietnamese-American woman who worked recently in several camps.
Her statement gives a detailed account of hardships inflicted on Vietnamese
asylum seekers detained in Hong Kong.

She describes intimidation and neglect of duty, inadequate medical care,
unattended health problems and lack of privacy. Parents struggle in vain to
shield their children from predatory criminals, while guards publicly humiliate
detainees for alleged infractions of camp rules. She describes the grim prison
atmosphere of the camps. Most "have high fences with up to 12 rolls of barbed
wire," and except for "a few smaller camps that have trees, only steel, metal
and concrete surround the detainees." The prisonlike environment is intensified
by severe restrictions on movement in the camps. Asylum seekers must choose fear
of persecution on return to Vietnam or fear of violent encounters, even death,
in the camps.

The onerous character and deterrence rationale of Hong Kong's 1988 detention
policy render it clearly arbitrary. International law prohibits prolonged
arbitrary detention, even by a state that has not acceded to international
instruments that prohibit such mistreatment.

As with every other government, Hong Kong and Thailand are bound by
international law to respect human rights. The woefully inadequate living
conditions in the detention centers reflect a conscious government policy to
deprive Vietnamese asylum seekers of basic dignity. This violation of human
rights must end forthwith.

ARTHUR C. HELTON
Director, Refugee Project, Lawyers - Committee for Human Rights
New York, Feb. 7, 1991

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 17, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The Question of Visas For Immigrant Workers

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 17; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 156 words


The article about Turkish immigrants at gasoline stations was a nice piece, in
capsulized form, reflecting the involvement of some of my countrymen with the
oil business on Long Island.

I would take exception, however, to the inclusion of a view attributed to me
concerning these immigrants' visa status based on a telephone interview with me.
At no time did I remark on these Turks' passports or refer to them as "illegal"
immigrants. Furthermore, since our talk focused primarily on their work,
employers, training, etc., I strongly feel that any comments I may have made
with regard to visas were taken out of context.

To say that most of these gasoline station workers are here illegally is not
only inaccurate and misleading, but also does a disservice to the many honest
hard-working Turks employed on Long Island and throughout the New York region.

DOGAN ULUC
Turkish Publishing And Marketing Inc.
New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 29, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Major Immigration Bill Is Sent to Bush

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1037 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 28


Congress has passed a major immigration bill that would increase legal permanent
immigration to the United States by more than 35 percent, and White House
officials said today that President Bush was eager to sign the measure.

The most notable feature of the bill is that it requires the State Department to
admit more immigrants with job skills needed in the United States, a step long
favored by free-market economists.

The number of visas granted on the basis of job skills, to workers and their
relatives, would more than double, to 140,000 a year from 54,000.

But the increase implies no reduction in the number of immigrants admitted on
the basis of family relationships. The number of such "family-sponsored
immigrants," now 436,000 a year, would increase to 465,000 a year through Sept.
30, 1994, and would then rise to 480,000.

Section Defeated by Hispanics

Under the bill, total immigration to the United States would initially increase
40 percent, to 700,000 from the current level of about 500,000. The ceiling
would drop to 675,000 in 1995.

Those figures do not include refugees, who are admitted to the United States
after showing "a well-founded fear of persecution" in their homelands. Mr. Bush
has authorized the admission of up to 131,000 refugees in the current fiscal
year, up from 125,000 last year.

The landmark immigration bill was passed late Saturday, a few hours before the
101st Congress ended. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus staged a brief revolt
and forced the bill's sponsors to remove a section permitting several states to
test more secure means of identification. Hispanic-American groups generally
oppose the idea of a national identification card and resist any step that might
lead to such a document.

Representative Bruce A. Morrison, Democrat of Connecticut, chief sponsor of the
legislation in the House, said that Republicans who wanted to test the use of
more secure identification documents quickly agreed to drop that section of the
bill.

Worker Shortages Expected

After complaining about an earlier version of the bill, which would have allowed
higher immigration levels, the White House threw its support behind the
legislation in the last few weeks.

The President's top domestic policy adviser, Roger B. Porter, said the
Administration "strongly supports" the compromise measure because it would help
relieve labor shortages and would contribute to economic growth in the 1990's.

Michael J. Boskin, chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers,
said: "Numerous studies suggest that the long-run benefits of immigration
greatly exceed any short-run costs. With projections of a rising demand for
skilled workers in coming years, the nation can achieve even greater benefits
from immigration by augmenting the traditional emphasis on family reunification
with policies designed to increase the number of skilled immigrants."

Lawmakers said immigrants could, for example, fill job openings for scientists,
engineers, computer specialists, nurses and medical technicians. Many Government
and private researchers have concluded that there will be labor shortages in
such areas in the 1990's. They see immigration -- the admission of permanent
immigrants, not temporary workers -- as a way to correct the mismatch between
labor supply and demand.

Two Groups Singled Out

Hispanic groups support a section of the bill that provides 55,000 visas in each
of the next three years for spouses and children of aliens who gained legal
status under a 1986 law.

Another part of the bill, strongly supported by Senator Edward M. Kennedy,
Democrat of Massachusetts, would make available up to 16,000 visas in each of
the next three years for Irish citizens.

Some critics, including Doris M. Meissner, a senior associate at the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace, say such provisions are reminiscent of
"national origins" quotas that discriminated in favor of white Europeans. But
Mr. Kennedy said the provisions were justified to increase the diversity of
immigration.

"We are trying to level the playing field," Mr. Kennedy said, noting that eight
countries now receive 52 percent of all immigrant visas.

Influence of Immigrants

Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean now account for most legal immigration to
the United States. Europe, which dominated such immigration from colonial times
to the 1950's, now accounts for a small share of the total.

The selection criteria are important because immigration is expected to account
for a growing proportion of the United States' population growth in the next two
decades. The Census Bureau says that the proportion, now 27 percent, would rise
to 35 percent by the year 2005 if current trends continue.

The House approved the immigration bill by a vote of 264 to 118. The margin in
the Senate was 89 to 8.

The bill ranks in importance with the Quota Act of 1921, which established the
first numerical restrictions on immigration, and the Immigration and Nationality
Act of 1952, the McCarran-Walter Act, which listed dozens of ideological and
other reasons for excluding aliens. The new measure was described by its
sponsors as a logical companion to the Immigration Reform and Control Act of
1986, which outlawed the hiring of illegal aliens, but made only a few small
changes in legal immigration.

Salvadorans Protected

Representative E. (Kika) de la Garza, Democrat of Texas, said he voted against
the 1986 measure, but for the bill on Saturday. "It's as good a bill as we could
have had," he said today in an interview.

Under the bill, Salvadorans already in the United States could stay in a
"special temporary protected status" through June 30, 1992, after which the
Attorney General could extend their stay. They would have to register with the
Federal Government. Salvadorans and their advocates have long argued that it was
unsafe for Salvadorans to return home because of the civil war in their country.

The bill also gives the Attorney General explicit new authority to offer a
"temporary protected status" to certain aliens from countries where there has
been an earthquake, flood, drought, epidemic or "other environmental disaster."

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 4, 1990, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

For Immigrants, Fake Documents Are Easy to Come By

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The use of fraudulent documents by illegal aliens to get jobs,
circumventing the 1986 immigration law, is a matter of increasing concern to
immigration officials. In Los Angeles, three Mexicans hold counterfeit ''green
cards'' and Social Security cards; behind them is a picture of the Virgin of
Guadalupe. Page 8. (Bart Bartholomew for The New York Times)

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 27, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Give Me, Also, Your Skilled

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 553 words


America is about to enhance its reputation as a nation of immigrants, and not
just for tired, huddled masses. Legislation moving through Congress would
increase the number of immigrants, making it easier for families to unite and
for businesses to recruit skilled workers. This first major overhaul of legal
immigration in 25 years would be as welcome as it is overdue.

America's willingness to admit foreigners has always been influenced by economic
conditions and occasional xenophobia. From the 1920's to 1965, a
national-origins quota system favored immigrants from northwestern Europe. In a
1965 reform, Congress gave more favorable treatment to immigrants from Asia and
the Western Hemisphere.

Still, the vast majority of immigrants could qualify for admission only on the
basis of their relationship to people already resident in the United States.
Potential immigrants with needed skills had a hard time competing for entry with
sons, daughters, brothers and sisters.

Now, America realizes how much it needs such skills, let alone the ambition and
energy of the immigrants who possess them. Global competition and a decline in
American work-force skills have prompted Congress to pay more attention to the
needs of the economy.

A bill passed by the Senate last year would establish one immigration category
for family members and one for independents, mostly workers. Under this bill,
sponsored by Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts and Alan Simpson of Wyoming, about
630,000 immigrants would be allowed to enter each year, about 136,000 more than
entered in 1988. Of the total, 480,000 would qualify under various family
preferences; 150,000 would be admitted as independents.

For the first time, about a third of these work-based immigrants would be
admitted without specific jobs but with specific skills needed in the U.S. That
would be the same number of immigrants -54,000 - now admitted under sponsorship
by specific employers.

In the House, a bill sponsored by Bruce Morrison of Connecticut is likely to
reach the floor soon. It would allow up to 775,000 legal immigrants each year,
including 520,000 for family members and 75,000 for skilled workers. The House
bill also would admit about 55,000 ''diversity'' immigrants a year from areas
that have not obtained many visas in recent years, like Ireland and Africa.

The House bill also contains a more troublesome provision that smacks of the
old-time fear of foreigners. The bill would impose a fee, $500 to $1,000, on
companies with 50 or more employees, for each foreign worker they hired. The
money would be placed in a trust fund to retrain American workers. Unions defend
the fund as reasonable social policy, particularly if a portion is targeted for
women and minorities.

But there is little logic and no justice in imposing such a fee only on
companies that can efficiently use new workers. There may be good reason for
America to retrain workers, whether displaced by new machines, new products or
new workers. If so, the retraining cost ought fairly to be borne by all. To load
it all on a few industries with a $500 head tax is unfair, even punitive.

There will be time to iron out such differences. For the moment, it's enough to
celebrate the recognition by Congress that skilled immigrants offer the economy
new energy and hope.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 3, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Bill Adds Few Skilled Workers

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20, Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 472 words


Even the modest increase you cite in the number of people who come here on
skills-based criteria may be misleading. Of the 188,000 people you estimate
would be admitted for their skills, 25,000 visas would go to applicants in the
pipeline to clear out backlogs. After four years, those visas would be
eliminated. Beginning in 1996, only 65,000 people would be admitted annually
based on merit. The remaining skills-based visas would actually go to the
dependents of the 65,000 skilled workers, who may or may not be skilled
themselves.

Thus, for all the hype, the actual number of skills-based immigrants admitted
under the Morrison bill would increase from 53,607 in 1988 to 65,000 a year in
1996, while overall immigration numbers would jump from about 500,000 annually
to (a very conservative estimate of) 775,000 a year. The practical result of
this ''skilled immigration'' law would actually be to reduce the ratio of
skills-based to non-skills-based immigrants.

The one practical aspect of the bill, the creation of a fund to train American
workers, you dismiss as unjust and illogical. What is unjust or illogical about
those who realize an immediate benefit from the importation of foreign workers
helping displaced American workers acquire the skills to compete in today's
labor market?

If Congress believes that skilled immigration is important to this country, it
should present the American people with a balanced bill that gives preference to
people with needed skills, not a special-interest amnesty pork barrel that
includes a few additional merit-based visas as an afterthought.

DAN STEIN
Executive Director, Federation for American Immigration Reform Washington, Aug.
27, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 3, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Bill Adds Few Skilled Workers;
Unskilled Also Needed

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 375 words


Working women, now subject to constant anguish over the near impossibility of
finding adequate care for family members, would be in an even worse situation.
Professional women with demanding schedules will be hardest hit, because
institutional care, when available, often does not meet their needs.

There are constant reports that women will be called upon to take on more highly
skilled and professional jobs, but virtually no mention of who will provide the
support services that allows them to work and have care for their children and
elderly and handicapped family members. Other industries employing low-skilled
labor will also be hard hit and will contract, eliminating jobs for American
workers.

The Department of Labor has calculated that 42 percent to 44 percent of all
applications for employer-sponsored immigration would be eliminated under the
Senate bill. Most of the increase in requests for alien workers is for
low-skilled and unskilled workers, even despite a minimum four-year wait for
them.

Since there were 44,238 applications in fiscal year 1988, 58,242 in fiscal year
1989 and, it is estimated, 46,594 in fiscal year 1990, this means that many
thousands of jobs would go unfilled each year, and American employers would have
no way to fill them. Smaller businesses will be most severely affected, and
perhaps forced to close.

Nearly all studies indicate that immigration is beneficial to our economy and
that immigrants create jobs for Americans, rather than take them away. Our
current policy is much too restrictive and hurts American workers.

CAROLYN ANN KILLEA
Washington, Aug. 15, 1990
The writer is an immigration lawyer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 13, 1990, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

The Golden Door, Ajar

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 300 words


Congress, having transformed the law on illegal immigration in 1986, is on the
verge of another remarkable achievement: the first major reform of legal
immigration in 25 years.

Thanks to an extraordinary coalition of conservatives and liberals, the Senate
and House have passed bills that would make it easier for families to reunite
and for businesses to recruit workers. The bills honor America's history as a
nation of immigrants, while recognizing the need for economic growth.

Under present policy, about 540,000 immigrants enter the country each year.
About 90 percent of them are related to people already residing in the United
States. That leaves about 54,000 slots for skilled workers and their dependents.
If America is to meet global competition, it ought to be easier for the best and
brightest workers to come here.

The House version was more generous. It allowed for 775,000 new immigrants each
year, compared with 630,000 allowed by the Senate bill. Senator Alan Simpson of
Wyoming, however, refused to accept the higher number, and he got both sides to
accept a cap of about 675,000 for the next four years.

Of that total, about 480,000 would qualify under various family preferences;
140,000 would be admitted as independents or skilled workers; 55,000 would be
admitted from regions that are now underrepresented. In addition, procedures for
securing various employment-related visas would be streamlined.

Congress can readjust the numbers in four years and may have to, in order to
keep a growing number of family members from being squeezed out.

This sensible legislation retains the heart of American immigration policy by
stressing family reunification and providing for skilled workers. The House and
Senate deserve credit for keeping America's golden door open.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 23, 1992, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Supreme Court Limits Political Asylum Claims

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1192 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 22


The Supreme Court today narrowed the grounds on which people fleeing service in
foreign armies may qualify for political asylum in the United States.

With its 6-to-3 decision, the Court may have effectively shut the door on
thousands of asylum claims, principally from young men escaping conscription by
guerrilla or government forces in strife-torn countries in Central America and
Asia.

The decision, written by Justice Antonin Scalia, came in the case of a
Guatemalan who fled his village as a teen-ager after two guerrillas, armed with
machine guns, appeared at his parents' home and demanded that he join their
cause.

When he refused, the guerrillas told him to think again and indicated that they
would be back for him. A few months later, United States immigration agents
arrested him after he crossed the Mexican border into Arizona.

Ruling by Appeals Court

The young man, Jairo Elias Zacarias, applied for asylum as a political refugee.
The Immigration and Naturalization Service's determination that he did not
qualify was overturned by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit in San Francisco. In appealing that 1990 ruling to the Supreme Court,
the Bush Administration told the Justices that the appeals court had "opened
eligibility for asylum to every candidate for military service in countries torn
by domestic strife."

In its ruling today, the Court addressed two issues: the scope of the Refugee
Act of 1980, which sets the standards for asylum, and the circumstances under
which a Federal court can set aside an administrative determination that an
applicant is not eligible for asylum.

Justice Scalia's opinion read the statute narrowly and concluded that judges had
no discretion to overturn an administrative refusal to grant asylum in the
absence of "compelling" evidence that "no reasonable fact-finder" could have
failed to grant it.

The Refugee Act authorizes a grant of asylum to a person who demonstrates "a
well-founded fear of persecution on account of race, religion, nationality,
membership in a particular social group, or political opinion." In this case,
the Ninth Circuit found that Mr. Elias had adequately demonstrated a fear of
persecution by the guerrillas "on account of political opinion" because his
resistance to joining their cause was in effect a statement of political opinion
hostile to their own.

Too Loose a Meaning

Justice Scalia said the appeals court had ascribed too loose a meaning to the
phrase "on account of political opinion." In this case, he said, there was no
evidence that Mr. Elias had a political reason for resisting the guerrillas, as
opposed to other reasons that Justice Scalia said might lead a person to refuse
to join a guerrilla army.

In addition, Justice Scalia said, the statute requires an applicant for
political asylum to demonstrate not only the existence of his own political
views but some evidence that he faced persecution because of those views, rather
than some other factor. In this case, Justice Scalia said, Mr. Elias had failed
to show that the guerrillas were likely to persecute him because of his
political views "rather than because of his refusal to fight with them."

Justice Scalia's opinion, Immigration and Naturalization Service v. Elias
Zacarias, No. 90-1342, was joined by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and
Justices Byron R. White, Anthony M. Kennedy, David H. Souter, and Clarence
Thomas.

Justice John Paul Stevens filed a dissenting opinion that was joined by Justices
Harry A. Blackmun and Sandra Day O'Connor. Justice Stevens said the Court had
adopted a "narrow, grudging construction of the concept of political opinion"
that was inconsistent with the Court's past interpretations of the Refugee Act.

Role of Bush Appointees

The ruling demonstrated the impact of the recent changes on the Court. President
Bush's two Supreme Court appointees, Justices Souter and Thomas, both joined
Justice Scalia's majority opinion. The Justices they replaced, William J.
Brennan and Thurgood Marshall, would have almost certainly seen this case
through the eyes of the dissenters, and the Court would have upheld the appeals
court.

The outcome also demonstrates the growing popularity in the Court of Justice
Scalia's approach to interpreting statutes according to the "plain meaning" of
the words they contain rather than by reference to a wider context, including
the intent of Congress. Previous Supreme Court decisions on the Refugee Act, by
contrast, had examined the 1980 law in light of the desire of Congress to bring
United States refugee law in line with a 1967 United Nations protocol that
defined political refugee status more broadly.

Thousands of Cases Affected

Mr. Elias is now subject to deportation to Guatemala. There are no exact figures
on how many cases the ruling today will affect, but immigration lawyers said the
number was most likely in the thousands.

More than 100,000 petitions for asylum are now pending. Arthur C. Helton, a
specialist in refugee law who filed a Supreme Court brief on behalf of Mr. Elias
for the Lawyers Committee on Human Rights, said perhaps as many as one-quarter
of those requests come from people fleeing forced conscription. "We fear that
many true refugees will be deprived of protection," he said.

On the basis of today's ruling, the Court is likely to overturn another Ninth
Circuit decision that the Administration has also appealed. In that case, I.N.S.
v. Canas-Segovia, No. 90-1246, the appeals court found that two brothers from El
Salvador, both Jehovah's Witnesses, were eligible for asylum on both political
and religious grounds because they faced prosecution for resisting the draft.
Jehovah's Witnesses are barred by the tenets of their religion from serving in
the military, and El Salvador does not grant conscientious objector status.

In its appeal, the Administration is arguing that because the brothers face
prosecution under a general law that applies to all violators, they have not
demonstrated a fear of persecution "on account of" their political or religious
beliefs.

In recent years, Guatemala and El Salvador have produced two of the biggest
groups of asylum seekers. Hostilities between the Government and guerrilla
forces in El Salvador were formally concluded last week, a fact that almost
surely would have made political asylum difficult for Salvadorans to obtain even
under the Ninth Circuit's approach that the Court rejected today.

But Guatemala remains the site of Latin America's longest-running civil war, and
forced conscription by both the Government and guerrilla forces continues. In
the 1980's, before the Soviet Union withdrew from Afghanistan, Afghans were
readily granted asylum in the United States because of their refusal to join the
Soviet-backed Afghan army.

In a second ruling today, the Court struck down an Oklahoma law that required
coal-fired electric generating plants in the state to burn a mixture of coal at
least 10 percent of which was mined in Oklahoma. The Court ruled 6 to 3, in an
opinion by Justice White, that the law discriminated against interstate
commerce.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 25, 1992, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

From Russia with Hope: In America to Stay - A special report;
Seeking Shelter in U.S. After the Soviet Storm

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 2383 words


The scene is familiar. Immigrants are crowded onto cots in the back rooms of a
church in Los Angeles. But these are not Latin Americans escaping poverty and
civil war. They are penniless Russians, members of a new wave of underground
immigrants to the United States.

Sheltered under the gold domes of the Protection of the Holy Virgin, a Russian
Orthodox church in Hollywood, are what might pass for a cross section of Russian
society: a jeweler, an actress, a merchant seaman, a would-be fashion model, a
Soviet Army deserter and a mother who fled with her three children from an
outbreak of ethnic violence.

Just two or three years ago, only a carefully regulated flow of mostly Jewish
emigrants were allowed to move to the United States from the Soviet Union.
Visits were limited to a trickle of academic and cultural exchanges. But the end
of the cold war and the disintegration of the Soviet Union have brought tens of
thousands of tourists, businessmen, students, writers, athletes and government
representatives from the former Soviet lands.

'Much Richer Cross Section'

Most visitors from the former Soviet Union come to the United States legally,
but a growing number of them, like the people who have taken shelter in the Los
Angeles church, are going underground when their visas expire. One estimate puts
their number at 30,000. But whether they are here legally or not, the
immigrants' interaction with American society has helped to change long-held
cold war suspicions and prejudices.

"It's quite a shocking difference in the types of people who are coming, just a
much richer cross section," said Gregory Guroff, a Soviet expert at the United
States Information Agency. "And I think there is a personal reaction: here you
have people coming from what has been the enemy and the other superpower, and
these people are coming here penniless."

Irina Paliashvili, a lawyer from Ukraine who has recently completed an exchange
program with a law firm in Chicago, looked at herself through American eyes and
said: "We used to be so uniform. Meeting one Soviet was like meeting another.
Now each person has his own views and his own agenda."

One bureaucratic detail seems to symbolize the topsy-turvy nature of the changed
Soviet-American relationship. In the past, when a Soviet citizen wished to
travel abroad, his Government forced him to leave behind a close family member
to help insure his return. Now it is American consular officials in Moscow who
often require that a family member be left behind as proof that a tourist does
not intend to overstay his visa.

The Soviet Embassy once tried to keep a careful eye on every one of its citizens
in America. Now it has has all but given up.

"It is hard to keep track of all these people because there are just so many of
them," said Andrei Rogov, an attache at the consulate in San Francisco.

Fleeing Home
Flood Unleashed By the Kremlin

Since late 1988, when the Kremlin began to relax emigration restrictions,
hundreds of thousands of people have flooded into Europe and the United States
from the territory of the former Soviet Union.

The number of non-immigrant visas to this country for most types of temporary
visits climbed to more than 100,000 in each of the last two years. In October,
11,732 Soviet citizens received non-immigrant visas, almost as many as the
12,028 who received them for all of 1987.

Among these visitors are students, researchers and other academics who come here
on exchanges. There were only 60 of these in the 1986-87 academic year. The
1990-91 figure was 2,811.

Immigrant visas, primarily for family reunification, nearly doubled to 1,374 in
1990 from 782 in 1987.

In addition, the United States continues to offer refugee status to members of
certain groups judged to be oppressed. Under this longstanding program, 61,000
people were offered entry in 1991. Most of these are Soviet Jews. The waiting
list for these visas has grown to about 500,000.

The First Three Waves

The Jews have long been considered the third wave of Soviet emigrants; the first
wave came after the Russian Revolution in 1917 and the second after World War
II. The new exodus is beginning to be called the fourth wave.

A striking set of figures characterizing this wave is the one showing how many
arrive legally, mostly as tourists, then overstay their visas and apply for
political asylum. The Immigration and Naturalization Service says that only 90
people applied for tourist visas in 1988, but the number jumped to 1,043 in
1990. And in just the first half of 1991, that number nearly doubled, to 1,891.

Mark Popovsky, a journalist with the Russian-language newspaper Novoye Russkoye
Slovo in New York, who has written extensively about the phenomenon, estimates
that there may be 30,000 illegal immigrants from the former Soviet Union who had
not applied for asylum.

That figure seems certain to grow because the number of people leaving the
former Soviet republics, already at an all-time high, will increase in the
coming years even if conditions in that region improve, according to a recent
study by the Rand Corporation, a research center in Santa Monica, Calif.

Settling In
Taking Advantage Of Old Contacts

Sergei N. Khrushchev, the 56-year-old son of the former Soviet leader, seemed
almost surprised when asked why he chose to do historical research at Brown
University rather than at home in Moscow.

"If one has a choice between working in the best circumstances or the worst
circumstances, one will of course choose the best circumstances," he said.

He said that as soon as he was permitted to, in 1989, he traveled to the United
States for the first time since he visited with his father when he was Prime
Minister in 1959. Now he is comfortably settled here on a one-year fellowship
and says he is not certain when he will return home.

Mr. Khrushchev is one of many prominent figures who have traded on their
contacts with American officials to find niches at universities and research
centers in the United States.

The Politically Unemployed

Among them are Genrikh Trofimenko, a former analyst at the Institute of the
United States and Canada; Fyodor A. Burlatsky, former editor of Literaturnaya
Gazeta, an influential Moscow weekly; Roald Sagdeyev, former head of the Space
Research Institute in Moscow, and Sergo Mikoyan, former editor of the journal
Latin America whose father, Anastas I. Mikoyan, was a Soviet head of state.

These are the people Anthony Richter, executive director of the Soros
Foundation-Soviet Union, calls the politically unemployed: prominent figures who
have been left behind by the fast-changing politics of their land.

"Essentially, you have a giant corporation, which is the Soviet Government,
which is in Chapter 11," Mr. Richter said. "All the top executives are either on
the market for a Russian Republic position, or being picked up as consultants by
Western businesses and think tanks."

One such man is Vitaly Korotich, former editor of the magazine Ogonyok, who is
now a visiting professor of journalism at Boston University. "I think my
generation, the men of the 1960's, including Gorbachev and Yeltsin and others,
has fulfilled its historical task," he said in explaining his move to America.
"Now it is time for us to free the way for the next generation."

Trading Places
Chances to Study American Ways

A rapid expansion of exchange programs is bringing to America everyone from rock
musicians catching up on West Coast trends to environmentalists attending
workshops in Pennsylvania to microbiologists working on a joint project at
Columbia University to an Estonian photographer studying at the International
Center of Photography in Manhattan.

One illustration of the hunger for American expertise and perspective is a
program that offers internships to young lawyers intent on creating legal
systems for the Commonwealth of Independent States, successor of the Soviet
Union.

Miss Paliashvili, the lawyer who worked in Chicago, said that in view of "all
these national fights and all these tragic events" back at home, "it's very hard
to cool down our emotions and take a reasonable and practical pragmatic
approach."

"That's why we need your help in America," said Miss Paliashvili, an ethnic
Georgian. "We need somebody who can give a kind of look from the side and see
things from a long-term perspective."

Another law intern is Yelena Barikhnovskaya, 37, who recently completed a
six-month stint with the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights in New York and now
plans to found a similar organization in her home city, St. Petersburg.

'What Kind of Changes?'

"Our legal system does not work, and it should have changes," she said. "But
what kind of changes? About this, I am even less clear than I was before,
because I understand that American standards cannot be simply blindly
transferred there."

For example, she said, Russian courts are preparing to introduce an
Anglo-American style jury system in a nation whose people have learned the hard
way not to assert their individual opinions.

"I would not like to be a defendant tried by a jury of Soviet citizens," Miss
Barikhnovskaya said. "They have been brought up in a Communist system. They were
brought up on lies and hypocrisy. They need to be a little bit enlightened first
before they can be responsible for human life."

The number of people making private visits to the United States has also soared
in the last two years. Among them are a small but growing number of Russians and
others who are arriving on business visas. Some have come to learn from large
American companies, while a few others are trying their hand at American-style
entrepreneurship. In addition, people from the former Soviet Union can now apply
directly for admission to American colleges.

The new freedom of travel has produced an increasing number of ordinary human
contacts for people like Olga Kamp, who was visiting on a tourist visa two years
ago, fell in love, married and settled down in Spokane, Wash. Her brother joined
her and is now selling cars in Seattle, and her mother, Nina Bergoltsev,
recently visited from Moscow for Christmas.

Circuses, dance troupes and hockey and basketball stars are also seeking a share
of the American entertainment dollar, joined by former political figures who are
coming not for arms negotiations but for book tours.

Yelena S., who is 28 years old, was a civil judge in Moscow when she came to New
York on a tourist visa last year and decided to stay. Bridling at the
bureaucratic pressures and corruption at home, she was taken with what seemed to
be the broad horizons of life in America.

Now she is working as a housekeeper in Manhattan. "It's really difficult," she
said, speaking on the condition that she not be identified by her last name. "I
try to live. I try."

Getting Help
How Newcomers Are Welcomed

All around her in New York and elsewhere, other members of this fourth wave of
immigration are struggling to live alongside other illegal immigrants from
around the world. Many work as laborers or housemaids and live crowded together
in what amounts to a Russian import: communal apartments.

Among them is the three-member Limpopo band that arrived a year ago with
balalaika, guitar, trombone and tourist visas. And as they play on street
corners, they seem so happy to be here that passers-by sometimes begin to dance
along with them.

For the most part, these new immigrants have not yet had time to put down roots
and achieve the economic success of members of the third wave.

But despite their privations, the clamor to come to America is so great that a
cottage industry has been formed to serve these illegal immigrants just as it
has for other illegal-immigrant groups.

Many Choose Anonymity

Gregory Maizus, an aide to New York State Senator Donald M. Halperin, said
entrepreneurs were selling the personal invitations that are required for exit
permits. Other organizations charge fees for advice on how to apply for
political asylum.

But thousands prefer illegal anonymity, perhaps recognizing that they would fail
the test of "a well-founded fear of persecution." Larissa L., who spends her
days at the church in Los Angeles, said that when she was interviewed by the
immigration service she was asked, "What are you running from?" The interviewer
went on: "You don't have Communism. You don't have the K.G.B. any more." She
also agreed to be interviewed only on condition that her last name not be used.

Zoya Arzamastseva fled with her children and her mother after her husband was
killed in anti-Russian riots in Moldova and now spends most of her days and
nights at the church, uncertain about what she will do next.

Given the fast pace of changes in the former Soviet Union, officials say they
have not yet had to face the question of whether to send people like these back
home. At least one applicant in New York has already received a preliminary
"notice of intent to deny" from the Immigration and Naturalization Service based
on what the letter called "political change in the Soviet Union."

"It's going to be hard to make a case of discrimination against you by
officialdom," said Jack F. Matlock Jr., a former United States Ambassador to
Moscow. "Everybody is having a pretty rough time."

Tsilya Kacheva, a recent immigrant who lives in Philadelphia, is the widow of an
army colonel and, at the age of 74, is as old as the former Soviet Union. She
believed and hoped and suffered through all the hard years of Kremlin rule.

"We didn't understand how badly we lived," she said. "We thought it was the only
way to live." But at last, she said, she gave up.

"We lived through a lot during the war: famine and hardship. But we lived on
hope for a better life. Now we know there is no better life. We have lost our
belief. There is nothing more to believe in."

Hopes Rekindled

America, on the other hand, seems to offer the sense of hope that has been lost
in the collapse of the Soviet empire.

"I would like to stay here two or three years and then try something new --
Africa, China," said Igor Yuzov, the 28-year-old guitarist for Limpopo band, as
he gloried in his new horizons, no longer limited by international boundaries.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Members of the Limpopo band, shown performing recently in Santa
Monica, Calif., arrived from Russia a year ago on tourist visas. (Bart
Bartholomew for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Zoya Arzamastseva, holding her
daughter, Sonja, fled with her family after her husband was killed in
anti-Russian riots in Moldova and now lives above a church in Hollywood. With
her were her mother, Alexandra, daughter, Olga, and son, Eugene. (Bart
Bartholomew for The New York Times); Olga Kamp arrived two years ago on a
tourist visa, fell in love and stayed. With her in Spokane, Wash., was her
husband, Brian, and mother, Nina Bergoltsev. (Jeff Green for The New York
Times)(pg. 7)

Graphs: "Coming to America" shows number migrants immigrating legally from 1982
to 1990, those arriving as vistitors from 1982 to 1991, and those requesting
asylum from 1984 to 1991. (Sources: State Department, Immigramtion and
Naturalization Service)(pg. 7)

TYPE: SPECIAL REPORT

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 29, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Here, Immigrants' Past Is Saved for the Future

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1006 words

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS


No one knew exactly what was inside the four large boxes that had come from Los
Angeles, but they were treated like treasures. Each was a foot high and a foot
wide and covered with gray duct tape that had been carefully wound several times
around to keep safe the secrets inside.

Opened, the boxes revealed a collection of old books, newspapers and manuscripts
from a Ukrainian immigrant community in California. Such deliveries are made
regularly to the small industrial building just off Ellis Avenue here that
houses the Immigration History Research Center at the University of Minnesota.

"We've been entrusted with the heritage of these groups," said Rudolph J.
Vecoli, the center's director.

In these days when multiculturalism stirs heated debates over so many issues
from textbooks to the observance of holidays, the Immigration History Research
Center represents a low-key, academic approach to recognizing that the past has
many faces. Even so, it is not without controversy.

In the 25 years since the center was established, it has become one of the
nation's most comprehensive collections of the immigrant past, used by
researchers and scholars from around the world who come to study the way
European immigrants landed in America and wrought new lives.

Because of the focus of its collection, the center leaves the collection and
documentation of material from Africa, Asia, South America and other parts of
the world to other institutions around the country, like the Balch Institute for
Ethnic Studies in Philadelphia and the University of California at Los Angeles,
which has a center for Japanese-American immigration history.

Professor Vecoli, a teacher of immigration history, said the center's
applications for grant support from major private foundations had been turned
down at least twice because it excludes the history of black, Hispanic and Asian
people. He would not name the foundations because he said that might hurt the
center's chances for receiving grants in the future.

"It is disturbing to hear them say that what we do here has nothing to do with
multiculturalism," he said.

The Minnesota collection now exceeds 4,000 linear feet of manuscripts, 25,000
books and pamphlets and 4,000 newspaper titles from ethnic communities around
the country. Papers spill over shelves 20 feet high filling an old
coffee-packaging plant, and boxes are stacked in every corner. Much of the
collection has not been catalogued, let alone carefully examined.

A staff that ranges in size from 15 to 20 depending on the day of the week and
the time of the year is unable to keep up with the material that constantly
pours in. Each box, like those from Los Angeles, contains a dusty tale that had
once been nearly forgotten. All have been salvaged from basements and attics,
the heartfelt outpourings of people for whom America was a land of magic and
horror.

Among the holdings are the memoirs of Rosa Cassettari, an Italian immigrant at
the turn of the century. "Then we were entering the harbor," she wrote,
describing the one incident that defines all immigrants. " 'Look!' said one of
the paesani. 'Green grass and green trees and white sand -- just like in the old
country!' The others all laughed -- loud, not regular laughs -- so that Pep
wouldn't know that they too had expected things to be different."

Memories of Home

Professor Vecoli said many institutions once considered this kind of material
ephemeral and unworthy of serious study. "They reasoned that the groups would
enter the melting pot and be absorbed quickly," he said. "Much of immigration
history was just lost."

Professor Vecoli has worked at the center since its inception in 1967, and he
has been a professor at the University of Minnesota for just as long. First and
foremost, he sees himself as a guardian of the past, a past he recognizes
firsthand. Born in Wallingford, Conn., of Tuscan emigre parents, Professor
Vecoli lived the life of an immigrant's son.

Italian was spoken in his home, and his parents belonged to a fraternal society,
Libero Pensiero, or Free Thought, that staged performances and was the center of
the Italian community there. The society folded recently, and its records were
shipped to the research center.

An Idea From 1963

Such material was once routinely discarded by major academic institutions, which
before the 1960's were "not being very sensitive to multiculturalism," Professor
Vecoli said.

The Minnesota collection had its origins in a 1963 academic research project
that focused on the various immigrant groups brought to work in the Masabi
Range, an area of northern Minnesota with large iron ore deposits. A few years
later, the university set up a small program to collect immigrant newspapers and
publications.

By then, nearly half a century had passed since the end of the great wave of
European immigration and many documents had been lost. But as the researchers
grew more familiar with the Minnesota ethnic communities, and later others
elsewhere, and spent more time crawling through basements and storerooms for
individual records and the documents of fraternal and social organizations, the
past came back to life.

Now the center is filled with more material than it can properly store, a
collection of the records of simple passions and pursuits that has grown to
cover 24 ethnic groups, mostly from eastern, central and southern Europe, but
also recently from Near Eastern nations. All the back issues of Svoboda, the
Ukrainian-American newspaper, are there, as are the business records of the
Swiss-Italian Sausage Factory in San Francisco.

The center will keep on collecting and preserving whatever comes in, from the
diaries of the Rev. Nicola Odone, an insomniac Italian priest in Minneapolis, to
the life insurance payout records of the South Slavonic Catholic Union, a
Slovenian fraternal organization based in Ely, Minn.

"The whole point of cataloguing all this is that someday it may be of value to
someone," Professor Vecoli said.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A notebook sketch done by the Rev. Nicola Odone, an insomniac
Italian priest in Minneapolis whose diaries are part of the center's collection.
Twenty-four ethnic groups are represented in the records on file; Rudolph J.
Vecoli, director of Immigration History Research Center at University of
Minnesota, examining a paper on European immigration. (Photographs by Steve Woit
for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 9, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Haitians Provide a Test for Disputed Refugee Act

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1148 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Feb. 8


The first Haitians to win temporary asylum in this country have begun arriving
in the New York area, and their accounts of suffering under the Haitian military
Government offer some clues to the way American officials at the Guantanamo
refugee camp are applying the ill-defined and often disputed test of political
persecution under Federal immigration law.

About a third of the boat people interviewed so far at the American Navy base in
Cuba have been granted entry to the United States under a three-month parole
status, while the rest have been returned against their will to Haiti. During
the threemonths, those permitted entry will prepare for additional questioning
to meet the test of the Refugee Act of 1980, which grants asylum to anyone who
can show "a well-founded fear of persecution on account of race, religion,
nationality, membership in a particular social group or political opinion."

Many civil liberties groups, as well as the United States Catholic Conference,
have called this test unfairly vague and unresponsive to the climate of
repression and random violence many Haitians are reporting on the island. These
groups have protested the forced repatriation of Haitians who failed to meet
that test in interviews with officials at the Guantanamo tent camp.

Legislation has been introduced in Congress to suspend the forced returns. They
resumed last weekend when the Supreme Court cleared the way for the
repatriations even as a Federal appeals court considers the legality of
Washington's policy.

Specific Threat Needed

Interviews with a half dozen young men approved on the basis of their Guantanamo
interviews suggest that immigration officials consider evidence of a
"well-founded fear of persecution" to be attacks on family members, membership
in groups that supported the ousted President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide,
or participation in the broad social improvement programs initiated by Father
Aristide.  But such factors apparently must be paired with an account of a
specific threat to the refugee for the refugee to gain entry.

Immigration officials are not accepting, by all accounts, broadly expressed
fears of repression by soldiers who attack anyone suspected of for sympathy with
the former President.

Economic hardship, even under the United States-led embargo of Haiti that
followed the coup, is specifically not accepted as grounds for asylum, an
official of the Immigration and Naturalization Service said.

"They are asked questions that are intended to elicit inormation about what
their activities were at home," said Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the service
in Washington. "If they express a fear, we ask what they feared, so it is not
enough to say 'I am afraid.' You ask, why, and of whom, and get as much specific
information out of them as possible: where they lived, what have they done, what
was the political situation in their areas."

Nemy Numat, a high school teacher, said he fled arrest, and possibly much worse,
because he had volunteered in a rural literacy program under President Aristide.
Jesusfort Mondesir, a mechanic, and Yvon Pierre, a taxi driver, said they had
taken part in neighborhood cleanup campaigns with political overtones. Sineus
Sobner, a young farmer, said he had seen his father shot for organizing a social
outreach program at his rural church.

These men, all in their 20s, are among the 1,402 Haitians released into the
United States so far to be considered for permanent political refuge or face
deportation.

About 500 of these, having no family ties in this country, have been turned over
to Catholic immigration and community service workers in Newark, Paterson,
Brooklyn, Boston and Los Angeles.

According to Immigration officials, those who make it past the Guantanamo
interviews stand little chance of eventual deportation. They have so many routes
of appeal that the burden of proof shifts to the Government. In the end, few are
ever deported.

But 2,022 Haitians have so far been sent back to Haiti on Coast Guard cutters
from Guantanamo, their claims to political asylum rejected, according to the
latest figures from the immigration service provided Friday.

Meanwhile, 11,570 remain at the camp awaiting rulings from the 15 two-member
interviewing teams.

The Haitians were all picked up at sea by the Coast Guard after fleeing their
country aboard rickety boats in the chaotic aftermath of the military coup on
Sept. 30.

According to the refugees interviewed in and around New York, the procedure that
decides their fate takes only about 30 minutes. Immigration officers working
with Creole-speaking interpreters have been briefed about events on the island,
to compare a refugee's story with known events.

"We try to find out if what they are saying to us is consistent with what we
know, and if what they are saying will hold up under questioning," Mr. Jervis
said.

So when Mr. Mondesir, who is 25 years old, told his interviewer that he had been
targeted for reprisal for the torching of the police station and court house at
Grand Goave on the day of the coup, he was surprised to see that the official
knew about the fire. He denied taking part in the arson.

Sineus Sobner, a farmer of 24 from the country outside Petit Trou de Nippes, a
coastal town, told of the slaying of his father, Henri Gisele Sobner, a member
of the board of Miller-Le-Dieu, the small Catholic church where Sineus was an
usher. The church had begun a social program in literacy and medical care after
Father Aristide's election.

On Sept. 30, the day after the coup, Mr. Sobner said, soldiers came to his home
and shot his father. A month later, Mr. Sobner dashed out the back door as the
soldiers returned, smashing through the front door.

For a month he hid at Le Boutellier, another village. On Christmas Eve, he said,
he paid $15 for a spot on a 30-foot sailboat with 70 other people. Of the 70 on
his boat, Mr. Sobner said, 10 were eventually cleared to go to Miami.

Jean Ambroise, a 25-year-old farmer from Leogane, said that he had nothing to do
with politics, but that his two brothers were active in L'Unite de Lavalasse, a
pro-Aristide party. Now in the care of the Brooklyn diocese, Mr. Ambroise said
there were portraits of Father Aristide hanging in the family house when, on
Nov. 24, soldiers burst in and shot his two brothers dead. He was outside
tending the cows when the shooting started. He did not even say goodbye to his
mother on his way into hiding.

Five days later, he waved down a refugee boat putting out from the coast, and
the next day, Nov. 30, the Coast Guard stopped them and took the refugees to
Guantanamo.

"I never intended to come here," Mr. Ambroise said in an interview. "But I would
rather die in this country now. Even if Aristide returned today, the same people
who committed those crimes will still be there, and I will be killed."

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yvon Pierre, left, a taxi driver, and Sineus Sobner, a farmer,
are among the 1,402 Haitians who have won temporary asylum in the United States.
Both have sought aid from Catholic community-service workers in Newark, as have
about 500 others with no family ties here. (F. N. Kinney for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 20, 1992, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Restore Quota for Russian Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 384 words


To the Editor:

"Seeking Shelter in U.S. After the Soviet Storm," on the latest influx of
Russian immigrants (front page, Jan. 25), perpetuates a commonly held but
inaccurate picture of the history of Russian immigration to the United States.
While there was a true wave of immigration -- 206,645 people -- from 1899 to
1915, there have been no waves of ethnic Russian immigrants since the revolution
of 1917. Indeed, Russians are one of the few ethnic groups of any significance
who have not come to the United States in sizable numbers. The last time an
appreciable number of ethnic Russians (40,241) set foot in the United States was
in 1914.

This is partly due, of course, to the Communist Government's decision in the
1920's to seal its borders. But for whatever reason, the first "wave" of Russian
immigrants amounted to no more than 30,740 people, only 6,095 of them from the
Soviet Union itself.

The second "wave" in the 1950's amounted to no more than 30,000 people, most of
them refugees from the Balkans and Poland who came here through Germany. Many of
these immigrants were classified as "Germans" by the United States Government's
"Historical Statistics."

While the responsibility for this dearth of immigration falls mostly on the
Communist Government, the United States did play a role in the largest loss of
potential Russian immigrants in history. In 1945 the Allies forcibly repatriated
more than one million Russians who were brought to Germany in World War II,
primarily as slave laborers. This repatriation is a double tragedy since most
were shipped straight from the Nazi labor camps to Stalinist labor camps.

In the 1970's, when emigration from the Soviet Union resumed through the
extraordinary effort of the United States Government on behalf of Soviet Jews,
ethnic Russians were again excluded. And now, when the law of the Russian
Federation has finally allowed a free movement of ethnic Russians to the United
States, the Russian quota in the United States has been filled by others.

Consequently it is high time that ethnic Russians, those who suffered most under
Communism, be given preferential treatment and that a strictly Russian ethnic
quota be restored to remedy seven decades of injustice.

VALENTIN N. MANTULIN
Pearl River, N.Y., Feb. 4, 1992

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 4, 1991, Friday, Late Edition - Final

In Shift, Health Chief Lifts Ban on Visitors With the AIDS Virus

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 966 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 3


After two years of debate, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, Dr. Louis
W. Sullivan, has removed AIDS-virus infection from the list of sicknesses that
can keep someone from entering the United States, Federal officials said today.

Dr. Sullivan's new list includes only infectious tuberculosis, the only common
deadly disease that can be passed by casual contact. The list of diseases once
included more than half a dozen disorders, but Dr. Sullivan has the discretion
to add others.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is required to use the list to
determine who will be excluded. Dr. Sullivan is required to consult with the
immigration service and the State Department in establishing a new rule, but
both agencies are expected to endorse the action soon, said the officials, who
spoke on condition of anonymity.

Until the new policy goes into effect on June 1, people infected with the AIDS
virus, or human immunodeficiency virus, will continue to be barred from entering
the country unless they declare that they are infected and seek a waiver. Those
who receive a waiver are now required to carry a stamped paper in their
passports saying they have sought the exception. Officials of the Government and
of protesting organizations said they did not have any estimate of how many
people were barred at the border or had sought waivers over the two years in
which various versions of the current policy have been in effect.

Immigration officials have relied on two methods of identifying visitors who are
infected. First, applicants for visas are asked whether they have a contagious
disease. Later, at the border, Customs agents look for signs of the disease,
like physical wasting, or for indications that a visitor is in a high-risk
group, like homosexuals. This can lead to a search of luggage for evidence like
medicines to treat AIDS.

Dr. Sullivan's change had been urged by protesters, especially since a boycott
was staged at the Sixth International Conference on AIDS last June in San
Francisco. Several thousand representatives who might have been required to
obtain waivers took part in the boycott.

Vocal opponents of moves to change the current policy have included Senator
Jesse Helms of North Carolina and Representative William E. Dannemeyer of
California, both Republicans.

Dr. David Rogers, co-chairman of the National Commission on AIDS, which was
established by President Ronald Reagan and Congress to help establish a Federal
policy on AIDS, said the Secretary's decision "was a fine blow for science, and
reverses what seemed a policy that was foolish and embarrassing to the United
States."

Flaws Seen in Policy

Opponents say that the policy is unlikely to be very effective because AIDS is
not passed through casual contact and because so many more people living in this
country already carry the virus. They also argue that the policy is an
unconscionable intrusion into the lives of people who carry the virus.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said today: "The
Administration's decision is as welcome as it is long overdue. Any other
immigration policy would be nothing more than a sanction for senseless
discrimination against people with H.I.V.

Representative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat who is chairman of the
House Subcommittee on Health and the Environmment, said today: "This change in
Administration policy reflects what the medical and public health groups have
recommended all along. Since May, the President has known he had the power to
make this change, but it has taken an act of Congress for him to consider his
own health advisers' recommendations. This is a measure of how much right-wing
politics have dominated the AIDS debate."

Immigration law sets out some medical grounds for excluding people with some
dangerous contagious diseases from entering the country, and the Department of
Health and Human Services has normally had the power to decide which diseases to
include.

The current policy took effect after Congress approved an amendment sponsored by
Mr. Helms that required the Health Secretary to put the AIDS virus on the list
of dangerous diseases.

It was only at the close of 1990 session of Congress that that the lawmakers,
acting on an amendment by Representative J. Roy Rowland, Democrat of Georgia,
declared their previous action void and gave back to Dr. Sullivan the power to
redraw the disease list. Federal officials said Dr. Sullivan's action to draw up
a new list and exclude the AIDS virus, was the final major step in killing the
Helms amendment.

Other diseases, including syphilis, gonorrhea and leprosy, were on the previous
list but were excluded from Dr. Sullivan's new list, all on the ground that they
are not passed casually and so are no threat to travelers.

In the two years that the Helms amendment held sway, loud protests came not only
from AIDS organizations, but also from the international societies of the Red
Cross, the National Commission on AIDS, the World Health Organization and health
ministers of several foreign governments. All publicly condemned the policy.

The most visible consequence of the measure was that people with the AIDS virus
were barred from entering this country to attend scientific conferences and
other meetings.

At a news conference in December 1989, Dr. June E. Osborn, chairwoman of the
National Commission on AIDS, called on the Bush Administration to drop the
policy, calling it "counterproductive, discriminatory and a waste of resources."
She said the policy had led to "unconscionable infringement of human rights and
dignity," and that it gave a false impression that H.I.V. infection was a
general threat when, in fact, it was sharply restricted in its mode of
transmission.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 6, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The Nation;
Your Tired, Your Poor, Your Masses Yearning To Be With Relatives

BYLINE: By ROBERTO SURO

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 4; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 938 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


THE term "push-pull" is a simple bit of shorthand used to explain why millions
of people have undertaken the vast journeys of immigrants. Poverty pushes them.
Economic opportunity pulls them.

Leaving aside political refugees, who are considered the exception to the rule,
this fundamentally economic model of immigration served as the guiding principle
for major revisions of American immigration laws completed late last year. As
Congress debated how immigration could help meet the nation's labor needs, a
variety of experts and scholars were developing more complex views of
immigration that incorporate historical, cultural and social factors in trying
to explain why people emigrate.

Those using the new approach, which does not yet have a name as neat as
push-pull, say economic factors alone do not explain why New York and Los
Angeles have attracted thousands of Koreans as grocers, and not similar numbers
of would-be merchants from Thailand or Indonesia.

Nor does push-pull alone explain why nurses from the Philippines have become a
major presence in American hospitals and why people from other poor densely
populated countries have not.

Some scholars, like Alejandro Portes, a sociologist at Johns Hopkins University,
argue that the American military presence in Korea and the Philippines along
with the events that brought it about may be as important in stimulating
immigration as purely economic motivations.

Similarly, Mr. Portes and others say economic considerations do not explain why
certain areas of Mexico send more immigrants to the United States than other
regions that are either poorer or closer to the border or both. Long-established
migration patterns create powerful links between certain communities in Mexico
and the United States, according to recent studies. Understanding such dynamics
and predicting immigration flows are becoming increasingly important in
formulating policy.

Immigration has been on the rise for at least a decade and Congress last year
mandated that the numbers continue to rise. As a result, immigration now plays a
greater role in shaping the labor force than at any time since the Depression.

Washington has attempted to shape immigration's economic impact through two laws
that together produced the first major revision of immigration policy since
1965. The first law, enacted in 1986, sought to curtail the flow of illegal
aliens by prohibiting their employment and thus cutting off the supply of jobs
that pull them here.

Then, last year, Congress turned its attention to legal immigration. In late
October it enacted a law that will increase the number of immigrant visas to
700,000 a year from the current level of 500,000. As in the past, the families
of citizens will get preferential treatment for most of the visas, but the new
emphasis on economic considerations dictated that most of the additional 200,000
visas go to people selected for their job skills or their ability to make major
financial investments. The assumption is that there are plenty of such
immigrants pushing to get into the United States and that the doors just have to
be opened to them.

Kinship With Lands Afar

Non-economic considerations, however, may diminish the laws' effectiveness.

"Immigration from the Philippines is a textbook example of why it is wrong to
base policy on the idea that people are just calculating where they can make the
most money and then traveling there," said Mr. Portes. "People immigrate to
where they find connections and a measure of familiarity."

The extent to which the United States permeates modern Philippine history and
culture means that "potential immigrants are partially Americanized even before
they leave," he said. The same, he argued, holds true for South Korea and
Taiwan, and similar historical connections explain why many people from former
British and Dutch possessions in the Caribbean have chosen to migrate to London
and Amsterdam even though Miami is much closer.

Even some staunch advocates of a strictly economic approach to immigration now
agree that those additional factors need to be taken into account.

George J. Borjas, an economist at the University of California, San Diego, said,
"Someone in the Philippines is not going to become an immigrant unless they
think they'll improve their economic condition, but having a lot of information
about the United States is an economic consideration that makes immigration more
likely by reducing costs and risks."

Aside from the connections between two countries, the case of Korean grocers
illustrates how connections at a more personal level can affect immigration
flows. Successful immigrants have paved the way for new arrivals by helping them
with information, employment and financial assistance. This is merely a modern
version of a kind of networking that historians believe is as old as immigration
itself.

Among Mexican immigrants, especially those who come illegally, similar patterns
exercise a powerful influence. Analyzing extensive studies that have been
conducted in the Mexican states of Michoacan and Jalisco, Wayne A. Cornelius,
director of the Center for U.S.-Mexican Studies at the University of California,
San Diego, has described a "culture of out-migration."

"In these communities that have been the traditional sources of migrants for
decades, the kids grow up with a whole world view that is shaped by the
prospect, if not the inevitability, of migration to the United States," he said.
"It is an expectation so widespread that it is impervious to the machinations of
the governments on either side of the border."

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 14, 1991, Monday, Late Edition - Final

For Salvadoran Refugees, an Empty Promise?;
No Gift, Only Justice

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 450 words


To the Editor:

"For Refugees, the Door Swings Open" (editorial, Dec. 24) affirms the victory of
the sanctuary movement in which the Justice Department agreed Dec. 19 to
readjudicate 150,000 asylum cases (virtually every case decided in the last 10
years) involving Guatemalans and Salvadorans. Some comment is needed.

You say that the Immigration and Naturalization Service will now "give less
weight to foreign policy considerations" in deciding these cases. But foreign
policy considerations have no bearing at all, under the law and the settlement,
on whether or not an applicant faces a "well-founded fear of persecution" at
home -- which is the standard under both the Refugee Act of 1980 and
international law.

The settlement provides that advisory letters from the State Department will be
given less weight than before. Traditionally, the State Department gave the
hearing officer a form letter, which purported to be based on specific evidence
in a case and routinely recommended against asylum, and the hearing officer
nearly always based the decision on the letter, heedless of the plight of the
human being before him.

You also say that the "settlement represents an extraordinary gift to half a
million potential refugees." It is not a gift at all, but their due under law
and humanity. For five and a half years, the Justice Department fought the case,
while returning refugees to the death squads under the procedures they now agree
to drop.

It was only when the case was about to be tried that the Justice Department
settled. It thus avoided months of daily expose of United States-backed
atrocities in Guatemala and El Salvador, and its own atrocious treatment of the
fugitives from this "friendly" terrorism. Ironically, the Justice Department
seems to have settled the case for the same reason it rejected the refugees in
the first place -- to keep the public as ignorant as it could about our support
for torture, murder, gang-rape and the rest of the repressions. Public
ignorance, in turn, assures that this support may continue.

The lawyers, refugees and others who won this case deserve the highest praise,
though, sadly, their experience teaches that the Justice Department still bears
close watching. As to this case, the system worked, but only after much needless
spilling of blood, tears and sweat.

As to the millions of Guatemalans and Salvadorans who live (and die) under the
terror we support, the system is not working because our policy has yet to be
based upon an informed public opinion.

MALCOLM BELL
Weston, Vt., Dec. 27, 1990

The writer, a lawyer, served on the national steering committee of the Alliance
of Sanctuary Communities.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 1, 1991, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Barred Colombian Settles for Visa in U.S. Suit

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 451 words


Patricia Lara, a Colombian journalist who was barred from entering the United
States when her name came up on the Immigration and Naturalization Service's
"lookout" list four years ago, has settled a suit against the Federal Government
by accepting a visa.

Ms. Lara, a reporter for Colombia's leading newspaper, El Tiempo, was held in
maximum-security detention for five days after she flew to New York on Oct. 12,
1986, to attend an awards ceremony at Columbia University. While she was in
detention, her visa was revoked and she was ordered returned to Colombia.

Reached by telephone in Bogota yesterday, Ms. Lara said: "I am very happy with
the settlement. It means I'm not so dangerous. They said I was a harm for the
national security. They gave me a visa because it is not true."

Neither Nancy G. Milburn, the Assistant United States Attorney who handled the
case, nor a spokesperson for the United States Attorney's office in Manhattan
returned a reporter's telephone calls yesterday.

Issue of Terrorist Link

The immigration service's list, which includes about 350,000 names, was reported
to have linked Ms. Lara, now 39 years old, with M-19, a Colombian terrorist
organization. Although she had written a book about leaders of M-19, Ms. Lara
denied ever being a member and contended she was barred because of articles she
wrote criticizing the Reagan Administration's policies in Central America.

Asked why she accepted only the visa in settling a suit that had initially
sought $10 million, Ms. Lara said: "It was a very long fight, and really I
prefer the visa. You know, I love New York and I thought it was better to be
able to go there whenever I want than to have $10 million." Ms. Lara, who is now
married to Colombia's new Ambassador to Austria, Alfonso Gomez Mendez, said she
and her husband would be coming to New York in two weeks on their way to Vienna,
where she will be El Tiempo's correspondent.

The case became a cause celebre among journalists and academicians, particularly
after Elliott Abrams, the Reagan Administration's Assistant Secretary of State
for Inter-American Affairs, said on the CBS News program "60 Minutes," that Ms.
Lara was a member of M-19 and "an active liaison between that terrorist
organization, which is in the business of murdering people, and the Cuban secret
police."

Arthur C. Helton of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, which represented
Ms. Lara, said yesterday: "I still remember Elliott Abrams gesturing on '60
minutes' and saying, 'We have a file this thick.' It was, in my mind, then
unsupportable. And now the Government agrees."

Mr. Abrams was out of the country and could not be reached for comment.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Patricia Lara (The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 9, 1991, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Border Near San Diego Is Home to More Violence

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1010 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Along the ripped and sagging wire fence that forms the country's southern border
here, small white crosses mark the spots where people have died trying to enter
the United States illegally.

In the no man's land along the frontier, death or injury can come in encounters
with United States Border Patrol agents, who have shot a number of immigrants,
with Mexican bandits or with packs of young Americans who prey on immigrants for
sport.

Responding to a joint statement of concern issued last November by President
Bush and President Carlos Salinas de Gortari of Mexico, officials of both
nations are taking steps to address what they describe as an increase in
violence.

A unit of the Mexican police in Tijuana has been formed to coordinate operations
with the San Diego police, and the Border Patrol has begun a review of its
procedures in an effort to reduce violence.

'Afraid to Cross'

Such incidents have been spreading north into San Diego County as the
increasingly visible migrants who are attracted to affluent communities in
search of work have found themselves targets of abuse.

For would-be immigrants perched atop the wire fence waiting for nightfall one
recent afternoon, the border crossing is like a battle. "Everyone is afraid to
cross; everyone is nervous," said Jimmy Y., a 22-year-old carpenter who said he
was afraid to give his full name. "But we'll do what we have to do to cross to
the United States."

Like others crossing the border, he said that even the irregular, low-paid work
available in the United States allowed him to send back money that would give
his family a much higher standard of living.

Another man who negotiates the border frequently, charging $200 a head to escort
illegal immigrants into the United States, said the crossing had become more
violent because of increased patrols and lighting. "Here you have to run faster,
and with all these nooks and crannies people can jump out and catch you," said
the man, who said the alias he gave when caught was Carlos Garcia Mendoza.

Peril of Mexican Bandits

Roberto Martinez, who compiles reports of violent incidents along the border for
the American Friends Service Committee, said three immigrants were shot to death
and three wounded by the Border Patrol last year, and two were killed and one
wounded by the San Diego police.

Another danger lurking in the gullies and canyons is Mexican bandits, said Ted
Swofford, a spokesman for the Border Patrol. The bandits killed nine people from
January to August last year in the San Diego area. But he said rape, robbery and
other crimes by bandits had decreased since last summer, when the Mexican police
formed a special unit to combat them.

Some immigrants have been killed by local residents. Two teen-agers were
sentenced last year to prison for the shooting deaths of a young man and woman
they had found near the border while they were "hunting for Hispanics," in the
prosecutor's words.

Early this year, another such hunters was himself a victim. The local police,
patrolling the scrub land along the border, shot and killed a 22-year-old San
Diego man who was among a gang harassing immigrants.

Officials said the group was armed with two tire irons, a large hammer, a
baseball bat, a nightstick, a knife and two toy replicas of M-16 assault rifles.

Lieut. Dan Berglund, a homicide investigator for the San Diego Police, said the
incident called to mind similar attacks on immigrants last year by a group of
teen-agers calling themselves the Metal Militia who dressed in military style
and fired paint pellets sometimes used in combat games.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service, which oversees the Border Patrol,
issued a statement last December that said, "Escalating violence on the southern
border has resulted in injuries and even deaths." It said a review of Border
Patrol procedures would begin immediately.

Agents Feel the Pressure

Meanwhile, Mr. Swofford said violence against the agents by immigrants or
bandits had risen sharply, from 60 assaults in the fiscal year 1989 to 217 the
next year. He said one reason might be the growing number of urban criminals
crossing the border.

The Mexican Consul General in San Diego, Enrique Loaeza, said the special
Mexican unit to combat bandits had detained 550 people in its first six months
of operation, curtailing violence involving Mexicans against Mexicans.

"Now what we are concerned about is violence on this side of the border," he
said. He said he was concerned that American officers who have been involved in
violent incidents were not being prosecuted.

The Mexican authorities have demanded the extradition of a Border Patrol agent
who shot and wounded a 15-year-old vendor, Eduardo Garcia Zamores, last
November.  The boy was shot as he was halfway over the fence, one foot in
Calexico, Calif., and one foot in Mexicali, Mexico, and he fell into Mexico with
gunshot injuries to his lung, liver and spleen.

The agent, whose name has not been disclosed, said the boy had been about to
throw a rock at him; the boy said he had simply been a spectator at a melee
inside the United States and was scrambling to get out of the way.

Chief Gives a Prediction

The Calexico Chief of Police, Leslie Ginn, said the shooting did not seem to
have been justified, but he said, "I'll bet you 100 bucks that that agent is
never extradited."

Mr. Loaeza, the Mexican Consul General, said that in the nine months since he
took up his post here he had been confronted by incidents of violence that had
not been adequately prosecuted. He cited the still unsolved fatal sniper
shooting of a 12-year-old boy, Emilio Jimenez, last May.

In another case in September, Mr. Loaeza said, Victor Mandujano Navarro, a
17-year-old migrant trying to make his way back to Mexico, was pulled from the
sagging border fence by a Border Patrol agent, thrown to the ground and killed
with two gunshots to the chest. As in the other cases involving law-enforcement
officers, no one has been prosecuted.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Increasing violence along the fenced border of the United States
and Mexico has made would-be immigrants nervous, but each day they wait at the
fence for nightfall and a chance to cross to a better life. (Seth Mydans/The New
York Times)

Map of California and Mexico showing location of the Mexican-American border.

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 26, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Judge Says Alien's Suit Was Filed Too Early

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 35; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 170 words


A Japanese scholar who was detained for 44 days because his name was on a
"lookout list" of undesirable aliens was premature in filing a lawsuit to get
his name off the list, a judge ruled.

Judge John Sprizzo, of Federal District Court in Manhattan, declined on Friday
to rule on Choichiro Yatani's lawsuit until after June 1, when a law goes into
effect allowing aliens to apply to have their names cleared.

The law says an alien cannot be denied entry for ideological beliefs or
political associations that would be constitutionally protected in America.

Previously those on the list could be blocked from entering the United States.
The list contains 250,000 names, said Arthur Helton of the Lawyer's Committee
for Human Rights, who represented Mr. Yatani.

Mr. Yatani has been afraid to leave the country since Immigration and
Naturalization Service officials detained him for 44 days in 1986 when he tried
to re-enter the country after attending an academic conference in Amsterdam, Mr.
Helton said.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 2, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Don't Let White House Order Secret Trials of Political Cases

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 483 words


To the Editor:

Anthony Lewis's column criticizing the Bush Administration's proposal to
institute secret proceedings to expel foreign nationals accused of "terrorism"
("Do as We Say," May 24) is right on the money. Unless the new world order means
that fair trials need only be provided in Middle East countries, Congress should
take a hard look at what the Administration proposes to do.

Two immigrants who could tell Congress about the dangers of secret procedures
are Ellen Knauff and Mahmoud Naji. In the late 1940's, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service sought to use undisclosed information to exclude Ellen
Knauff, a war bride from Germany. When she arrived at Ellis Island, Immigration
and Naturalization detained her as a subversive and claimed that the evidence to
support the charge could not be disclosed to her. After years of litigation
challenging the fairness of relying on secret information, and public and
Congressional pressure, Immigration and Naturalization finally granted her a
public hearing.

There it came out that the confidential information against Ms. Knauff was
nothing more than rumor and hearsay sparked by a jilted former lover of her
husband. After having spent almost three years detained on Ellis Island as a
supposed national security risk, Ms. Knauff was finally admitted into the United
States to join her husband.

More recently, the Immigration and Naturalization Service sought to rely on
undisclosed confidential information to deny permanent resident status to
Mahmoud Naji, a Palestinian who came to the United States when he was forcibly
evacuated from the Dominican Republic during the United States invasion of that
country. Immigration and Naturalization tried to expel him, claiming it had
classified information that he posed a danger to national security.

A Federal District Court required the agency to disclose the information it
relied on. It turned out to consist of little more than Mr. Naji's attendance at
Palestinian rights meetings. The agency settled the case by granting him
permanent resident status. He has since become a naturalized United States
citizen and lives peacefully in Chicago.

Had the Government been permitted to keep its evidence secret, Ms. Knauff and
Mr. Naji would have been expelled. In both cases, when the Government was forced
to disclose the "confidential" information, it became clear that its allegations
about threats to the national security were unfounded. But without the scrutiny
provided by a fair, open, adversarial proceeding, we would never have known the
truth. The Bush Administration, like the Kuwaiti Government, would prefer to try
its political cases in secret. Congress must not let it happen here.

DAVID COLE
New York, May 24, 1991

The writer, a professor at Georgetown University Law Center, is a volunteer
lawyer at the Center for Constitutional Rights.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 12, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Immigration Brings New Diversity To Asian Population in the U.S.

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1129 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 11


Unusually large waves of immigrants from Southeast Asia and South Asia in the
1980's transformed the Asian community in the United States, setting off an
explosion of diversity among Asian-Americans, the nation's fastest-growing
minority, figures made public today by the Census Bureau show.

The political upheavals and economic hardships that beset Asian nations from Sri
Lanka and the Philippines to China and South Korea have sent more than two
million immigrants across the Pacific Ocean in the past decade, according to
Federal immigration figures.

As a result, the fastest-growing subgroups under the Asian-American umbrella
were Vietnamese (134.8 percent growth in the past decade), Indians (125.6
percent) and Koreans (125.3 percent).

'Different From Earlier Ones'

"These immigrants are different from earlier ones because of their enormous
diversity," said Lawrence H. Fuchs, a professor of American Civilization and
Politics at Brandeis University. "We had Japanese, Chinese and Filipinos. The
variety now is just enormous. You have variety within variety -- more variety of
class, more variety of skill, more variety in origins."

In 1965, Asian-Americans numbered barely one million; a quarter of a century
later, the census counted 7.3 million Americans of Asian and Pacific Islander
background. Immigration represented about 54 percent of the increase; the
remainder represented children born to Asian parents here.

While Chinese-Americans are still the dominant Asian group in this country,
they, too, have seen profound changes in the past 25 years.

Since 1965, said Ronald Takaki, a professor of Ethnic Studies at the University
of California at Berkeley, the number of Chinese immigrants has equaled or
surpassed the number who came here in the first 80 years of Chinese immigration.

He said that more than 60 percent of the 1.6 million Chinese-Americans here had
been born overseas and that the figure had climbed to more than 80 percent in an
area like New York City's Chinatown. The population of Monterey Park, a Los
Angeles suburb, is more than half Chinese, mostly immigrants from Hong Kong and
Taiwan.

Breakdown by Ethnicity

Nearly 23 percent of Asian-Americans are of Chinese heritage, and about 19
percent, or 1.4 million people, trace their roots to the Philippines.
Japanese-Americans, who 30 years ago represented 52 percent of the
Asian-American population, now represent 11.7 percent, just ahead of East
Indians, at 11.2 percent, and Koreans, at 10.9 percent.

These figures from the 1990 census represented the most detailed breakdown to
date for the nation's Asian minority. The figures also included breakdowns for
some Hispanic subgroups, including Mexicans, Puerto Ricans and Cubans. These
figures show that Mexicans remain the dominant group among Hispanic residents.
The 13.4 million Americans of Mexican heritage make up 60 percent of the 22.3
million Hispanic people counted in the 1990 census, roughly the same proportion
as in 1980.

The 53 percent increase in the Hispanic population in the 1980's largely
reflected a rise in groups that had already established themselves in this
country. But among Asians, many of the new immigrants had little cultural
connection to the earlier Asian immigrants.

More Cultures Represented

Some parts of the country have been settled by ethnic groups whose very names
are unfamiliar, like the Hmong, the agricultural people from the mountains of
Laos who have moved by the thousands into communities like Eau Claire, Wis., and
Fresno, Calif.

Almost 40 percent of all Asian-Americans, or 2.4 million people, live in
California, while New York and Hawaii each have slightly more than 9 percent.

Dr. Fuchs and Dr. Takaki said Asian-Americans had become a more economically
stratified group, with a highly visible and successful layer of professionals --
doctors, engineers and scientists -- a strong commercial middle-class that
includes grocers, nurses and government workers, and a less-visible group of
immigrants, many still on welfare.

Dr. Takaki said he had found welfare rates as high as 80 percent among some
Hmong communities. The Hmong, whom the Central Intelligence Agency recruited
from their rural homes to help fight the North Vietnamese in the 1960's, "are in
many cases illiterate in their own language," and are ill-equipped to find a
place in the American economy, Dr. Takaki said.

Filipinos, while no longer one of the most rapidly growing Asian minority
groups, still increased their numbers by 81.6 percent , or more than 600,000
people, in the 1980's, according to the 1990 census. But, like a smaller and
faster-growing minority, the East Indians, Filipinos tend to have less
difficulty adapting to a new culture, in part because most arrive speaking
English.

"The Indians are a more integrated group," Dr. Takaki said. "They are betwixt
and between -- Asians, but English-speaking. They come here with a certain
degree of Westernization and language proficiency."

As a result, he said, they are less likely to congregate in easily identifiable
ethnic enclaves.

"This is true for Filipinos too," he said. "Filipinos also represent a critical
mass, but you don't often find the establishment of 'Manila-towns.' Filipinos
and Asian Indians tend to be much more in the mainstream economy than other
immigrants."

But the large existing population of Filipinos and the long backlogs that keep
would-be-immigrants waiting for five or even 10 years have slowed that
community's growth rate to 81 percent, well below the 107.8 percent that
Asian-Americans as a whole have experienced in the past decade.

"You can't get the percentage growth for Filipinos any more," said Dr. Fuchs.
"In the case of Indians and Koreans, you have a large percentage of people who
are fairly well-educated and have a perception of the opportunity here, a vision
of the future. They have friends, connections and relatives already here. The
base isn't as large as the Filipinos', so they're in a growth spurt. Once their
population base is larger, their growth rate will fall back like the Filipinos'
did."

Dr. Fuchs and Dr. Takaki predicted that the 1990's would see an Asian
immigration as large as that of the 1980's, thanks, in part, to revised Federal
immigration legislation enacted last year.

Other figures from the census released today show the Japanese-American
population -- most of them second- third- and fourth-generation Americans --
stands at 847,000. The Korean-American population has risen to nearly 800,000
and the East Indian population stands at 815,000. The Vietnamese population in
the United States is about 615,000. Laotians number 149,000, Cambodians 147,411,
Thais 91,000, Hmong 90,000 and Pakistanis 81,000.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 22, 1991, Saturday

CORRECTION:

Because of an editing error, an article on June 12 about the diversity of the
Asian-American population misidentified one group. Figures from the 1990 census
show that 11.2 percent of Asian-Americans are of Indian descent, not "East
Indian."


GRAPHIC: Graphs: "More Asians in the United States" shows percentages of Asians
vs. Chinese, Koreans, Indians, Japanese and Filipinos in the United States in
1980 and 1990. (Source: Census Bureau) (pg. D25)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 21, 1991, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Arguing About America;
A Common Culture or a Land of Diversity? That Is the Curriculum Debate in New
York

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1044 words


The battle over the New York State social studies curriculum is fundamentally a
battle over the idea of America.

Is the United States a land where immigrants and minorities mute their separate
histories and traditions and to adopt a common, if amorphous, culture? Or is it
a land where ethnicity should be celebrated over and above any shared heritage?

These were the questions that seemed to have most troubled the committee of 24
educators that has reviewed the curriculum and recommended broad principles for
change.

In some ways the battle is as old as immigration to these shores. Irish, Italian
and Jewish youngsters endlessly tangled with stubborn parents who wanted them to
cling to the customs and faiths they had brought from the old country. The more
ethnocentric scholars on the committee could well identify with the peddlers and
shoemakers who doggedly fought off assimilation.

The peddlers and shoemakers, however, seldom demanded that their cultures be
taught in the school curriculum. They believed that such instruction was a
responsibility of family, community or houses of worship.

New Perspectives

But as the number of black, Hispanic, Asian and American Indian New Yorkers has
grown to make up 31 percent of the state's population, many people from these
minorities have been increasingly demanding that social studies include their
cultures.

Further, many have called for a revision of the curriculum to reflect the
perspectives they bring on issues like slavery and civil rights, views that
sometimes clash with those that have been traditionally taught. Leaders of these
groups say that unlike European immigrants of the past, they have not always
been able to count on communal organizations, parochial schools or intact
families to transmit heritage.

In sometimes stiff language, the report says: "There was a new recognition that
the teaching of social studies as a single officially sanctioned story was
inaccurate as to the facts of conflict in American history, and further, that it
was limiting for white students and students of color alike."

Translating this ethnic assertiveness into a curriculum obligates the entire
state to accept its world view, and that could lead inevitably to clashes with
what has been assumed to be the dominant ethos. Overwhelmingly white communities
in particular could resist a heightened emphasis on ethnic groups whose cultures
they may consider remote.

But political clashes over curriculums are not new. The report itself points out
that during the McCarthy era a greater emphasis was placed on "citizenship
education" and American history.

Mood of the Nation

The committee acknowledged, however ungrammatically, that the mood of the times
has given impetus to its call for revision.

"Unlike earlier periods in the history of this country," it said, "the various
people who make up our nation, while anxiously embracing many of the advantages,
opportunities and mores of this society, seem determined to maintain and
publicly celebrate as much of that which is peculiar to the cultures with which
they identify."

Still, the committee's recommendations seem relatively innocuous given the
extremes of the national debate over multicultural education. Its most
controversial specifics call for replacing such terms as Oriental with Asian,
Middle East with Southwest Asia and North Africa, slaves with enslaved persons
and minorities with "part of the world's majorities."

But dissenters on the committee, like Dr. Kenneth T. Jackson, a Columbia
University historian, warn that a curriculum heavily focused on ethnicity opens
the way for the kind of ethnic strife that has divided the Soviet Union, Canada,
Yugoslavia and other nations where there is no consensus on a common culture.

The report, Dr. Jackson contends, has little to say about what holds Americans
together, like its democratic ideals, however imperfectly observed. History, he
says, has given Americans a culture that is mainly rooted in Britain but that
has been greatly transformed by later tides of immigration. And this, for good
or bad, he says, has become the American culture that people aspire to embrace.

"The people of the United States will recognize, even if this committee does
not, that every viable nation has to have a common culture to survive in peace,"
he wrote in a dissent.

A vivid example of the possibilities for ethnic turmoil was in the report
itself. A committee member, Ali A. Mazrui, a humanities professor at the State
University of New York at Binghamton, wrote what he called a six-page "annex" in
which he argued that the term "holocaust" should not be reserved to describe the
murder of six million Jews in World War II. Instead, he said, the term should
"remain a generic metaphor" that can apply as well to the oppression of American
Indians and black slaves.

If incorporated into the curriculum, such arguments are sure to anger Elie
Wiesel and other leaders of Jewish organizations who contend that the Nazi's
systematic effort to eradicate Jews is unparalleled.

The State Education Commissioner, Thomas Sobol, argues that a middle ground has
to be found between a sharing of American values and an appreciation of American
diversity. "I do not believe those two purposes are incompatible," he said.

The question is whether the curriculum writers he is likely to appoint can avoid
the ideological and ethnic friction that would almost certainly arise if these
principles are incorporated in a social studies curriculum.

An alternative view was also expressed by another committee member, the Harvard
sociologist Nathan Glazer, a co-author of the seminal book "Beyond the Melting
Pot," which argues that America's melting pot ideal is a myth. In a comment
appended to the committee's report, he warned that a new syllabus runs the
danger of bestowing on ethnic groups a uniformity that may also be mythical.
Each of these groups, he said, is fragmented by class, intermarriage and degree
of assimilation.

Professor Glazer left an implicit suggestion that any syllabus needs to move
away from a preoccupation with ethnicity to the affirmation of another American
value that the report scarcely mentions: the importance of the individual.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC:  Reflections on the report from members of the social studies sylabus
review committee.

From the Chairmen: Edmund Gordon
Professor of psychology, Yale University.

Francis Roberts
Superintendent, Cold Spring Harbor School District
Chart: 'Voices From the Committee'

"The question arises as to whether we can conjointly serve both pluribus and
unum. The consensus arrived at in this committee suggest that we can....What
should be celebrated in the remarkable achievements that now symbolize modernity
are the accomplishments of the human species, built one upon the other, of
centuries of human conceptual and technological developments."

Lloyd Elm
Superintendent, Buffalo public schools

"A complete education, whatever that means to individuals, no longer means that
individuals must sacrifice their ethnic identity."

Nathan Glazer
Professor of sociology, Harvard University

"The report does reject two extremes in the treatment of ethnic and racial
diversity in American social studies; One is the emphasis on forceful
Americanization and assimilation that characterized much of American public
education during the period of the great European immigration and for some time
after. The other is the parceling out of American history into a different and
incompatible story for each group, generally told by a few activists and
militants...a vision which seemed to be advocated in a earlier report"

Diane Glover
Teacher, P.S. 40, Queens

"The topic of racism can no longer be a taboo, if we want an effective
multicultural curriculum....The educational community needs to know the
devastating psychological damage that has been inflicted upon members of the
African Diaspora....They need to know the role of European scholarship in
promoting psychological and historical inferiority.

A Dissent: Kenneth T. Jackson
Professor of history and social studies, Columbia University.

"The report highlights the notion that all cultures are created equal. This may
be true in the abstract, and i have no problem with the philosophical concept.
But I cannot endorse a 'Declaration of Cultural Interdependence'....Within any
single country, one culture must be accepted as the standard. Unfortunately, our
document has very little to say about the things which hold us together...The
emphasis is too much on the pluribus and not enough on the unum.

TYPE: News Analysis

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 30, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

For These Americans, Mexico Not Left Behind

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1326 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 29


Prof. David Hayes-Bautista, a third-generation Mexican-American who sends his
daughter to Mexico for tennis lessons, is part of an immigrant wave that he says
is unlike any other in American history.

Because of the geographical closeness of the country of his ancestors and
because of modern communications and transportation, he and other
Mexican-Americans are maintaining ties with their ancestral culture to a degree
generally not possible for other immigrant groups.

The connections are vivid in interviews with Mexican immigrants here, and form a
unifying theme in a three-year study of Hispanic cultural attitudes by Dr.
Hayes-Bautista, head of the Chicano Studies Research Center at the University of
California at Los Angeles.

Although his study did not separate those of Mexican descent from other Hispanic
people, Dr. Hayes-Bautista said he believed that many of the findings about
cultural ties could be generalized to include descendants of Puerto Ricans,
Cubans or other Hispanic nationalities who predominate in other areas of the
country.

Bilingual, Bicultural Culture

He said attitudes expressed by more than 1,000 participants in his study about
language, culture and self-identification led him to the conclusion that
Hispanic people are evolving to a bilingual, bicultural culture.

"We could come back in 100 years and the Latinos will not have assimilated in
the classic sense." Dr. Hayes-Bautista said. "I'm pretty sure they will still
have a sense of being Latinos."

The nation's Hispanic minority grew by about 2.5 million people over the past
decade, to about 22.4 million, or 8.9 percent of the United States population in
1990, the census found.

In California, about 7.7 million people, or 26 percent of the population, are of
Hispanic descent. Mexican-Americans make up 80 percent of the Hispanic
population in California, as against 60 percent to 65 percent of the Hispanic
population nationwide, Dr. Hayes-Bautista said.

If Mexican-Americans have stronger cultural ties to their ancestral country than
many other immigrant groups have had over the years, one explanation is the
history of seasonal or temporary migration from Mexico. Jobs in the north are
one part of the national dream in a country that shares 2,000 miles of border
with the United States.

Continuing this tradition is 22-year-old Petra Gonzalez Rodriguez, who is from a
village near Mexico City and sells Popsicles from a pushcart here. "If you work
here for a week and you save enough to send $100 home, someone can eat for a
month," she said.

Through Third Generation

In Dr. Hayes-Bautista's study, many respondents said that Hispanic history
should be taught in schools and that children should maintain their family's
Hispanic culture. Most tellingly, these attitudes, along with a working
knowledge of Spanish, were maintained to a significant degree through the third
generation and beyond.

In his own family, Dr. Hayes-Bautista said, his daughter watches soap operas on
the Spanish-language television stations that form an important link for the
Hispanic population across the United States. For tennis lessons, she travels
occasionally to visit a cousin in Guadalajara, Mexico.

"I find that fascinating," Leo Estrada, a demographer at the University of
California at Los Angeles who specializes in Hispanic immigration, said of the
findings in the study. "He actually finds that the sequence that would be
expected, from immigrant to second generation and on to becoming homogeneous,
gets arrested."

Speaking of people who travel frequently to Mexico from their homes in the
American Southwest for a birthday party or a weekend, Dr. Estrada said: "They
never thought of themselves as having left totally. I think one of the most
remarkable things I see is the number of people to whom the border has become
artificial."

One young Mexican immigrant, Jose Hernandez, a 26-year-old carpenter, described
the paradoxical culture shock he experienced on discovering that he had arrived
in a Mexican community in East Los Angeles so self-contained that he could not
find anybody with whom to practice speaking English.

"When I first arrived in Tijuana, I saw all these white faces, all these
gringos," Mr. Hernandez said in Spanish. "I thought, 'That's what it must be
like in the United States.' Then I came to East Los Angeles and I never see a
white face."

No English Speakers

He said he was taking English lessons four times a week but that it was going
slowly because he could not practice. "I can assure you that if I had one month
in a place with English speakers I would learn it right away," he said.

Jose Gomez, 46, the owner of La Famosa bakery, has lived in East Los Angeles for
30 years but has not learned English and said that in his heart he remains a
citizen of Zacatecas, Mexico.

Although all four of his children, born in the United States, are American
citizens, Mr. Gomez has not sought to change his own Mexican citizenship.

Mr. Gomez said he did not approve of children born in Hispanic families here who
do not learn Spanish. "You can see that they are Mexicans, but if you speak to
them, they say, 'No, I can't understand you,' " he said. "I don't like that."

Like a majority of those in Dr. Hayes-Bautista's study, Mr. Gomez places a high
priority on family closeness. He said he was so uncomfortable with the thought
that his children might move away, as children in America often do, that he had
bought four small houses nearby as graduation presents for them.

"My father always told us that the more united we were as a family the better,"
Mr. Gomez said.

Gripping a pencil to illustrate his point, he continued: "You are like a twig.
If you are just one, someone will come along and snap you in half. But if you
are eight together, no one can snap you in half."

Mr. Gomez took out a guidebook of Zacatecas. "I have lots of these at home," he
said. "Whenever I go to my hometown, I buy history books about Mexico so that
when my children don't have anything else to do they will read them."

He said the traffic between Zacatecas, in central Mexico, and Los Angeles is
two-way.

"I often send them cakes for weddings and festivals," Mr. Gomez said. "I just
sent down a strawberry cake by plane, and my relatives picked it up at the
airport. They make them there, too, but the people want to be able to say, 'I
had this sent down from Los Angeles.' "

Much of that same spirit of closeness to Mexico was expressed by a
second-generation resident of East Los Angeles, Edith Pando Sandoval, a
27-year-old librarian.

She said family and culture blend for her, as they do for many
Mexican-Americans, and she said she intended to teach Spanish to her 9-month-old
son because "it is a sign of respect to my parents that we carried our culture
from our parents to our children."

Fulfilling a Father's Dreams

Mrs. Sandoval and her four brothers and sisters live within 15 minutes of their
father, a machinist who immigrated from Chihuahua, and she said they feel that
their lives are in a way extensions of his.

"His dreams are the dreams we want to follow," Mrs. Sandoval said. "When he is
proud, we are proud. Giving him that diploma that we earned and when we see him
crying, we know that we have fulfilled his dream as well as our own dream."

Mrs. Sandoval said it was part of her respect for her family and her culture
that every year she returns to Mexico to visit relatives and that she will be
taking her son with her in the future.

"I have lived here since I was a baby and I could say right away that I am from
California," she said. "But we were always taught to say we were from
Chihuahua."

For her son, she said, a member of a new generation, it will, of course, be
different. "He's going to say he was born in California," she said. "He's going
to say he's American. He's an American citizen of the United States -- from
Mexico."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: "If you work here for a week and you save enough to send $100
home, someone can eat for a month," said 22-year-old Petra Gonzalez Rodriguez,
who is from a village near Mexico City. She and her husband, Ciro, sold
Popsicles from a pushcart in Los Angeles; Geographical closeness and modern
communications and transportation have enabled immigrants from Mexico to
maintain ties with their ancestral culture to a degree generally not possible
for other immigrants. Jose Gomez, a baker, with his 2-year-old son Jose, has
lived in East Los Angeles for 30 years but has not learned English and
disapproves of Hispanic children who do not learn Spanish; Edith Pando Sandoval,
a librarian, said she intended to teach her son Spanish because "it is a sign of
respect to my parents that we carried our culture from our parents to our
children." (Photographs by Bart Bartholomew for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 16, 1991, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

For Haitians, Voyage to a Land of Inequality

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1651 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 12


Riding calm seas, with thunder crackling across a hazy night sky, 163 men, women
and children jammed aboard a leaky Haitian fishing boat called Conail were 30
miles from Miami when they were stopped July 7 by the Coast Guard cutter Baranof
on border patrol.

Following procedures, Coast Guard officers ordered the people off the Conail and
on board the Baranof. Of the 163 people on board, 161 were Haitians trying to
escape the grim poverty of their homeland. The other two were Cubans whose
flimsy raft had been plucked from the water by the Haitians in a gesture of
brotherhood.

But when the Cubans were allowed to stay while most of the Haitians were sent
back, Haitians living in the United States were infuriated and called attention
to a double standard in United States immigration policy.

The incident has reopened a longstanding dispute over the favored treatment that
Cuban refugees have enjoyed in the United States since Fidel Castro came to
power in 1959. Simply put, Cuban refugees are treated differently from
immigrants of every other nation because the Cuban Government, unlike those of
other nations, refuses to take them back.

The Cubans on the fishing boat that Sunday night, 26-year-old professors who are
cousins, were brought to shore and were soon allowed to travel to New York to be
with relatives. But all but 9 of the 161 Haitians, once so close to the United
States that they could have seen the lights of Miami glowing on the horizon,
were returned to Haiti by the Coast Guard.

Three of the nine are being considered for political asylum on grounds that they
fear persecution if they return to Haiti. Six were so ill from the voyage that
they were taken by helicopter to a Miami hospital.

"If this is a country of immigrants, then why are some immigrants treated like
princes and others treated like dogs?" said Rolande L. Dorancy, executive
director of the Haitian Refuge Center in Miami, a not-for-profit group that
assists Miami's Haitian community. "The United States system is not our friend."

Immigration officials say they have no choice but to let the Cubans stay. The
special treatment that only Cubans receive also extends to gaining residency.
Under the Cuban Adjustment Act of 1966, Cubans who are not considered a threat
to society are automatically granted permanent-resident status after being in
the United States for one year.

Haitians, like Mexicans, Dominicans, Jamaicans, Salvadorans and the natives of
other nations in the Western Hemisphere who arrive on United States shores
illegally, all can be returned home. They usually are, unless they are granted
political asylum here, which only a few manage to get.

The number of Haitians trying to enter the United States has dropped
substantially since a democratic government was elected in Haiti in February.
But after decades of dictatorship and poverty, many still make the risky voyage.
At the same time, deteriorating conditions in Cuba have sent a wave of more than
1,200 refugees so far this year to Miami -- further inflaming the resentment of
Haitians who watch their compatriots turned away while Cubans are given shelter.


Images of Inequity

Such a policy sometimes creates searing images of inequity. Two Dominicans who
recently survived being encased in a wooden shipping container for the passage
from the Dominican Republic while six of their compatriots inside the container
died, will probably be sent back to Santo Domingo, immigration officials said.
But five Cubans who stole a crop duster and flew it to Miami last month are on
the way to becoming permanent residents of the United States.

"If you compare Cubans to Haitians or to any other nationality in the world,
they would not come out equitable," acknowledged Duke Austin, a spokesman for
the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington. "There's nothing
perverse or discriminatory about it. It's the law."

But many people question why such a law exists for one group of people and not
for another. "Here they are, two relatively poor island nations, both a few
hundred miles from the United States, both having had authoritarian
governments," said Anne Fuller, associate director of the National Coalition for
Haitian Refugees, a nonprofit organization in New York. "There are so many
parallels between Cuba and Haiti, and yet there's this difference in treatment.
That's what's shocking."

Ms. Fuller said she believed that racism was partly to blame for the double
standard, since many Cubans are white but all Haitians are black. She also said
she thought that the Haitians were not protected because they lacked political
power. Attempts in Federal courts to force the Government to change the policy
have failed.

Estimates of the Haitian population in the United States range widely and often
are inaccurate because so many immigrants do their best to stay hidden. But Ms.
Fuller said the Haitian population in the United States exceeds 400,000. The
largest community is in New York, where as many as 200,000 may live, Ms. Fuller
said.

Miami's Little Haiti, about 200 city blocks of sun-bleached concrete buildings
and an array of shops, is estimated to be 60,000 people.

Most of the Haitians in the United States are now legal residents. Some came
through regular immigration channels and others who came illegally gained legal
status under the recent immigration amnesty program .

In Miami, the Haitians are just one more group of immigrants in a city swept by
waves of immigrants. So far the Haitians, separated by their color and their
French-Creole language from many of Miami's Hispanic groups, have gained little
economic or political power. Relations between the Haitians and the
Spanish-speaking ethnic groups are often strained.

A Beating Is Protested

Earlier this month, a group of 52 Haitian residents sued the City of Miami in
Federal Court. They contend that police officers beat and unfairly arrested them
a year ago when they demonstrated outside a Cuban-owned clothing store. They
were protesting the alleged beating of a Haitian customer by the Cuban
shopkeeper over alterations for a pair of pants.

Some Haitian residents said they believe tensions have worsened in Miami in
recent years, especially between Haitians and Cubans, who often are seen as
powerful and privileged.

"When I first came here, every people was happy," said Edward Ogeris, a
34-year-old dietician in a food-service department who came from Haiti in 1979,
several years before the United States began to intercept the boats. "Today is a
different story. Today, if there are 10 Cuban people and 10 Haitian people
looking for a job, they make the Haitians fill applications and then never call
them. The Cuban people fill the applications and get all the jobs."

With the exception of the massive Mariel boatlift in 1980, Cuban refugees since
the Communist takeover have generally managed to fit into the United States. In
1988 a Cuban-American organization, the Cuban American National Foundation,
entered a special agreement with the United States Government in which it
essentially handles Cuban immigration policy.

Some Cubans Sympathize

For the last three years, the foundation, with headquarters in Miami, has
screened, selected and settled almost 8,000 Cuban "balseros," the name given to
the desperate refugees who arrive in rafts, inner tubes, and anything else that
floats onto the United States mainland. It was the foundation that, within a day
of the arrival of the two Cubans on board the Conail, had interviewed them,
located an aunt in New York and arranged for transportation and a job.

For most Haitians, the voyage to the United States is lined with fear and
frustration. Those who are not turned away at sea are taken by immigration
officials to the Krome Avenue Detention Center in Miami, where they can be kept
behind barbed wire for months while their petitions for asylum are reviewed.
Most are denied asylum and sent back home, but immigration officials said
accounts of their fearful stays at Krome act as a deterrent to other would-be
refugees.

After years of pressure from groups such as the Haitian Refuge Center, the
Government recently changed some of its immigration policies. Starting last
January, Haitians caught trying to come into the United States illegally have
been given more extensive interviews, lasting about 20 minutes instead of 5 as
before, to establish their claims for political asylum.

Asylum for Lucky Few

In the 10 years before the change, some 23,000 Haitians were stopped as they
attempted to enter the United States illegally, according to the National
Coalition for Haitian Refugees. Of those, only eight were granted political
asylum, even through the years when Haiti was ruled by the dictator Jean-Claude
Duvalier.

Since the longer interviews were begun in January, 17 Haitians have been
identified as eligible for asylum. So far this year, six or seven Haitian boats
carrying about 800 people have been intercepted, as against 1,196 in all of
1990, before democracy came to Haiti, and 3,368 in 1989, according to the
coalition.

Many Haitians find a bitter irony in the changes coming now that Haiti for the
first time has a democratically elected Government under Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
But though the incident aboard the Conail has angered Haitians in Miami because
it reminds them of the unequal treatment they receive, the new Government in
Haiti, six months old and still full of promise, fills the shops and streets of
Little Haiti with hope.

"Haitians know that surviving in Miami is tough," said Rev. Thomas G. Wenski,
the Creole-speaking pastor of Notre-Dame d'Haiti Parish in Little Haiti. "The
community has gone through a tremendous amount of things to be frustrated about.
But the people are still on a little bit of a high because of their hopes for a
Democratic Haiti."

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A fishing boat with 161 Haitians and 2 Cubans as it was
intercepted by the Coast Guard on July 7. (Marc Pesetsky) (pg. A1); "If this is
a country of immigrants, then why are some immigrants treated like princes and
others treated like dogs?" asked Rolande L. Dorancy, executive director of the
Haitian Refuge Center in Miami. (Susan Greenwood for The New York Times) (pg.
A14)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 22, 1991, Monday, Late Edition - Final

The Doors Were Closed

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 138 words


To the Editor:

"Uncle Anselm, Uncle Sam" (editorial, July 4) refers to a time "a half-century
ago when the immigration tide swept in refugees from Hitler." But the doors of
this country were closed to such refugees then, save for the fortunate few. In
1939 the liner St. Louis, loaded with Jews fleeing Hitler, came to our shores,
only to be turned back.

It was not until 1944 that the United States brought here 1,000 (!) refugees
from extermination, who were kept in a camp near Oswego, N.Y., under an
agreement to return to their homelands when the war was over. This handful was
admitted under the unfilled quotas of occupied Europe.

We kept our doors closed to the refugees from Hitler, the British kept the doors
of Palestine closed, and so six million died.

LAWRENCE R. ENO
New York, July 9, 1991

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 27, 1991, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

New Influx of Cuban Refugees Is Creating Strains for Florida

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1177 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 26


Almost daily, newspapers and television stations here tell of Cuban refugees
plucked by planes or cruise ships from the Florida Straits as they bob along in
rafts or inner tubes. But deteriorating conditions on the island have also
provoked a much larger and virtually invisible emigration -- tourist charter
flights from Havana -- that has begun to strain this city's resources.

Because a growing number of Cubans are arriving here as visitors and overstaying
their visas, Florida officials are pressing the Federal Government for access to
$35 million placed in an Immigration Emergency Fund that was established after
the last big influx of Cubans a decade ago.

But to their frustration, so far the Bush Administration has refused to
authorize release of any of the money, even as American and Cuban policies
continue to encourage people to flee one of the last bastions of orthodox
Communism.

"It is unfair in the extreme to ask one community to bear the consequences of a
national policy on refugees, just as it would be if there were an emergency
brought on by a hurricane or flood," Senator Bob Graham, a Florida Democrat,
said recently in an interview. "A natural disaster is an act of God, but this
immigration crisis is primarily an event controlled by the Federal Government."

Backlog of Visa Requests

According to the State Department, which processed a total of 38,000 visa
requests from Cuba in 1990, American diplomats in Havana have issued 36,000
visas since the 1991 fiscal year began Oct. 1 and still face a backlog of 28,000
applications. The figures include neither Cubans who have obtained visas at
other embassies, like Caracas and Mexico City, nor the 1,378 Cuban rafters who
have been officially admitted to the United States this year.

No precise figures exist on how many of the Cuban tourists, whose airfares and
processing fees are paid by relatives here, have overstayed their visas to
settle in Miami. But Federal and local officials estimate, based on immigration
and other statistics, that at least one-third of the visitors do not return to
Cuba on their scheduled flights. This creates what Mr. Graham called "a silent,
gradual influx" that has gone undetected because the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's policy of not completely monitoring departures of
foreigners from this country.

"We're looking at an influx of approximately 40,000 people this calendar year,"
said Joaquin Avino, who as county manager is the chief government executive of
Dade County, which includes Miami. "If we can put people on the moon, why can't
we measure people going out?"

In May, the most recent month for which data are available, 7,600 Cubans arrived
in Miami on chartered flights, as against 2,500 in May 1990. "The number of
flights has increased, as has the size of the aircraft being used and the number
of companies involved," said Antolin Carbonell, who tracks the situation for the
Dade County Aviation Department.

Fears of a New Mariel

Among local officials, the upsurge has led to fears of what they call "a new
Mariel," a reference to the 1980 boatlift that brought 125,000 Cubans to the
United States. The cost of assimilating that influx of asylum-seekers was borne
largely by city, county and state governments here, and Florida officials say
the Federal Government still owes them $50 million or more.

The Miami area is already seeing "an increased demand for the whole spectrum of
medical and social services, from job training to emergency housing" because of
the new arrivals, Mr. Avino said. "If you suddenly put an additional 30,000
people in a community, that creates an additional stress on the fire department,
the police department, the parks and public works."

Government officials here said that whatever money they get from the Federal
Government will be destined for hospitals, emergency housing programs and
schools. Senator Graham, who plans to introduce legislation next week that would
make it easier for Florida to obtain money from the fund, and other members of
Florida's Congressional delegation are continuing to lobby both the White House
and the Department of Justice.

Leaders of the Cuban-American community and government officials expect the
exodus to continue, perhaps at an even faster pace. Deprived of Soviet
subsidies, Cuba is facing its worst economic crisis since Fidel Castro seized
power in 1959, and his government has responded with increased political
repression and a declaration of a "period of special austerity" that includes
food and fuel rationing.

As a safety valve, the Cuban Government has over the last 18 months gradually
lowered to 35 from 65 the age at which Cuban men qualify to visit relatives in
this country. Lisandro Perez, a professor of sociology at Florida International
University who has studied Cuban emigration, said the younger Cuban arrivals who
have grown up under Communism are likely to prove more difficult to absorb than
previous waves of Cuban refugees because "their readiness for competition in the
United States" is limited.

Under existing legislation, both the President and the Attorney General have the
power to declare an "immigration emergency," the latter when the number of
requests for political asylum rises by 1,000 in any quarter. But many of the new
arrivals apparently prefer to bypass the long and complicated asylum process in
favor of a special adjustment program that exists only for Cubans, thereby
keeping the number of asylum requests below the legal threshold.

"We don't solicit political asylum claims," said Duke Austin, a spokesman for
the immigration service. "That is not a function of the I.N.S." Mr. Austin also
said it would be unfair to entering Cubans to deny them the right to the quicker
and easier adjustment procedure "only to force the asylum numbers up just so a
community can get the impact funds."

Dade County's Problems

The new influx of Cubans comes as Dade County is still struggling to absorb a
previous wave of politically inspired immigration that flooded the Miami area in
1989. County officials estimate that more than 100,000 Nicaraguans, the bulk of
them anti-Sandinistas requiring public assistance, have settled in southern
Florida in the last decade.

The rapid increase of the Nicaraguan population in 1989 forced one major
hospital here to write off more than $5 million dollars in health care bills and
also led to an enrollment surge in the Dade County public school system. Senator
Connie Mack, Republican of Florida, has estimated the total long-term costs of
settling just the Nicaraguans at more than $100 million.

"We just can't continue to foot the bill," said Kate Hale, director of the
Metro-Dade Office of Emergency Management. "There are Federal Government
programs in place for just this type of situation, and we are frustrated by what
appears to be the Federal Government's attempt to manipulate loopholes that
preclude us from gaining access to funds designated for this purpose."

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 6, 1991, Friday, Late Edition - Final

All Refugees Should Be Treated Like Cubans;
Lift the Restrictions

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 256 words


To the Editor:

Although "The Stick Congress Gave Castro" (editorial, Aug. 15) addresses only
the problem of Cuban immigration, that problem can best be viewed within the
overall folly that characterizes our Cuban policy. Over the years, the United
States has sought to undermine and sabotage the Cuban economy. The
justifications for such an unneighborly policy have varied, but they seem mainly
to reflect our rage in the face of Fidel Castro's refusal to accept our Monroe
Doctrine, his unwillingness to accede to any United States hegemony over his
little country merely because geography placed it in our front yard.

Our romance with Moscow has deprived us of one of our favorite anti-Castro
rallying cries -- Fidel Castro is a dangerous bogyman whose link to the Soviet
Union threatens United States security. Thus there is no longer any excuse to
maintain the myriad restrictions we have imposed on Cuba. We can resume treating
Cuba as we do other countries in the region. This would entail removing both the
discriminatory Cuban Adjustment Act and a host of financial, trade and tourist
restrictions.

Putting Cuba on a level playing field with its Caribbean and Central American
neighbors would provide a potentially instructive opportunity to see whether a
socialist or a capitalist system is better able to bring its people the good
life. The capitalist countries stand an excellent chance of winning such an
economic Olympics. We should allow it to take place.

ROBERT S. BROWNE
Teaneck, N.J., Aug. 15, 1991

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 6, 1991, Friday, Late Edition - Final

All Refugees Should Be Treated Like Cubans

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 278 words


To the Editor:

"The Stick Congress Gave Castro" (editorial, Aug. 15) goes too far in calling
for repeal of the Cuban Adjustment Act, which grants arriving Cubans permanent
resident status.

The problem is not that United States policy toward Cubans is too generous, but
rather that the specific groups you compare -- Haitians and Salvadorans -- have
been victims of biased adjudications, and harsh detention and
high-seas-interdiction programs. If these and other groups had been dealt with
fairly, their treatment would contrast less conspicuously and thus diminish
justification for discontinuing the Cuban program.

Our immigration law and refugee policies are rife with nationality-specific
provisions, including special benefits for Soviet and Indochinese refugee
applicants, Tibetan, Hong Kong and Irish immigrants, as well as Salvadorans,
Liberians, Lebanese and Kuwaitis seeking safe haven. Such differential treatment
is ordinarily attributed to differences in access to the political process and
evolving notions of the public interest and humanitarian need. Indeed, the
Refugee Act of 1980 provides a planning process that permits United States
authorities considerable flexibility in choosing among the world's 17 million
refugees to admit a fair share into the United States.

The goal is to achieve refugee and immigration mechanisms that meet minimum
standards of fairness with the capacity to be generous in specific
circumstances. Where refugees are concerned, basic fairness and selective
generosity are not mutually exclusive.

ARTHUR C. HELTON
Director, Refugee Project, Lawyers
Committee for Human Rights
New York, Aug. 21, 1991

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 15, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Strangers at the Gate

BYLINE: By Judith Miller;  Judith Miller is a staff writer for The New York
Times Magazine.

SECTION: Section 6; Page 33; Column 2; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 4891 words


JON MOISE, A ROMANIAN GYPSY, SAT ON A DARK AND deserted platform in the railway
station at Gorlitz, a town on the German-Polish border, screaming at the German
policemen in a language they could not understand, the wound from his suicide
attempt still oozing.

He and 15 members of his extended family, including 3 children, had sneaked
across the border earlier that day. They were demanding political asylum, the
only words of German they knew.

Hans Ermlich, the policeman in charge, doubted they were true political
refugees. Gypsies, he said, usually just wanted to roam, to beg in richer places
and possibly to find work. But this family seemed determined to stay, as the
slash marks across Moise's stomach suggested.

Ermlich and the other officers debated what to do with this bedraggled group,
huddled in the dank, steamy night, refusing to budge.

"What can we do?" Ermlich asked. "We can't beat them up, or force them into vans
and ship them across the border. Moving these people is no job for a German
policeman."

Scenes like this are being re-enacted at border stations and refugee camps
throughout Western Europe, as thousands of political refugees and immigrants
arrive each day from Eastern Europe, Africa and the Middle East trying to escape
poverty, civil unrest and repression to find work or safe haven in Europe.

Europeans increasingly feel they are under cultural and economic siege, unnerved
by the estimated ten to twelve million immigrants already living among them and
the prospective onslaught of millions more. And that doesn't even include the
millions of illegal immigrants.

The hysteria reached a peak after the abortive Soviet coup and, subsequently,
the threatened collapse of the Soviet empire. That raised the specter of
thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands of terrified Soviet citizens fleeing
their country. But however fearsome that prospect, Africa and the Middle East
are the more likely source of immigrants, and by far the more politically
wrenching.

Migrant Muslims now constitute about two-thirds of Europe's immigrants. And
their presence, along with their different religious, political and cultural
traditions, is raising issues of national identity that Europe had skirted in
the cold-war era. Are European societies destined to follow the United States
and become multiracial and multi-ethnic? Are Europeans willing to accept such a
transformation? Do they have the means and power to prevent it, even if they
want to? And lurking in every discussion of immigration -- particularly with the
alarming recent success of reactionary politicians -- is the
never-quite-banished ghost of Europe's fascist past.

Only a year ago, western Europe was basking in the collapse of Communism and the
prospect of a united and prosperous era for a politically and economically
united European Community. The future, Europeans boasted, lay not in
deficit-plagued, drug-ridden, ethnically and racially divided America. It
belonged to Europe, whose social cohesion, booming economies and strong
governments and political institutions gave the "Old World" the competitive
edge.

Today, however, the Europhoria has evaporated.

Europe's initial ambivalence about confronting Saddam Hussein in Kuwait and,
more recently, its inability to head off civil strife in Yugoslavia have forced
Europeans to acknowledge American military and diplomatic supremacy. Now, after
years of disdaining American racism, Europeans are beginning to wonder whether
the United States may also be better at integrating cultures and peoples. And in
nations where equality of opportunity is not always a bedrock principle, they
are beginning to wonder whether their social and political institutions can cope
with the migration.

Europeans insist that their nations are not "immigration" countries, as is the
United States, which by well-ingrained tradition views immigrants as a source of
cultural richness and economic rejuvenation. Their countries are far more
ethnically homogenous than the United States, far smaller, more crowded and
easier targets of entry.

Europeans also note that the United States now accepts proportionally fewer
legal immigrants than do many Western European states. "Despite our rhetoric,
Europe has become the real immigration continent," says Francois Heisbourg,
director of the London-based International Institute for Strategic Studies.
"Europe today employs more legally resident foreigners than the United States or
even the Arab oil-producing states."

Yet European states are not "immigration" societies in at least one key sense:
among Western Europeans, only the French believe in assimilation. In Germany,
for example, few Turks -- even those who are third-generation German residents
-- are citizens, even second-class ones. The communities coexist, but separately
and profoundly unequally. In France and Italy, many Muslim immigrants do not
even want to be assimilated, a fact that infuriates many.

Europeans also argue that, because of political asylum, they face a far more
explosive form of immigration than does the United States. While the number of
legal immigrants has fallen from 1.2 million in 1973 to an average of between
700,000 and 900,000 a year now, the number of economic migrants entering under
the guise of political asylum has grown, from 14,000 a year in 1973 to 500,000
in 1990, and the number is still rising.

The problem for Europe is that international law, crafted to handle trickles of
cold-war refugees from the Communist bloc, requires each case of political
asylum to be reviewed individually -- a long and expensive procedure. While not
wishing to violate international law, some states are moving unilaterally to
handle political asylum seekers as economic migrants.

Europeans, however, only reluctantly acknowledge a discomforting paradox:
immigrants may not be wanted, but they are needed. Many perform jobs Europeans
no longer desire. And Western Europe's population is dwindling and rapidly
aging. A new study concludes that France will need 315,000 new immigrants a year
to maintain its current work force.

Thus, no matter what Europeans do, the immigration tide may roll on. "As long as
there are such gross resource imbalances in the world, and so many incredibly
poor people living near us in Europe's relative paradise, foreigners will keep
coming," says Richard Hilmer, a German pollster in Berlin. "It's like gaps in
air pressure."

Gianni de Michelis, the Socialist Foreign Minister of Italy and a supporter of
Europe-wide immigration quotas, argues that the issue has placed Europe at a
crossroads. "Either we can try to become 'fortress Europe,' turning in on
ourselves" he says. "Or we can accept the fact that Europe will continue to have
immigrants, that we need many of these immigrants, and that we are destined,
like the United States, to become multicultural societies."

In fact, many Europeans have already passed the crossroads. They seem determined
to resist change.

Switzerland and Austria, both neutral countries, have finally found a use for
their armies, using soldiers to help seal their borders. In what used to be East
Germany, gangs of neo-Nazi skinheads roam back streets and subway stations,
terrorizing immigrants and, in at least two instances, killing those who fight
back.

Last spring in Brussels, police battled gangs of young Moroccans who complained
of police harassment, joblessness and hopeless lives in immigrant ghettos. In
Italy this summer, thousands of desperate Albanian "boat people" were returned
to their hapless, still repressive country.

In some of the richest European states, right-wing parties have expanded and
prospered by exploiting the immigration issue. In France, riots by young North
Africans have helped Jean-Marie Le Pen, the head of the xenophobic and
anti-Semitic National Front, capture about 15 percent of the vote in recent
opinion polls, and up to 30 percent in southern France, where immigrants are
more numerous. In Austria, Jorg Haider, the charismatic leader of the extreme
right Freedom Party, has scored approval ratings as high as 20 percent.

Few politicians and analysts fear a resurgence of fascism. But they do worry
that immigration could push governments to adopt authoritarian measures.
"Fascism as a political movement died with World War II," says Michel Winnock, a
French political scientist. With its distinct program of military expansionism
and corporate statism, he says, fascism is unlikely to re-emerge in Europe. "But
in the long run, a powerful resurgence of national populism could produce
widespread demands for authoritarian governments."

Immigration has already shifted political discourse sharply to the right. Quotas
are defended by virtually all political parties, as they scramble for political
cover and try to deny extreme rightist forces a potent issue. In the process,
however, the talk is getting ugly.

In Austria, Haider labels the immigrants "social parasites." In Italy, newspaper
headlines scream about the "vu compras," or "wanna buys," a reference to the
African street vendors whose stalls line Roman bridges and squares. But nowhere
is the talk as ugly as in France.

In the historic home of the doctrine of human rights, "parlez vrai" (speaking
the truth) and "parlez cru" (crude talk) about "les immigres" is much in vogue.
Socialist President Francois Mitterrand has spoken of what he called -- and
lately tried to retract -- a "threshold of tolerance" in France, whose
population is now 56 million. That includes nearly four million immigrants, 2.3
million of them Africans, of whom 800,000 are Algerians.

In June, Jacques Chirac, the Mayor of Paris and leader of the conservative Rally
for the Republic, decried the "overdose" of immigrants. It was obvious, he said,
why the poor French worker "goes crazy" with the "noise and smell" of his Arab
and African neighbors.

Not to be outdone, the Socialist Prime Minister, Edith Cresson, advocated
"special flights" to expel illegal immigrants. While she was being denounced by
the left (and praised by Le Pen), a poll revealed that more than three-quarters
of the country supported her plan to expel illegal immigrants.

Rather, the hostility is curiously selective. Few in France worry about an
onslaught from the East -- Poles, after all, are European and Catholic. And for
the most part, non-Arab African immigrants are neither feared nor despised.

The hostility is directed mostly at Muslims. The word "immigre" is virtually
synonymous with Islam, now France's second largest religion, and reflects a
cultural and ethnic racism deeply rooted in French history.

Parts of France were once conquered by Muslims, and in modern history the loss
of Algeria after a bloody and debilitating war was a humiliation that has left
deep scars. Many young Muslims in France, moreover, violate an article of faith
by casting doubt on the superiority of French civilization.

Political differences abound. Many Muslims, for example, reject the traditional
Western separation of church and state -- a particularly sensitive issue in
secular but Catholic France. Thus, the insistence of a few Muslim girls on
wearing head scarves to school triggered a bitter national debate over religious
freedom.

"For far too long, France pretended there was no problem," says Pierre
Lellouche, an adviser to Chirac and the author of a forthcoming book on
immigration. "But now there are neighborhoods, entire suburbs, and even cities
like Marseilles where you can't tell you're in France."

Paris, with a population of 2.1 million, has traditionally been anxious about
its suburbs, now inhabited by 10.6 million people. Alarm has increased as the
"red" suburbs, once seen as teeming with Communists and poorer French workers,
have evolved into the "black" enclaves, a haven for recent immigrants and the
breeding ground of an underclass that was once thought to be a uniquely American
phenomenon. In one of these expanding ghettos recently, a telling slogan was
splashed on the side of a tenement: "Long live the Intifada of the Suburbs."

Consider Francs-Moisins, a district of 8,000 people, the majority of them
foreign, in the suburb of Saint-Denis, only 10 minutes from Paris. Among its
monotonous blocks of low-income housing, police and young "beurs," as
French-born Arabs are known, have clashed repeatedly.

"There isn't a single cafe in this complex," says Samir Sahraoui, a 25-year-old
activist with France-Plus, a human rights group. "There is no youth club, no
sports facility except a makeshift soccer field, absolutely nothing to do at
night. Buses comes infrequently. So the guys just hang out. And the Government
wonders why there is violence here."

Unemployment, which stands at 9.2 percent nationally, averages as much as 40
percent among beurs in places like Francs-Moisins, Sahraoui says. Rejected by
society as "un-French," yet unwilling to leave the country they consider their
own, many have turned to fundamentalist Islam, which, in turn, urges them to
reject integration, thus completing a circle of alienation, despair and
violence.

"We know we must end the isolation of the suburbs, not just for foreigners, but
for all those who live there," says Jean-Louis Bianco, the Minister of Social
Affairs and Integration in France. And in the long run, he says, he's
optimistic: "French Islam can be a beacon, a progressive force for Muslims. We
will integrate these young people, for they were born here and are, after all,
very French."

There are grounds for optimism, he insists. The elite colleges and institutions
have recently graduated their first beur students. French culture is replete
with Arab and African stars.

While Bianco believes France will overcome the challenge of immigration,
Lellouche and others are not so sure. "Those who say that France would have no
immigration problem if we had fewer dogs and more children are simply ignoring
what is happening here," he says. "Our former immigrants were Europeans; these
are not. Arab girls who insist on wearing chuddars in our schools are not French
and don't want to be.

"History, proximity and poverty insure that France and Europe are destined to be
overwhelmed by people from the failed societies of the south," Lellouche says.
"Europe's past was white and Judeo-Christian. The future is not. I doubt that
our very old institutions and structures will be able to stand the pressure."

Austria's version of Le Pen is Jorg Haider, leader of the Freedom Party. Some
Austrians argue that Haider's personal political fortunes may now be in decline.
He was dismissed this summer as provincial governor in Carinthia, his home
province, after he praised the labor policies of Nazi Germany -- a gaffe too
glaring even for the country that elected Kurt Waldheim as president while
knowing of his Nazi past.

There is little doubt, however, that fears of unchecked immigration have helped
boost the Freedom Party's standing. In national elections last October, support
leaped to 16 percent from 9.7 percent in 1986, and the party picked up 30
deputies in Parliament, almost double the seats it won four years earlier.

"Immigration is 0.5 percent of our program," protests Heide Schmidt, a Freedom
Party parliamentarian. But Viennese still talk about the party's powerful
campaign poster decrying the country's growing ethnic diversity and increasing
crime rate. "Vienna must not become Chicago," the poster warned.

Karl Krammer, the spokesman for Chancellor Franz Vranitzky, admits that the
Freedom Party's success has influenced the Government's immigration policy. "Our
political system is under strain, especially among people at the margins," he
says. "If we had not responded to public pressure, we would have given Haider a
powerful tool. We did not give it to him."

Austria, a country of nearly 7.5 million people, faces immigration from both the
south and the east. And despite the collapse of the Soviet bloc, growing numbers
of these immigrants are applying for political asylum.

In response to these pressures, Vienna last year excluded Romanians from its
special camps for asylum applicants. This summer, the Government extended the
ban to Bulgarians. The loss of state support makes it difficult for asylum
seekers to stay in Austria while their cases are reviewed. This, critics say, is
the implicit goal, and a violation of international law.

The 1951 Geneva Convention defines a political refugee as a person with a
"well-founded fear of being persecuted" in his country of origin. Under the
convention, the refugee must be given shelter while his application is
considered. The law forbids exclusion by nationality.

Manfred Matzka, the Austrian Interior Ministry's senior official for migration
and asylum, defends the new policies as lawful and appropriate. "We changed our
policy after seeing that following the collapse of Communism, almost no asylum
applications from these nationalities were being approved," he said. "Most of
those coming now are not political refugees, but economic migrants." Austria, he
maintains, is still reviewing each application.

Austrians, Matzka says, are neither racist nor xenophobic. But they are
"overwhelmed."

According to Government statistics, 308,000 of Austria's 482,000 aliens are
legal "guest workers," invited into the country decades ago when jobs were
plentiful. Another 100,000 joined families here; 80,000 are political-asylum
seekers, the fastest growing category.

Matzka insists that Austria, one of Europe's wealthiest countries, can no longer
afford to accept asylum seekers. Between 1987 and 1990, their numbers doubled,
to 22,800, and reached 25,000 in the first six months of 1991. About 12,000
self-proclaimed refugees are staying in Government facilities.

Austria seems close to panic over the brutal civil strife in the Yugoslav
republic of Croatia. It was the prospect of thousands of refugees spilling out
of Yugoslavia, Matzka asserts, that spurred the Austrian Government to clear out
the Government camps and refugee housing.

"I now have 10,000 beds in case of an emergency," Matzka says proudly. "If
something happens, we're prepared." Indeed, as the fighting intensified in
Croatia, there were reports of thousands fleeing the violence.

The Government has "kept order," Matzka says, echoing a self-congratulatory
theme now common in Vienna. "There are no riots here as there are in France, no
pogroms and murders of foreigners as there are in Italy, no skinhead or neo-Nazi
attacks as there are in Germany. We've maintained law and stability, and that is
very important to Austrians."

Germany has no Jorg Haider, no charismatic right-wing rising star. In fact, the
Republicans, the country's extreme right-wing party, lost heavily in the last
federal elections despite trying to make an issue of immigration. But Germany
does have Mike Schmidt, a 16-year-old who lives in Eisenhuttenstadt on the
German-Polish border.

Mike says he has not always hated foreigners. He used to be politically neutral,
but that was before the Berlin wall came down, the two Germanys became one, part
of his steel factory closed and the asylum seekers arrived from Romania and
points south and east. Mike is a slender young man with close-cropped hair, clad
in blue jeans and T-shirt, with a tiny gold earring glistening in his left
earlobe. "Now," he says, "most people here want the foreigners gone."

As he has watched foreigners living in the camp, buying food and amusing
themselves in town -- all at taxpayer expense -- Mike's rage has grown. Only the
day before, he says, gypsies from the camp attacked him and trashed the
motorcycle of his friend Karsten. "After we've skinned alive the guys who did
this, should we roll the skin up or down?" Karsten asks Mike.

Richard Hilmer, the pollster, says that violent youth subcultures have always
emerged in Germany during times of social upheaval. "Their numbers are not
large, but the level of their aggression is truly shocking."

While rightist violence has been confined largely to the east, immigration is a
national problem for Germany.

"We're an ostensible nonimmigration country with proportionally the world's
largest immigration," says Barbara John, a member of the Government's Special
Commission on Integration. "We also have the world's most outdated definition of
nationality."

Under German law, any person of German ancestry, including 2.3 million ethnic
Germans in the Soviet Union, is considered German and has the right to come
home.  In 1990, nearly 400,000 did so. Although most do not speak German or know
much about German culture, they are automatically entitled to citizenship.

But guest workers are not. "We have some five million foreigners here, more than
three million of whom are Turkish guest workers and their descendants -- some of
them third-generation German residents -- but still foreign," John says. "Each
year, about 20,000 of them are nationalized, but 79,000 babies are born. So you
have a permanent and growing group of excluded people."

Political-asylum seekers make up the fastest growing category of German
immigrants, as they do throughout Europe. Almost 200,000 people applied for
asylum last year, more than half the total of the rest of the European Community
combined.

John argues that Germany needs to change its asylum practices, its immigration
laws and its attitudes. She wants Germany to restrict the entry of ethnic
Germans and to change its outmoded, some would argue racist, definition of
nationality.

"Because of our past," says Roland Bachmeier, the Ministry of Interior's
spokesman, "we have the world's most liberal definition of asylum. About 70
percent of those whose cases are rejected are permitted to stay on what we call
'toleration' permits. But this must end if we are to preserve our liberal asylum
guarantees and defend the rights of legitimate political fugitives."

John agrees. "Germany is a crowded country," she says. "It's Montana with 80
million people. Although we are very, very rich, we have problems, such as a
100,000-unit housing shortfall in Berlin. Where are we going to put all these
people? We're already spending four billion marks a year just maintaining asylum
seekers."

Meanwhile, a crackdown on illegal immigrants has begun. In August, Germany
announced it was sending extra guards to secure borders with Poland and
Czechoslovakia. Bonn called upon other European states to help devise a
"defensive" strategy on immigration. The 200 camps in Germany for asylum
seekers, or as officials prefer to call them, "communal living arrangements,"
are already overflowing.

A failure to act would invite a nasty political reaction, Hilmer insists. "The
Republicans got only 2 percent of the vote last year," he says. "But the more
volatile group of what we call indifferent voters are about 24 percent. These
swing voters, part of the breakdown throughout Europe of strong party
affiliation, could be key if the economy stumbles. If things go badly, whom do
you think they'll blame?"

Between the second half of the 19th century and the early 1950's, twelve million
Italians immigrated to the United States and South America in search of work and
a better life. The stream gradually dwindled to nothing about 10 years ago.

Yet, a tradition of emigration, born of economic necessity, made Italy one of
Europe's least restrictive nations regarding freedom of movement -- until
recently.

The complacency ended abruptly last March, when boats carrying more than 20,000
Albanians -- including 2,000 orphans -- dropped anchor off Italy's coast. "It
was a social earthquake," says Margherita Boniver, whose newly created ministry
has the unenviable task of coordinating Italy's tangle of immigration policies.

By the time a second wave of 10,000 Albanian boat people arrived a few weeks
later, the Government had made up its mind.

"We sent them all back, and we will continue doing so," Boniver says. "If we do
not, all of Albania will be in Italy. I've been there. It's a horrible country.
Many people would walk on water to escape it."

Even before the Albanian crisis, however, Italy had started coming to grips with
its new status as an immigration country. In 1990, it passed a sweeping
immigration law that brought its policies closer to those of the other European
Community members. Yet, Italy now has an estimated 400,000 illegal workers, one
of Europe's highest rates, and keeping immigrants out may prove next to
impossible.

"Italy has more than 5,000 miles of coast," says Elena Doni, a migration expert
at the Giovanni Agnelli Foundation. "Each beach is a frontier. All of Italy's
policemen can't police it."

What worries her most, Doni says, is the growing intolerance for the roughly
900,000 foreigners in what was until recently a rather tolerant country. "We've
already had a few murders of foreigners here. But we don't have skinheads or Le
Pen -- yet."

With immigration seemingly spinning out of control, many Western Europeans are
promoting America's quota system as a partial solution. In most countries, the
American (and French) goal of assimilation holds little appeal. Most Europeans
doubt that the newcomers, particularly the Muslims, can be assimilated. And many
don't want them to be.

To a certain extent, the fear of foreigners has been magnified by a lack of
reliable information. In France, for example, the Ministry of Interior's
estimate of legal foreign workers disagrees by 20 percent with Bianco's. "We
should start with better information and less inflammatory language," Heisbourg
recommends.

Nevertheless, the pervasive fear that host societies will be profoundly changed
by massive immigration is not entirely unfounded. "Even if we adopt and enforce
quotas, take only those we need, these people, too, will probably change our
societies," says de Michelis. "We will become, as Western Europe was a very long
time ago, more multi-ethnic and multicultural. That is an enormously difficult
psychological transition for Western Europeans."

While Europe has overcome the cold war, he argues, it now risks creating new
divisions and conflicts, such as a white, wealthy and Christian "fortress
Europe" pitted against a largely poor, Islamic world. "That could lead to more
terrorism and another 40 years of small, hot wars," de Michelis warns.

At the technical level, however, coordination of immigration policies is
improving. Now, asylum seekers can file in every E.C. country, one application
at a time. By 1992, however, they will be allowed to file in only one E.C.
state. And member states will soon require visas for entry from 110 countries
and impose common penalties for transporting illegal aliens between member
states. The Schengen agreement, signed in June 1990 by several E.C. states,
establishes uniform practices for controlling frontiers and permits police to
engage in limited "hot pursuit" across borders.

Most experts now agree that international rules on political asylum are
inadequate. Yet there is little consensus on an alternative strategy.

Perhaps the best way to discourage huge waves of immigration is to promote
development in the East and the South through vast increases in aid and
investment. Yet foreign aid is politically unpopular, and the global competition
for private capital is likely to intensify in the 90's.

Harlem Desir, the head of SOS Racisme, a French civil rights group with ties to
the Socialist Party, blames politicians, particularly Socialists and other
leftists, for the growing xenophobia. Political cowardice, he says, has
prevented the traditional defenders of tolerance and human rights from
challenging right-wing extremists. "The collapse of Communism in the East has
triggered a crisis of identity among Social Democrats in the West," he says.
"The left has become a timid center. And our democracy is being perverted by
demagoguery."

Dominique Moisi, of the Institute for International Relations in France,
generally agrees. "This should have been a time of enormous optimism for us in
Europe," he says. "And yet in France, there is a sense of 'fin de regime,' and
in Europe, a sense of 'fin de siecle.' Europeans now feel threatened by so many
things," he continues. "The Americanization of our culture, the drift of the
left, a loss of identity, the rise of an ugly populist response to things
foreign."

But Europeans, he adds, have very strong societies, durable traditions and
cultures. They also have a strong sense of what it means to live in a social
democracy, in countries where good infrastructure, fine schools and decent
health systems are available to all citizens, even foreigners. Even shoddy
immigrant neighborhoods are still relatively safe, clean and calm, compared with
American ghettos.

In time, Moisi says, Europeans will adjust to the inevitable change in their
societies. If they have enlightened leaders, Europeans will lose their fears of
"pollution" by outsiders; if the foreigners are given basic rights, as they are
in France, the foreigners will become more like Europeans, and Europeans less
afraid of them and of multiculturalism.

"Given our traditions and values," Moisi says, "I suppose I'm optimistic that in
the long run we shall overcome this new challenge. In the short run, however, I
think we're in for a very rocky time."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos/Cover: Albanian refugees await distribution of food on a
sweltering August day in Bari, Italy. (Photograph by Dominique Aubert/Sygma);
Photos: After being denied political asylum, a Tamil woman is carried onto a
plane in Paris in July as part of France's get-tough policy on illegal
immigrants. (Thierry Orban/Sygma)(pg. 32); Young immigrants in the Paris suburb
of Saint-Denis. (Pascal Maitre/Odyssey/Matrix for The New York Times)(pg. 33);
Albanian immigrants just off the boat in the port city of Bari, Italy, on Aug.
10. The country has more than 5,000 miles of coast, which make it a prime
destination for immigrants. "Each beach is a frontier," said an Italian
migration expert." Italian soldiers try to barricade a stadium in Bari that is
being used as a temporary holding area for Albanian immigrants. A few minutes
later, some Albanians break through another door 50 meters away. (pg.
34)(Photographs by Ettore Malanca/Sipa); Xenophobic slogans were prominent at a
neo-Nazi rally in Bayreuth, Germany, on Aug. 17. Skinhead groups have been
accused of terrorizing immigrants and, in at least two instances, killing those
who fight back. (Laurent Chamussy/Sipa); On the German-Polish border, Jon Moise,
a Romanian gypsy, made his case for political asylum by slashing himself.
Thousands of refugees are arriving daily in Western Europe, seeking an escape
from poverty, civil unrest and oppression. (Jan-Peter Boning/Exys for The New
York Times)(pg. 35); An Arab immigrant rests in the market area of Saint-Denis,
10 minutes outside of Paris. The suburb has been the site of frequent clashes
between police and young French-born Arabs, who have found employment and
recreation facilities scarce. (Pascal Maitre/Odyssey/Matrix for The New York
Times); Yugoslavs in a refugee camp in Austria, where the number of people
seeking political asylum rose from 11,400 in 1987 to 25,000 in the first six
months of 1991. The fighting in Yugoslavia threatens to send thousands more.
(Ulrich Schnarr for The New York Times); The evacuation of a housing complex in
Milan in September 1990. It had been occupied for almost two years by 700
immigrants from Morocco. After they were evicted, parts of the building were set
afire. (Dino Fracchia/Contrasto/Saba)(pg. 36); Simion Iambor, a 32-year-old
Romanian, and his son in a refugee camp in Austria in late August. A month
earlier, Iambor set part of his body on fire in the Austrian Parliament. (Ulrich
Schnarr)(pg. 37)

Map/Table: "Europe's Porous Borders" shows a map of Europe and a table listing
number of people seeking political asylum in Austria, France, Germany, and
Italy.

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 18, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Youngsters Learn About Immigration From a Master: Chaplin

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Students from Liberty High School in lower Manhattan, the Board
of Education's cadet school for immigrants, watching the classic Charlie Chaplin
film "The Immigrant" at the American Museum of the Moving Image in Astoria,
Queens. Page B2. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 22, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Threat to Veto Israeli Guarantee Imperils Talks;
No Emigration Choice

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 310 words


To the Editor:

In "Bush vs. the Jews," Leslie H. Gelb's Sept. 15 column, he writes that Soviet
Jews "cannot go to Israel, which is where the United States wants them to go,
without United States financial help." However, the Israeli Government actively
lobbies the governments of the United States and numerous European countries to
constrain the flow of Soviet Jewish emigrants, and in effect, force Soviet Jews
to immigrate to Israel.

The United States Government imposed a quota on the number of Soviet Jews
allowed to immigrate to the United States because of Israeli Government pressure
upon the United States Government. This policy should be reversed. Soviet Jews
should be permitted to choose between settling in the United States and European
countries or in Israel, rather than being forced to settle in Israel as Israeli
policy dictates. It would be cheaper for the United States taxpayer, obviating
the need for a $10 billion loan guarantee.

Mr. Gelb also states that former Prime Minister Menachem Begin, in a gesture to
further the peace process, suspended settlement building during the Camp David
peace negotiations. What Mr. Gelb neglects to mention is that days after signing
the Camp David accords, Mr. Begin in a gesture of defiance renewed settlement
building, which has continually escalated within occupied Palestine.

As for calling the loan guarantees "humanitarian aid," aid to Israel should be
predicated upon its human rights treatment of Palestinians, in which case Israel
would be denied all aid. If the Soviet Union treated Jews as Israel treats
Palestinians, then, not only would the American Israel Public Affairs Committee,
the Israel lobby, be advocating unconditional humanitarian aid to Israel, but it
would also be demanding the resumption of the cold war.

ARCH MILLER
Arcadia, Calif., Sept. 15, 1991

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 25, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Panel Clears Bill to Make U.S. Purge List of Aliens

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 762 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24


Congressional negotiators today adopted the Senate version of a measure that
would require the State Department to remove from a secret list more than
300,000 aliens it has considered ideologically unacceptable to enter the United
States.

The bill, which was approved by the Senate in June and would give the State
Department three years to purge the names, was supported by the Bush
Administration. A version approved by the House would have provided only six
months to purge the list. The Senate version also gave the State Department
leeway in putting names on another, acceptable list of people who were
considered a threat to national security or inimical to the nation's foreign
policy interests.

"One of the last vestiges of the McCarthy era is truly being swept away," said
Representative Howard L. Berman, Democrat of California, the sponsor of the
House-passed bill who led today's meeting of a House-Senate conference on a bill
to authorize the State Department's policies and spending for the next fiscal
year.

Act From 1952

Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a New York Democrat who was chief sponsor of
the Senate measure, said that the conference action showed that "We're not
afraid of people with ideas, nor are we obliged to pay any attention to them if
we don't want to."

The Immigration and Nationality Act, also known as the McCarran-Walter Act, was
passed in 1952 over the veto of President Harry S. Truman. Congress considered
the measure necessary to protect American citizens from subversive ideas, mainly
communism. The ideological restrictions in the law were modified in 1977 to give
the Secretary of State discretion in adding and removing people from the list.
The restrictions were temporarily lifted in both 1987 and 1988, but the secret
list persisted.

The conferees also agreed on a measure that would prohibit the State Department
from denying a passport solely on the basis of "speech, activity, affiliation or
membership, within or outside the United States, which, if held or conducted
within the United States, would be protected by the first amendment to the
Constitution."

U.S. Must Show Initiative

People on the list solely for ideological reasons have not actually been barred
from entering the country since last year, when a revision of the immigration
law prohibited the State Department from excluding such people. But the
department nevertheless continued to maintain the list.

Although last year's law enabled those on the list to apply to have their names
removed, the new measure would require the Government to take the intiative in
purging the list. Thousands of aliens, many of them now dead, were unaware that
they were on the list and why.

Last June, pending approval of new legislation, the Bush Administration agreed
to remove almost all the names of those listed for ideological reasons.

The ideological exclusion was used to bar Nobel laureates, including Gabriel
Garcia Marquez and Pablo Neruda, the novelist Graham Greene, the actor Yves
Montand and the naturalist Farley Mowat. Also on the list were Dario Fo, the
Italian playwright; Choichiro Yatani, a Japanese scholar, and Patricia Lara, a
Colombian journalist.

Among political leaders on the list were Ian D. Smith, the former Prime Minister
of Rhodesia; Daniel Ortega Saavedra, former president of Nicaragua, and Yasir
Arafat, head of the Palestine Liberation Organization.

Many Recent Names

A recent computer analysis by the Refugee Project of the Lawyer's Committee for
Human Rights, a public interest group committed to the removal of the names,
revealed that more than half the listings were made from 1981 to 1988, roughly
corresponding to the years of the Reagan presidency, and that nearly 15 percent
of the listings were made from February 1989 through October 1990, less than
halfway through the current term of the Bush presidency.

The analysis was based on the computerized records of the State Department's
Automated Visa Lookout System and the Immigration and Naturalization Service's
National Automated Immigration Lookout System, most of whose names were included
on the State Department list.

In addition to the 310,000 "political undesirables," the list also included the
names of 8,772 people cited for national security and foreign policy reasons,
and about 40,000 immigrants who sought to be permanent residents and who are not
protected by the new law, according to the analysis. These people will continue
to be listed because they may still be excluded under the immigration law.


LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 26, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Baker and Israel Agree to Put Loan-deal Differences Aside

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 667 words


Foreign Minister David Levy of Israel and Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d
agreed yesterday to try to defuse tensions between their Governments over
Israel's request for $10 billion in loan guarantees from the United States,
apparently not by settling the dispute but by postponing it.

Speaking with reporters after his meeting with Mr. Baker, Mr. Levy said, "We can
say that all those shadows that were between Israel and the United States have
been removed and a better climate has been achieved."

But officials said that the improvement in the atmosphere was not because of any
substantive understandings, but rather because Israeli officials had apparently
decided they had no choice now but to bow to the realities on Capitol Hill and
forgo a fight with the Administration over the loan issue.

American supporters of the Israeli position have decided not to press the fight.
Congressional leaders are signaling that they intend to accede to President
Bush's request for a four-month postponement of consideration of the Israeli
request, and some prominent American Jewish spokesmen have also begun to call on
Israel to reconsider its policy of allowing Jewish settlement in territories
occupied by Israel in the 1967 Middle East war.

Bush's Offer of a Delay

Israel's settlement policy is the core issue behind the dispute over the loan
guarantees, which would help provide housing for Soviet Jewish immigrants to
Israel. The Bush Administration has made it known that it will oppose the loan
guarantees unless Israel accepts "very effective conditions" to curtail further
settlement in the occupied territories, a practice Washington considers damaging
to the prospects for an international Middle East peace conference.

Since Israel rejects such linkage, and would have engaged with the
Administration in a major fight to avoid it, Israel's Congressional supporters
have chosen to take up Mr. Bush's offer for delay.


Senators Robert Kasten, Republican of Wisconsin and Daniel K. Inouye, Democrat
of Hawaii, who are sponsoring the Israeli loan guarantee legislation, are
expected to announce this week that they have a two-thirds majority of the
Senate prepared to pass the Israeli request, but will only bring it to a vote in
four months, after the Arab-Israeli peace conference is supposed to be well
under way.

Latest Israeli Settlement

While few American Jewish spokesmen are prepared to come out and say so
publicly, some are quietly urging Israel's Prime Minister, Yitzhak Shamir, not
to make a bad situation worse by continuing to open new settlements in the
occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. On Tuesday, Mr. Shamir inaugurated a new
Jewish settlement in Israel on the border with the West Bank while declaring
"all the territories that we have available for construction will be populated
by Jews up to the horizon's edge."

Abraham H. Foxman, the national director of the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai
B'rith, said in an article to be published on Thursday in the Israeli daily
Yediot Ahronot that American Jewish spokesmen respect Israel's "moral and legal
right" to build settlements on the West Bank.

But if the Israelis are going to persist in that policy, Mr. Foxman wrote, they
had better understand certain basic realities about the United States right now:
the popularity of Mr. Bush as President, the end of cold-war considerations that
often led to reflexive American support for Israel, budgetary constraints in the
United States, and a feeling after the Persian Gulf war that the Arabs "are not
necessarily the same bad guys as they have been."

He continued: "To think that the Administration and the President, who has
always taken personally Israel's continuing settlements, will not use this
unique moment to exert their influence is to fool oneself. We should do all we
can to prevent such illusions. Ultimately, Israel will have to choose. Are the
loan guarantees more important than the current settlement policy?"

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d after meeting yesterday in
New York City with Foreign Minister David Levy of Israel. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 28, 1991, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Lawyers and Visa Services Charged in False Ads

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 507 words


Three lawyers and four visa services were charged by the New York City Consumer
Affairs Department yesterday with using misleading advertising to obtain coveted
green cards for illegal aliens in an unusual lottery next month. In some cases
the advertisements guaranteed "full success" or a "proven strategy."

The lottery, to be conducted by the United States Immigration and Naturalization
Service, will grant green cards -- signifying permanent legal residency -- to
40,000 people on a purely first-come, first-serve basis.

"There is no such thing as a guarantee or special strategy and no need for legal
services," Mayor David N. Dinkins said at a news conference yesterday. People
seeking a green card, he added, "should beware of ads promising more than can be
delivered."

The city's Consumer Affairs Commissioner, Mark Green, said: "Roulette is a game
of chance, and poker is a game of skill and chance. The visa lottery is
roulette, not poker. Since the Secretary of State and the head of the I.N.S.
can't promise success in this lottery, no lawyer or visa service can."

At 12:01 A.M. on the Columbus Day holiday, Oct. 14, tens of thousands of aliens
are expected to deposit applications into bins at a post office in Arlington,
Va. With many people planning to submit hundreds of duplicates, experts estimate
that as many as five million applications may be received by the Oct. 19 cutoff.
Under the 1990 immigration law, the first 40,000 applications received from
people born in 34 countries will receive green cards.

The lottery was written into the law to aid countries whose immigration numbers
dropped in 1965. The 1965 law lifted stringent quotas on immigration from Latin
America and Asia and gave preference to immigrants closely related to citizens.
Both changes reduced immigration from Europe, and most of the countries listed
for the lottery are European.

One of the lawyers cited yesterday, Hal Ginsburg of Kapson & Ginsburg in Great
Neck, complained that "Consumer Affairs never contacted me."

"What they say in the press release is not what the ad says," Mr. Ginsburg
insisted , then read the text of his firm's advertisement in The Irish Echo. "It
says: '$250 for 100 applications in 1991 visa lottery. Guaranteed first-day
postmark and delivery in Washington, D.C.'

But the advertisement in The Polish Daily News said, as translated by the
Consumer Affairs Department, "The first 100 applications are guaranteed for
visas for permanent residence in the USA (lottery)."

The department also said Mark Kalish, a lawyer in Manhattan, had placed an ad in
The Polish American World that, it said, "exaggerated what he could do as a
lawyer."

Mr. Kalish said: "I maintain that my ad is not misleading, nor was it meant to
mislead anyone."

Also cited were: the Manhattan firm of Brown, Elfman & Torres; Visa Anywhere
Inc. of Manhattan; Capitol Visa Services of Silver Spring, Md.; Inventure
Publications of Washington, and Jan Wojitas of Flushing, Queens. A violation
carries a fine of up to $500.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 6, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Bag Inspection

SECTION: Section 5; Page 12; Column 5; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 351 words


To the Editor: In late July, I returned to the U.S. at San Francisco airport,
only to experience obnoxious and racist behavior by Customs officers.
Immigration officers directed some passengers to a special Customs line, with an
X-ray scanner. In line for some 45 minutes, I noted that only one person in line
was white. Most were Orientals, many elderly, with a mix of U.S. and foreign
citizens.

The X-ray scanner, like those used to scan hand baggage at airports, has
conveyor belt about three feet off the ground. Many passengers were hard put to
get the bags up, but the Customs man was impatient, rude, unhelpful and forbade
others to help.

After the scanner, some bags were hand-inspected. The inspecting officers
exchanged racist jokes about Oriental people, wondered aloud why people came if
they couldn't speak the language, and exchanged tales about the "weird" things
that Chinese and Japanese ate. Impatient with passengers who couldn't follow an
American accent, the officers shouted at them.

SHRIPAD TULJAPURKAR
Mountain View, Calif.

 The Customs Department, on examining its records, found that it had no contact
with Mr. Tuljapurkar, but that his bags had been inspected by the Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service of the Department of Agriculture. Larry Hawkins,
public information officer for this agency in San Francisco, replies: Employees
of A.P.H.I.S. are required to adhere to principals of ethical conduct and to
exercise courtesy and tact. Complaiants are pursued vigorously and action taken
as necessary. Without badge numbers or employees' names, we are unable to verify
the misconduct alleged. In this instance, even though he did not contact us
directly, the officer in charge at San Francisco airport discussed the incident
with his staff and counseled them on conduct and reponsibility as soon as he
became aware of the complaint. In a memo, the officer stated that midconduct
would lead to immediate disciplinary action. A.P.H.I.S. relies on the
cooperation of the traveling public to keepagricultural pests and diseases out
of the country.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 29, 1991, Friday, Late Edition - Final

For Winners in Visa Lottery, Round 2

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1109 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 28


Foreigners wanting to live in this country inundated the Government with nearly
19 million applications for 40,000 slots in an immigration lottery held last
month, nearly four times the number expected, according to figures released this
week.

Now the applicants, some of whom sent in as many as 1,000 applications, are
being taken by surprise by a Government decision to issue notifications to
50,000 people that they were winners and then let the first-round winners
scramble for the 40,000 visas available.

Mike Brennan, a spokesman for the State Department, said the extra notifications
were aimed at covering any possible dropouts and urged the recipients to hurry,
because the first 40,000 who complete the required documentation win.

"The 10,000 who do not make it will have to apply again next year," Mr. Brennan
said.

The Race Is On

"The race definitely is still on," said Eileen Madden, a 22-year-old applicant
from Ireland who is among the 12,000 first-round winners already notified and
who, like most applicants and even many immigration experts, was surprised to
discover that the competition is not yet over. The remaining 38,000 winners will
be notified in December.

"It's in the regulations but I think people missed it," said Hope M. Frye, first
vice president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association. "I think the
average applicant is probably quite surprised to find this out."

The lottery was one of the stranger innovations in the 1990 immigration law,
which allows for overall immigration of up to 700,000 people a year.

There have been two previous immigration lotteries, but this is the first to be
written into law on a continuing basis and the first to attract such a large
response, with some applicants sending in hundreds and even thousands of
letters.

The procedure is aimed at giving a boost to immigrants from 34 nations that have
been underrepresented in recent years. A result of heavy lobbying by groups
representing the 100,000 illegal immigrants from Ireland, the lottery includes a
guarantee of at least 40 percent of the slots for the Irish.

But Irish applicants were swamped by other nationalities, and the search for
Irish winners apparently slowed the processing of the results.

Some immigration lawyers question the legality of registering 50,000 applicants
for the 40,000 places mandated by Congress. They also say it remains unclear how
the 40 percent of Irish applicants admitted into the final leg of the race will
translate into the 40 percent of winners called for by the law.

From a broader perspective, they say the lottery is a national embarrassment at
a time when Haitian refugees are being sent back to sea and Vietnamese boat
people are being denied asylum.

"I think there are real policy issues raised in how we are holding ourselves out
to the world because of these visa lotteries," said Ms. Frye. "I wonder what
kind of message we send to families who are waiting to reunited, to employers
seeking to bring in skilled workers and to all kinds of other refugees to whom
we are denying entry."

Searching for the Irish

The State Department said on Tuesday that after opening 167,500 applications,
the department had identified 30,000 non-Irish candidates, and had to search
through an additional 225,750 applicants to reach its quota of 20,000 Irish.
Many of the discards were apparently duplicate applications or forms that were
in some way defective.

Following Ireland were Poland with 12,060 slots, Japan with 6,413, Great Britain
(including Northern Ireland) with 3,054, Indonesia with 2,947 and Argentina with
1,453.

These were followed by Germany with 657, France with 636, Italy with 469, Norway
with 287 and Czechoslovakia with 261.

The department said the winners were selected from among the first of 9.3
million valid applications that were received between Oct. 14 and Oct. 20. In
addition, it said, 7.5 million applications arrived in the mail before the
starting date and 2 million were received after the statutory period ended.

The millions of losers will receive no response to their applications.

For Some, a Head Start

The first 12,000 successful applicants, who were notified in the order their
applications were received, have a head start in the bureaucratic race.  All
50,000 first-round winner must now complete a biographical form, gather a set of
required documents, assure that they have an offer of a steady job in the United
States, pay $25 and wait for a scheduled interview.

If, like a great many of the applicants, they have been working illegally in the
United States after arriving on visitors' visas, they must apply for a special
amnesty that is offered as part of the lottery to allow them to become citizens.
Immigration experts are not sure how long the processing of that dispensation
may take or even whether it can be completed by Oct. 31, 1992, the final date
for issuance of visas.

In the cases of many people who have been living in the United States, all this
will require a new gamble: a journey back to their homelands where their
applications will be processed by the local consular office.

They will leave the United States without a guarantee that their applications
will be successful, or, if successful, that they will be among the first 40,000
to be completed.

On the other hand, said Martin Lawler, an immigration lawyer, those whose
immigration status allows them to complete the procedures in the United States
face potential delays of as much as 14 months because of a backlog at offices of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Element of Chance

All the confusion seems to retain the spirit of the original law, said James A.
O'Malley, an immigration lawyer in New York: "That whole element of chance is
still there."

One of Mr. O'Malley's clients is Miss Madden, who said she had scored with one
of more than 1,000 applications she sent in, hoping, as many applicants did, to
increase her chances with multiple throws of the dice.

"I have no way of knowing which one actually got through," said Miss Madden, who
came three years ago on a tourist visa and stayed to work as a nurse's aide.

Like many other applicants, Miss Madden did not complain about the confusion or
indignity of the lottery procedure, but voiced gratitude for the chance to
become a legal resident.

"I came here because I knew if I ever wanted to make something of myself I could
do it over here," said Miss Madden, who aspires to become a veterinarian. "Being
legal will make a big difference. I can go to whatever school I want and become
whatever I want to."

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eileen Madden, a 22-year-old applicant from Ireland, is among
the first-round winners in the immigration lottery. (John Sotomayor/The New York
Times)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 7, 1991, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

The New Immigrants: Reshaping the Region/A special report;
Wider Mosaic: Suburbs' Jobs Lure Immigrants

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2358 words

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, Dec. 6


They still come for all the things that enticed their predecessors: economic
opportunity, freedom, a better life for their families. But unlike earlier
immigrants, today's new arrivals often bypass New York City, settling in the
towns and cities that dot the metropolitan region.

Quickly but quietly, areas that not long ago were fairly homogeneous have
changed. Indian saris swish down sidewalks in Edison, N.J. Pastors deliver
sermons in Portuguese and Spanish in North Tarrytown, N.Y. Vietnamese
restaurants and markets are springing up in the West End of Hartford. Iranians
are becoming homeowners in Great Neck, L.I.

Some of the new immigrants have tapped an extensive network of friends and
relatives already living in communities outside New York City. Others have had
the money and savvy to establish themselves in desirable suburbs. Almost all
were attracted by job markets that expanded far more quickly in the 1980's than
did employment opportunities in the city.

"Traditionally, immigrant groups started out in sizable city enclaves and
gradually -- across generations -- fanned outward into the suburbs," said Dr.
Richard D. Alba, professor of sociology at the State University of New York at
Albany. "Now we have groups that are leapfrogging over the early stages of that
process."

In a recent New York Times Poll of the entire New York metropolitan region, 48
percent of those questioned in the suburbs around New York City, as well as in
the five boroughs, said their communities were more racially mixed than they
were five years ago. Of those who lived from one to two hours from the city, 43
percent said their communities had become more diverse. Just how diverse should
become evident early next year when the Census Bureau releases 1990 data on
immigrants' country of origin.

"Until the 1980's, a lot of these places saw themselves as completely white, and
they were," said Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, Regional Commissioner of the Federal
Bureau of Labor Statistics in New York. "But immigrants tend to be young,
innovative and entrepreneurial, and they moved to where the action was."

For the immigrants and for the communities where they move, the changes, while
often beneficial to both, have been tinged with bitterness. The newcomers
appreciate the jobs, housing and educational opportunities available where they
live.  They are proud, too, of the businesses that they have established. But
they voice frustration over their lack of political influence, obstacles toward
advancement in the work place, resentment in some schools and scattered bias
attacks.

Education
Schools Speak With Many Voices

The experiences of new arrivals in the region are as diverse as their cultures.

The Japanese executive in Scarsdale, who will probably be returning to Japan in
a few years, has a vastly different view of -- and impact on -- the region than,
say, the Salvadoran peasant struggling to stake out a new life as a landscaper
in Hempstead, L.I.

But one common flash point is the public schools. The rise in bilingual
education and special instruction for children for whom English is a second
language have strained school districts at a time of intense financial
pressures.

In Stamford, Conn., which saw tremendous economic growth in the 1980's, some 30
foreign languages, from Laotian and Russian to Urdu and Creole, are spoken by
the students in the 17 public schools. The district now has 20 instructors
teaching English as a second language, which is mandated by the state for those
whose native language is not English.

Along the Hudson River in Westchester County, the Tarrytown school district is
now 40 percent Hispanic, with large numbers of Dominicans and Cubans.

"There is resentment on the part of some parents simply because they know that a
very large part of the budget has to be spent getting these children up to
speed," said Betsey Hardeman, a former deputy superintendent in Tarrytown. "The
basic prejudice comes out when people are dealing with their pocketbooks."

The same tensions, though perhaps more muted, are present in the wealthiest
suburbs where many Japanese families have settled, like Scarsdale, in
Westchester County, and Greenwich, Conn.

"They create, at the very least, a situation where huge numbers of people need
remedial work in English," said John Wheeler, vice president of the Japan
Society, a private educational organization promoting United States-Japanese
relations. "You also have students worrying that the Japanese are taking their
place in terms of test scores."

'Work at Integration'

In Fort Lee, N.J., 688 Korean students and 357 Japanese make up 36 percent of
the enrollment in the public school system.

But Dr. Alan W. Sugarman, Superintendent of Schools in the middle-class
community overlooking the George Washington Bridge, said social interaction
between Asian students and whites -- and even between Japanese and Koreans -- is
lacking. "We have to constantly work at integration," he said.

While public schools struggled with the social tensions and educational burdens
accompanying the influx of newcomers, the mood in the work place, especially
among employers, is one of gratification.

Employment
The Willing Hands Of Varying Ability

"Immigrants in Westchester fill the jobs that Americans disdain," said Luis
Andrew Penichet, a lawyer in White Plains and chairman of the county's Hispanic
Advisory Board. "They are gardeners, cooks, dishwashers and domestics, and they
work like dogs."

That view is supported by the recent New York Times Poll of the metropolitan
region, which found that 63 percent of those questioned, both in the city and
the suburbs, believe that immigrants take jobs that United States citizens do
not want. And about two-thirds in both places said that today's immigrants work
harder than people who were born in the United States.

The rapid growth of the region's economy during the 1980's provided employment
for many of the new immigrants, whose numbers swelled during that period.

Eased Restrictions

Westchester's Hispanic population rose by 89 percent in the last decade, to
86,000, according to census data, and leaders of the Hispanic community say that
illegal aliens probably bring the total number of Hispanic residents to around
120,000.

Changes in United States immigration laws that lifted restrictions from East
Asian countries and loosening emigration policies abroad have also brought more
skilled workers and professionals to the region, like doctors and computer
programmers from Korea, mathematicians and pharmacists from India, translators
and theatrical producers from the Soviet Union.

The new arrivals took advantage of the region's economic expansion. Between 1980
and 1990, 660,000 jobs, an increase of 17 percent, were created in the 18
counties of northern New Jersey, the mid-Hudson Valley and Long Island that
sweep around New York City. In the same period, jobs in the city increased by
212,000, or 6 percent.

Yet some immigrants believe that their prospects are limited, and they blame
discrimination. "The concern of the upper-middle-class Chinese scattered
throughout the suburbs is very much the 'glass ceiling,' " said Peter Kwong, the
author of "The New Chinatown" and a professor of political science at the State
University of New York's College at Old Westbury on Long Island.

"In corporations, in computer firms and engineering firms," he said, "they can
be the senior engineer but they can't be the manager. It's a frustration
commonly shared by Chinese."

And not all new arrivals slip easily into the work force. In Hartford, for
example, some Vietnamese immigrants who arrived without professional skills are
struggling. "We put them into vocational courses, but we're not lucky with
everyone, and some go on welfare," said Hai Nguyen, a 47-year-old counselor for
Catholic Charities Migration and Refugee Services who is herself a former "boat
person" plucked from the sea in 1975. "Once they are on welfare, even though
it's just a little money, they're pleased since they had even less before."

Mrs. Nguyen lives in Manchester, a suburb of Hartford, with her husband, a
senior analyst for an insurance company, and their two youngest children. A
third child is in college. A month ago, after a 10-year campaign, she welcomed
her mother, father and brother to the United States.

Politics
Struggle to Develop Government Role

If economic gains have been uncertain, those in the political arena have been
more elusive still. Typically, immigrants are not concentrated enough to elect,
say, an Indian or Korean, leaders of those groups contend.

"What Koreans really feel is that the history of immigration is short, and we
don't have any assemblymen, senators, Congressmen or judges," said Dr. Richard
S. Rhee, a neurologist in Rumson, N.J., and past president of the Federation of
Korean-American Associations of New Jersey. "There is no political clout, no one
to turn to with a problem."

Though they have yet to field a candidate, Indians who have settled in Edison,
N.J., have begun to organize, outlining agendas and supporting candidates
sensitive to their needs. Edison, with a population of 89,000, had 6,000 Indian
residents last year, up from only 900 in 1980, according to the Census Bureau.

As their numbers have grown, so have their incomes. "When you're self-sufficient
and have money, you have time to get involved in politics, and that time for us
has come," said Pradip Kothari, a travel agent and president of both the
Indo-American Cultural Society of Edison and the Indian Business Association.

Hispanic people, who are the largest ethnic group in the region, have also made
the greatest strides politically. In Hempstead, L.I., where bodegas, video
stores and restaurants cater to the island's largest Hispanic community, there
is excitement among the village's Salvadorans, Hondurans and Guatemalans about
their rising political prospects. Recently, some of them gathered to discuss the
formation of a political action committee to mobilize Hispanic voters in local
elections.

"For the first time we have an Hispanic member on the school board," said Rafael
Picon, a civic leader who migrated to Hempstead in the 1950's from Puerto Rico.
"That will be only the beginning."

Frank Rey was elected mayor of North Tarrytown last spring, becoming the first
Hispanic leader in the history of the village, which is 34 percent Hispanic.
North Tarrytown's 2,776 Hispanic residents "are better represented because I'm
Spanish," said Mr. Rey, whose mother emigrated from Spain 51 years ago, just
before his birth.

Opportunity
As Diversity Rises, Options Expand

More than anything else, one has only to walk down the street -- looking and
listening -- to realize the growing diversity of the region.

In North Tarrytown, a video store rents tapes translated into Spanish while a
Chilean bakery offers traditional pastries like milhojas and meringues. In the
same tiny business district are a Cuban-owned laundromat, a Dominican-owned
stationery store, an Argentine-owned television repair shop, a Puerto
Rican-owned grocery store.

Two years ago in Great Neck, the Colbeh restaurant opened to serve the growing
Iranian community, now estimated to be a few thousand strong. The restaurant
offers the only glatt kosher Persian cuisine on Long Island, and also features a
traditional dish called Chelo-Kabab, a mix of grilled and barbecued chicken,
salmon and beef.

In Edgewater, N.J., one of the most striking retail additions in the region is
the Yaohan shopping plaza, a three-year-old complex of Japanese businesses,
including a bookstore, golf shop, beauty salon, pharmacy, travel agent and
bonsai tree outlet. There is also a giant supermarket, where Elvis Presley
croons over aisles brimming with thousands of Japanese products, from rice
crackers and dried seaweed to Japanese-brand condoms.

Divergent Reception

Elsewhere in New Jersey, three Hindu temples in Middlesex County draw worshipers
from the Indian community while around the state some 100 churches, most of them
Protestant, provide services in Korean. A handful of churches in Elizabeth and
East Orange hold Mass in Creole for the growing Haitian population.

Some longtime residents see such "foreign" influences as an intrusion in their
communities; others welcome them. In Larchmont, N.Y., for instance, many
residents feel that the French community of some 400 families in the area lends
a certain cachet to their village, one of the most expensive suburbs in
Westchester.

Not so in the comfortable neighborhoods surrounding the more working-class
village of Mount Kisco in northern Westchester. In the last decade, the Hispanic
population there has risen to 1,100 from 400, with many Guatemalans and
Salvadorans crowding into apartments. Some residents have organized to expel
illegal aliens.

"People keep calling the Immigration and Naturalization Service and telling them
to make raids on Mount Kisco," said Joseph A. Sena Jr., a lawyer who counts many
Hispanic immigrants among his clients. "If Hispanics live in west Yonkers in the
slums, they don't attract too much attention. But if they live in affluent
northern Westchester, it's a different story."

Welcome or not, the immigrants now living in the region make it likelier that
their numbers will grow, thanks to the networking phenomenon, immigration
specialists say.

"The new immigrant whose cousin is in Mount Kisco doesn't need to settle in New
York City," said Jeffrey S. Passel, director of the program for research on
immigration policy at the Urban Institute in Washington. "He can live with his
cousin until he finds a job in Westchester. Those informal networks are very
strong."

Mr. Kothari, a leader of the Indian community in Edison, N.J., said the special
stores and services catering to ethnic communities in the region were also a
strong pull. "Twenty years ago, there was no alternative," Mr. Kothari said. "If
you were an immigrant from India, you went to Queens. Now you can move to Jersey
City or Middlesex County, where everything is available."

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: New immigrants are bypassing New York City for its suburbs.
Elva Marchena, rear, arrived in North Tarrytown, N.Y., from Costa Rica three
years ago with her children, Tracy, 9, Arnold, 8, and Ivan, 7, left. (Joyce
Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Indian residents of Edison, N.J., have
increased to 6,000 from 900 in 1980, according to the Census Bureau. Madhu
Chauhan, left, and her daughter, Hetal, shopped at one of the Indian grocery in
the city. (Najlah Feanny for The New York Times); Vietnamese restaurants and
supermarkets are springing up in West End of Hartford, to serve the area's new
arrivals. Dang Thi Hue posed with her children and a neighbor, right, at her
home on Lisbon Street. (Suzanne DeChillo for The New York Times)(pg. 28)

Table: "Compare and Contrast: Fast-Growing Ethnic Groups" shows growth in
population of selected racial or national origins in New York, New Jersey and
Connecticut, from 1980 to 1990. (Source: Census Bureau)(pg. 28)

TYPE: Special Report

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 22, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Foreign Millionaires in No Rush to Apply for Visas, U.S. Finds

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 18; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1186 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 21


The United States put its new "millionaire visas" on the market this month,
offering American citizenships to big-time investors. But it discovered that
among the world's rich, there are not many takers.

After months of preparation and publicity, the Government has just issued its
final regulations for the special visas, which offer permanent residency status
to foreigners who invest $1 million or more in a business that employs at least
10 people.

After almost three weeks, only 177 potential investors, much fewer than the
Government initially expected, have applied for the 10,000 visas, which are the
first step toward citizenship.

This hesitancy by foreign millionaires contrasts with the avalanche of nearly 19
million applications that the Government received two months ago in a
first-come, first-served lottery that offered 40,000 visas to people from 34
selected nations.

Immigration lawyers say a host of fine points contributes to the reticence of
rich foreigners, who can easily find other ways to stay in this country. But
these difficulties are only a part of a larger debate about the program, which
was created last year under a new immigration law.

Critics of the visa program say the nation is abandoning its historic ideals on
immigration, which have traditionally held open America's doors to the tired,
the poor and the oppressed. They say that for the first time, sheer wealth is a
criterion for citizenship.

"The new concept is, 'What is in it for the United States?' " said Arthur C.
Helton, an immigration specialist with the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights.
"This is a matter of concern in that it may signal a turning away from more
traditional humanitarian bases, including family unification and protecting
refugees from persecution."

But the visas are drawing praise from others who say that at last America is
putting its national interests ahead of sentiment and seeking new citizens who
can invigorate the economy.

"I believe we've done a great job with boat people, and I think that a few yacht
people are not going to hurt America," said Harold W. Ezell, a former regional
commissioner for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, who is now a
middleman for potential millionaire visa applicants. "They're going to be good
for America in creating jobs and investment."

The 1990 immigration act took a similarly pragmatic approach in nearly tripling
the number of permanent residency visas offered to people with special job
skills, to 140,000 a year. The shift was seen as a move to compete with other
nations for the world's most accomplished people, including its wealthy
entrepreneurs.

The bulk of the nearly 700,000 immigrant visas authorized by law each year will
continue to be issued following traditional criteria, primarily for family
reunification.

Competing for the Rich

The investor-visa program, which offers 10,000 residencies a year, puts America
in a competition with Canada and Australia to lure wealthy investors. In Canada,
for example, thousands of foreigners, particularly Asians, have won residency
over the last four years by investing in or starting businesses.

But a number of factors make the American offer less attractive than those of
its competitors: It demands a higher investment, it requires the hiring of a
fixed number of employees and it calls for a audit in two years to assure that
the investment and the employees are still in place.

Immigration lawyers also say a number of potential investors have been
frightened off because citizenship will mean they must pay United States taxes
on all their earnings worldwide.

"It's certainly not as user-friendly as the Canadian or Australian models," said
H. Ronald Klasko, an immigration lawyer who recently traveled in Hong Kong,
Singapore and Taiwan to gauge interest in the visas.

For wealthy investors, the symbolism of the American flag apparently carries
less weight than the dynamics of the marketplace.

"I was a little bit surprised at the lack of raging anxiety for the immigrant
investor category," said Mr. Klasko. Many people in Hong Kong, a target of the
program because of the impending takeover by China in 1997, showed interest in
investing in the United States, he said, but expressed worry about the
complications and the tax obligations involved in getting a green card.

An immigration lawyer who has talked with potential European investors, Palma R.
Yanni, said: "I don't think people are going to plop down $1 million for a green
card and say, 'This is all I want.' Sophisticated investors are going to want a
real return on their money."

Another Option

For such people, there is already a mechanism in place, the E-visa that allows a
non-immigrant investor to live in the United States as long as he runs a
business in this country. All that is missing is the chance to become an
American citizen.

"That's the traditional form of investor visa, the one that's been around for
years," said Charles Powell, a business lawyer who is advising a number of
potential immigrant investors. This visa requires a smaller investment, often in
such businesses as laundries or restaurants, and does not stipulate the creation
of jobs.

"I sent a flier to people who I knew had $1 million and were already here on
E-visas," said Mr. Powell. "I said, 'Here's your opportunity to get a green
card,' and I got very little response. I was very surprised at that. I thought
I'd at least get one or two people who would actually go through the process,
but I didn't."

Among the drawbacks, lawyers said, was an employment requirement that their
clients found unrealistic.

"The law has a basic flaw built into it," said Martin Lawler, a lawyer who
advises potential investors to start out slowly with an E-visa. "It requires 10
employees for $1 million, when generally speaking, business attorneys tell me,
it takes at least $1.5 million to $2 million to carry 10 people."

Another drawback is the requirement for a government review after two years, a
hurdle that effectively makes the initial $1 million investment a high-stakes
gamble.

Although immigration lawyers and middlemen like Mr. Ezell say they have had
inquiries from entrepreneurs in several nations, the common theme seemed to be
caution, and none of their clients agreed to be interviewed.

Among the potential investors is a Taiwanese woman who is looking at
opportunities at a marble factory and a seafood import business, a German rock
music promoter who wants to put down roots here, an Iranian family hoping to
transfer its construction business and a Japanese woman seeking to invest $1.3
million in a foundry.

Mr. Ezell's clients include a Taiwanese couple living in Beverly Hills on an
E-visa who have already invested more than $1 million in a preschool that
employs about 10 people.

"They have made a major commitment to America," Mr. Ezell said.  "This business
of theirs is over a million bucks, and they have spent $4 million on their home
in Beverly Hills.  They want their son to be raised here and educated here, and
this is the way they want to do it."

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I believe we've done a great job with boat people, and I think
that a few yacht people are not going to hurt America," said Harold W. Ezell,
former regional commissioner for the Immigration and Naturalization Service and
now a middleman for potential millionaire visa applicants. (Monica Almeida for
The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 28, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE STRUGGLE IN CONGRESS;
Congress Acts on Bills Embracing Several Major Issues

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 27; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 472 words



Housing

The Senate approved, 93 to 6, a conference report on the omnibus housing
authorization bill, which includes $3.1 billion through the 1992 fiscal year for
a new housing and home-ownership program. The measure includes $448 million for
a program to enable tenants in public housing projects to buy their own units.
The bill also authorizes $1.5 billion for new public housing, $4.3 billion to
modernize existing public housing, $4 billion for housing vouchers and $1.2
billion for housing the elderly and handicapped. The House approved the bill on
Thursday.

Immigration

The House approved, 264 to 118, a major revision of the nation's immigration law
after halting consideration of the measure on procedural grounds on Friday
night. The bill would permit 700,000 people to immigrate each year from 1992 to
1994, compared with 500,000 under current law. The bill also reduces the scope
and severity of restrictions on new citizens and other immigrants, eliminating
some barriers that dated from the McCarthy era. The Senate approved the measure
Friday night. It now goes to President Bush, who has indicated he will sign the
bill.

Crime

In an effort to make the anti-crime bill more widely acceptable, House and
Senate negotiators removed death penalty provisions and curbs on semiautomatic
assault weapons. Liberals had generally opposed the former, and conservatives,
the latter. Negotiators were trying to devise a way to preserve a disputed
provision of the bill that would allow the Government to seize the homes of
people accused of savings and loan fraud. Other provisions address victim
rights, juvenile justice and prisoner drug testing.

National Endowment for the Arts

The House and Senate appeared headed toward extending financing for the National
Endowment for the Arts for three years after conferees from both chambers
reached agreement Friday night. Unlike current law, the bill contains no
explicit prohibition against financing obscene art, leaving such judgments to
the courts. The conferees also dropped a proposed ban on support of artistic
works that denigrate religion.

Foreign Aid

Both chambers also appeared poised to approve a conference report agreed to
Friday night that would provide $15.5 billion in foreign aid, including a
provision sought by Mr. Bush to forgive $6.7 billion of Egypt's military debt to
the United States. The bill would also cut military aid to El Salvador by half,
to $42 million, and provide Israel with $3 billion in cash, military and
economic aid and $700 million worth of military aid from American stockpiles.

The bill does not earmark a specific amount of aid for Pakistan, normally the
third-largest recipient of American military assistance. The United States has
expressed concerns about nuclear weapons in Pakistan.


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 11, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

In McCarthy Era, TV Networks Cowered;
McCarranism

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 249 words


To the Editor:

As Congress finally gets around to eliminating some of the last vestiges of the
McCarthy era by repealing the anti-Communist provisions of the 1952
McCarran-Walter Act ("Landmark Accord Promises to Ease Immigration Curbs," front
page, Oct. 26), it is a shame that you are rewriting the history of the period.

Senator Joseph R. McCarthy gave his name to the anti-Communist furor of the
1950's, but he bore little responsibility for most of the actual repression. He
did not, as you state, lead the fight to keep out undesirable aliens. Nevada's
powerful Democratic Senator Pat McCarran did.

But blaming individuals for the excesses of McCarthyism distorts reality. Most
American politicians supported these measures. Only 10 senators voted to sustain
President Harry S. Truman's veto of the 1950 Internal Security Act, which
contained the immigration restrictions incorporated in the 1952 McCarran-Walter
Act.

It was the misguided, but widely shared, conviction that the country's security
required the restriction of individual rights that led to the excesses of the
McCarthy era.

Such concerns still threaten our freedom. Since the Federal Government tends to
invoke national security to justify incursions against individual rights, that
the conference immigration bill allows the Secretary of State to bar aliens
"under exceptional circumstances" is hardly reassuring.

ELLEN W. SCHRECKER
Associate Professor of History, Yeshiva College
New York, Oct. 26, 1990

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 11, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Angel Island Journal;
Saving Voices of the Other Ellis Island

BYLINE: By KATHERINE BISHOP, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 851 words

DATELINE: ANGEL ISLAND, Calif. Nov. 8


Paul Q. Chow re members that when he first learned in school of the great flow
of immigrants from Europe to America through Ellis Island, he went home and
asked his mother where their people arrived in this country.

He recalls how she became upset and replied in a hushed tone: "Angel Island.
Shhhhhh."

For a long time, the small boy believed there was a place called Angel Island
Shhhhhh where 175,000 people of the ancient Pearl River villages were welcomed
to the new land they called "Golden Mountain."

It would be many years before he learned about the immigration station on this
island in San Francisco Bay that was not a reception center but rather a place
of detention and potential deportation from 1910 to 1940. It was here that
officials and immigrants played out a complex dance, tens of thousands of times:
the officials charged with enforcing laws aimed at keeping most Chinese out, and
the immigrants trying to circumvent those laws.

The immigration station was closed 50 years ago this month. Mr. Chow and other
Americans of Chinese descent are trying to raise money to restore it as an
important if painful history lesson. Their task is made more urgent by their
wish to preserve hundreds of Chinese poems written on or carved into the walls
of the men's barracks by anonymous authors expressing their anguish.

"The generation that went through it wants to forget it," said Mr. Chow, a
62-year-old retired worker with the state transportation department. "It's the
first and second Chinese-American generations that says, 'This was shameful and
you put my parents or grandparents through this and it should not be forgotten.'
"

The first wave of Chinese immigration occurred after the discovery of gold in
California 141 years ago. Here they worked for 12 cents an hour laying the
tracks of the Central Pacific Railroad and reworking the gold claims abandoned
by white miners.

Dismissed from their jobs on completion of the transcontinental railway in 1869,
they were bombed and lynched by people who blamed them for the high unemployment
that followed the Civil War. The racist fury culminated in the passage of the
Chinese Exclusion Act in 1882: the first law denying naturalization to members
of a specific ethnic group.

But a window reopened when the fire that followed the 1906 San Francisco
earthquake consumed records of the births and businesses of Chinese. Residents
of Chinatown came forward to claim fictitious children in China and received
documents that allowed whole villages of relatives and strangers, the "paper
sons and daughters," to come to America.

But when they arrived at Angel Island, they were separated by sex and penned in
into cramped barracks, then subjected to intense questioning. Some were kept
here for a year or more, and stories, not confirmed by island records, say some
hanged themselves rather than face deportation.

Mr. Chow's father arrived in 1922 with his own mother, who had been born in the
United States but had lost her American citizenship because she married a
Chinese national. They were detained on the island for six weeks and were freed
after paying a bribe of $550, Mr. Chow said.

The 750-acre island became part of the state park system in 1965, and the
immigration station was scheduled for demolition until a park ranger noticed the
Chinese characters inscribed on the barracks walls. Asians pressed for
preservation of the inscriptions, and the State Legislature created a study
commission headed by Mr. Chow.

Other Asian-Americans have worked to keep the memories from dying. In 1980, 135
of the poems were translated and collected by Him Mark Lai, Genny Lim and Judy
Yung in a book, "Island," and in 1988, Felicia Lowe made a documentary film,
"Carved in Stone."

The poems show that some of the detainees considered returning to China. Others
spoke philosophically of their detention. And there are rare sparks of anger. A
poem signed "One From Taishan" reads:

It is unbearable to relate the stories accumulated on the island slopes.

Wait till the day I become successful and fulfill my wish!

I will not speak of love when I level the immigration station!

"We are happy with the idea of having money to restore it," said Gregory Picard,
chief ranger for the Marin District of the State Department of Parks and
Recreation, which administers the island. But with a $16 million projected
shortage in their budget this fiscal year, "if money doesn't come from outside
sources, it won't come at all," he said.

It is this reality that helped turn Mr. Chow into what he calls "the poor man's
Lee Iacocca," attempting to raise $3 million to rehabilitate the station in a
low-budget version of the Chrysler Corporation chairman's efforts on behalf of
Ellis Island.

He is also driven by the memory of bringing his father to the station in 1975.
He said his father, then 75 years old, entered the gutted men's barracks and
walked immediately to the place where his bunk had been.

"It was the first time I ever saw my father cry and the first time I ever put my
arms around him," Mr. Chow said.


LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map: San Francisco Bay , indicating Angel Island. (The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 25, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Irish Wait to Escape Emigre Shadow

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 36; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1196 words


A furtive existence, life in the shadow of the law, is about to end for
thousands of Irish immigrants who have been living in this country without visas
or legal documentation.

They work as nannies in Manhattan, taking the subway in from Queens to look
after other people's children, or in pubs at the north end of the Bronx, pouring
pints of Guinness while cursing English soccer teams on television. Many work as
drivers in the horse carriage trade around Central Park. Above all, they have
tried to remain invisible to Federal authorities.

Now, communities of young Irish immigrants in New York, Boston and San Francisco
are awaiting President Bush's signature on an immigration bill that would more
than double the number of visas available to natives of Ireland. They see the
immigration bill as their ticket out of a life in fear of discovery.  "Ireland
is an economic disaster right now," said Finola Doherty, who came to New York
two years ago and found a home, and a succession of jobs, in Woodside, Queens.
"Here, there is work and a community where you can fit in, but we've had to keep
our heads down."

Expired Tourist Visas

The Irish, of course, are not singular in their status in America as illegal
aliens. But they have been hard hit by recent immigration policies that have
made it impossible for most of those who wanted to stay in this country to
become legal residents, with work visas known as green cards.

The overwhelming majority of the Irish here illegally have overstayed six-month
tourist visas. The bill, which Congress passed in October, will guarantee that
applicants for work visas will not be arrested or deported for overstaying while
the application is processed.

Since 1980, more than 180,000 Irish, or about 5 percent of the population, have
left the Republic of Ireland. Fleeing a country where nearly one in five people
are out of work, the new Irish immigrants have come to America, in large part,
for the same reasons that drove previous generations across the Atlantic. More
than 40 million Americans now trace their ancestry to Ireland, according to the
Census Bureau.

But unlike earlier Irish immigrants, most of the new Irish exiles are hiding
from Federal authorities, rather than registering with them.

Immediate Family

"When you're looking at this country through a barred window, you can't take
full advantage of it," said Sean Minihane, national chairman of the Irish
Immigration Reform Movement, an organization that advises immigrants.

Of the more than 600,000 applications for visas in the last three years, about
54 percent were from natives of Ireland; the vast majority of those Irish were
turned down, in part because immigration policy favored applicants with
immediate family mmembers already in the United States. A gulf of nearly 40
years between the last big wave of Irish immigrants and those who have come in
the last decade has made it hard for most of those who want to stay now to
qualify for work visas. Recent immigrants from Latin America, Southeast Asia and
Africa more commonly have immediate family members here.

In an attempt to redress the imbalance, Congress included a provision in the new
immigration bill that would grant work visas to nearly 50,000 Irish over the
next three years -- more than double the number granted in the last three years.
All told, the new immigration bill would allow about 700,000 people to come to
this country in the next three years, up from 500,000 that would have been
admitted. Federal officials say between 40,000 and 110,000 Irish are living in
this country illegally, and most will be able to stay, either with the new work
visas or through marriage to Americans.

Black-Market Birth Certificates

In New York, they have transformed parts of the Bronx and Queens into
neighborhoods where Gaelic can be heard and Irish soda bread is sold alongside
potato knishes. Cafes display appeals for hunger strikers in Northern Ireland,
and folk songs heavy with expressions of lyrical sorrow are sung late into the
night.

Some of the new arrivals say they have purchased false birth certificates, which
are sold on the black market for prices that can equal a month's salary.

Most of the illegal Irish immigrants live on a cash economy, the men working day
labor jobs or in bars, the women working as baby sitters or house cleaners or
waitresses. Without a green card, they have been unable to get driver's
licenses, open checking accounts or qualify for health insurance. When they are
injured on the job, they cannot qualify for public health care or assistance.

Their biggest fear, they say, is being deported. In San Francisco two weeks ago,
a group of Irish immigrants were rounded up by Immigration and Naturalization
Service officials who were acting on a tip from an informant, their lawyers
said. They were allowed to stay in this country pending a hearing.

"Quite a few people have been picked up here in the last year," said Maire
O'Mahony, a schoolteacher from Ireland who works with immigrants in San
Francisco. "Following the earthquake, there was a lot of work here for the Irish
in construction, but now they are encountering a great deal of heartache."

Threats and Insinuations

Fewer run-ins with immigration officials have been reported in New York. But the
fear of being turned in and sent back to Ireland is no less real. The
informants, in some cases, have been Irish-Americans, say some immigrants.

Derry Clark, trained as an electrical technician in Ireland, has been working in
New York as a bartender and in day labor on construction jobs. He is paid in
cash and has had to live with threats and insinuations about his legal status.
The Government's shadow, he said, is never far.

"Last August when I went home for my sister's wedding, the American immigration
authorities were there at the airport in Ireland with a list of questions about
what I planned to do," he said. "I told them all I wanted was to find some
work."

As soon as the immigration bill is signed, he plans to apply for a work visa,
which would allow him to stay in this country indefinitely. "I'm tired of having
to put up with all the whispers and uncertainty," he said.

The threat of deportation has been used by landlords to deprive tenants of a
damage deposit that may rightfully be theirs or by employers to withhold wages,
say those who work with the Irish.

"They came from a place where there is no work and very little future, so
employers tend to take advantage of them, playing off that fear of having to go
back," said Sean Benson, who has worked on behalf of Irish immigrants who say
they have been cheated by employers. "Whenever you have a group that is not
protected by the laws, they can be exploited. Employers feel these people have
no resources, no place to turn."

It has also worked the other way around.

"I find, in this town, that the Irish accent is an advantage," said a
red-bearded bartender from the Bronx named Colin who has been living as an
undocumented alien in New York for four years. "In some bartending jobs, I've
got one up on the other lad by virtue of how I sound."


LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Whenever you have a group that is not protected by the laws,
they can be exploited," said Sean Benson, who has worked on behalf of Irish
immigrants who say they have been cheated by employers. (Dith Pran/The New York
Times)

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 24, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

For Refugees, the Door Swings Open

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 442 words


Foreigners fleeing persecution in their homeland have often found persecution of
another sort when they entered the United States: arbitrary treatment of their
claims for asylum. Now an extraordinary legal settlement promises fairer
treatment. It's up to the Government to make good on the settlement's promise.

The Refugee Act of 1980 established a sensible standard to judge asylum claims.
Those who can demonstrate a "well-founded fear of persecution" at home are given
sanctuary here as political refugees. But too often, foreign policy
considerations cloud the determination of who is a refugee and who isn't.

That has been particularly true for those fleeing U.S.-supported regimes in El
Salvador and Guatemala. The Immigration and Naturalization Service, which has
the main responsibility for adjudicating asylum claims, has almost invariably
concluded that Salvadorans and Guatemalans were fleeing poverty, not civil
disorder. Since 1980, the service has denied 97 percent of the asylum
applications by Salvadorans, and 99 percent of the applications by Guatemalans.

Reginaldo Velasquez, 28 years old, is typical of those whose claims were
rejected. A decade ago, as a student in El Salvador, Mr. Velasquez organized
relief workers who helped both sides in the ongoing civil war. After several
co-workers were killed or disappeared, he fled to Texas in 1984. When his asylum
application was denied, he remained in the U.S. pending an appeal.

To protect Central American refugees like Mr. Velasquez, a coalition of churches
and civil rights groups organized the "sanctuary movement" in the U.S. In 1985,
together with the National Lawyers Guild, the American Civil Liberties Union,
the Center for Constitutional Rights and a private San Francisco law firm, the
coalition filed suit charging that the Government had violated the Refugee Act
by processing claims on ideological grounds.

The Government has now agreed to a settlement. It requires the readjudication of
about 150,000 cases in which asylum was denied. In addition, as many as 350,000
other refugees who never applied for asylum, fearing denial, will be encouraged
to seek hearings for the first time.

The new hearings will be conducted by specially trained asylum officers under
procedures recently adopted by the Immigration Service that give less weight to
foreign policy considerations. While the hearings are pending, applicants will
be given work permits.

The settlement represents an extraordinary gift to half a million potential
refugees. It also means that the promise of evenhanded treatment contained in
the 1980 Refugee Act may be realized at last.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 6, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Project Frees the First of 200 Political Detainees

BYLINE: By FRANK J. PRIAL

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 41, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 356 words


The first of 200 political detainees participating in an experimental parole
project of the Immigration and Naturalization Service was released on Friday.

The man, a Ghanian citizen, is being sponsored by a local social-service agency,
which posted a $500 bond and has guaranteed that he will have a job and a place
to live. He will be free on bond while the I.N.S. handles his request for
political asylum.

The man was arrested at Kennedy International Airport on February 21 after he
arrived without a valid passport or visa.

Neither the I.N.S. nor the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, which designed
the program, would identify the man or provide details of his case.

Fears for His Family

''He requested anonymity because he fears for the safety of his family back in
Ghana,'' said Arthur C. Helton of the Lawyer's Committee.

A second detainee, Abdi Hassan Mohammed, 20 years old, of Somalia, is scheduled
for release tomorrow, Mr. Helton said. Mr. Mohammed, who had served three years
of a 10-year prison sentence in Somalia for anti-Government activities, escaped
earlier this year and made his way to the United States. He arrived at Kennedy
Airport on Jan. 12 and has been detained since.

Mr. Mohammed, who will be sponsored by Catholic Charities of New York, will live
with a friend in Queens.

Two other detainees, one in New York and another in San Francisco, were expected
to be released shortly, Mr. Helton said.

Subjected to Torture

According to the Lawyers Committee, both Mr. Mohammed and the Ghanaian man had
been beaten and tortured by the local authorities in their countries. ''Under
law,'' Mr. Helton said, ''prior persecution gives rise to the well-founded
presumption of future persecution, and that's all you need to qualify for
refugee status.''

Under Federal law, the I.N.S. detains aliens who arrive in the United States and
ask for political asylum. Some are held for several days, others may be detained
for years while their petitions are reviewed.

The 18-month program is being conducted in New York, Miami, Los Angeles and San
Francisco, ''gateway cities'' for many aliens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 28, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants and Welfare

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 208 words


To the Editor:

Recent research refutes Julian L. Simon's claim in ''More Immigration Can Cut
the Deficit'' (Op-Ed, May 10) that immigrants receive no more welfare than
natives. The immigration studies of George Borjas, based on census data, show
immigrants 15 percent more likely to be in poverty, 13.7 percent more likely to
be welfare users, and 6 percent more likely to be unemployed.

Mr. Simon's generalizations about the youth of immigrants don't hold up either.
Mr. Borjas finds immigrants twice as likely to be over 65 and 23 percent more
likely to be on Social Security than natives. Lief Jensen's 1988 study of census
data revealed even higher levels of poverty and welfare use.

The seductive notion that more immigration can lighten the tax burden in general
and the Social Security burden in particular collides with some hard actuarial
facts: immigrant earnings are down and their social service costs are up; our
earned income tax credit rebates much of the Social Security payments of low
earners, and with their migratory life style and later entries into the work
force, immigrants tend to qualify for benefits with smaller contributions.

DAVID SIMCOX
 Dir., Center for Immigration Studies
 Washington, May 10, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 3, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Agency to Use Dormant Law to Bar Homosexuals From U.S.

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 24, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1240 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 2


On the eve of a major international AIDS conference in San Francisco, the
Immigration and Naturalization service is preparing to invoke a little-enforced
law that bars the entry of homosexuals to the United States as sexual deviants,
agency officials say.

The officials said Friday that they had taken steps to enforce the law after
being told that some gay groups from abroad were going to test the law by
declaring themselves homosexuals when they arrived for the Sixth International
Conference on AIDS in San Francisco on June 20.

Homosexual rights groups in the United States said they knew nothing of a plan
to test the statute. Tom Stoddard, executive director of the Lambda Legal
Defense and Education Fund, a rights organization, said the idea behind the
immigration service's assertion was nonsense.

''They are living in a fantasy world,'' Mr. Stoddard said. He said that the law
was not being enforced and that his organization did not want to challenge it
because of the conservative makeup of the Supreme Court.

Action Is Called Reluctant

An immigration service spokesman, Duke Austin, said the agency was taking the
action reluctantly. ''We didn't want to implement the statute, but we are under
a court order to do that,'' he said. Even though the court ruling Mr. Austin
referred to came in 1983, Mr. Austin said the immigration service felt compelled
to act now in the face of an open challenge.

The gay organizations were shocked and puzzled over the agency's move. They
cited the Bush Administration's new policies making it easier for people
infected with the AIDS virus to travel to the United States to attend
international meetings.

''This is a sudden, irrational and unexpected move in another direction,'' Mr.
Stoddard said.

Geoffrey Knox, a spokesman for the Gay Men's Health Crisis in New York City,
said: ''This will exacerbate rather than defuse the problems at the conference.
It is unbelievable that they are going to do something like this.''

The Public Health Service also seemed embarrassed by the plans. A spokesman for
the agency, James Brown, said Secretary Louis W. Sullivan of the Department of
Health and Human Services and Assistant Secretary James Mason ''along with many
others from the Public Health Service will attend this important conference and
want it to be a success.''

Memorandum Discloses Plans

The immigration service's plans came to light this week in a memorandum written
by a Federal health offical in which he warned his superior that Public Health
Service doctors would have to be involved in enforcing the law and that the
agency faced potential embarrassment as a result. Before a homosexual can be
barred by the immigration service, a Public Health Service doctor must certify
the alien to be afflicted with a ''sexual deviation, or a mental defect.''

The requirement that a doctor's certification be issued before the law could be
enforced was a result of a 1983 ruling by the United States Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit, in California. The court let stand the Federal law that had
been on the books since the 1950's that barred homosexuals, but at the same time
it ruled in favor of the challenge to the statute that had been brought by the
Lesbian Gay Freedom Day Committee of San Francisco.

The committee had contended that a Public Health Service doctor's certificate
declaring an alien a homosexual was required before the law, which bars
homosexuals even for a visit, could be enforced. The appeals court agreed. In
addition to California, the decision affects the states of Alaska, Arizona,
Idaho, Montana, Nevada, Oregon, Washington and Hawaii.

The immigration service did not appeal the decision.

The agency contends that a doctor's certificate is not necessary to bar
homosexuals' entry to this country in states outside the Ninth Circuit. But in
most places the immigration service avoids enforcing the law, by not asking
people if they are homosexual. When people declare themselves homosexual, an
immigration service official who spoke on the condition of anonymity said, the
service simply defers action on the case for the duration of the person's visit.

The law was amended in 1965 to describe people who should be barred from entry
to the United States as those ''with psychopathic personality, or sexual
deviation, or a mental defect.'' The Supreme Court ruled in 1967 that
homosexuals could be barred from the country as sexual deviants.

It was not immediately clear how many doctors the immigration service would need
to enforce the law, but the Public Health Service said doctors would be
available at any airport where they were required.

Official Cites Concern

In the memorandum by the Federal health official, dated May 22, Dr. John West,
Acting Regional Health Administrator for the Health and Human Services in the
Western States, said the department had been requested to make available ''a
P.H.S. medical officer to conduct examinations of aliens who enter the U.S. and
who self-profess to be homosexuals.''

He suggested in the memo that involvement by the Public Health Service could be
embarrassing because the Bush Administration had been working to make the
conference a success and because Public Health Service itself was involved. ''I
want to alert you to a potentially sensitive matter which relates to the Sixth
International AIDS Conference in San Francisco and will affect public
perceptions of P.H.S.,'' Dr. West wrote to Dr. James Allen, Director of the
National AIDS Program Office. ''I am bringing this to your attention given the
heightened sensitivities about our agency's participation in various aspects of
the conference.''

He wrote in the memorandum: ''In conducting these examinations, a P.H.S. medical
officer would ask several questions, including, 'Are you a homosexual?' Then the
medical officer would certify a form and return it to I.N.S. for whatever action
I.N.S. deems is warranted.''

'Inspectors Have No Choice'

Mr. Austin of the immigration agency said the issue was an old one and was not
about AIDS. But he said, ''If the inspectors get a guy who is coming into that
conference and he wants to make an issue, make that kind of proclamation at the
border, the inspectors have no choice.''

If the I.N.S. bars the entry of a homosexual, the person has the right to appeal
to an administrative law judge.

Mr. Brown, the Public Health Service spokesman, said, ''We do not want to issue
these certificates, but we were told by the Department of Justice that the
circuit court ruled that we must do it because it is the law.''

This ruling by the Justice Department was made not long after the 1983 court
decision requiring the doctor's certificate before a homosexual could be barred.

The Public Health Service stopped issuing certificates declaring a person a
homosexual after the American Psychological Association officially stopped
listing homosexuality as a mental disorder in 1979.

Gay organizations had thought they would not have to worry about homosexuals
being barred from the country after the appeals court decision, which said,
''Because the P.H.S. refuses to issue medical certificates on the basis of
homosexuality per se, and because we today hold that the I.N.S. may not exclude
homosexual aliens without such certificates, it is completely speculative that
any aliens will be excluded in the future on the basis of their homosexuality
per se.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 23, 1990, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Big Growth Disclosed in List of Barred Aliens

BYLINE: By FRANK J. PRIAL

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 663 words


The Government during the last decade added as many as 238,143 people to its
list of foreigners barred from the country for political or security reasons,
more than double the number who had been placed on the list since it was created
in 1904.

The list now has more than 353,000 entries, far more than the 40,000 previously
estimated by many immigration lawyers. Of that total of exclusions from the
country, about 341,000 were based on ideological grounds.

The figures come from a highly censored version of the list that was released
this week by the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, a civil liberties advocacy
group that had obtained the censored version through a legally enforceable
request under the Freedom of Information Act. How Many People?  Among the list's
data that have been censored by Federal court order are the names of the barred
aliens, and the document is thought to include some duplication. Chad Vignola,
an assistant United States attorney who represented the Government in the case
that led to the Lawyers Committee's request, said any notion that the 353,324
entries amounted to that number of people barred since the turn of the century
was ''simply wrong.''

But Arthur C. Helton of the Lawyers Committee said, ''We estimate conservatively
that at least 345,000 individuals are listed.'' He termed the size of the list
''astounding,'' particularly inasmuch as so many entries had been added since
the start of the Reagan Administration.

The pace has continued in the Bush Administration. During the first three months
of 1990, in a period of easing international tension, there were 4,399 new
entries, the list shows.

The list, which is administered by the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
is called the National Automated Immigration Lookout System, or Nails. The
version issued by the Lawyers Committee includes the date of each exclusion and
the section of law on which the exclusion was based.

Many Chinese Listed

The people who were barred came from a total of 146 nations. China accounted for
the largest block, 106,777, or almost a third of all entries. The Soviet Union
was second, with 33,064. Then, in descending order, came Yugoslavia, Hungary,
Poland, Czechoslovakia, Romania and West Germany.

Mr. Helton said he had no idea why so many Chinese were on the list. ''It looks
like every student in China has found his way on there,'' he said.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service turned over the list at the direction
of a Federal district judge in New York, John M. Walker Jr., who first ordered
its release last September and then delayed its public disclosure for 10 months
while he considered requests from various Government agencies that certain
information be exempted. The Government argued that disclosure of names and
occupations would not only compromise intelligence activities but also
jeopardize abroad the lives of people who had sought visas or immigrant status
and been barred for their political views or for activities deemed terrorist.

The Lawyers Committee first asked for the list in October 1986 in connection
with a lawsuit brought by a Colombian journalist, Patricia Lara, who had been
detained at Kennedy International Airport on her way to an awards dinner at
Columbia University. Miss Lara was held for a week and then returned to her
country because of the State Department's finding that she had ties with
Colombian terrorists and Cuban intelligence agents. Miss Lara contends that she
was barred only for writing articles critical of United States policy in Latin
America.

Last February, President Bush signed legislation that essentially voided a major
provision in Federal law that had allowed for the exclusion of aliens solely on
the basis of a belief in anarchy, communism or totalitarianism. But the State
Department may still bar aliens under laws citing a threat to national security,
and there is nothing in law requiring the department to justify its decision.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 24, 1990, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Giving Sanctuary, Fairly

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 392 words


No sooner do refugees from persecution abroad arrive in the United States than,
often, they face a maze of inconsistency as they seek asylum. Welcome new rules
just issued by the Bush Administration at last promise to make the process more
objective and fair.

The Refugee Act of 1980 established a uniform standard for asylum from all
countries. The United States will gave sanctuary to foreigners who can establish
a ''well-founded fear of persecution'' in their homelands. But for a decade, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service has operated under ''interim rules'' that
have been criticized for allowing foreign policy influences to outweigh
humanitarian concerns.

In most cases, an initial asylum determination is made by an I.N.S. adjudicator.
With little training or experience in refugee issues, adjudicators tend to rely
on the State Department's judgment on political conditions abroad. The
individual refugee's claim is, inevitably, weighed against foreign policy
considerations. Inconsistencies abound. Last year, for example, approval rates
varied from 3 percent for Salvadorans to 32 percent for Poles, 33 percent for
Nicaraguans and 62 percent for Iranians. The Administration now offers a more
rational system. Under a new final rule to carry out the 1980 law, a corps of
about 90 specially trained asylum officers will be established at the I.N.S. by
next April. These officers will interview each person seeking asylum and solicit
comments from State. But the officers will be encouraged to make independent
decisions. They may draw on information about political conditions in various
countries from a new documentation center.

Though the new rule does not guarantee more favorable results for refugees, it
does tend to give them the benefit of the doubt. For example, refugees will no
longer be required to show that they have been or would be singled out for
persecution in their homelands if there is ''a pattern or practice'' of
persecuting similar people. Also, a refugee may qualify for asylum on the basis
of his own statements, without corroboration, if the testimony is credible in
light of general conditions in his home country.

It's now up to the I.N.S. to institute the new rule with care. But refugees
fleeing persecution abroad will have more assurance that their claims will
receive fair consideration.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 4, 1990, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Letter: On Refugees;
Expand Asylum to Include Groups

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 314 words


To the Editor:

When a problem recurs every few years for half a century, it is time for a
general solution, so that extraordinary measures are not made repeatedly
necessary. We face the same problem now with Liberians (''Sanctuary for Liberian
Victims,'' editorial, July 26) that we faced with Chinese students last year,
with Nicaraguans, Salvadorans and Guatemalans throughout the 1980's, with
Iranians in the late 1970's and with Cubans and Hungarians before that.

That is why the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Refugees and
International Law, which I head, last year built upon legislation introduced by
Representative Joseph Moakley to provide temporary protection to Central
Americans fleeing war and oppression, to establish a more general option for
''temporary protected status'' under United States law. Only individuals can now
seek permanent political asylum. We need an option for groups to have similar,
but temporary, protection.

In each case, special circumstances of foreign policy and other considerations
affect what would otherwise be a common-sense application of United States
principles. The lack of a routine response makes special consideration for the
sensibilities of the likes of Deng Xiaoping and Li Peng into an opportunity for
United States embarrassment. Not even the Bush Administration still defends the
President's craven kowtow to the Chinese gerontocracy in vetoing Representative
Nancy Pelosi's bill to protect Chinese students in the United States from being
forced to return to intimidation or worse. The President's failure promptly to
carry out his own promise to provide the same protection for Chinese students
administratively as the Pelosi bill would have given only underscores the need
for a general statutory option for temporary protected status.

(Rep.) BRUCE A. MORRISON
  Washington, July 26, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 15, 1990, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Help Others Lost in Maze

BYLINE: By KAREN De WITT

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1459 words


Sung Soo Kim, a native of South Korea, does not know Esther Cartagena, formerly
of Puerto Rico, or Philippe Wilson Desir, formerly of Haiti. But in their
adopted city, they each serve a similar role: helping to guide compatriots
recently arrived from their homelands through the bureaucratic maze that governs
social services, the education of their children and how they do business.

Immigration experts say those guides and others like them are in greater demand
than ever before, as New York City adjusts to its third great wave of
immigration since the middle of the 19th century.

The latest influx, which began in the 1960's, approaches 100,000 immigrants a
year. About 2.6 million people, or one-third of the city's population, are
estimated to be foreign-born.

''The new immigrant needs a broker to help navigate the public bureaucracies,''
said Lido Tomasi of the Center for Migration Studies on Staten Island. ''Today
the Federal and state governments play a direct fiscal role where 100 years ago
they weren't players. The 1986 amnesty situation, outreach to the undocumented,
direct involvement of state agencies to provide English language classes, that
kind of involvement is relatively new.''

'Parties Are Less Important'

Years ago political parties were an important source of and conduit to jobs for
new immigrants.

''That's changed now so that parties are less important, and what you have is
publically funded social service agencies,'' said Josh De Wind, a professor of
anthropology at Hunter College. ''People who are representative of immigrant
groups try to become social service providers by making application for reading
programs, health programs and things like that or just knowing about them.'' Mr.
Kim is one such person. Five years ago, Mr. Kim, a former political science
professor at the University of Seoul, formed the Korean American Small Business
Service Center of New York Inc. Since then he has sponsored more than 30
seminars on the ins and outs of doing business in the United States.

Out of his tiny second-floor office in Flushing, Queens, packed with books on
New York City and state business codes, Mr. Kim tries to clarify, amend and
decode for his fellow countrymen the labyrinth of laws that govern how they and
other small merchants do business. Below is his constituency: Korean-American
greengrocers, dry cleaners, nail parlor operators and deli owners.

Mr. Kim said that Korean shopkeepers, often touted as model immigrants because
of their business acumen, often end up handing out much of their profit in
fines, often because they know neither the rules nor their rights of appeal.
Spilling off Mr. Kim's desk and out of folders are pamphlets he produced in
Korean on everything from how to read a water meter to how to make a profit.

Though much of his day is spent wielding phones and searching documents, the
50-year-old Mr. Kim is just as likely to find his work out on the streets during
a luncheon break. Recently on Roosevelt Avenue, he had just such a situation.

'' 'The usual problems. The usual reasons.' Do you hear him? 'The usual.' What
is this 'usual'?'' Mr. Kim repeated like a litany Environmental Control Board
Superintendant J. G. Kennelly's explanation for checking the dimensions of two
fruit and vegetable stands at the Big Apple greengrocer on Roosevelt Avenue for
the second time in two weeks.

Government's Tape Measures

Sun Yong Back, 35, who works in the shop his family owns, stood mute while Mr.
Kim argued.

Mr. Kennelly knew Mr. Kim from seeing him at hearings, but he and Inspector
Frank Merlo had their work to do and their tape measures out. Each stand should
take up no more than 10 by 4 feet of space. The stands were a foot or so larger
than the limit.

Mr. Kim told Mr. Back that he would go down to appeal. Maybe it would work,
maybe it wouldn't, but he had been effective in the past.

Last November, after eight months of negotiating, Mr. Kim saved the greengrocers
$1.5 million when he persuaded the city's Environmental Control Board to halve
$3 million in fines for dirty sidewalks and sanitary violations. Some
storekeepers owed as much as $70,000 because they hadn't appealed the fines.
''These people work 12 and 14 hours six days a week,'' said Mr. Kim. ''They
cannot shut their stores to go down and appeal this overenforcement.''

Mr. Kim wants the city to institute night appeals court for such violations. He
also wants to change the standards. ''These stand regulations were established
in the 1930's. What hasn't changed since then? Everything but these laws.''

Mr. Kim sees political action as the best way to solve the group's problems.
''It's not just the A B C's that we need, but teeth and muscle. That comes
through political involvement.'' But Mr. Kim isn't hopeful that his community
will assert itself in the political arena any time soon.

''People say they don't have time or they don't want to make trouble. They're
too busy making a living, trying to get an economic foothold in this country.
Leave it to the next generation, they say, but I say that we should be doing
both now,'' said Mr. Kim.

Mr. Kim's counterpart in Brooklyn is Mr. Desir, a former lieutenant in Haiti's
coast guard.

Radio Voice for Haitians

Earlier immigrants depended on fliers or newspapers in their native languages to
keep up with affairs at home. More often today it is radio and television that
link ethnic communities.

Thousands of Haitian immigrants know Mr. Desir through the nine and a half hours
of community affairs programming he broadcasts each week on New York City radio
stations.

As a result, dozens of people go to his small storefront on Eastern Parkway in
the Crown Heights section each week looking for everything from news about the
latest political shifts in Haiti to a translation of a French document into
English.

The walls of the triangular shop are covered with Haitian paintings and awards
from Haitian emigre associations. On a recent day, several people sat on metal
folding chairs waiting for Mr. Desir, who was late because he had to see his
family off at the airport.

The air was filled with the quiet murmur of French and Creole, but the office
came alive with the arrival of Mr. Desir, a compact man with a sleepy-eyed, dour
expression.

An Assurance in Creole

Before he could get into the door, a man politely accosted him on the street,
gesturing to a woman who was standing a few feet away.

In Creole, Mr. Desir assured the man that he would help the woman with her
immigration problem.

''This is my neighborhood. This is my territory,'' said Mr. Desir, who is
president of the Alliance of Haitian Emigres in Brooklyn. ''Anything I can do to
help, I do.''

Mr. Desir fled to the United States with his family in 1970. After Haiti's first
elections in 30 years were canceled amid terrorism at the polls in 1987, it was
to Mr. Desir's office that many immigrants retreated to find out the fate of
relatives still in Haiti.

On the Lower East Side of Manhattan, recent arrivals from Puerto Rico, a
commonwealth of the United States, soon hear about Esther Cartagena, the woman
who can help them find ''little jobs.''

''I think of myself as an example of what anybody can do,'' said Mrs. Cartagena,
44, who recently took a job as director of the Department of Puerto Rican
Community Affairs, an agency of Puerto Rico. ''Look around. What are the needs?
What can people do.''

Mrs. Cartagena worked for several years for the Lower East Side Housing
Coalition and began her informal job-referral service there.

'Looking for Esther'

''I had so many meetings to go to and other women at the meetings were like me.
They'd run in and say, 'I had to leave my kids by themselves, so I'll be getting
up to call them a lot during this meeting.' We had so much guilt. Then one day I
realized that one of the people who came to my office, a woman who had only a
welfare check and a Social Security check, she could do a bit of babysitting.

''Or many of the landlords would tell me that they had to raise the rent because
they had to paint. And I'd say 'Hey, if I can get you some people to paint who
won't cost so much, maybe you won't have to raise the rent so much.' So I'd say
to some unemployed men, listen guys, here you can make some money painting. They
would do the work for less money than a regular contractor.

''This wasn't my job, but people started looking for Esther.''

Mrs. Cartagena says she believes in immigrants' getting jobs in their
neighborhoods because it eliminates traveling costs, provides needed service to
the community and frequently does not require knowledge of English.

''It doesn't have to be a big job, or a full-time job, just a job,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sung Soo Kim, who founded a Korean-American service center to
advise merchants on doing business in New York. Above, he talked to an officer
who ticketed a grocer for taking too much sidewalk space.; Philippe Wilson
Desir, formerly of Haiti, outside his office on Eastern Parkway in Brooklyn. He
helps guide recently arrived fellow emigres through the bureaucratic maze of
services in New York City. (Photographs by William E. Sauro/The New York Times)
(pg. B4)

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 15, 1990, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Congress Acts to Admit More Skilled Immigrants

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1135 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 14


In a step long favored by free-market economists, Congress is moving to admit
more skilled immigrants - scientists, engineers, medical technicians - to
compensate for expected labor shortages in the 1990's.

The number of immigrants selected on the basis of their job skills, now about
23,000 a year, would rise to more than 85,000 under a bill passed by the Senate.
The number would be 75,000 under a companion bill moving through the House of
Representatives.

Congress, the Labor Department and many researchers see the admission of
permanent immigrants, not temporary workers, as a way to correct the mismatch
between labor supply and demand.

The notion has aligned free-market economists with immigrant-rights advocates in
support of increased immigration, giving more weight to job skills in selecting
newcomers. But it may also revive an old debate over the role of immigrants in
the economy, including their effects on the job prospects of members of
minorities already here.

New View on Immigrants

For decades, it was assumed that immigrants took jobs from Americans and
depressed wages and working conditions in industries where they were
concentrated. But increasingly, research suggests that immigrants create jobs
and pay much more in taxes than they get in social welfare benefits.

''The debate has definitely shifted,'' said Representative Bruce A. Morrison,
Democrat of Connecticut, who, with Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of
Massachusetts, is leading the campaign for immigration legislation designed to
tap needed job skills. ''In the past, few people focused on legal immigration as
an economic issue. But a growing body of evidence shows that immigration creates
jobs and stimulates demand. You need a growing economy to produce jobs for
unemployed workers, and labor shortages can be a barrier to economic growth.''

The Senate has passed a bill revamping the system for choosing immigrants. Mr.
Kennedy, who is chairman of both the Committee on Labor and Human Resources and
the Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, said his bill ''recognizes future
U.S. labor needs, especially for skilled professionals.''

The House Judiciary Committee approved Mr. Morrison's similar bill on Aug. 1,
just before the Congressional recess, and the measure is likely to win approval
from the full House. Its fate may depend on whether the Bush Administration
works actively for or against it.

Administration's Position

The Administration says it supports ''a modest increase in the number of legal
immigrants'' and prefers the Senate bill over the House version.

The Senate bill includes a point system for assessing would-be immigrants.
Points would be awarded for education, occupational training, work experience
and age, with credit going to those in 21 to 44 years old. Under current law,
most immigrants qualify for visas because of their family connections. While not
diminishing preferences for relatives of United States citizens and permanent
resident aliens, the Senate and House bills would increase the number of
immigrants chosen for their job skills.

The United States has been admitting about 500,000 immigrants a year, not
counting refugees. Under the Senate bill, the number would rise to 630,000 a
year. The House bill would permit an increase to 775,000. The additional visas
would be made available to workers, their spouses and children and the relatives
of United States citizens and permanent resident aliens.

The number of skilled workers wishing to migrate to the United States far
exceeds the number of available visas, so there is a waiting list of several
years in some countries.

Labor Backs House Version

The American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations
supports Mr. Morrison's bill, in part because it would establish stricter
criteria for admission of temporary foreign workers.

A report for the Labor Department by the Hudson Institute, ''Work Force 2000,''
has popularized the idea that labor shortages threaten the United States'
ability to compete in world markets. The study said the United States population
and work force would grow more slowly in the 1990's than at any time since the
1930's. ''The fastest-growing jobs will be in professional, technical and sales
fields requiring the highest education and skill levels,'' it said.

Under current law, the United States annually admits about 23,000 immigrants
chosen on the basis of their job skills. Demetrios G. Papademetriou, director of
immigration policy and research at the Labor Department, said that 44 percent of
those foreign workers obtained their visas for jobs requiring ''low skills and
education.'' Many are domestic workers, cooks and hotel and restaurant workers.

Under the Kennedy bill, such unskilled workers would have much more difficulty
obtaining visas, Mr. Papademetriou said. Under the Senate bill, the United
States would still admit many immigrants from the third world, but those chosen
on the basis of their job skills would, in general, have more formal education
and training than those who now get such visas.

Concern About Unskilled

Many businesses say it is cheaper and easier to import foreign-born
professionals than to invest in the education and training of unskilled, poorly
educated Americans. Some blacks, like Milton D. Morris, research director at the
Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a research institute, express
concern that ''if we turn too quickly to immigrants to meet labor-market needs,
we might be sidestepping our responsibility to develop the human resources of
people already here.''

Under the House bill, companies with 50 or more employees would have to pay a
fee of $500 to $1,000 for each foreign worker they hire. The proceeds would be
used to educate and train American workers.

Economists as diverse as Milton Friedman and John Kenneth Galbraith subscribe to
the emerging consensus that ''the long-run benefits of immigration greatly
exceed any short-run costs,'' as President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers
said this year.

With the birth rate relatively low, immigration now accounts for 27 percent of
population growth in the United States, and the Census Bureau says it will
account for a steadily growing share in the next two decades. Even with no
increase in admission quotas, immigration would have a major impact on the
composition of the American labor force.

At the same time, the politics of immigration is changing. Rick Swartz, an
immigraton lawyer here, said: ''The pro-immigration coalition is expanding. In
1980, it involved churches, Hispanic and Asian groups and civil rights lawyers.
Today it also includes major corporations, industry associations and
conservative think tanks like the Heritage Foundation and the Hudson
Institute.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 2, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Liberian Exiles Struggle to Survive

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 34, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 851 words


Foussene Drame was a prosperous trader who did not mix in politics but lost two
children and everything he owned in the bloody civil war that is tearing his
country apart.

The 57-year-old Liberian's face is marked with despair as he tells how he came
to this country in June after the children were killed ''to find security and
food'' for his wife and four remaining children, who escaped to Togo but have no
money. Now he is stranded and unable to work. His three-month visa is about to
run out and he cannot get legal employment, only odd jobs to survive.

Like thousands of other Liberians who have fled the violence and chaos in their
homeland, Mr. Drame is seeking a safe haven in the United States. Like them, he
should be eligible for a six-month extension that would allow him to work, under
a ruling in July by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

More than 5,000 people, mostly unarmed civilians, have been killed in the
nine-month civil war, waged by two rebel groups and the Government of President
Samuel K. Doe. In his directive, the Immigration Commissioner, Gene McNary, said
that ''in view of the breakdown of Government control and the widespread
violence,'' Liberians who have overstayed their periods of admission and request
a six-month voluntary departure should be viewed ''sympathetically.''

'No Such Program'

But community leaders and immigration lawyers say few Liberians have benefited
from the ruling, mostly, they say, because few people know about it, even
immigration officials.

''So far, we have not heard of one Liberian who has had his/her request for
voluntary departure accepted,'' Arthur Helton, director for refugees in the
Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, wrote in a letter Friday to Commissioner
McNary.

Sam Daniel, who heads the Concerned Liberian Group, which pressed for the
deferred-departure ruling, took five Liberian refugees from Staten Island to the
immigration office in downtown Manhattan two weeks ago. ''They said there was no
such program,'' Mr. Daniel said.

''Nobody we know in the New York area has received voluntary-departure status,''
said Francois Massaquoi, director of the Liberian Emergency Relief Committee.

Fear of Deportation

The I.N.S director for the New York District, William Slattery, said that ''two
or three Liberians come in daily'' and that ''the Liberian program is being
administered,'' but he could not say how many people have been granted
voluntary-departure status. He said that any requests for work authorization had
to be forwarded to the Eastern District headquarters for processing and that
there might be delays.

The level of frustration and desperation among Liberian refugees is rising. Many
are afraid to speak out, for fear they may be deported to their troubled land.

''I can't get work, can't even afford a meal,'' said Williette Palmer, whose
husband and five children are in Liberia and have told her not to come home. An
administrative assistant with the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company, she came
here a year ago on vacation ''and then the war started.''

She is living with Liberian friends on Staten Island and wants to get a job. But
when she went to the immigration office, she said the officials did not know
about a special Liberian program and advised her to ask for political asylum - a
lengthy process that would leave her in limbo in the meantime, and which would
require her to renounce her citizenship.

Children, 14 and 9, Killed

Mr. Drame, a refugee from Kakata, 40 miles northeast of Monrovia, is a member of
the Mandingo tribe, which has been targeted by Charles Taylor's rebels for its
ostensible support of the shaky regime of Mr. Doe. When the rebels arrived at
Kakata on May 11, they killed Mr. Drame's 14-year-old daughter and 9-year-old
son and burned down his general store and home.

After the funeral, Mr. Drame and the rest of his family walked for nine days to
the Ivory Coast and got a bus for Togo. Leaving the family there, he came to New
York with a business visa. He used to come here to buy cloth for his store.

Mr. Drame is one of scores of Liberians who have sought help from the Liberian
Emergency Relief Committee, which Mr. Massaquoi established a month ago on East
28th Street in Manhattan. A Liberian coffee grower married to an American, Mr.
Massaquoi escaped in July. American authorities evacuated the couple's two
children, but they would not evacuate his two children by his first wife, who is
Liberian..

Emphasizing that the United States has ''a moral responsibility'' in Liberia,
which was founded by freed American slaves in 1847, Mr. Massaquoi said he could
not understand why black Americans have not ''raised their voices to ask the
U.S. Government what they are doing about Liberia.''

In his letter to the Immigration Commissioner, Mr. Helton urged him to clarify
his directive on voluntary departure, using the model of last year's program for
Chinese students. He also asked that the program include Liberian exiles
arriving after the cutoff date of July 27 and that it be extended from six
months to a year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Community leaders say few Liberian refugees have benefited from
a new program that grants those fleeing the country's civil war six more months
to stay in the United States. Foussene Drame, whose three-month visa is about to
expire, lost two children and everything he owned in the war and has not been
able to get legal employment. At right is Francois Massaquoi, director of a
relief committee. (Ed Keating for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 2, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Redone Ellis Island: Burnished but Not Brash

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1528 words


When the newly repaired Statue of Liberty was unveiled in 1986, the accompanying
Liberty Weekend celebration became an apotheosis of the 1980's, a four-day,
multimillion-dollar extravaganza of fireworks, patriotic kitsch and corporate
boosterism.

Now, as its sister landmark, Ellis Island, much of which has been restored and
finely burnished as the Museum of Immigration, is readied to receive the public
on Sept. 10, the mood is distinctly more subdued.

Ellis Island, the harrowing gateway for millions of terrified but hopeful
refugees, more than any other place has come to symbolize the definitive
American experience, immigration. From 1892 to 1924, 12 million people sought
entry on its barren shores.

Honoring All Immigrants

But the museum itself honors all American immigrants, whether they came here
freely or as slaves. It is a more complex and somber landmark than the Statue of
Liberty. The sober, unflamboyant way in which it will be unveiled is also a
testimony to the times.

This time the ceremony will not include 850 drill team girls, 5,000 homing
pigeons or a single Elvis Presley impersonator.

The refurbished immigration building, a grand Beaux-Arts palace of turrets and
vaulted ceilings that was designed more to awe than reassure, takes up seven
acres of the island. Nearby, there is an Art Deco ferry terminal, built as a
Works Progress Administration project in the 1930's. It provided work during the
Depression, but was rarely used.

The remaining 20 acres are dotted with 19th-century buildings that once served
as hospital wards, baggage rooms or dormitories. The Statue of Liberty-Ellis
Island Foundation, a private association responsible for financing and
supervising the restorations, had initially envisioned turning the southern part
of the island into a grandiose historical amusement park, an immigration theme
park that critics quickly called an ''ethnic Disneyland.''

Instead, the National Park Service, which manages Ellis Island, decided to lease
those buildings to a real-estate developer who would begin restoring them in
1990 as part of a $100 million world conference center. So far, the developer,
William Hubbard, director of the Center for Housing Partnerships, has been
unable to nail down investors.

Limits on Corporate Largess

A long-planned genealogical tracing center for the island, a computerized
archive of all Ellis Island immigrants, remains unfinanced, a testimony to new
limits on corporate largess.

Scattered across the landscape of Ellis Island are other, more lasting signs of
a newly troubled economic climate.

Near the beautifully reconstructed $156 million registration hall that houses
the museum are unrestored, dilapidated buildings that await development, a
tribute to New York's stagnant real-estate market.

A black-tie benefit dinner for patrons will be held on Sept. 8, to raise money
for the dedication the next day. That ceremony will be solemn, reverent and
studiously short on extravagance.

No Glitz This Time

''It's going to be a dignified, tasteful ceremony, nothing glitzy or splashy,''
said Donald Mischer, an award-winning producer of television variety specials,
who will provide the entertainment for the dinner and the dedication.

''In 1986 we were in a great patriotic surge,'' said Stephen Briganti, president
of the foundation. ''Now the economy is not as good, and there are serious
problems in the world, like Iraq.''

''We wanted something serious for Ellis Island,'' Mr. Briganti said, ''something
more cerebral.''

The Liberty Weekend celebration, which was paid for from money raised for the
restoration, ran $10 million over budget. Mr. Briganti said that the pared-down
1990 event would cost ''a fraction'' of Liberty Weekend, but declined to specify
how much.

The Ellis Island Restoration Commission has been developing a high-tech Family
History Center that would enable visitors to enter their names in a computer and
trace their ancestors through Ellis Island. So far, the sponsors have collected
biographical data on 17 million immigrants, but have been unable to raise the
$14 million the project would require.

Costs Dampen Enthusiasm

''When you talk to companies, they all love the idea,'' Stephen Fenton, an
advertising executive and commission member, said, ''until you tell them the
cost.''

And few of the corporations that sponsored the Statue of Liberty and Ellis
Island restoration, paying $3 million to $5 million in exchange for promotional
opportunities, have elected to use Ellis Island in product advertising.

''The big hitters did not see a way to get involved with Ellis Island,'' said
Lee A. Iacocca, the chairman of Chrysler, who headed the restoration
fund-raising effort. ''The statue is an icon, a world symbol. Ellis Island is a
much tougher sell.''

In 1984, in what was considered a landmark of private-sector initiative -and
marketing-driven philanthropy -the restoration was mostly financed by
corporations. Mr. Iacocca, energetic, brash and, at the time, impervious to
critics' charges that he had commercialized the Statue of Liberty, raised more
than $300 million by selling 21 corporations extensive tie-ins for their
products.

'Other Priorities This Year'

A.T.& T., which did not get involved with the Statue of Liberty events in the
1980's, became an Ellis Island sponsor and is currently using Ellis Island as a
theme in its long-distance telephone advertising. But most of the corporations
that bought the right to use the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island logo for
advertising in 1984 are not taking advantage of it this time around.

''We have other priorities this year; it's just not in the budget for a major
promotional campaign around Ellis Island,'' explained John Barr, director of
marketing for the Eastman Kodak Company.

''The statue was like the flag or Uncle Sam, an identifiable symbol that
companies could make use of in a positive, bombastic way,'' said Carol Connell,
public affairs director for Joseph E. Seagram & Sons. ''There is nothing
bombastic about Ellis Island. It hasn't got the same hoopla.''

Stephen A. Greyser, a professor of marketing at Harvard Business School, said:
''Companies have less money; their advertising budgets are squeezed. Events like
this are a fringe or luxury activity and are not on the budget list.''

Mixed Reviews of 1986 Hoopla

Also, memories of the manner and extent to which companies marketed the Statue
of Liberty - there were Statue of Liberty air fresheners and swizzle sticks -
remain mixed.

''It was rather difficult last time,'' said a spokesman for a major corporate
sponsor who spoke on the condiditon of anonymity, and whose company has
refrained from developing an Ellis Island promotional campaign. ''There was a
great deal of negative publicity about the selling the statue. I can't imagine
many companies were impressed with the reception they got as sponsors.''

This time, corporations that have contributed from $3 million to $5 million are
choosing to soft-sell their participation.

Eastman Kodak, for example, underwrote the Augustus Sherman Gallery, a
collection of photographs taken by an Ellis Island clerk in the 1890's. The
company's donation is quietly acknowledged in a plaque.

It's the Public's Turn

''I got chastized for allowing Coca-Cola and U.S. Tobacco to 'desecrate' the
statue,'' Mr. Iacocca said of his 1986 marketing blitz. ''We didn't push it too
hard this time. Why commercialize? We don't need any more money.'' He was
referring to the foundation's restoration projects.

When the foundation did, in fact, decide that it needed additional money to
create an endowment to help cover the National Park Service's maintenance costs,
it turned not to corporations, but to the public, with a scheme called the Ellis
Island Wall of Honor.

Donors sent contributions of $100 to $10,000 to have their ancestors' names,
regardless of whether they came through Ellis Island, written on copper plaques
placed on top of the sea wall that surrounds the museum.

''I saw my name in bronze on the Statue of Liberty,'' Mr. Iacocca said,
explaining the origin of the idea, ''And I thought thousands of other people
would also like to have their names up there.''

Almost 200,000 people sent in checks, ranging from Barbara Bush, who paid $100
to commemorate one of her ancestors, Thomas Thayer, who emigrated from England
in 1630, to a Washington restaurateur, Duke Zeibert, who paid $10,000 to have
his Polish emigre parents' names inscribed on the wall. The foundation raised
$20 million by selling donors the opportunity to have their family names
inscribed on the Wall of Honor, and is building a second wall to accommodate
continuing demand.

The Wall of Honor is the one departure from Ellis Island's rigorously accurate
historical restoration, one that the National Park Service agreed to, warily.

''Maybe we wouldn't have done that wall, there are a lot of purists in the Park
Service,'' said Herbert Cables, deputy director of the National Park Service.
''But the foundation raised $300 million, and we owe a great deal to that
process. We are in no position to second guess.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 6, 1990, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

CORRECTION:

A picture caption on Sunday about the restoration of the Great Hall at Ellis
Island misstated the cost of the work in some copies. It was $156 million, not
billion.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Great Hall at Ellis Island, right, which is to reopen on
Sept. 10 after a $156 million reconstruction (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)
(pg. 1); The reconstructed registration hall at Ellis Island now houses the
Museum of Immigration (Jim Wilson/The New York Times); Immigrants crowding the
registration hall on Ellis Island at the turn of the century. (pg. 32)

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 7, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Inside, Reliving the Immigrant's Experience

BYLINE: By RICHARD F. SHEPARD

SECTION: Section C; Page 22, Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 2484 words


The journey is made, appropriately, by boat, from Battery Park in Manhattan,
near the remains of Castle Garden, the forebear of Ellis Island, where millions
of immigrants were cleared in the 1800's. For those who prefer shorter voyages,
there is also a service from Liberty State Park in Jersey City, little more than
a heaving-line's cast from the 27.5 acres that served as the welcome mat for one
of the greatest migrations in history.

Appropriately, too, Ellis Island is a neighbor to the Statue of Liberty, on
another island-speck in the New York archipelago, and a port of call in this
ferry service's harbor three-point route. There is a relationship, even though
it may at times seem ironic, as reflected in ''The Immigrant,'' an early Charlie
Chaplin reel that depicts shipboard immigrants viewing the statue with tearful
gratitude, only moments before being roughly cordoned off by officials. But, for
all but a small minority of immigrants, the stay on Ellis Island was no more
than several hours before they gained access to what they hoped would be the
promised land.

Following the Path

The visitor may be pleasantly surprised by the appearance of Ellis Island as the
boat draws near. The main building, the one now called the Ellis Island
Immigration Museum and restored at a cost of $156 million, resembles nothing so
much as one of those massive seaside resort hotels so admired at the turn of the
century. The four 100-foot towers, one at each corner, mark the boundaries of a
60-foot-high structure ebulliently varied with large arches, pointed ones on the
top, rounded ones just below. This imposing French Renaissance assemblage of red
brick and stone facing may have daunted the applicants for entry into the
American family, but for their descendants it is a pleasant spectacle.

The ferry ties up in the slip that almost bisects the island, and the visitor is
just across the way from the entrance to the museum. First, however, it is worth
turning right on the tree-shaded walkway to the promenade along the bayfront,
with its magnificent view of downtown Manhattan and of the Liberty statue so
nearby. The 971-foot sea wall is covered with 470 copper panels listing the
names of immigrant families, from double-A Aabrahamson to Zyziak, each placed
there as the American Immigrant Wall of Honor by virtue of a donation of $100 or
more by descendants.

The entrance to the museum is beneath a canopy of glass and red-colored metal.
It is a modern version of the original marquee that sheltered the immigrants as
they debarked from barges carrying them from their ships. The National Park
Service, which runs the museum and the island, as it does the Statue of Liberty
and Castle Garden, has been meticulous about not spuriously duplicating features
that died in the course of events, although it does not object to
interpretations that are clearly recognized as modern. With only a few
exceptions, the appearances have been restored to the period of 1918 to 1924.

The visitor is free to wander at will, and Park Service employees are at hand to
offer directions and advice, but one will absorb more flavor by following the
processing path the immigrants themselves followed. To re-create the full taste
is, of course, impossible, unless visitors are talented enough to forget any
knowledge of English, to divest themselves of whatever money they are carrying
and to have no realization of where they are bound, other than some
indecipherable English words on an unintelligible piece of paper, all this often
made even more burdensome by an accompanying family and an inborn terror of
officialdom.

How the Pieces Fit

The canopy leads into the baggage room, a chamber with beige walls and, for
architectural reasons, a forest of columns about the floor. There are baggage
carts here, waiting as they did for the luggage that people brought from their
Old Worlds to the New. The bags were left here, with some trepidation, as their
owners went on for processing.

Off to the right is one of the two theaters that will screen a specially made
half-hour production, Charles Guggenheim's ''Island of Hope/ Island of Tears,''
which concentrates on the period 1892 to 1924. It is part of the orientation
that the visitor will want to undergo to make the museum's bewildering
assortment of parts fit together.

The next step, logically, leads upstairs to the Registry Room, the two-story
room where the admission process and the medical examination began. Even as the
immigrant walked up the staircase, the doctors were already giving the first
''six-second'' checkup, noting those who had trouble making the ascent. In
contrast, it should be emphasized, the building today is fully equipped with
ramps, moving stairs and elevators to make the trip easier for the handicapped.

The main feature of the Registry Room, now as it was then, is the maze of aisles
and benches along which immigrants moved as they underwent their first
inspections by the medics who were charged with ensuring that applicants with
specific mental, eye or other health problems were screened out. Dozens of
interpreters helped bridge the gaps of incomprehension. (Among these experts was
Fiorello H. La Guardia, who was to become Mayor of multi-lingual New York.)

Through the Gate

An exit from this bewildering Government processing room leads to the western
end of the building, where 14 smaller inspection rooms have been turned into one
of the museum's five major exhibition areas. ''Through America's Gate''
describes and recalls the process that took place in this very area.
Photographs, documents and artifacts replay, to the recorded voices of
immigrants recalling their various travails, the tense business of gaining
admission. There is an inspector's desk from about 1900, a long table behind
which sat the commissioners and other officials who determined who should enter
and who should not.

Amid the welter of tags, labels and certifications, comments from immigrants
have been inscribed on the exhibition panels. One recollection noted is by
Charles T. Anderson, who arrived from Sweden in 1925 and was asked if he had $25
with him.

''I didn't have it,'' his comment observes. ''I said yes and that's it. I had
nothing. That's one thing I put over on them.''

The other rooms in this exhibition deal with the immigrants after their fates
had been determined in the hearing room. There are rooms that describe how
tickets were bought to other parts of the United States, where money was
exchanged, and how immigrant aid societies performed yeoman and incorruptible
service in behalf of the ''greenhorns,'' who were easy prey to the unprincipled.


Hall of Uncertainty

The route now leads upstairs to the third and top museum floor. Standing at the
mezzanine railing closer to the impressively vaulted ceiling, the visitor senses
the gulf that set apart the curious onlooker of decades ago as he gazed
speculatively at the motley assortment of people who would soon be called fellow
citizens. He is, thanks to a father or great-grandfather who had done it for
him, well out of this desperate and hopeful bid for a new start. It is a lofty
view, shared with three handsome chandeliers suspended from the ceiling and all
those American flags (48 stars, in keeping with the period) that proudly jut
from the walls.

As elevated as this observation post might be to the uninvolved, it was also a
passageway to uncertainty for those not granted immediate access to the United
States. Along the north wall are the dormitory rooms for those who were held
over. Like the rest of Ellis Island's interior, their official lack of decor is
in sharp contrast to the enticing outer skin of the building. In the one room
that has been restored, the three-tiered canvas bunks, actually slung hammocks,
can sleep 36 . Along with the bunks are three porcelain sinks and a toilet
closet.

What They Brought

A more poignant and heartwarming testimony of the regard of people who passed
through this immigrant station lies down the hall in the east-wing exhibition
''Ellis Island Galleries.'' A centerpiece is a 3,000-square-foot space that
houses ''Treasures From Home.'' Immigrants and their families have donated items
that arrived with them. It is, surely, as cosmopolitan an anthropological dig as
exists: a box for chocolates given to a Polish immigrant who arrived in 1923; a
Norwegian mangle board on which a cold iron could press and stretch fabrics; a
pillowcase from Portugal; an embroidered towel from Hungary and a Turkish towel
that accompanied a newcomer from Palestine in 1912; a lutelike wooden oud from
Armenia; clogs from England; a good-luck donkey shoe from Ireland.

Here, too, is the chronicle of Ellis Island itself, with scale models that show
its growth from a pipsqueak three acres that thrived on oyster beds to what it
is today. Other displays in this section tell how the restoration was achieved
after the station was formally closed in 1954 and abandoned to the elements.

Making It Their Way

Immediately downstairs, on the east wing's second floor, is ''Peak Immigration
Years, 1880 to 1924,'' a 10-room graphic depiction, grouped around a skylit
atrium, of what was going on in the late 19th-century doorway to America that
would reshape the national profile. It is a realistic picture that details not
only the contributions of the immigrants, as well as their stick-to-itiveness in
making their way, but also the nasty opposition they encountered from those
already established in this country.

''RESTRICT ALL IMMIGRATION,'' one poster urges. Yet a row of other signs gives
every evidence that America needed the new arrivals as much as they needed
America: ''Cigar Workers, $2 a day,'' ''Piece Worker, per pair of trousers, 2
cents,'' ''Bricklayer, $5 per day,'' ''Domestics, $4 per day, with room and
board.'' One learns not only of the volume of arrivals, as in the peak year of
1907, when 1 million were cleared (12,000 processed on April 17 alone), but also
of where they went, as in 1903, when 706,113 called New York City home and one
decided to hang his hat in Brassard, Ga.

The Roads Chosen

To put this turbulent era into focus, ''The Peopling of America'' exhibition,
first floor rear, is an eloquent interpretation of migration and its meaning,
fittingly ensconced in the immigrant station's old baggage room. Immigrants
rarely checked their cultural luggage when they moved, and the roads they chose
often led to a bridging of mutually alien outlooks and expressions.

''It doesn't matter whether your family arrived on the Mayflower or recently got
off the airplane from Honduras,'' explained Gary G. Roth, the National Park
Service project manager for the museum. ''Ellis Island is a symbol of 400 years
of immigration. The story of it all is told here, including that of Native
Americans and of forced immigrations, the slaves who were brought here against
their will.''

A fiber-optic display is harnessed to a globe six feet in diameter that traces
major migration patterns since 1700, testifying to the fact that not everyone
set his cap for the United States. Another sort of ''immigrant'' is honored on a
nine-foot-high ''Word Tree'' that tells which ethnic Americanisms hailed from
where. Most fascinating is ''Where We Are: Ethnic Groups in America,'' a map
that visitors can illuminate, at the press of a button, to indicate populations
of 122 immigrant groups, state by state.

The more recent immigration that never had to clear Ellis Island gets a moment
in the spotlight here, too, in the shape of 25 interviews with latter-day
newcomers to the American clan.

How long does it take to take it all in? It's up to the visitor, who can flit
through in an hour and enjoy the vista of New York Bay until the next boat
arrives or sift each relic and scan each caption over the period of a full day,
or several days for that matter. There are numerous benches on which the weary
may rest their feet. And, on the first floor, just before assaulting the gift
shop, one will appreciate the cafeteria, which can refresh more than 200
customers at a time, 108 indoors and 100 on the adjoining outdoor terrace with
its breathtaking seascape. Yes, there will be food of diverse ethnic origin on
the menu, along with a cosmopolitan selection of beer from Ireland, Italy,
Germany, Mexico, the Netherlands and who knows where else.

The Park Service officials expect about a million people a year to pass through
the station. (In 1989, 2.6 million visited the Statue of Liberty.) But in terms
of what Ellis Island handled in its busy season, an old-timer might somewhat
condescendingly shrug off the estimated tourism as all in a day's work.

Getting There

Beginning on Monday, the Ellis Island Immigration Museum will be open 9 A.M. to
5 P.M. on weekdays and 9 A.M. to 6 P.M. on weekends. Admission is free. Until
telephone service at the museum is provided next week, information about the
museum is available through the Circle Line, 269-5755.

Dedication festivities for invited guests are planned at the museum this
weekend. These include a dinner tomorrow night and a ribbon-cutting ceremony,
the swearing-in of 50 new American citizens and a tour of the museum on Sunday.

Ferry service to Ellis Island on the Circle Line is to begin on Monday from.
Battery Park, west of the Staten Island ferry, in lower Manhattan, and from
Liberty State Park in Jersey City. Each ferry will be able to accommodate 800 to
1,000 passengers.

Ferry departures have not yet been announced, but trips to and from the island -
a 15-minute ride each way - will probably leave every 30 minutes. The first trip
to Ellis Island begins at 9 A.M. and the last at 4 P.M. A round-trip ticket is
$6 ($3 for ages 3 to 11). Travel information from Battery Park, 269-5755; from
Liberty State Park, (201) 435-9499.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Naomi Keltz inspecting the copper panels of the American
Immigrant Wall of Honor. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times); map of Manhattan
showiing location of Ellis Island.

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 7, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final

At Ellis Island, Embracing the Past and the Future

BYLINE: By PAUL GOLDBERGER

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 2; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1358 words


While the main building now houses the elaborate new Ellis Island Museum of
Immigration, which contains immigrants' artifacts, oral histories and media
presentations, fittingly it is the building itself that is the main exhibition.
Designed in the Beaux-Arts style by the New York firm of Boring & Tilton (which
won the commission over the celebrated firm of McKim, Mead & White) to replace a
simpler building destroyed by fire, the structure of limestone and red brick was
finished in 1900. Its three arched portals and four copper-domed towers, as
sumptuous a symbol of the public grandeur that awaited immigrants as any
American courthouse or train station, received immigrants until 1924, when the
island's function as a gateway ended.

Ellis Island was abandoned completely in 1954, and its structures - in addition
to the main building there are hospitals, dormitories and enough other support
structures to make up a virtual campus - then began a long descent into
architectural dereliction.

Nature, not the vandalism that most New York buildings are the victims of, was
the real villain. Moisture turned the grand structures into dank, crumbling
piles of masonry. By the early 1980's there were so many openings in the roof of
the main building that the Registry Room, the great hall in which immigrants
were processed, had snow on its floor.

Now, the main building gleams, its structure painstakingly restored by the
architectural firms of Beyer Blinder Belle and Notter, Finegold & Alexander,
working with the National Park Service and the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island
Foundation. Together these architects, bureaucrats and fund-raisers have managed
to turn a venerable piece of American architecture into a magnificent artifact,
a building that expresses both the exhilaration and the poignancy that
immigrants passing through it must have felt.

The building has been restored roughly to duplicate the way it was during Ellis
Island's final active years, 1918-24, largely because the structure's single
most important architectural feature, the magnificent ceiling of Guastavino tile
vaulting that covers the 160-foot-long two-story-high Registry Room, had not
been added until 1918. A stairway from the ground floor to the Registry Room,
which immigrants climbed as they were watched by inspectors for signs of
exhaustion that might signify tuberculosis, had been moved and then removed
entirely; it was rebuilt, despite a National Park Service policy against
architectural re-creations.

The decision to make an exception to the park service's rules was wise, since
the stair was a crucial part of the immigrants' experience in the building.
Without it, a critical goal of this project, that visitors should be able to
have some sense of what it was like for immigrants to pass through the building,
would have been impossible.

But now visitors will be able to follow the same journey as the immigrants: from
the ferry slip to the entry arches, into the so-called baggage room on the
ground floor, where immigrants were separated from their luggage (usually for a
few hours, sometimes forever) and then up the staircase at one end into the
grandeur of the Registry Room, their fate to be decided there by the waiting
inspectors. At the far end of the Registry Room was the ''staircase of
separation,'' named because it was there that immigrants were directed toward
ferries to Manhattan, trains to points west or detention rooms on the island.

The Registry Room has been furnished with nothing but the benches and
inspectors' desks that it had during its active years: here, where emo tions are
at their most intense for visitors as they were for immigrants, was it
absolutely necessary that only the building itself speak. But in gen eral, the
exhibitions of the new muse um have been inserted discreetly into the structure:
most are in side wings, distant from the path of the immigrants, and the new
auditoriums have been built in light wells, not visible from the exterior. Yet
no one could mistake this building for a perfectly preserved but unaltered
structure. There is an escala tor in the exhibition area and elevator access for
the disabled. The main exhibition area itself has been painted in dark colors,
the handsome windows out to New York Harbor blocked by exhibit cases - not a
permanent alteration, happily, but still a more intrusive change than seems
necessary. What would have been wrong with looking at the artifacts of
immigrants' lives beside windows open to the view?

The most conspicuous sign that the building is different now, however, is the
new steel-and-glass canopy that marks the front entrance: it is deter minedly
modern, and while it is respectful in scale and general form to the building's
architecture, it still seems intrusive, as if it were trying almost too hard to
avoid being mistaken for something old. The philosophical idea behind this kind
of intervention - that it is not right to try to fool visitors into thinking
that something new is old - may be honest. But in this case, honesty comes at
the price of being slightly jarring.

But most of the other insertions, including the new side terrace that permits
museum visitors to dine outdoors (with an extraordinary view of Manhattan), are
eminently respectful of the original architecture, and meld comfortably into it
despite their newnesss. That's surely the case with the glass-roofed atrium,
built into a former light well, that now serves as a reading room for the
museum's library and archive center. Perhaps it's because of all of this newness
that with the exception of the Registry Room, the places that exude the greatest
poignancy are the sections of this building that have not been restored and are
off limits to the public. The dining room, for example, which is still in the
derelict condition of the entire building when work began in 1982, is like a
romantic ruin, an eerie space with broken glass, peeling plaster and crumbling
walls. Birds fly in and out, dust rises from the floor, and the whole place
seems mysteriously beautiful, and powerfully suggestive of the immigrant
experience.

That this room tugs at the heart more strongly than the others is something of a
paradox, of course, since the immigrants themselves never saw it in this
condition. The dining room, while it may have been teeming with people when it
was in active use in the first decades of this century, was also clean and new.

The answer to the paradox, surely, is in the sense of time projected by this
room and the other sections not yet restored: their musty, broken walls cry
loudly that their time is over. They speak of things that are finished; they
grab us and pull us back into the past, more forcefully than the pristinely
restored rooms can do.

The skillfully designed, brilliantly executed restoration of the main building
also tries to bring one back to Ellis Island's past, and it does as well as it
can. But its real achievement - what it does far more effectively than even the
most romantic ruin - is to give the island the promise of a future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The arches and towers of Ellis Island - A sumptuous symbol of
public grandeur. (pg. C1); The Registry Room, the great hal where immigrants
were processed, is in the main building, which has been painstakingly restored.
(Jim Wilson/The New York Times) (pg. C23)

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 9, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The Golden Door, Re-opened

SECTION: Section 4; Page 24, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 536 words


Yet their splendid work is not quite finished. For there is another part of the
island, south of the main building and separated by a ferry slip, that the
restorers haven't touched. It contains two dozen contagious disease wards, a
morgue and many dark and forbidding rooms.

Only a small percentage of the 12 million immigrants went there, and, because
the buildings are collapsing in a tangle of rust and vines, no visitors will be
allowed. But this Ellis Island deserves better; it, too, is wondrously
evocative.

The average immigrant spent three to five hours on the island. In far shorter
time, visitors will be able to follow the path through the heart of the building
the immigrants originally took: from the ferry slip to the vaulted registry
room, where they were examined and interrogated by an army of doctors and
inspectors. On any given day, 5,000 people would move through this room. Most
received a joyous stamp of approval; a few - 2 percent of all cases - a crushing
''no.'' The sick and lame wound up in the hospital and the wards at the south
end of the island. It was this part of the island that caused the one nasty
dispute during the restoration process.

Lee Iacocca, who was largely responsible for raising $345 million to refurbish
the Statue of Liberty and reclaim Ellis Island, wanted to build an immigration
theme park that critics promptly labeled an ''ethnic Disneyland.'' Tne National
Park Service, which manages the island, decided instead to lease the buildings
to a developer who would raze some of them and turn the hospital into a plush
international conference center.

But while the developer continues to seek financing in an uncertain economic
climate, the old buildings, and the history they contain, rot away. Dust swirls
in the morgue, which holds a tiny amphitheater for autopsies, with eight holes
in the wall where corpses were refrigerated. Weeds sprout through the concrete
floor of a room containing a half-dozen autoclaves - huge containers where
mattresses and bed linen were sterilized by superheated steam. One building
holds a giant coal-fired boiler; another has a massive Dickensian contraption
for pressing sheets.

A Park Service guide recently told a visitor that these abandoned structures
held special meaning. ''The Museum recaptures history,'' he said. ''These
buildings are history.'' He said he hoped enough public and private money could
be found to ''stabilize'' them by preventing further rot until a permanent plan
can be devised.

That's a modest idea and a good one. These poor, huddled structures speak of
anxiety and hope - and tug us forcibly into the past.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 9, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Where the World Was New: Immigrants Recall Ellis Island

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 36, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1815 words


But Ellis Island - his journey from Romania, his arrival, the lines of
immigrants, the questions, the dinner he was served -''everything is before my
eyes when I think of it.''

Mr. Laufer was the oldest of seven children. His father had died years before.
He came to America alone. It was February 1921.

''We were peasants, we were poor, we were almost starving. My mother said if she
could only transplant me to America, things would change. And it happened! She
borrowed money to get me to Paris. Then some cousins pitched in and bought me
the ticket on the boat - third class - I think it was about $120. The boat was
called the Chicago. All I had were the clothes on my back. I boarded the boat on
the 3d of February. We reached here on the 14th. In one large room we were about
500 people. It was very stormy weather. Five days I was seasick.

''When we reached Eastern Long Island, suddenly someone pointed out land. I was
crying. My mother's wish was fulfilled: I'm in America. When we arrived at Ellis
Island, there were already so many immigrants that we stayed on the boat 12
days.

''Then they took us on a Sunday to Ellis Island. I was being processed through,
and a man motioned me over. He wanted to know first if I could read. He had
these cards under a glass in different languages. I could read German.

''Then he asked me if I had money. I didn't have any. There was a wide corridor
divided by a wire fence. Those that had money passed to the right and got on
boats to South Ferry. Me, he motioned to the left. I landed in a room with more
people. Another man asked me where I'm going to. I gave him my uncle's name and
address - 341 East 10th Street. They sent a telegram to my uncle that I was
here.

''That night they marched us into a large dining room. There was paper covering
the tables. I thought it was the best dinner I ate in my entire life. I thought:
'What kind of a country is this, receiving me, a lowly immigrant, with a great
dinner like I'm a great guest?' I fell in love with America right then and
there.''

Mr. Laufer said he can't remember the dishes, just the way he was served.

''The next morning my aunt came to the island, and she took me home. I slept
there one night. My uncle was working at the Jewish Hospital in Brooklyn in the
laundry. The next morning he took me there, and they gave me a pail and a mop
and they showed me how to mop the bathrooms. Then I was a waiter serving the
nurses. Then I worked in the laundry. Then my family advised me I need to learn
a trade. A cousin put me into his shop and I started learning the fur
business.''

By 1927, Mr. Laufer had brought over his mother and his brothers and sisters.

Birgitta Fichter

Among the memorabilia on display at the new museum on Ellis Island is an ancient
pair of women's brown leather hightop shoes with laces, size 7. A Swedish
immigrant named Elin Maria Hedman was wearing them when she landed on Ellis
Island in 1924 with her 6-year-old daughter, Birgitta.

''After she got here, she wasn't going to wear hightops,'' her daughter,
Birgitta Fichter, said. ''She had to get Americanized and get low shoes with
straps. She packed her old shoes away in a suitcase, and whenever we'd move we'd
come across them. We used to laugh at them because they were so beat up and
stitched and mended.''

Her mother died in 1979 at the age of 86. Mrs. Fichter carefully saved her old
shoes, and when she heard about the restoration of Ellis Island she wrote a
letter to the exhibition's designers.

''I still have all the documents, passports, pictures, etc.,'' wrote Mrs.
Fichter, a real-estate broker in Long Branch, N.J. ''But most dear to me are the
shoes my mother wore when she first set foot on the soil of America. You must
see these shoes to appreciate the courage they had and the sacrifices they made
giving up family and security to try for a better life, but not knowing what lay
ahead. We came to this country as many others did, POOR!''

Dr. Muriel Petioni

In the early 1900's, Charles Augustin Petioni was a newspaper reporter writing
about the injustices of colonialism in Trinidad. In 1917, under pressure from
the Government, he left for America. His wife and two daughters followed two
years later.

The family settled in Harlem. Mr. Petioni worked as an elevator operator, a
porter, a stockman. At night, he studied pre-med at City College. He went on to
medical school at Howard University. In 1925, Dr. Petioni began practicing
medicine in Harlem. He was 40 years old.

Dr. Petioni's oldest daughter also became a doctor in Harlem. Dr. Muriel Petioni
was 5 when she came through Ellis Island in 1919. She says she can't remember
Ellis Island, only the start of the trip, ''walking up a shaky ladder onto the
boat.'' She is semi-retired now, a consultant at Harlem Hospital. All her life,
she says, she has been inspired by the example of her father. He died in 1951.

In America, she said, her father crusaded for independence for the West Indies.
In his own neighborhood, he fought to get the merchants on 125th Street to hire
blacks as managers.

''They pushed him out of Trinidad,'' she said. ''They warned him he'd better
stop if he wanted to continue to work there. He decided that if he came here he
would be an independent person. Therefore, he could not be silenced.''

Morry Helzner

Morry Helzner is 76 years old, a Yiddish musicologist who lives with his wife,
Isabel, in Philadelphia. He was 8 years old when his family arrived in America
in September 1922, fleeing famine in Russia.

''We were on the steamship Constantinople. It was 14 days to New York Harbor
-very stormy conditions. We lived in the hold of the ship. It was very dank and
dreary down there. A very important impression I had when we arrived: We were
assigned dormitories above the Great Hall, and I was startled by the tremendous
whiteness that faced me - the tile was white, the bed was white, the sheets were
white, the light was bright and white. It reminded me of the same situation in
the movie 'E.T.' - that light.

''Then on Sunday morning, since the dormitories were up on the balcony, I walked
out and on the floor of this Great Hall were all sorts of colored paper. They
were the Sunday comics! I had never seen them before. The papers had been
delivered, and people had just pulled them apart. Many of them couldn't read,
and they were attracted by the pictures and the comics. From the balcony,
looking down, it was like a montage.''

Pasquale Forlingieri

Pasquale Forlingieri was 11 years old, and his mother was taking him to America
so they could join his father. He wasn't at all happy about leaving his hometown
of Caserta in Italy.

''I was kingpin back in Europe,'' said Mr. Forlingieri, now 77 years old and
still working at a pharmacy in Providence, R.I. ''I was the second in my class,
I was the first altar boy of the town, and I was the only son, and the only
grandson of my maternal grandparents.''

Mr. Forlingieri says he remembers the coffee on Ellis Island. ''After the
examination they came around with hot coffee,'' he recalled. ''They poured it
into waxed paper cups - they didn't have foam cups at the time - and the wax
went all down my fingers and the coffee went on my bare skin. I got burned.''

His family settled in Providence, where his father had a barber shop. While the
young Pasquale might not have been the kingpin he was in Caserta, he adjusted.
''I accepted America for what it was.''

Evelyn Nassif

Evelyn Nassif was Icka Nassif, a terrified 12-year-old from a Lebanese village,
when she arrived on Ellis Island in 1912 with her aunt and uncle and cousins.

''My aunt was pregnant, everyone was sick,'' Mrs. Nassif, who is 90 and living
in Richlands, Va., said. ''The baby was crying. My uncle, I think, was kind of
confused. When they asked him who I was and what I was doing, instead of saying,
'She's coming with me,' he forgot, he got confused. They push him through, they
push me back. Oh, my, you don't know what it was like. My aunt said, 'Where are
you taking her?' Oh my God, I screamed and hollered: 'Uncle! Uncle!' My aunt
said, 'Please let me go back and stay with her.' They won't let her, just push
them ahead, push me back.''

After three days on Ellis Island, she was saved by the arrival of her brother,
who was living in Lawrence, Mass. In school, Icka became Ida.

''My name, they couldn't pronounce it so they made it Ida,'' she said.

When she went to work in a knitting factory at age 18, Ida became Evelyn.
''Where I worked, there were about four girls named Ida,'' she said. ''Every
time they asked for Ida, the four of us answered. My cousin said, 'Come here,
Ida, we're going to change your name. There's nobody named Evelyn so we're going
to put your name Evelyn. I said, 'O.K.' I was very obedient, whatever they told
me to do, I do.''

Dorothy Melnick

Dorothy Melnick was born on Ellis Island on Feb. 13, 1922, the second child of
Rebecca and Isidor Sachat, newly arrived from Russia. She was one of 355
children born on the island between 1900 and 1954, when Ellis Island closed.

''I used to be embarrassed about it,'' said Mrs. Melnick, a retired teaching
assistant who lives in Port Jervis, N.Y. ''I remember a teacher got me up in
front of the class in third or fourth grade and said, 'Oh, you were born on
Ellis Island. How? Why?' I didn't know. I was born, and that was it. We had
never discussed it.''

But recently she has begun asking her 90-year-old mother about Ellis Island.
Rebecca Sachat had traveled alone with her 15-month old son. Her husband had
come to America months earlier and was already working as a presser in the
garment district.

''My mother had an ingrown toenail, and they decided to keep her there,'' Mrs.
Melnick said. ''She was scared sick, being there, being pregnant. My brother
came down with the measles. In the meantime, I was born.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Harry Laufer, a retired furrier who lives in Brooklyn, holding
two pages from his original passport. Mr. Laufer, who was a peasant in Romania,
arrived at Ellis Island in February 1921 alone and with no money (Jack
Manning/The New York Times); Pasquale Forlingieri of Providence, R.I., used the
passport above when he arrived at Ellis Island from Caserta, Italy, as an
11-year-old (Jim Bourg for The New York Times); Dr. Muriel Petioni, a consultant
at Harlem Hospital in Manhattan, wore a ribbon in a passport picture with her
mother and sister. Dr. Petioni arrived at Ellis Island from Trinidad in 1919.
(Steve Berman for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 10, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Ellis Island Doors Reopening, This Time as Haven to Tourists

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1240 words


Nonetheless, Ellis Island was commemorated less as a point of exclusion than a
haven, or at least the antechamber to one. And though organizers had promised a
ceremony almost somber by contrast to the hoopla with which the burnished Statue
of Liberty was unveiled in 1986, hoopla nonetheless creeped in.

''What we celebrate in Ellis Island is nothing less than the triumph of the
American spirit,'' Vice President Quayle proclaimed, shortly after a rainbow of
people in ethnic garb had paraded through the crowd and the United States Army
Band had finished a medley that included, ''There's No Business Like Show
Business.''

Between ribbon snippings at the museum and at the American Immigrant Wall of
Honor, into which 197,588 names were engraved for immigrants or their relatives
who donated $100 or more to the $156 million renovation, Mr. Quayle and others
noted that the island had evoked a mixture of emotions. But it was left to the
dozens of people who visited yesterday to confront memories and explain what
they meant.

Greta Ugbogbo, one of 46 new citizens sworn in at the ceremony by Associate
Justice Antonin Scalia of the Supreme Court of the United States, sat brimming
with newly American smiles until someone asked her feelings about the Beaux-Arts
building in front of her.

Entry Sought and Denied

Then, fixing her eyes on the red-brick and limestone facade of the island's main
building, Miss Ugbogbo said that her grandfather had been detained inside when
he left their native Grenada and sought entry into the United States in the
early 1940's. He was held on the island because no family members had come to
pick him up, she said.

While on the island, her grandfather contracted tuberculosis, which he passed on
to his eldest daughter upon his return to Grenada, she said. Both died of the
disease.

''It's sad thinking about the grandfather I never knew,'' said Miss Ugbogbo, who
left Grenada two years before the United States invaded her former country in
1983, and settled in Brooklyn where she works as a cosmetologist. ''And then
it's very happy to be not just a part of America, but a part of this ceremony.''

Louis Villamarin, an 86-year-old retired plumber, walked under the
steel-and-glass canopy of the island's main building and recalled what had
followed the last time he had entered the building, as a 19-year-old Spaniard:
On doctors' orders, he had been stripped, poked, prodded and questioned, for
what seemed like hours.

But that day, he said, his sense of discomfort had been overwhelmed by the
thought of what awaited him off the island. And yesterday, he said, he was
overwhelmed by the thought of the 67 good years he had spent on Staten Island
since disembarking from the Ellis Island ferry.

''It wasn't too bad then,'' Mr. Villamarin said, and then he corrected himself:
''It was beautiful. It is beautiful.''

Inside the main building's old baggage room, Clara Larsen sat in her wheelchair
recalling all the people who had been there on her last visit. That was in 1911,
when concessionaires were not above trying to separate 12-year-olds from their
worldly goods. Yesterday a still wary Mrs. Larsen, now 92, said she viewed the
island's overhaul with skepticism.

Named as one of six Immigrant Guests of Honor, Mrs. Larsen, who was born in the
Russian Ukraine and fled the czarist pogroms against Jews, was seated on a dais
with dignitaries representing all those who passed through the island.

But Bureaucracy Remains

But two grandnieces recounted her day in the spotlight: she was nearly elbowed
out of line for the ferry by executives from A.T. & T., fought a Secret Service
man for access to an elevator, spent an hour waiting in line for food, and then
was spirited to a special table just in time to miss the V.I.P. brunch entirely.

''The interior's different,'' Mrs. Larsen said, ''but the bureaucracy is the
same.''

Recalling the Din

During the years of the island's heaviest immigrant traffic, those who like Mrs.
Larsen chose not to check their bags, had to drag them up a staircase to the
Registry Room, the great hall upstairs. Where doctors once chalked the coats of
those who showed signs of ailing (an ''H'' for heart, perhaps, or an ''L'' for
lameness), a few visitors paused yesterday, peered down and smiled.

In the Registry Room, the first modest crowds seemed to give a sense of the din
that was once mixed of a few dozen languages. But some who had stood under the
room's vaulted, tiled ceiling said that in their noise-making, the museum
visitors were a poor substitute.

Carefully as the museum's opening was scripted, it was perhaps inevitable that
dissonant voices made themselves heard.

Michelangelo S. Viola, 78, a retired beer distributor from Pittston, Pa.,
paraded up and down the docks at the Battery from which the ferry left,
proclaiming his disbelief that after driving all morning to New York he could
not get onto the island.

Although he said he had come through Ellis Island in 1912 as a 4-month-old baby
he had not made a donation to the project as had the invited guests. ''But I
bought three cars from Lee Iacocca,'' he protested, mentioning the Chrysler
chairman who headed the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation. Finally, a
sympathetic foundation official ushered Mr. Viola and his wife onto the last
ferry.

And as the hundreds of invited guests waited on the Battery to board ferries for
Ellis Island, about 200 members of the AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power, Act-Up,
loudly castigated the museum for failing to mention the Federal Government's
policy of mandatory AIDS testing of foreigners who seek work permits, and the
denial of permits to those who test positive.

New Immigrants' Hopes

And even on the museum's front lawn were some who represented the newer hopes
and troubles of immigration.

Herbert, a 20-year-old Salvadoran who declined to give his last name for fear of
being deported, paused from his grass-trimming chores to say that from the looks
of the great hall, he surmised that earlier generations of immigrants must have
had it better.

''It's much different now,'' said Herbert, a deserter from the United
States-backed Salvadoran Armed Forces. ''Now when you come in, you come through
Mexico.''

His Nicaraguan co-worker Henry, who fought United States-backed contra rebels as
a Sandinista soldier, said he, too, had found a hole in the fence separating
Tijuana, Mexico, from Southern California. And they agreed that while the
gateway had changed, the United States still beckoned immigrants with incentives
that were magical as well as monetary.

For instance, they said, even as illegal aliens they were able to work on the
Ellis Island Immigration Museum.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ellis Island was reopened yesterday as a tourist attraction,
the Ellis Island Immigration Museum. Invited guests took a ferry from the
Battery to the dedication.; Michelangelo S. Viola was admitted to the
invitation-only ceremony on Ellis Island after he showed his Italian birth
certificate and United States citizenship papers.; Forty-six new citizens were
sworn in by Associate Justice Antonin Scalia of the United States Supreme Court
at Ellis Island. (Photographs by SARA KRULWICH for The New York Times) (pg. B1);
Johanna O;Donnell Flaherty receiving a commemorative plaque at Ellis Island
yesterday as Vice President Quayle, center, looked on. (Chester Higgins Jr./The
New York Times) (pg. B6)

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 11, 1990, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Immigrant Celebration: Is the Experience Still Relevant?

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1340 words


These are complicated questions with no clear answer during these days of
remembrance, reflection and no small measure of sentimentality.

Common Identity Questioned

But if a simple answer is possible, it would probably be something like this:
Since Ellis Island closed, we have become a far more diverse and heterogeneous
society than we ever were before, so much so that the very idea of a common
identity seems at times threatened. In this sense, the opening of the Ellis
Island Museum just now rings with a certain dissonance. And yet, even in the
prevailing mood of intense ethnic consciousness, the historic immigration to
these shores continues, and many people are becoming Americans in much the same
fashion as previous waves of immigrants. What was Ellis Island anyway?  Among
the proudest parts of the newly restored island is a long copper wall on which
some 200,000 names of former immigrants - from Agnes Aabrahamson to Ferra Zyziak
- are inscribed. Passage through Ellis Island was not required for inclusion on
the wall; all that was needed was a donation in the immigrant's name. Still, the
wall is in one sense a physical symbol of the melting pot, with its vast mixture
of national origins, its English, Swedish, Polish, Jewish, Italian, Greek and
other names. But black Americans or Asian-Americans visiting the wall would
probably find few names directly relevant to them.

European, White Immigration

The wall is evidence that Ellis Island belonged to a specific time in American
history. It was the time of the huge influx of European, white immigration that
took place in the first half of this century. And it was a time when the new
arrivals accepted as a matter of course the need to adapt to a culture and a
language that was not their own, to take on a new identity as part of achieving
the American dream.

James P. Shenton, a professor of history at Columbia University, has pointed out
that this willingness reflected the narrowness of the melting pot concept. Not
only were Asians and blacks largely excluded then, but there was also plenty of
prejudice against Southern and Eastern Europeans, the feeling being that they
would not melt in very well.

Americanness was defined basically as a more rugged version of western European,
particularly British, culture, and that definition was largely accepted by the
new immigrants.

To be sure, in private life many of the immigrants remained ''beyond the melting
pot'' - as such scholars of American ethnicity as Nathan Glazer and Daniel
Patrick Moynihan wrote long ago. They kept their customs, they often married
among each other, they marched in their parades. Still, the Ellis Island
immigrants did not contest the idea that a new national identity would supercede
the private identity. They implicitly accepted what the 18th century Frenchman,
Hector St. John de Crevecoeur - writing in English, not in French - called ''the
American, this new man.''

Hostility to Melting Pot

By contrast, the late 1980's and the early 1990's are clearly a time when the
national mood is in many ways hostile to the melting pot concept. The stress
these days is not on Crevecoeur's shedding of ''ancient prejudices and
manners,'' but on the search for roots, for ethnic reaffirmation.

The atmosphere is full of ethnic antagonism, with crime and its punishment in
particular becoming an arena of racial enmity - as has happened several times
recently in New York with incidents in Bensonhurst, Howard Beach and Central
Park. The racial antagonisms are not new, but they bring a new element with
them, an often aggressive ethnic self-assertiveness, a desire not to melt into
the whole but to see the whole as a patchwork of irreconciliably separate
groups.

A goal of the civil rights movement of the 1960's, to erase differences, has
given way to a tendency noticeable among the more militant members of minority
groups to stand apart from the formerly oppressive white majority, to assert
their cultural and ethnic differences. What Is American Identity?  Various
groups are pressing for things like bilingual education, not, as it was
originally intended, to help foreign children learn English, but to maintain
their native languages and cultures. Across the country, there are ever more
ethnic studies programs, more demands that history texts be rewritten, more
protests urging the hiring of minority faculty members. At the universities,
demands for what is being called ''multi-culturalism,'' and a concept that the
''white Anglo-Saxon culture'' has maintained a kind of ''hegemony'' over other
cultures.

Most fundamentally, there is the sense in some quarters that there is no such
thing as an American identity, or alternatively, that the American identity is
just another name for the white Anglo-Saxon identity; beyond that, there is a
separate African-American identity, or a Hispanic identity or an Asian-American
identity.

The question now seems to be how the new assertiveness - it has been called a
''new tribalism'' by some commentators - will mix with another unmistakable
current phenomenon, namely the continued arrival of huge numbers of immigrants.

The half-million people, most of them black, who assembled along Eastern Parkway
in Brooklyn on Labor Day for the annual West Indian Day parade were visible
evidence that humanity is still flowing to these shores in search of new lives,
and that it is a more heterogeneous humanity than in the days of Ellis Island.

Today in New York there are probably more foreign-born residents than there were
in the 1930's. The city has something like 60 foreign-language newspapers.
Across the country in Los Angeles, more than half of the children in the public
school system are Hispanic. Nearly 30 percent of the incoming freshman in the
vast University of California system are Asians. A new immigration law being
considered by Congress now would allow 750,000 people into the country each
year.

Rapid Upward Mobility

There are worries that the stress on ''multi-culturalism'' will erode the
''transformative'' qualities of America and create, instead of unity out of
diversty, a new Tower of Babel. If that happens, Ellis Island will certainly be
a memorial to an America that no longer exists.

Yet, there is plenty of evidence that many of the new arrivals are taking
advantage of America's opportunities in much the same way that their
predecessors did.

In this sense, the dream remains what it was for those who came to Ellis Island
- to be free and to get rich. Realizing the dream has never been easy, not for
the Ellis Islanders and not for the immigrants coming today. Yet plenty are
realizing it, and that is a sign, despite the fading of the melting pot ideal,
that the history commemorated at the new Immigration Museum is still being made
today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 12, 1990, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

CORRECTION:

Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about the meaning of the Ellis
Island memorial omitted attribution in some copies for a statement that ''there
are worries that the stress on 'multiculturalism' will erode the
'transformative' qualities of America and create, instead of unity out of
diversity, a new Tower of Babel.'' It was a paraphrase from the historian Arthur
M. Schlesinger Jr.

TYPE: News Analysis

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 16, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Foreigners Finding Long Delays at U.S. Airports

BYLINE: By ERIC WEINER

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 20, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1144 words


Short of inspectors, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has been unable
to keep pace with the explosive increase of foreign visitors to this country.

Delays are rising sharply at many airports, and two-hour waits are common. Last
month, foreign passengers on a SwissAir flight arriving in Los Angeles had to
wait five hours after leaving the plane before they could pass through
immigration.

The waits have made United States airports among the world's least hospitable to
foreign visitors. Travel officials are increasingly concerned that the
bottlenecks will soon hurt the nation's booming tourism trade.

''When you've come off an eight-hour trans-Atlantic flight and you're exhausted,
the last thing you want to do is stand on line,'' said. Kathryn Jones, who
waited for about an hour recently at Kennedy International Airport after a
flight from London.

James K. Gordon, a spokesman for the Airport Operators Council International, a
trade group, said: ''Tourism is an enormous export earner for this country. We
can't alienate the foreign tourist.'' #23 Million Visitors a Year The number of
foreign tourists to the United States has reached 23 million a year, an increase
of more than 50 percent since 1986, and the number is expected to double by the
end of the decade.

While immigration officials and airline executives acknowledge that the problem
of delays is serious and growing, each group suggests the other is making things
worse instead of better.

The airlines have found that certain landing times are preferred by many
paassengers, and schedule many flights to land in bunches. Airline officials say
that also makes it easier to schedule connecting flights. But officials at the
immigration service say this floods terminals with thousands of passengers in a
short time.

''It kills us if they drop four or five 747s on us,'' said James Pulio,
associate commissioner for inspections at the agency.

But Mark Dunkerley, manager of government and commercial affairs for British
Airways, said: ''We don't schedule flights on an arbitrary basis. It's a
reaction to when people want to travel.''

Airline and travel officials say the Government could simplify immigration
procedures, a step toward the goal of clearing passengers in 45 minutes, the
standard set by the International Civil Aviation Organization, a United Nations
agency.

Inspections Before Flight

The industry is also lobbying for more widespread use of a program for
inspecting passengers at the foreign airport they depart from, allowing them to
avoid the lines in the United States; so far, the method is being used only in
Shannon, Ireland, and as part of a four-month test in London.

Any effort to solve the problem must confront the chronic shortages of
inspectors, some of whom make less than workers at fast-food restaurants.

''We don't have the staff to do the work,'' Mr. Pulio said. Even though the
immigration added 700 inspectors to its staff in the last five years, to a total
now of 1,700 inspectors, he said it is still behind the huge growth in foriegn
air travel.

A bill sponsored by the Bush Administration would charge a $5 fee to travelers
from Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean, who are currently exempt from paying the
fee charged to all other international passengers. That would raise about $80
million annually and allow the immigration service to hire 450 more inspectors,
Mr. Pulio said.

Lines Seem Invisible

Unlike the Customs Service, which now selectively inspects only ''high-risk''
passengers, the immigration service must have its officers screen every foreign
visitor who passes through the nation's airports each year.

The Customs Service, which guards against smuggling is part of the Treasury
Department, while the immigration service, which screens people entering this
country, is part of the Justice Department.

The problem has gone unchecked, industry officials said, partly because the long
lines are invisible to United States citizens, who until recently have been
allowed to bypass them.

''If there were lines like this at grocery stores, they would have quickly been
taken care of,'' said Richard Norton, director of facilitation for the Air
Transport Association, the airline trade group.

On a recent afternoon at Kennedy's sprawling International Arrivals Building,
the nation's busiest international gateway, the line snaked the length of the
room, as eight flights from seven countries touched down in 45 minutes.
Harried-looking passengers waited impatiently, inching their way toward a row of
mauve inspection booths.

''Some days it doesn't move as fast as we like,'' said Roseanne Sonchik, the
Immigration Department's port director for Kennedy. ''But I think we're doing
better than Ellis Island.'' Ms. Sonchik said she needs another 50 inspectors to
bolster the complement of 205 who work at Kennedy Airport.

'Masses of People'

''There was an incredibly long wait,'' said Emma Heath, who recently arrived at
Newark International Airport on a flight from Sydney. Australia. ''There were
masses and masses of people.''

But the passengers who are perhaps the most annoyed by the long waits are those
who pay about $2,500 to cross the Atlantic in three hours on the suspersonic
Concorde.''They figure they pay that much money they should get expedited
service,'' Ms. Sonchik said.

While New York's Kennedy Airport still handles the most visitors, bottlenecks
are worse in Los Angeles and Honolulu, industry officials said, partly because
those airports serve as gateways for flights from Asia, where air travel has
been growing rapidly. At Los Angeles International Airport, delays of three
hours are common, said Donald Miller, deputy executive director of the Los
Angeles Airport Authority.

At some airports like Honolulu the delays are caused not only by a shortage of
inspectors but also by cramped quarters. A preliminary report by the General
Accounting Office found the space afforded immigration workers was inadequate at
12 of 13 airports the agency studied.

The majority of foreigners passing through the nation's airports are not
immigrants lured by streets of gold, but tourists lured by a weak dollar, which
has been falling against other currencies since 1985. The wave of tourists from
countries like Japan and Germany generated $43 million last year, more than
leading exports like agricultural goods, chemicals and automobiles.

Emphasizing how cumbersome the process is in this country are the videotapes
many airlines show on flights to the United States, explaining how to fill out
the three forms needed. For instance, the United States is the only one of 75
countries that British Airways flies to about which it shows such a video. Mr.
Gordon, of the airport trade group, said, ''Formalities take longer and are more
onerous than anywhere else in the world.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 17, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Bill Invests in America's Future;
Quota Inequities

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 303 words


To the Editor:

''Give Me, Also, Your Skilled'' (editorial, Aug. 27) perpetuates an unfair myth
by stating that in 1965 ''Congress gave more favorable treatment to immigrants
from Asia and the Western Hemisphere.''

While the 1965 amendments eliminated the highly discriminatory national origins
quota system, it did not replace it with a system that favored regional
geographical areas. The 1965 reforms treated all countries equally, that is, it
allowed a maximum of 20,000 immigrants per year per country under the quota
system. More immigrants came from Asia and Latin and South America because of
suffering economies in those areas.

One could wonder about the fairness of a system that allocates the same number
of immigrants regardless of the sending country. Consider India, with its
approximately 775 million, and Mexico, with its proximity to the United States
and a population of some 85 million, compared with Ireland, with some 3.5
million.

Finally, while the present system of bringing in needed workers is complicated
and needs simplification, its philosophy is correct and should not be
substantially changed: The system rewards those with green cards whose services
are needed by the United States economy, irrespective of educational level.
Live-in domestics are in short supply and greatly needed in a society where both
parents commonly now work. But physicians, despite the common misconception, are
not.

As those of us who practice immigration law long ago recognized, the easiest way
for a physician to obtain a green card is to marry a nurse, of whom, despite
their fewer years of training, this and other urban areas are in great need.

PETER HIRSCH
  New York, Sept. 2, 1990

The writer is an officer of the New York chapter of the American Immigration
Lawyers Association.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 17, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Bill Invests in America's Future;
Burden on Economy

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 268 words


To the Editor:

Our nation of immigrants still benefits from newcomers who contribute energy and
skills to our economy. Congress is considering immigration bills that would
increase the number of people who come to this country every year (editorial,
Aug. 22). The United States should continue to be the most generous country in
the world in immigration. We should also realize that immigration is a mixed
blessing.

New people demand jobs, housing, education and other social services. There is
room in our economy to absorb some new people, but it is not unlimited.
Immigration policy should take into account our ability to offer these
immigrants a high quality of life while providing for our own citizens.

Legislation being considered in the House of Representatives would greatly
expand the level of immigration when our economy is growing more slowly. It
would increase the number of people admitted for their job skills from about
24,000 to 75,000. More important, it would ask America to absorb approximately
770,000 immigrants without regard for job skills or employability.

The bill sponsored by Rep. Bruce Morrison of Connecticut would also impose an
immigrant tax on those who employ immigrants.

These problems and the bill's provisions giving preferential treatment to
certain nationalities and amnesty to more illegal aliens are more than
differences to be ironed out. They are flaws that make this legislation bad
policy, not worthwhile reform.

(Rep.) LAMAR SMITH
Vice Chairman, Subcommittee
on Immigration, Refugees
and International Law
  Washington, Sept. 4, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 7, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Votes in Congress;
Tally Last Week in Connecticut, New Jersey and New York

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 42, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 528 words



Senate

1. Souter Confirmation: Vote to confirm David H. Souter as Associate Justice of
the Supreme Court of the United States.
$
                            1

Connecticut
Dodd (D)                    Y
Lieberman (D)               Y

New Jersey
Bradley (D)                 N
Lautenberg (D)              N

New York
D'Amato (R)                 Y
Moynihan (D)                Y


House

1. Gulf Policy: Vote on a resolution that supports President Bush's current
policy in the Persian Gulf, but stops short of endorsing future military action
against Iraq. Approved 380 to 29, Oct. 1. (The Senate passed a similar
resolution by a vote of 96 to 3 on Oct. 2 with all the Senators in New York, New
Jersey and Connecticut voting for the measure.)

2. Immigration: Vote on an amendment to a major immigration measure that would
have reduced the number of immigrants allowed to enter the country to 630,000
from 775,000 a year. Rejected 266 to 143, Oct. 2.

3. Immigration: Vote on passage of an immigration bill that greatly expands the
number of immigrants allowed into the country with an emphasis on bringing in
more skilled workers and on unifying families. Approved 231 to 192, Oct. 3.

4. Budget Agreement: Vote on adoption of a bipartisan budget compromise package
calling for tax increases and spending cuts. Rejected 254 to 179, Oct. 4.
An error occurred in the processing of a table at this point in the document.
Please refer to the table in the online document.


KEY Y Yea; N Nay; (A) Absent or did not vote; (P) Present.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LIST

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 14, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

IDEAS & TRENDS;
A Land of Immigrants Gets Uneasy About Immigration

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1202 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The incidents span a decade and a continent: Gulf Coast fishermen in Texas
harass Vietnamese competitors who are catching more shrimp. A Florida
supermarket manager suspends a cashier for speaking Spanish at work. Residents
of a Maryland community protest the establishment of a Japanese junior college
near the Chesapeake Bay. Two Los Angeles suburbs try to require Chinese store
owners to put up English signs. A Massachusetts gubernatorial candidate, John
Silber, asks, ''Why should Lowell be the Cambodian capital of America?''

For some observers of American history and politics, the incidents evoke
disturbing memories of the virulent, anti-Catholic and anti-Semitic nativism of
the 1920's, or, more distant, the open hatreds of the 1890's, when William J. H.
Traynor of the American Protective Association opposed granting the right to
vote to the ''pauper and criminal riffraff of Europe'' and ''every ignorant Dago
and Pole, Hun and Slav.''

Some of the same combustible elements of those years are present in America
again. With the Northeast already mired in economic hard times and other regions
teetering on the edge, will immigrants who arrived in record numbers in the
1980's become a lightning rod for the anger of a swelling crowd of economic
losers? ''In the past few months there's been a perception that the pie is not
expanding, and those are the times when zero-sum solutions raise their ugly
heads,'' observed Gregory Fossedal, the head of the Alexis de Tocqueville
Institution, a research foundation based in Palo Alto, Calif., that favors
immigration.

Despite some disturbing incidents, there are few signs that the kind of
organized anti-immigration movements of decades past are rising again. The
strident voice of the nativist has faded. In fact, the House recently passed a
bill that would increase annual immigration ceilings by 45 percent, to 775,000.
But political scientists say that the immigration debate has created new
political fault lines and disrupted old alliances. As often as not, the voices
expressing concerns of increased immigration come from people who once would
have been called liberals.

As immigration becomes a greater component of population growth,
environmentalists and population control advocates have begun to consider more
seriously the case for controls. Nancy Wallace, who directs the Sierra Club's
International Population Program, argues that ''any immigration legislation
should be part of a national population policy moving toward stabilization as
fast as possible.''

Immigration has also caused rifts in the civil rights coalition. Recently the
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People hesitated before
agreeing to support Hispanic groups in their effort to repeal Federal sanctions
against employers of illegal aliens. This month, Hazel Dukes, New York State
president of the N.A.A.C.P., said, ''Why let foreigners or newcomers have these
jobs while blacks, who have been here for hundreds of years, can't support
themselves or their families?'' She later apologized.

In fact, her presumption that unskilled immigrants take jobs from unskilled
Americans has lost support among most economists. In his book ''Friends or
Strangers,'' George J. Borjas argues that ratios of immigrants in major
metropolitan labor markets have trivial effects on wage rates and no effect on
unemployment.

But provisions in the Senate version of the current immigration bill that would
substantially increase the number of skilled immigrants brought in by corporate
employers to fill special labor needs has raised fears that immigrants will
occupy the higher rungs of the economic ladder, hindering the mobility of those
below. ''The question is, should immigration be encouraged or should national
policy encourage training to allow those here, including blacks, to take those
jobs?'' said Arthur F. Brimmer, a former member of the board of governors of the
Federal Reserve. ''My own view is that we should do both.''

Although he argued against the issue of economic competition from unskilled
immigrants, Mr. Borjas raised a separate issue in a recent paper co-authored
with another economist, Stephen J. Trejo. The newer the immigrant, they say, the
more likely he is to draw welfare.

Others argue that immigrants may threaten the nation's linguistic cohesion. In
1983 a group called U.S. English was founded to promote ordinances, laws and
state constitutional amendments making English the official language of one
jurisdiction after another. Early this year, a Federal court struck down a
constitutional amendment in Arizona. In 1989 a Federal court overturned an
ordinance in Pomona, Calif. - apparently directed at Chinese store owners -
mandating that half the space on foreign-language commercial signs be devoted to
''English alphabetical characters.''

But these ripples do not change the conclusion of David H. Bennett, author of
''The Party of Fear,'' a 1988 study of nativism, that hostility toward
immigrants has declined significantly as a political force since World War II.
Many historians, economists and social scientists are not asking why there were
so many echoes of nativism in the 1980's, but why there were so few.

''If you look back on American society 30 years from now, you'll say in the
1980's there was a watershed in American society and one of the indications was
that there was a change in the attitudes toward foreigners - though not to
foreign competition,'' said Michael J. Piore, a professor of economics at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

''I think that what happened in the course of the 1970's and 1980's was that the
United States really redefined itself as a multiracial society; there was a
general acceptance that society was going to be composed of a variety of
different groups and we had to develop a tolerance of them. I don't want to say
there's no resentment. There is a lot, more than is being expressed. But it is
not being organized, and people don't organize their thoughts around the idea
that you can solve these problems by closing the borders.''

Martin Heisler, an expert on immigration at the University of Maryland, said:
''I'm surprised the reaction hasn't been stronger here, compared with some
European countries. The limits of tolerance for pluralism should have been
stretched by now, and they don't seem to have been. Are we experiencing a linear
expansion in our ability to cope with incredible social diversity?''

But nativism may not be gone forever, said Dr. Piore. ''I believe that there are
different conceptions of American society that in some ways are contradictory,''
he said. An essential ingredient of America's self-image is its history as a
nation of immigrants. That image ''has always been around even in the worst
nativist periods,'' he said. ''And the nativist image is always going to be
around in the most tolerant periods.

''Whatever happened in American society in the 70's and 80's has brought forth a
more tolerant vision. But the problems of working out a multiracial and
multiethnic society are immense. I can well believe that at some point those
problems would accumulate and we'll go back'' to America's nativist past.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing; graph: immigrants to the Unites States by region, 1971-1989
(Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service)

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 20, 1990, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Congress Sets Tentative Pact on Immigration Rise

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 479 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 19


Congressional negotiators said tonight that they had reached a tentative
agreement on a bill that would allow a substantial increase in legal immigration
to the United States.

The bill would allow 700,000 immigrants a year in 1992, 1993 and 1994 and would
set an annual limit of 675,000 for subsequent years. The United States has been
admitting about 500,000 immigrants a year, not counting refugees.

Representative Bruce A. Morrison, a Connecticut Democrat who is chairman of the
House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, said: ''We have reached an
agreement over all on the bill. There are details still to be worked out. But
the basic outline of the bill is agreed to.''''

Labor Shortages Expected

Under the compromise bill, the United States would admit more skilled
immigrants, including scientists, engineers and medical technicians, to
compensate for expected shortages in the 1990's. Congress, the Labor Department
and many economists see legal immigration as a way to correct the imbalance in
labor supply and demand.

The tentative agreement was unexpected. The Senate passed a version of the
legislation last year, and the House passed a major bill on Oct. 3. But
disagreements among some lawmakers were so profound that the Senate refused to
send members into formal negotiations with the House.

After four hours of informal talks today, senators and representatives agreed on
the outline of a compromise bill. They plan to convene a formal conference
committee over the weekend or early next week.

The bill sets the total number of immigrants between the numbers specifed in the
Senate bill, 630,000 a year, and the House bill, 775,000.

Relatives and Skilled Workers

Under the compromise, the 700,000 immigrants permitted in each of the first
three years would be chosen as follows: 465,000 would be relatives of United
States citizens and permanent resident aliens; 140,000 would be selected because
of their job skills, and 40,000 would come from countries that have sent
relatively few immigrants here in recent years.

Mr. Morrison also said that in each of the first three years there would be
55,000 visas for spouses and children of illegal aliens who gained legal status
under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.

In 1995 and later years, the 675,000 visas would be distributed as follows:
480,000 to relatives of citizens and permanent resident aliens; 140,000 to
workers with special skills and their relatives, and 55,000 to citizens of
countries that have sent relatively few immigrants here in recent years.

Mr. Morrison said he believed the conference ''will be smooth sailing.''

But Rick Swartz, an immigration lawyer in Washington, said: ''It is possible
that major ethnic and religious constituencies will find the direction of
negotiations and the apparent agreement on family issues unacceptable.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 12, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

An Ethnic Road to Riches: The Immigrant Job Specialty

BYLINE: By DONATELLA LORCH

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2016 words


When Parmjit Singh left his job as a mechanic on a Greek ship in 1981, he
settled in New York City, instead of returning to the family farm in India.
After working three years as a busboy and cook in a Greek restaurant, Mr. Singh
met a fellow Punjabi who owned a gas station in the city.

"He taught me how to run a station," the 32-year-old Indian recalled. "It's very
hard work but it's easy to run -- to order gas, to clean, to keep the books."

By 1990, Mr. Singh, with an Indian partner, owned 13 gas stations in the New
York area. He has competitors, however -- chiefly, other Punjabi Sikhs who began
buying and working in gas stations in the city at the same time he did, some of
whom now own as many as 40.

Growing Economic Force

Indian ownership of gas stations reflects the enormous ethnic transformation of
the city during the last decade. With one million newcomers, the latest wave of
immigration is the second largest in New York City history. Just a decade ago,
gas station ownership usually mirrored the ethnic makeup of the surrounding
neighborhood. But now, about 40 percent of the city's stations are run or owned
by South Asians, estimated Linda Sachs, a spokeswoman for the the city's
Department of Consumer Affairs.

This turnover in gas station ownership is one of the many images of a changing
New York. While the new immigrants come from a vast spectrum of countries, with
a heavy emphasis on Asian, South American and Caribbean nations, and work in a
variety of jobs, they have also developed their own specialized niches,
virtually monopolizing certain businesses or professions and slowly changing the
commercial, political and cultural profile of the city.

The forces that draw immigrant groups to certain occupations and businesses --
Indians to gas stations, Koreans and Dominicans to grocery stores and Afghans to
fried chicken places -- are complex and varied. Their occupational choices are
based on factors like skills and values learned in the old country, the paths
followed by fellow immigrants who preceded them, or merely a lack of more
attractive economic options.

Sociologists agree that there is no universal pattern to these ethnic niches and
that often labor specialization is random and hinges on availability of
positions in certain localities. Indians, for example, may be preeminent in gas
stations in New York, but in Los Angeles those business are dominated by a
Korean quasi-monopoly. But once a niche is found, it creates a snowball effect,
gathering in labor from that ethnic group and expanding exponentially.

The common thread linking all immigrant work niches is the insider's edge on the
profession. "Recruiting through the ethnic network is the most efficient way the
employer gets labor," explained Roger Waldinger, a sociologist at UCLA who has
studied and written extensively on Koreans and Dominicans in New York City.
Ethnic labor, in particular family labor, is cheap and easily exploited and
there is no linguistic, cultural or discriminatory barrier.

Many immigrants are self-employed entrepreneurs. More than 85 percent of the
1,600 green grocer stores in the metropolitan area are owned and run by Koreans,
sociologists say. The more than 100,000 Koreans who have come to New York also
own novelty shops, beauty salons, liquor stores and dry cleaning. Indians and
Pakistanis -- close to 95,000 of whom reside in the city -- have a virtual
monopoly on newsstands. Since the mid-1980's, they have been buying into gas
stations, and their growing presence in the jewelry trade has made them the
second largest ethnic group -- after Hasidic Jews -- in the Diamond District.

Guyanese -- the fourth largest immigrant group -- can be found throughout the
city's pharmacies and machinery repair shops. They also stand out, along with
the Jamaicans and Irish, in the child-care business. Even the smallest of
immigrant groups, like the Afghans and the Senegalese, have carved out their own
niches. There are fewer than 4,000 Afghans in the city -- almost all war
refugees -- yet they own more than 200 fast-food chicken restaurants, Afghan
businessmen say, in particular a non-franchised chain of more than 40 called
Kennedy's Fried Chicken. The Senegalese, many of them already traders by
profession, came to the United States via Europe and have prospered hawking a
variety of wares on street corners throughout the city.

Korean Success: Toil and Innovation

One of the the most visible successes has been the Koreans. An estimated 100,000
Koreans have come to the metropolitan area since the 1970's and 65 percent of
Korean families own at least one business, said Pyong Gap Min, a professor of
sociology at Queens College, who is a specialist on Koreans in the United
States. "No other group is as highly self-employed," Professor Min said.

Few Korean green grocers owned such stores in their homeland. But they arrived
in the United States at a propitious time, when many Greeks, Italians and Jews
were leaving the grocery business. Most were highly educated professionals with
limited English skills and no business experience. But they had money to invest.
The grocery stores were attractive because, although they required long, hard
hours, they could be run with only basic shards of English.  In the United
States, they revamped and spruced up the stores, filling the demand for items
beyond the basics of the old grocery store. New immigrants learned the business
from fellow Koreans before they invested in their own stores.

Professor Min said that the first Korean to open a green grocery in Manhattan,
To Sup Kwak, invested about $5,000 to start his business in 1970. Although
Koreans in New York City were already firmly entrenched in the trade of Korean
products, green grocers were their first businesses not tied to the products of
their homeland, Professor Min said.

The snowballing success of Korean grocers is due in part to an extensive and
well-organized support system. New arrivals can rely on a 500-page Korean
business directory, as well as dozens of business groups, including the Korean
Green Grocer Association. When black residents of Flatbush, Brooklyn, organized
a boycott of two Korean grocers in 1990, for instance, fellow Korean grocers put
up money to help the stores remain in business. In the last several years, as a
visible testimony to the phenomenon of ethnic succession, Koreans have begun
hiring Central Americans and Mexicans to perform the menial tasks in their
stores.

Anderson Han, 41, has owned his green grocery on the corner of Union Street and
41st Avenue in Flushing for three-and-a-half years. His story reflects the
successes of many Korean immigrants.

Most of Mr. Han's 18 years in the United States have been spent working six-day
weeks in the grocery business. In 1973, after his father bought a fruit store in
Manhattan for $30,000, Mr. Han dropped out of college to help the family.

"Before he died, my father wanted each of my six brothers and sisters to own a
grocery store," Mr. Han said. The dream was realized, with each sibling owning a
green grocery.

In 1988, Mr. Han bought his store for about $200,000 from a Greek-American. His
first year, Mr. Han and his wife worked 16 hours a day, seven days a week. In a
good month, they make a net profit of about $4,000. He has been held up and
robbed. But like many first-generation Koreans who have succeeded in their
business, Mr. Han says he will not allow either of his two children to work in
the store and wants them to become doctors or lawyers. Already he is employing
two Central Americans because they are cheaper to hire than Korean laborers.

Indian Immigrants: A Society Recreated

Indian immigrants offer a stark contrast to the Korean experience. Although most
Indians who came to the United States in the 1960's and 1970's were
professionals who spoke English, the arrivals since then are not as
well-educated. Unlike many Korean immigrants, who came from the cities, many
Indian immigrants come from small towns or the countryside. As Indian families
have reunited in the United States, many have recreated the extensive social and
kin networks of their homeland, said Madhulika Khandelwal, a sociologist in the
Asian American Center at Queens College.

For instance, various communities in India are devoted to certain occupations, a
characteristic reflected in the professions Indians pursue in the United States.
One example is the Indians working in the Diamond District in Manhattan, many of
whom are Gujerati Jains, reknowed as traders and merchants throughout India.
Most of the Indians involved in the motel business, which is completely built
around the extended family network, carry the last name Patel, a sub-caste from
the province of Gujerat that is known for its entrepreneurial expertise.

And most Indians in the gas station business are Punjabi Sikhs.

In India, Sikhs are known as farmers but also as transporters and mechanics.
The largest fleet of trucks in India is owned by Sikhs who control more than 80
percent of the bus service throughout the country, said Baldev Singh, a former
lawyer who now owns several gas stations in Long Island as well as the fifth
largest truck stop in the United States in Jessup, Md.

"It is not sheer coincidence that they are taking up these jobs," Mrs.
Khandelwal explained. "Sikhs are very enterprising and they don't mind going
into areas where no one else will work."

At Parmjit Singh's Mobil station at 125th Street between Broadway and the Hudson
River, the workers -- all Sikhs -- seem almost numbed by the long hours and
grueling work. They earn $300 a week and save half of it. "All I know is this
gas station and the Punjab," said Amrit Singh, a clock merchant who has been in
New York for only five months and spends his only day off washing clothes,
buying groceries and sleeping.

Parmjit Singh's gas stations are held up an average of two times a month. Two
Indian employees have been shot and killed during stickups, Mr. Singh said. But
the station still makes a net profit of about $4,000 a month. "They see me and
they want to be like me," Parmjit Singh said of his workers.

Afghan Refugees: Evading Barriers

In the vast maze of cultures, Afghans offer yet another insight into the ethnic
division of labor. One of the smallest and most recent groups of immigrants in
the city, they are refugees from the fierce decade-long war in Afghanistan. Many
of them lack higher education, trade skills, and have little knowledge of
English. They are generally poor when they arrive. And unlike the Koreans and
the Indians, their struggle for survival has had an impact on only a very
specialized part of the city's economy.

In the last decade, with more than 200 stores, the Afghans have become
specialists in the fast-food chicken business. To circumvent language and
discrimination barriers, even their carpenters and chicken suppliers they use
are Afghans. Their niche in the business originated in 1979, when Abdul Karim
Halemi, a student from Kandahar in Southern Afghanistan, got his first job was
in the kitchen at Kansas Fried Chicken. A year later, he opened the first
Kennedy's Fried Chicken. Now there are 40 unfranchised restaurants with that
name -- all owned by Afghans, Mr. Halemi said.

Mr. Halemi said he and other established Afghan immigrants in New York lead the
new arrivals by the hand through the chicken fast-food business. The tough part
is teaching them the intricacies of running a business in New York City. "It's
like a formula," Mr. Halemi said. "We tell them how to go to the building
department, how to save money by cutting and installing their own bulletproof
glass."

"You have to have some connection with somebody to succeed," said Mr. Halemi,
who still works at his restaurant on Rockaway Boulevard in Queens behind the
protection of bulletproof glass. "We all know each other. When the new ones come
to the store, they sit. They watch. They learn and then they work."

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 12, 1992, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 12 about immi grants in New York City who have developed
special niches in business misstated the monthly profit of the gas stations
owned by Parmjit Singh.  As Mr. Singh's lawyer explained in a recent letter, it
is $3,000 a month total, not $4,000 at one station. Because of an editing error,
a picture caption with the article misstated the number of gas stations Mr.
Singh now owns. It is two.



GRAPHIC:
Photos: Abdul Karim Halemi, from southern Afghanistan, got his first job in the
kitchen at Kansas Fried Chicken and opened the first Kennedy's Fried Chicken a
year later. Mr. Halemi, at a Kennedy's in Brooklyn, said there are now 40
unfranchised restaurants with that name -- all owned by Afghans; Parmjit Singh
came to New York in 1981, worked three years as a busboy and cook, and now owns
13 gas stations in the New York area. His competition is chiefly from other
Punjabi Sikhs, who began buying and working in gas stations at the same time he
did. Mr. Singh stood outside the Mobil Gas Station on 125th Street in Manhattan.
(Photographs by Edward Keating/The New York Times) (pg. 20)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 14, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Israel Is Said to Expect Less In Loan Aid for Immigrants

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 804 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Jan. 13


Israel's leaders are increasingly resigned to the likelihood that they will have
to settle for far less than the $10 billion in United States loan guarantees
that they are seeking to resettle new immigrants, Government officials and
representatives of American Jewish groups say.

Although the Israelis are formally pressing ahead with their request -- $2
billion worth of annual loan guarantees spread over the next five years -- "they
are accepting the inevitable," an official of one Jewish group said.

That inevitability, several officials said, is that Israel will be lucky now to
get a $2-billion commitment for a single year. Even if it does, they said, it
will almost certainly have hundreds of millions of dollars chipped away from the
total as a penalty for the Government's insistence on building Jewish
settlements in the occupied territories in the face of the Administration's
vociferous objections.

New Taxes Considered

As a sign that the Israelis recognize they probably will not get all that they
want, the Finance Ministry is said to be studying alternatives, including new
taxes, to cover additional borrowing costs that the country may face if it does
not get the American assistance.

According to one newspaper report, Finance Minister Yitzhak Modai, who counted
on getting a full $2 billion in guarantees to keep his 1992 budget together, has
asked for a list of the world's wealthiest Jews, so that he can turn to them for
help if the United States fails to come through. But an official of an American
Jewish group cautioned, "There is no way in my mind that American Jewry can make
up this enormous shortfall."

The requested guarantees, which are not actual loans but rather an American
commitment to be ready to provide money in case Israel defaults, would enable
this country to get relatively favorable interest rates from commercial banks
for the billions of dollars it expects to borrow. Assuming Israel does not
default -- and officials here insist that that will not happen -- the actual
cost to the United States will probably be a few hundred million dollars that
must be set aside under new budget rules.

Israeli economists warn that times will get tougher here if the loan guarantees
fall through. At the least, they say, it will be appreciably more difficult for
Israel to absorb 1 million Jews from the former Soviet Union who are expected to
arrive by 1995.

When the aid issue first arose last September, President Bush demanded that
Congressional debate be postponed for 120 days so as not to complicate the
nascent Middle East peace process. That decision led to one of the nastier
disputes in many years between Israel and the United States.

Now the waiting period is about to expire, and although both sides are trying to
keep the discussions on a lower key this time, bruised feelings are apparent all
around.

For one thing, Israeli officials acknowledge that the mood in the United States
has turned against foreign aid. For another, Mr. Bush is strongly opposed to
Israel's settlement-building in its occupied territories, and the Government of
Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir has been warned by a series of visiting members of
Congress and American Jewish leaders that the President is more fervent than
ever on this matter.

But Israel has dug in its heels, thereby potentially inviting the sort of
confrontation with Washington that it says it wants to avoid.

If anything, settlement housing in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip is by
certain yardsticks being erected at an accelerated pace. Two-thirds of the new
houses and apartments anticipated in the 1992 budget are to be built in the
territories. Moreover, documents put together by the Housing Ministry and
disclosed last week by two opposition legislators show that 21,000 housing units
had been started over the last 18 months in the territories and the Golan
Heights, annexed in 1981.

Altogether, the lawmakers estimated that the construction program had totaled
$1.5 billion and accounted for 25 percent of the Government's public-housing
budget for that period.

Leaders of some American Jewish groups are plainly angry with Mr. Shamir, both
for putting them in a difficult bargaining spot with the White House and for
spending limited resources on an ideological goal that they argue means far less
money to resettle newly arrived Jews and to combat spreading poverty in Israel
proper.

One widely accepted view is that the Israel is ready to "take a hit," as one
knowledgeable person put it. That means going along with a formula that would
reduce the value of the loan guarantees by an amount equivalent to what Israel
spends on settlements.

According to estimates, a $2 billion program for one year could be cut by a
quarter or even one half under such a formula.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 14, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

It's Asians' Turn in Silicon Valley

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1782 words

DATELINE: SANTA CLARA, Calif.


Asian immigrants have long made up a large proportion of the engineers in
Silicon Valley. Now, a growing number are starting high-technology enterprises,
eager for more responsibility and frustated by opportunities for advancement at
many companies.

These entrepreneurs, particularly those of Chinese descent, are setting up
networks of contacts and forging business links to East Asia. In some cases,
they are creating companies that successfully compete in areas dominated by
foreign companies, like making computer monitors.

In going from engineering to entrepreneurship, the immigrants are among the
first Asians to run publicly traded American companies, and they confront
stereotypes that have pegged them as excellent technicians but weak managers.

The 'New Gold Rush'

"The senior software or senior hardware guy in an astonishing proportion of our
companies is Chinese," said Bruce Dunlevie, who invests in new companies for
Merrill Pickard Anderson & Eyre, a venture capital firm.

Peter T. Mok, a vice president at the Silicon Valley Bank, which counts many
start-up companies among its customers, estimates that Asians are involved in
starting a quarter to a third of all new electronics companies in the region. In
doing so they are attracting substantial investments from Taiwan and Hong Kong
and creating jobs.

Shao-Hung (Gerry) Liu, who moved to Illinois from Taiwan to earn his master's
degree in electrical engineering, is typical of the new entrepreneurs. He moved
to Silicon Valley in 1982 in search of what he called the "new gold rush," and
worked full time at a semiconductor company while earning his Ph.D. at the
University of California at Berkeley. Now, Dr. Liu and some friends, also from
Taiwan, have formed Knights Technology Inc., which makes equipment for testing
computer chips.

Silicon Valley, which is near San Jose, has always owed part of its success to
the brilliant technicians and driven entrepreneurs who flocked here from around
the world. Philippe Kahn, a Frenchman, was living in the United States as an
illegal alien when he started Borland International, one of the most successful
software companies. Andrew Grove, president of the Intel Corporation, a giant
semiconductor maker, escaped from Hungary in 1956. The Momenta Corporation, a
new company that makes pen-based computers, has a president born in Iran, an
engineering director born in Tanzania and a software chief from Cuba.

Now, immigrants from Taiwan, Hong Kong and China are taking their turn. Among
the Silicon Valley companies they have started are Everex Systems, which makes
personal computers; Komag, which makes data storage disks; Wyse Technology, a
terminal and computer maker; Qume, a printer company, and Solectron, which
assembles products for other companies and was awarded the Government's Malcolm
Baldrige Award for quality.

Not Only in Silicon Valley

Not all the companies started by Chinese immigrants are in Silicon Valley. The
oldest and best known is WangLaboratories in Lowell, Mass., founded in 1951 by
An Wang. Others include Computer Associates International in Garden City, L.I.,
one of the largest software companies in the nation, and AST Research and
Advanced Logic Research, two successful personal computer makers in Irvine, in
Southern California.

Behind these companies are more than two dozen younger, smaller companies, like
Integrated Information Technology and C-Cube Microsystems, both of which have
staked out leading positions in a hot new market for video computer chips.
Gemstar Development has had wild success with its VCR Plus device for
programming videocassette recorders. A few biotechnology companies, like
Genelabs, are also being started by immigrants of Chinese descent.

In addition to Chinese, people from India are also starting companies. But few
Japanese are, probably because most Japanese executives and engineers are
transferred to the United States by Japanese companies and stay with those
companies.

Behind the rise in entrepreneurship is both personal ambition and a feeling of
frustration, these immigrants say. Many Asians who came to study in American
colleges and stayed on are now at a point where they want greater responsibility
or financial rewards. And some say another factor is that it is difficult for
Asians to advance within established companies.

"Many Asian engineers are not being looked at as having management talent," said
David K. Lam, one of the earliest Chinese entrepreneurs in Silicon Valley. "They
are looked upon as good work horses, and not race horses."

Dr. Lam, who grew up in China, Vietnam and Hong Kong and holds a Ph.D. from the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, speaks bitterly of a time in 1979 when he
was the de facto manager of a technical group at the Hewlett-Packard Company.
But when it came time to award the formal management title, the company chose an
American whom Dr. Lam had hired out of college 11 months earlier. "I was very
disappointed and disillusioned, so I quit," he said.

Robert A. Grimm, who had been the director of Dr. Lam's division at
Hewlett-Packard and is now retired, said the decision to pass over Dr. Lam for
the management job had been made on merit and "had zero to do with his being
Asian."

Dr. Lam founded Lam Research, now a publicly traded company that makes equipment
used in chip making, then left in 1985. He now runs Expert Edge, a software
company he started with backing from Hong Kong investors.

There is little doubt that Asians, who make up as much as a third of the
engineering work force in Silicon Valley, are not well represented in upper
management at the larger companies. At Hewlett-Packard's Silicon Valley
operations, Asians account for 26 percent of the engineers, 20 percent of all
professional workers and 12 percent of managers, according to the company's
figures. In the very highest executive ranks, there are no Asians at
Hewlett-Packard, Apple Computer, Advanced Micro Devices and some other large
companies.

Some Asian executives say Asian engineers do not do enough to learn about
management or surmount the language barrier. "If Asians want to be successful,
they have to address the issue," said Winston Chen, chief executive of
Solectron.

Even when they start their own companies, many Asian entrepreneurs bring in a
more experienced manager, usually a white male born in the United States, to
serve as chief executive. Dr. Liu, for instance, holds the title of president at
Knights Technology. But a seasoned semiconductor industry executive, Thomas
Sherby, is the chairman and chief executive.

Financing Is Available

The availability of financing is another reason for the spurt in companies
started by Chinese immigrants. In recent years, companies and wealthy
individuals in Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore have been investing in American
technology. Taiwan investors in particular have shown a preference for companies
started by immigrants from Taiwan.

Many Asian entrepreneurs also get financing from American venture capitalists.
But others, lacking a track record or the proper contacts, do not. "Some have
knocked on U.S. venture capitalists' doors until their knuckles are raw," said
Nelson Dong, a lawyer in Palo Alto, Calif., who advises entrepreneurs and
venture capitalists.

Yen-son (Paul) Huang could not find investors when he started a company in 1982,
after earning a Ph.D. and working at two Silicon Valley companies. "We thought
if we made a product sale we could survive two to three months," he said.

The company, known as Ecad, not only survived but thrived. It sold stock to the
public, then merged with another company to form Cadence Design Systems, a
leader in producing software to design electronic circuitry. Dr. Huang and seven
colleagues have now started PIE Design Systems and, this time, have found no
shortage of investors.

Tend to Frugality

Even when they can raise money, the immigrants tend to be very frugal. At Sigma
Designs Inc., which makes computer monitors, revenues were cut in half last year
because it lost a big contract. But the company stayed profitable and avoided
layoffs, something that would be unimaginable for most companies.

Some companies started by immigrants have managers from many other
nationalities. But in others, almost all the top executives are Chinese. At PIE
Design, all eight founders are Chinese and all the top positions except for head
of sales are held by Asians.

"There is a high tendency to surround themselves with people they are
comfortable with," said Pauline Lo Alker, president of Network Peripherals Inc.
and also president of the Asian American Manufacturers Association, a local
trade group.

Some industry executives say a lack of diversity in management, combined with a
tendency to try to keep tight control and to raise too little money, could put
such companies at a competitive disadvantage.  "I wish they would open up a lot
more," said Mr. Mok of the Silicon Valley Bank.

At Everex almost all the top executives were engineers from Hong Kong. The
company grew rapidly through low-cost manufacturing and rapid product design,
but it paid little attention to marketing, and some employees thought the top
officials did not delegate enough authority. For a while, the company had only
one facsimile machine, which was controlled by top managers.

But about a year ago Everex began losing money. It recruited new managers with
diverse backgrounds and is now returning to profitability.

Networking Established

To help compensate for their position outside the Silicon Valley establishment,
some Asian executives have formed their own network, through organizations like
the Asian American Manufacturers Association, the Chinese Institute of Engineers
and the Chinese Software Professional Association.

"If you talk to Chinese engineers you can find everything cooking in the
valley," said Daniel Hu, president of Elite Microelectronics, which makes chips
for personal computers.

Another organization, the Mount Jade Association, made up of high-level
executives from both the United States and Taiwan, tries to foster business
relationships between the nations.

Even when they retain ties to Taiwan, the Silicon Valley entrepreneurs say their
loyalties lie with the United States. Some entrepreneurs hope their success in
creating companies and jobs will dispel complaints from some American-born
engineers that foreigners are stealing jobs by agreeing to work for low salaries
in order to remain in the country.

"I've helped create more than 20 jobs," Dr. Liu said. "I don't think I've taken
anything away."

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Many Asian engineers are not being looked at as having
management talent," said David K. Lam, a Chinese entrepreneur in Silicon Valley.
(Jim Wilson/The New York Times) (pg. D1)

Chart: "A Growing Sphere of Influence"

Publicly traded electronics companies founded by immigrants of Chinese descent,
listed in order of revenues for the last full fiscal year reported.

Company: Wang Laboratories, Lowell, Mass.
Founder: An Wang
From: China
Revenues: $2.1 billion
Business: Computers

Company: Computer Associates, Garden City, N.Y.
Founder: Charles B. Wang
From: China
Revenues: $1.35 billion
Business: Software

Company: AST Research, Irvine, Calif.
Founder: Safi Qureshey, Thomas C. K. Yuen, Albert Wong
From: Pakistan, Hong Kong, Hong Kong (respectively)
Revenues: $688 million
Business: Personal computers

Company: Everex Systems, Fremont, Calif.
Founder: Steve Hui
From: Hong Kong
Revenues: $425 million
Business: Personal computer, peripherals

Company: Solectron Corporation, San Jose, Calif.
Founder: Winston Chen
From: Taiwan
Revenues: $265 million
Business: Contract manufacturing of electronics products

Company: Cadence Design Systems, San Jose, Calif.
Founder: Yen-son (Paul) Huang and others*
From: Taiwan
Revenues: $231 million
Business: Electronic design automation software

Company: Advanced Logic Research, Irvine, Calif.
Founder: Gene Lu
From: Taiwan
Revenues: $228 million
Business: Personal computers

Company: Qume Corporation, Milpitas, Calif.
Founder: David S. Lee
From: Taiwan
Revenues: $217 million
Business: Terminals, monitors and printers

Company: Komag Inc., Milpitas, Calif.
Founder: Tu Chen, Scott Chen, Ching-Cheng Shir
From: Taiwan, Taiwan, Taiwan
Revenues: $149 million
Business: Data storage disks

Company: Lam Research, Fremont, Calif.
Founder: David K. Lam
From: China
Revenues: $138 million
Business: Semiconductor production equipment

Company: Weitek Corporation, Sunnyvale, Calif.
Founder: Chi-Shin Wang, Edmund Sun, Godfrey Fong
From: Taiwan, Taiwan, China (respectively)
Revenues: $58 million
Business: Semiconductors

Company: Sigma Designs Inc., Fremont, Calif.
Founder: Thinh Tran, Jimmy Chan, Jason Chen, Steve Winegarden
From: Vietnam, Hong Kong, Taiwan, United States (respectively)
Revenues: $36 million
Business: Monitors

Company: Communication Intelligence Corporation, Redwood Shored, Calif.
Founder: James Dao
From: China
Revenues: $123,000
Business: Handwriting recognition software and hardware

*Dr. Huang founded Ecad, which merged with SDA Systems to form Cadence.

(Source: Company reports) (pg. D5)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 14, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Argentine Homosexual Gets Refugee Status in Canada

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 703 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, Jan. 13


For the first time in Canada, a homosexual fearing persecution in his homeland
because of sexual preference has been granted refugee status, under a Government
decision that could have broad ramifications in North America.

The case, involving a 28-year-old Argentine named Jorge Alberto Inaudi, was
decided by a panel of the Immigration and Refugee Board, an independent,
quasi-judicial agency under the Minister of Immigration. Its rulings are usually
final, although they can be appealed to federal courts.

In Argentina, the law allows the police to arrest homosexuals. Mr. Inaudi, who
has been in Canada since March 1990, testified that as a homosexual he had been
arrested in 1989 and early in 1990, raped and tortured by Argentina's federal
police and "completely terrorized." At the time he was studying engineering at
the University of Cordoba.

He said he had fled the country because he "could not tolerate this police
terror," noting that "the fact they know me as a gay man and I am on file makes
me very vulnerable."

'High Credibility'

Michael Schelew, a Toronto immigration lawyer who took up the case for the
Argentine, said his client had been able to establish "high credibility."

Sexual orientation had been used as an argument in earlier Canadian refugee
cases, but prior applicants were denied refugee status because their credibility
was questioned, Mr. Schelew said. "This is the first case ever examined on the
merits," he said.

The decision, in effect, puts persecuted homosexuals in the same category as
political leaders or others who upon repatriation might face life-threatening
situations.

Nicholas Rizza, refugee coordinator for Amnesty International in New York, said
Canada was "affirming that asylum claims should be based on human rights needs
and not on political or foreign policy considerations or any biases that the
receiving country may have."

Precedents in Europe

Comparable decisions have been made over the last decade by immigration
authorities in Germany and the Netherlands, but lawyers and academics here said
this was the first time the definition of a refugee as someone facing reprisals
because of sexual orientation had crossed the Atlantic.

Rebecca Cook, a law professor at the University of Toronto and director of its
international human rights program, said she expected the decision to affect
refugee cases in the United States.

"They would have to consider it very carefully to see whether similar grounds
apply to similarly persecuted people who apply to the U.S.," she said.

In his arguments before the Canadian panel, Mr. Schelew pointed to the German
and Dutch cases to bolster his arguments. Future asylum cases in the United
States, Professor Cook noted, will now be able to cite a Canadian precedent as
well.

Professor Cook said the decision might also "cause Argentines to think twice
about discriminating against homosexual people."

Ruling From the Bench

The panel consisted of two hearing judges, Ethel Teitelbaum and Larry Colle. A
ruling was made from the bench, but a written opinion has still to be handed
down.

In determining refugee status, the United States, Canada and the European
countries are all bound by the 1951 United Nations Convention Relating to the
Status of Refugees.

Under this formulation, a refugee is someone who "owing to a well-founded fear
of persecution for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a
particular social group or political opinion, is outside the country of his
nationality and is unable, or is unwilling to avail himself of the protection of
that country."

Mr. Schelew argued successfully that Mr. Inaudi, as a homosexual, was part of a
persecuted "social group."

But he emphasized that the case did not suddenly mean that Canada would become a
haven for all homosexuals who claimed refugee status. "You have to be able to
show persecution, not harassment," he said.

Reflecting a heightened concern for human rights, Canada has taken other steps
recently to improve social conditions for homosexuals. It is about to end a
policy of barring homosexuals from joining the armed forces and has moved to
allow conjugal rights for homosexual prisoners.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 15, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Importing Immigrants, Exporting Jobs

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 238 words


To the Editor:

"Accepting the Harsh Truth of a Blue-Collar Recession" (front page, Dec. 25), on
the loss of more than one million blue-collar jobs in the current recession,
correctly points out that not all of those jobs will return after the recession
is over. While some have been lost because of increased efficiency, many are
non- and low-skill manufacturing jobs. Where have those jobs gone?

They, like hundreds of thousands of such jobs during the 1980's, have been
exported to the third world because the work can be done there at less cost.
While this is just good economics, it does raise a question about our
immigration policy.

Most of the 800,000 legal immigrants entering the United States each year would
normally take non- and low-skilled manufacturing jobs. But the very jobs the new
immigrants need are the ones that have been leaving the U.S. and going to the
countries from which the immigrants come. How then are the new immigrants to
find work, and what do they do if they cannot?

The answer to that question is to be found in your Dec. 3 report that in
California 40 percent of newly arriving immigrants end up on welfare. Obviously,
under current immigration policy, there is a mismatch between the skills needed
to find work in the United States today and the skills of new immigrants. We
need an immigration policy that recognizes that fact.

ROBERT KNOWLES
New York, Dec. 29, 1991

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 16, 1992, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

At Home Abroad;
The Russian Challenge

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 707 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


Russian immigrants gather every day outside the Ministry of Immigrant
Absorption, on Hillel Street in downtown Jerusalem. They read the notices in
Russian pasted on the wall of the building. They vent their frustrations to each
other.

Most of them are highly educated people who had good jobs in the former Soviet
Union: engineers, economists, scientists, doctors. Now most are unemployed, and
anxious.

Galina Orman came to Israel last August from Gorky, where Andrei Sakharov was
kept for years. A well-dressed woman with dark hair and high cheekbones, she is
47 but looks much younger.

"Yes, people tell me I look no more than 40," she said when we talked through an
interpreter. "But that hasn't helped me find a job. I can't even find dirty
work. I'll do anything, but I haven't tried washing floors yet." (Another woman,
who was a piano teacher, does wash floors.)

In Gorky, Mrs. Orman was a journalist. She does not expect to do that here --
she is just beginning to learn Hebrew. She says she would like to take care of
old people.

Mrs. Orman, who is divorced, came with her 16-year-old daughter. They live in
the Hotel Diplomat in Jerusalem, where the Government has put many recent
immigrants. They can stay there for a year and a half, and they get money for
subsistence.

The worry, the desperation in her voice, is for her daughter. She is a ballet
dancer, and the arts school she attends costs nearly $1,000 a year in tuition --
which is half-price for immigrants. There are books and private lessons to pay
for, and no job.

"It's going to tell on our children," Mrs. Orman said, "and they are the reason
we came. We are in the gutter. We are beggars."

Galina Orman's situation is special; every one of the Russians outside the
ministry has his or her own story. But the job problem is general. More than
half the recent immigrants are unemployed.

The challenge of providing jobs for the Soviet immigrants is colossal. Nearly
400,000 have come since 1989: to a country of only five million. It is as if the
United States had admitted 20 million immigrants in two years, people speaking
another language and using another alphabet.

But it is also a tremendous opportunity. The Zionist dream was to provide a
country for all the world's Jews who wanted to come, and these people could add
greatly to Israel's culture and industry and creativity.

The Jewish Agency, which brings immigrants here, says that by 1995 there could
be a million from the former Soviet Union. Simcha Dinitz, who heads the agency
and was for six years Israel's Ambassador in Washington, says that among them
are 112,000 engineers and architects, 170,000 natural and social scientists,
10,000 artists and musicians.

Whether and how fast they come depends on two factors, Mr. Dinitz said in an
interview: the situation there and employment prospects here. If there were
jobs, the present Soviet immigration rate of about 10,000 a month could double.

"People need the hope that they will not stay at cleaning streets," Mr. Dinitz
said -- "that in time they will find professional work."

Even given the difficulty of a small country absorbing mass immigration, the job
performance has been weak. One reason is Israel's economic system, which remains
heavily state-dominated and Socialist. Another is that Prime Minister Yitzhak
Shamir has paid little attention to economic development.

Mr. Shamir's number one priority has been expanding Jewish settlements in the
occupied territories. In the last two years the Government has spent about $2
billion on West Bank housing, roads and infrastructure. The new budget calls for
5,000 homes, on top of 21,000 already under way in a massive building program.

Few Russian immigrants want to live in the West Bank or Gaza. "They are moderate
people," Mr. Dinitz said. "They want peace. They want their children to have
piano lessons." For that matter, few established Israelis want to live in the
occupied territories or even visit there. The settlement drive is an ideological
one.

What is becoming increasingly plain is that Israel has a choice: to build a
society within its pre-1967 borders that will absorb high immigration, or to
spend its substance on the ideology of a Greater Israel.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 17, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Foreign Affairs;
Bush's Ultimatum to Shamir

BYLINE: By LESLIE H. GELB

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 707 words


George Bush has a mega-jolt in store for Yitzhak Shamir. The President seems
ready to let the Prime Minister know that Israel will have to make a choice:
between more Israeli settlements in the occupied territories and U.S.-backed
multibillion-dollar loan guarantees, between pleasing thousands of right-wing
settlers and helping resettle hundreds of thousands of Soviet immigrants,
between bad and good relations with the White House.

Mr. Bush is taking a gamble. Unless he frames his position with great skill, Mr.
Shamir will turn it to hard-line advantage in soon-to-come Israeli elections.

Still, the bet seems reasonable. With Israelis already hurting economically and
unable to absorb new immigrants, Mr. Shamir would be foolish to face them
without the loan guarantees in his pocket. And it would be reckless of him to
further strain ties with Mr. Bush and Americans generally.

Administration officials are still working on the language of the Bush approach,
which will not be ready for another week or so. But the direction of his
thinking is clear. And now, unlike a few months ago, Secretary of State Baker
also seems willing to back a confrontational policy.

Confrontation over settlements was just what Mr. Shamir and his ideological
cohorts have been trying to head off in two ways. First, they prepared a
proposal on Palestinian self-rule in the occupied territories, hoping this would
shift Mr. Bush's attention from the settlements issue to the negotiations. They
even went so far as to give Palestinian leaders an informal preview.

For complicated reasons, Israeli negotiators never made a formal presentation on
self-rule this week in Washington. But even had Mr. Shamir gone ahead as
planned, Mr. Bush would not have been impressed, and the Israeli leader knew
that.

Which is why he was going forward on a second and related front, the one that
really mattered to Mr. Bush -- namely, the question of settlements and U.S. loan
guarantees. Mr. Shamir's idea was to try to eat his cake and have it too. He
thought he had found the politically correct formula in a bill devised by
Senator Patrick Leahy, the chairman of the Senate foreign aid subcommittee.

The Leahy formula was to divide Israel's request for $10 billion in guarantees
into annual bites, beginning with $2 billion, and to deduct from that amount
Israeli spending on settlements in the occupied territories. In other words, if
Israel were to spend $400 million on those settlements this year, it would
receive only $1.6 billion in guarantees.

Once Mr. Bush looked hard at the formula, he did not like it. At most it would
slow down settlement activity, not end or even seriously curtail it. And Mr.
Bush was determined not to subsidize settlements in any way.

Administration objections aside, it is hard to understand why Mr. Shamir himself
would want to endorse the Leahy approach. If he thought about its full
implications, he would see nothing but trouble. Americans would have to be given
full access to details of the Israeli budget in order to make dollar-for-dollar
reductions on settlement spending. Worse, the U.S. would be forced to define
exactly what territories the law applied to, possibly including East Jerusalem.

Mr. Shamir and his allies need no lectures on the settlements, Palestinian
self-rule and the importance of Soviet immigration. They know it all. But one
point does not seem to have registered: Americans are becoming ever less willing
to go along with their policies toward the Palestinians.

It is not that Americans trust Palestinians or are blind to their hatred of
Israelis and the risks of peace. Rather, American leaders of all political
stripes believe Israel must make a full-faith effort to explore the
possibilities of peace. Above all, that means suspending new settlement
activity.

Mr. Shamir will have the votes in Congress to pass some version of the Leahy
formula, but legislators' hearts will not be in their votes. And majorities will
not be nearly large enough to overcome Mr. Bush's certain veto.

President Bush will not be alone as he moves toward a showdown on the
settlements issue. Israel cannot afford to be alone, and Prime Minister Shamir
would be reckless to think otherwise.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 20, 1992, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Airlines Want No Role as Host To Detainees

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 449 words


Saying they are being forced to run what amounts to private jails in airport
motels, an organization representing the major United States airlines with
overseas routes is seeking to end a policy that requires them to house foreign
detainees.

As a result of the policy, established by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, hundreds of aliens have been held for months at a time at the expense
of the airlines that brought them here, while they are awaiting for their asylum
applications to be processed.

The air carriers, represented by the Air Transport Association of America, will
file suit this week in the United States District Court for the District of
Columbia to end the policy, said Mary Downs, assistant general counsel to the
association.

The decade-long practice has previously led to protests from groups including
the New York-based Lawyers Committee for Human Rights.

The dispute centers more on monetary than humanitarian issues. Airlines complain
they are forced to pay hundreds of thousands of dollars for guards, rooms and
meals for the detainees.

Included in the group are people seeking asylum, stowaways and passengers with
tickets for other destinations who say they wish to remain in the United States,
but do not have the necessary visas.

Some Detainees in Chains

It could not immediately be determined how many people are currently being
detained. One of the hotels used by the airlines is the Travelodgeat Kennedy
International Airport, where detainees occupy part of the second floor. A hotel
employee said a score of prisoners were there yesterday, mostly Asians, Africans
and Haitians. A few who have a history of running away are kept in chains, he
said.

Arthur Helton, director of the lawyers committee's Refugee Project, called
conditions at some of the motels "deplorable." He said that detainees were
sometimes shackled and not given exercise, proper medical care or access to
lawyers.

In 1986, Congress enacted the User Fee Statute, which established a surcharge on
international tickets to pay for the expense of detaining and deporting
excludable aliens.

Immigration authorities, however, hold that this ruling does not apply to
passengers who stow away or buy tickets for other places but then say they want
to stay in the United States.

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the I.N.S. in Washington, said that according to
the law, the airlines are required to hold passengers in transit without proper
visas "until there is a solution to their cases."

But Ms. Downs of the air transport association questioned this interpretation.
She said, "Our carriers have been trying to get the I.N.S. to change its policy
for months."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 23, 1992, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Catering to Consumers' Ethnic Needs

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1663 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 22


In California, where waves of diverse and fast-growing immigrant groups have
swept away any lingering notion of consumers as a homogeneous mass market, many
companies have been forced to abandon their old approaches to selling their
products and services.

And in their search for new strategies in the last few years, companies ranging
from banks to television stations have learned one clear lesson: building
business among a sometimes bewildering array of ethnic markets takes a lot more
than just dubbing a few television commercials in Spanish or sponsoring a float
in the local Chinese New Year's parade.

Californians requesting new phone service from Pacific Bell can speak to
customer service representatives in English, Spanish, Vietnamese, Korean,
Cantonese or Mandarin. Vons, California's largest supermarket chain, stocks its
shelves differently in neighborhoods with different ethnic compositions. Vons
also spent two years studying Mexican culture before opening a separate -- and
profitable -- chain of stores designed from top to bottom for Spanish-speaking
consumers.

KTLA-TV, Channel 5 in Los Angeles, broadcasts simultaneous Spanish translations
of its evening news and a few other shows. The Bank of America's automated
teller machines here now give customers a choice of screen directions in English
or Spanish, as do many in New York, and the bank is considering adding other
languages. The bank has also created programs to explain its services to
immigrants who may never have used a bank before.

"It's become a way of doing business," said Ennio Quevedo-Garcia, a vice
president and manager of market segments for Bank of America. "I see it among my
colleagues in other companies, and not just in financial services."

For years, companies nationwide have paid increasing attention to customers of
different ethnic backgrounds. But California's remarkable demographic ferment
over the last decade has compelled companies here, far more than those in most
other regions, to re-examine and alter the way their products and services are
developed, advertised and sold, and to incorporate the changes into their
corporate cultures.

"There's been a typical evolution among companies from one extreme, where they
took an advertising-oriented approach that at worst meant dubbing English
commercials into Spanish, to another extreme where they viewed it almost as
going into another country," said Roger Sennott, the general manager of Market
Development Inc., a San Diego-based research firm that advises companies on how
to reach the Hispanic market.

"Some of them may have found at the end of the exercise that they didn't have to
go that far," Mr. Sennott said. "But generally speaking, there's a value in
looking at it as international marketing within your own borders, because it
makes you open to the possibility that things are different."

Toward a Minority Majority

In 1980, two-thirds of Californians were whites of European ancestry. By 1990,
according to the most recent figures from the United States Census Bureau, that
figure had fallen to 57 percent. It is expected to go below 50 percent by the
end of this decade, making California the first state in which ethnic and racial
minorities together constitute the majority.

Most of the shift has been driven by the explosive growth in the state's
Hispanic population, which increased 70 percent between 1980 and 1990 and now
makes up 7.7 million, or 25.8 percent of California's total population of 29.8
million.

The growth rate of the Hispanic population was exceeded only by that of Asians.
The population of the census category known as Asian/Pacific Islander more than
doubled, to 2.8 million, or 9.4 percent of California's population, between 1980
and 1990. The state's non-Hispanic white population grew little, if at all,
during the decade.

Looking Where the Growth Is

"Companies have to look at where the growth is, and clearly the opportunities
for growth in California are not in the traditional white Anglo market," said
David W. Stewart, a professor of marketing at the University of Southern
California's business school. "Firms have recognized that and have adapted their
marketing strategies, from establishing retail outlets for a specific population
to developing new advertising and even developing products to appeal to the
tastes and unique characteristics of these markets."

Vons recognized in the mid-1980's "that there was a large and growing population
of Hispanics that we had not done a good job of reaching in the past," said
Edward Marrujo, a vice president of the supermarket company, which is based in
Arcadia, Calif.

Vons decided to develop a separate chain to cater specifically to Hispanic
customers, especially first-generation immigrants. For two years the company
studied not just the best locations for the new stores, but how Mexicans shop
and cook.

In 1988, the company opened the first store in the new chain, which it named
Tianguis, after an Aztec word for marketplace. There are now nine Tianguis
stores in Southern California, and the company says it plans to build more.

Fully Stocked With Beef Lips

The Tianguis stores are a far cry from traditional supermarkets. To begin with,
all the employees and all the signs are bilingual. And close to 50 percent of
the floor space is given over to fresh produce and meat, compared with 25
percent in other supermarkets, because Hispanic shoppers favor fresh foods.

Many of the products in the store would be unfamiliar to non-Hispanic shoppers.
The meat department is fully stocked with beef lips and pig heads, snouts
intact. Many of the packaged goods, including soaps and cereals, are imported
from Mexico because Mexican-American shoppers tend to be intensely loyal to
familiar brands.

With its high ceilings and with much of its inventory stacked in the shopping
area, the store is designed to replicate the feel of an open-air marketplace and
to reflect a Mexican tradition of shopping as a form of family entertainment.
The baker and the butcher work out in the open, and the aisles are far wider
than in a traditional supermarket to allow people to stop and talk more easily.

To lure people into the stores and to make the establishments central to the
life of their neighborhoods, Tianguis sells money orders (most first-generation
immigrants do not have bank accounts) and offers Western Union service so
customers can wire money back to relatives in Mexico.

The experience in developing Tianguis has helped Vons change its entire approach
to the grocery business, Mr. Marrujo said, by making the company aware of the
need to adapt to the sometimes dizzying array of consumer needs in California.

Many of the lessons that the company has learned about catering to local tastes
are also being applied in varying degrees to the nearly 300 Vons stores, most of
which have sizable percentages of Hispanic customers or ones from other ethnic
groups. One example: Vons has expanded its list of suppliers so that it can
stock dozens of varieties of rice in stores that serve heavily Asian
communities.

"In the past, no matter what the neighborhood, we tended to sell the same stuff
the same way," Mr. Marrujo said. "Then the neighborhoods started to shift, and
to keep up with that we've had to learn to be more flexible."

How to Use a Bank

For Bank of America and other financial institutions, the surge in immigration
to California was problematic, in part because many immigrants, especially those
from Mexico and Central America, had never set foot in a bank.

"We can't invest a lot of money in advertising to get people to come in and open
an interest-bearing account when they don't know what an interest-bearing
account is," Mr. Quevedo-Garcia said.

As a result, the bank spends considerable time and money trying to educate
various immigrant groups about the types of banking services available and
making a bank a less intimidating place. Branches are staffed with personnel who
speak the language of whatever immigrant groups are represented in the area.

To reach new Mexican immigrants, Bank of America produced a series of soap
opera-type videos in Spanish that follow a couple through their marriage, their
first child and the purchase of their first home, using music and humor to help
explain how a bank comes in handy at each step.

The videos are given to local community outreach programs that help immigrants
adjust to life in the United States. Bank of America also has similar programs
to attract Asians, although Asian immigrants vary much more widely than Hispanic
immigrants in their wealth and familiarity with financial services. In Korean
communities, for example, the bank might concentrate more on making contact with
merchant associations to help explain how the bank can help small businesses
with payroll services.

Some companies have found that they must overcome not just a lack of product
knowledge among immigrants, but downright mistrust. Pacific Bell, for example,
discovered that because phone companies in many other nations are
government-run, many immigrants, especially those who are not in the United
States legally, are reluctant to order telephone service. Many immigrants also
assume that phone service is difficult and expensive to obtain, based on their
experiences in their home country.

Part of Pacific Bell's solution has been to establish offices that can handle
inquiries in five languages. Billboards and other advertising media stress that
phone service easy to initiate. The company has set up operations in Spanish and
Korean to aid small-business owners and this year plans to add Chinese.

"The ethnic markets are still in their infant stages," said Maury Rosas, the
vice president and general manager of Pacific Bell's Hispanic and Asian Market
Group. "Corporations are going to have to change the way they do certain things,
such as image building, if they want to be winners."


LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tianguis, an Aztec word for marketplace, is the name of a
California supermarket chain that caters to Mexican-Americans. The stores, like
this one in San Fernando, are designed to evoke the atmosphere of an open-air
market and reflect the tradition of shopping as a form of family entertainment
(pg. D1); Pacific Bell has established offices that can handle customer
inquiries in five languages. Jesus Hernandez, a service representative in Los
Angeles, offering bilingual assistance to a Spanish-speaking customer. (pg. D8)
(Bart Bartholomew for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 24, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Israeli Military Panel Cancels Order to Deport a Palestinian

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 598 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Jan. 23


An army panel today recommended the canceling of an order to deport a
Palestinian suspected of terrorist activities in the occupied territories,
revoking one of 12 expulsions ordered this month by the Government. The decision
represents the first cancellation of a deportation order by the military since
1979.

A military spokesman said that the panel, which reviewed deportation orders
against five Palestinians from the West Bank, recommended that Eyad Hani Abdul
Raouf Joudeh be allowed to stay and that the decision was accepted by the area
commander.

The army said Mr. Joudeh, 28 years old, of El-Bireh, had been detained without
trial since April on suspicion of involvement in terrorist activities as a
member of the hard-line Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine.

In making its ruling, the panel said measures "less serious than expulsion could
be taken to curb his activities," the spokesman said.

High Court to Rule

Deportation orders against 11 other Palestinians from the West Bank and Gaza
Strip have been upheld by military panels and will now be challenged in the High
Court of Justice. The court has not overturned any of the 66 expulsions ordered
by Israel since the start of the Palestinian uprising in December 1987.

The latest deportation orders came after a number of shootings at Jewish
settlers in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. The attacks took four lives
and prompted a militant protest campaign by settlers who have demanded tougher
measures against such violence.

The expulsion orders drew a strong condemnation of Israel at the United Nations
and delayed the start of the last round of the Middle East peace talks in
Washington.

The Palestinian delegation returning from the talks told a news conference today
that if the United States granted Israel's request for $10 billion in loan
guarantees for resettling new immigrants, Washington would deliver "a direct
slap to the peace process" and forfeit its role as a fair mediator. But
delegation members did not repeat recent warnings by Palestinian leaders that if
the loan guarantees were approved, they would boycott multilateral Middle East
talks that are to begin in Moscow next week.

Decision From P.L.O.

The delegates said the decision on going to Moscow rested with the Palestine
Liberation Organization in coordination with Arab states.

"I don't think you'll hear the decision here," said Saeb Erakat, a member of the
Palestinian team.

The Palestinian remarks came on the eve of a scheduled meeting in Washington at
which Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d is expected to give the American
reply to Israel's request for loan guarantees.

But the spokeswoman for the Palestinian delegation, Hanan Ashrawi, said that if
the loan guarantees were coupled with "an open-book policy" under which Israeli
outlays for settlements in the occupied territories would be monitored, "that
would be another issue."

Mrs. Ashrawi's remarks indicated a softening of the Palestinian position on
attending the Moscow conference. Last week Nabil Shaath, a senior adviser to
Yasir Arafat, chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization, hinted that the
Palestinians would not go to Moscow if the loan guarantees were approved.

Arab foreign ministers and P.L.O. representatives are scheduled to meet on
Friday in Morocco to coordinate positions before the Moscow talks. Syria and
Lebanon have already said they will not attend the multilateral discussions to
protest what they called Israel's "intransigence" in bilateral Arab-Israeli
negotiations in Washington.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 24, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Vans Vie Illegally for New York Bus Riders

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1097 words


One every two minutes, the unmarked vans scoot into city bus stops along
Flatbush Avenue, scooping up clumps of waiting commuters. Sometimes, the vans
simply cut the buses off in a brazen race to the curb. As soon as one is pulled
over by the police -- and they often are -- its passengers slip out and around
the corner, where another idles out of sight of the law.

A shadow bus system has taken hold along many of the busiest immigrant avenues
of Brooklyn and Queens. Run by Caribbean immigrants, largely for Caribbean
immigrants, the unlicensed vans are winning growing numbers of converts from the
city's buses. They are cheaper -- $1 to the new $1.25 official transit fare.
Their riders also swear that they are faster and more comfortable, never mind
the legal inconveniences.

"I only have a dollar," said 25-year-old Jim Jacque, as his third van of the
morning was pulled over and let him out short of his destination. "I can't
afford to pay the bus. Now I don't know what to do."

These van lines, whose growth has paralleled the surge in immigration from the
Caribbean, represent the newest front in a long-running guerrilla war for the
roads. All over the city, illegal vans, buses and car services are believed to
be costing the official transit system $30 million a year by the most
conservative estimate in lost revenue.

Grappling with fiscal problems, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority is
even considering fighting the battle for Brooklyn and Queens with its own armada
of vans.

The Transit Authority, which operates the subways and buses, contends that the
vans are a safety problem as well as costly competition, because their drivers
are unlicensed and lack required insurance. But as the authority searches for a
way to win back its riders, it faces not only issues of service but of ethnic
identity.

On Flatbush Avenue, some of the riders said their loyalty to the vans stemmed
partly from a desire to support a black-run bus line.

"Sometimes, I ride to help them out, because everybody needs a job," said a
black rider, who refused to give her name.

When gypsy van lines first appeared in the Bronx in the early 1970's and spread
to Brooklyn and Queens, they were doing something the official transit system
largely did not: provide fast service into Manhattan or feed from outlying areas
of the boroughs into subway stops.

But now they have developed into shadow bus services that run right along major
bus lines. Some of the drivers operate on their own. Some are organized into
small fleets. Their punctuality seems to be due more to sheer numbers rather
than any schedule.

About 500 van drivers prowl Flatbush Avenue alone, mirroring the route of the
city's B-41 bus, said Velva Edwards, vice president for transportation support
in the Transit Authority's bus division.

Comfortable Seats

Six months ago, at the Jamaica Center subway station in Queens, Transit
Authority officials counted about 7,500 commuters using the vans to get to and
from the subway. Besides running down Flatbush Avenue, the vans shadow about
five major bus lines in southeastern Queens and also work the Eastern Parkway
and Utica Avenue bus routes in Brooklyn.

The vans, with frosted glass and comfortable seats, have become so popular along
some city bus routes that they have caused Transit Authority revenue declines on
those lines of more than 15 percent.

Planners for the M.T.A. estimate the overall loss to the Transit Authority at
$30 million annually or 7 percent of bus revenue. Officer Nicholas B. Casale,
from the Police Department's Office of Management Analysis and Planning, puts
the losses much higher -- at nearly $1 million a day from 75,000 vans, taxis and
buses running illegally.

Amanda Paige, 23, who was riding a van from Flatbush to Park Slope this week,
said she has never returned to public transit since she discovered the vans more
than a year ago. "They get me to where I want to go faster and they're safer and
they're cheaper," said Ms. Paige. "I could spend hours waiting for the bus and
nothing. Here you have a comfortable seat, you have music, you have heat."

This Means War

In a vicious cycle, the loss of riders has caused the Transit Authority to
reduce service by 18 percent along six heavily affected routes in Brooklyn and
Queens. And the service cuts, in turn, have prompted still more disgruntled New
Yorkers to turn to the vans.

In a report to the M.T.A. board this week, transit planners outlined four
possible responses to the illegal vans.  The most aggressive would amount to a
head-on war for ridership, including fare cuts and improved service, perhaps
even by running vans.

Another option that the report called "probably too extreme for further
consideration" was surrender -- described in almost military terms as "orderly
withdrawal" from the contested routes.

Under the two other options, the Transit Authority would contract out more
services to private fleets.

For now the M.T.A. continues to rely on a law-enforcement crackdown begun 18
months ago after a gypsy van made an illegal U-turn and jumped a sidewalk in
Brooklyn, killing two pedestrians.

In the 18-months ended December 1991, a special task force issued 6,542 civil
notices of violation against the vans and 11,773 criminal summonses, according
to the transit police. The task force also made 251 arrests.

Still, a police officer gamely ticketing one van after another on Flatbush
Avenue on a recent morning said he thought the van traffic was uncontrollable.
Two or three sailed by for every one that he ticketed.

Some of the van riders have come to see racism in the police crackdown. "If
these were Koreans, they'd say it's industrious," said Pamela Booker, 34, who
was catching a van into downtown Brooklyn. "Anytime a black company does
something in an organized manner that affects greater entities' financial
resources, their back gets up."

The white police officer who was ticketing vans Tuesday morning and did not want
to be identified protested: "Some of the drivers say I'm prejudiced. I'm not
prejudiced. There are no white drivers out here." Transit Authority officials
point out that they also provide jobs to West Indian immigrants.

George Gayle, a Jamaican immigrant, was one of the drivers pulled over. Mr.
Gayle said he lost his construction job eight months ago and couldn't find work.
So he took $8,000 in savings and bought his passenger van.

"I didn't want to sell drugs," he said. "I didn't want to rob someone. I didn't
want to go on welfare. I wanted something to do."

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A shadow bus system is working some of the busiest immigrant
areas of Brooklyn and Queens. Jimmy St. Dic, center, rode with other passengers
in one of the unmarked vans that compete with city buses. (pg. A1); When a gypsy
van is pulled over by the police, passengers usually find another vehicle
waiting nearby. As George Gayle, center, a Jamaican immigrant, talked to Officer
Joseph McLean after being stopped at Flatbush and Lenox Avenues in Brooklyn, a
passenger scurried past them. (pg. B2) (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 26, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Bangkok Delays

SECTION: Section 5; Page 12; Column 3; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 177 words


To the Editor: We are giving the 1991 award for needlessly long queuing to the
immigration officials at Bangkok's International Airport.

Recently, my family and I arrived at Bangkok at midnight after a long flight
from Narita Airport in Tokyo. All the passengers were then assembled, as is
usual, in long lines, to pass through immigration. Perhaps we all resembled the
"most wanted" on Interpol's list, or maybe the new junta is wary of travelers,
but it was 90 minutes before this planeload of exhausted passengers finally
cleared. Our inspector, I noted over an hour's time, spent a great deal of time
leafing through each passport and immigration card, looking up toward the
ceiling and checking to his right and left to see how the other inspectors were
doing.

We like Bangkok and two years ago we enjoyed it even more because immigration
then was a quick formality and we were out of the airport in 20 minutes. I hope
that our ordeal last month was simply an aberration and not a permanent policy.

MARVIN L. AUERBACK
Foster City, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 30, 1992, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Sordid Business Booms in Queens

BYLINE: By DONATELLA LORCH

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1095 words


Roosevelt Avenue by day is a whirl of traffic and shoppers, to the roar and
clatter of the I.R.T. passing overhead.

Nightfall brings traffic and trade of another sort. As steerers walk the avenue
openly soliciting clients, men emerge from cars, cabs and the subway and ascend
to the low-rent, low-price brothel world that flourishes overhead. There, women
-- many of them undocumented immigrants -- do business in warrens of sordid
cubicles behind second-story windows painted black.

Twenty minutes by the Flushing line from Times Square, these brothels have
proliferated so fast in the last few years that the police say they comprise the
largest center of prostitution in the city outside Manhattan.

In part, their growth is a traditional downside of successful law enforcement. A
crackdown on prostitution in mid-Manhattan in the 1980's simply pushed many of
the houses to the other boroughs. But their concentration in the largely
Hispanic and South Asian immigrant neighborhoods along Roosevelt Avenue in
Queens is also a matter of entrepreneurship, economics and exploitation: brothel
operators, most of them South Americans, taking advantage of low rents,
proximity to Manhattan and a large population of poor and often lonely immigrant
men.

"They did an excellent job in Manhattan," said Capt. Henry C. Roge, commander of
the 115th Precinct in Jackson Heights, of the Mayor's Midtown Enforcement task
force that was at the forefront of the decade-long crackdown on Times Square.
"However, the problem has now moved to Queens. Obviously all the ingredients are
here. We are fertile ground for the houses."

As the houses have flourished -- 40 of them along two miles of the avenue in
Elmhurst, Jackson Heights and Corona, with perhaps 30 more on surrounding
streets -- so have street drug sales, traffic congestion, robberies and
shootings, law-enforcement officials said.

And in the last six months, amid complaints from community boards and local
residents, the authorities have begun a crackdown against the houses. Last week,
in what the police called one of the largest anti-prostitution operations
outside Manhattan, a special task force conducted an all-night operation that
involved more than 100 police officers, the Queens District Attorney's office
and members of the Mayor's Midtown Enforcement Task Force.

Prostitution in Queens, in particular street-walking, is not a new phenomenon.
Since the midtown crackdown, the more expensive Asian massage parlors moved
almost entirely to Queens. But many have closed recently because of the
recession, AIDS and law enforcement, said Norman Dion, chief of operations for
the Mayor's Office of Midtown Enforcement. It is the Hispanic houses of
prostitution -- far greater in numbers, more visible, cheaper and extremely
mobile -- that have angered the local communities and proved much harder to
close down, the police and residents said. Since December there has been a
murder and at least one shooting in the houses.

"This has developed into an environmental issue," said Helen Sears, a Jackson
Heights district leader and community activist. "It sends out a real message
that there is a breakdown in law and order. It tells the residents: 'I do not
have a safe corner.' "

Many of the clients live in the area and are lonely, single immigrants who have
either left their families in their native country or are not yet married.
Although American prostitutes work the houses, the police say, the vast majority
are undocumented immigrants from South America.

The police say they believe the houses are backed by drug money and have an
established network that supplies them with South American women, many of whom
are supporting their children, who are kept in virtual bondage until they pay
back their smugglers.

Ten to 15 women work in each apartment and prices are low -- $20 for 15 minutes,
$1 for a condom, with a cold beer thrown in for customers who have to wait.
Vacant apartments are easily available and cheaper than in Manhattan. When a
house is closed, the police say, it reopens nearby within days. The women, who
are paid about $10 an hour, rarely cooperate with police investigations.

'Business Is Booming'

"Business is booming here," said Capt. Paul Quinn, commanding officer of the
Queens public morals squad, adding that prostitution in Queens had increased by
300 percent in the last five years. "Here they cater to as many men as they can.
We seem to have no problem arresting them. The problem is that there are just so
many of them."

At the end of last week's all-night raid, 10 Queens houses had been raided by
the police, 63 people had been arrested on charges related to prostitution and
three houses had been legally closed. But many of the women were more
exasperated than scared; the men were embarrassed. The second-floor apartment at
93-15 Roosevelt Avenue was like many others. Fifteen men, some naked below the
waist, and 10 scantily clad women crouched on their knees shoulder to shoulder,
their hands behind their heads as the police made the arrests.

The three-bedroom apartment had been illegally partitioned with plywood into
seven narrow cubicles where there was barely room for a bed and a night table.
Each table had Babywipes and lubricating jelly. Condom wrappers and soiled paper
overflowed from the waste baskets. Exposed wires looped across walls, and each
room had a space heater.

In the kitchen, beneath statuettes of the Virgin Mary and other saints,
calendars were scribbled with women's names and the refrigerator was full of
Budweiser. For every client, the madam punches a hole on the woman's card, at
times setting a timer for 15 minutes. Some cards had as many as 15 holes.

Since the Queens crackdown began six months ago, nine houses have been legally
closed and lawsuits filed against the landlords and tenants for health code,
building or fire-code violations. But the police say enforcement is difficult.
Too-few available officers has resulted in a 60 percent decrease since 1990 in
prostitution arrests in Queens bringing it down to 400 people in 1991, Captain
Quinn said.

One of the prostitutes at a house closed last week, 22-year-old Dana Fischetti,
said she would probably work elsewhere for a while until the neighborhood calmed
down. Ultimately, law-enforcement officials believe that the crackdown will only
lead to further displacement.

"The procurers tend to move the women," said Chief Frank Biehler, commanding
officer of the public morals unit. "They are business people. They follow the
dollar."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A calendar filled with women's appointments found in a Queens
brothel. (Steve Berman for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 31, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. SHIFTS POLICY ON HAITIAN EXILES

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 696 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30


In a shift in policy on Haitian exiles, the Bush Administration said today that
beginning immediately Haitians will be able to apply for refugee status at the
United States Embassy in Port-au-Prince for direct resettlement in the United
States.

The procedure, being used for the first time in peacetime for a non-Communist
country, makes Haitians who believe they are in danger of persecution eligible
for a new category of legal immigration. The United States has similar programs
only in Vietnam, Cuba and the former Soviet Union.

Administration officials declined to comment on the scope or intent of the
policy. But a sharp upsurge in the number of Haitians fleeing by boat in recent
weeks and a deteriorating political climate in Haiti have apparently convinced
the Administration that hopes for a political solution in Haiti have all but
disappeared, at least in the short term, and the Administration is having to
consider a whole new range of policy options.

The program, however, is not likely to benefit the thousands seeking to flee
Haiti. Refugee organizations and members of Congress have been told that the
program is intended to bring no more than 300 Haitians to the United States
initially. These places will be reserved for former political prisoners or
people in imminent danger of persecution, said Arthur C. Helton, who heads a
refugee program for the Lawyers' Committee for Human Rights.

Those most in peril are assumed to be political figures or members of the
administration of the ousted President, Jean-Bertrand Aristide. Taking them out
of Haiti at this juncture appears to be "an admission that conditions have
deteriorated to perhaps an irrevocable point," Mr. Helton said in an interview.

Details Are Sketchy

No details were available on how the process would work, said Joseph Snyder, the
State Department spokesman who made the announcement. Some officials are fearful
that the American Embassy in Port-au-Prince, which is down to a skeleton staff,
will be overwhelmed by Haitians seeking refuge.

Jocelyn McCalla, executive director of the National Coalition for Haitian
Refugees, said that the policy will not help poor Haitians stranded far from the
capital. Public transportation is limited by a lack of fuel because of an
embargo against the military regime. In any case, Mr. McCalla said in an
interview, those trying to reach the embassy would be vulnerable, because their
intent would be obvious.

The decision creates a new status available to Haitians. Under a 1980 law,
refugees can proceed directly to the United States with legal standing that
requires no further petitions. Only those who reach American soil without legal
standing but with a stated fear of persecution may apply for asylum.

Haitians now at the United States naval base in Guantanamo, Cuba, who qualify
for temporary entry to the United States to apply for asylum may be turned down
and deported. Refugees, as defined legally in this instance, may not. This
process has been most recently applied to Vietnamese.

Thousands at Haiti's Shores

The new policy appears to be a response not only to increasing political
violence in Haiti but also to a concern that many thousands more may be
preparing to flee Haiti in unsafe boats.

A State Department spokesman said today that the Coast Guard had now picked up
more than 14,000 people at sea since the Sept. 30 military coup in Haiti and
that the temporary camps at Guantanamo are filled to capacity with more than
9,000 refugees.

In Atlanta, Administration officials told an appeals court this week that up to
20,000 Haitians may be gathering on the nation's coasts to embark for the United
States.

The Administration is asking the court to lift an injunction against the forced
repatriation of Haitian refugees picked up at sea who are not deemed to have a
plausible case for asylum.

The United States Ambassador to Haiti, Alvin P. Adams, Jr., was recalled this
week to discuss policy options after a political meeting called by the Prime
Minister-designate, Rene Theodore, was stormed by plainclothes policemen.
Washington strongly condemned the Haitian military Government.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: More than 14,000 Haitians have been picked up at sea since the
Sept. 30 military coup in Haiti, the State Department reported. Included were
these refugees rescued last week by the Coast Guard cutter Mohawk. (U.S. Coast
Guard via Agence France-Presse)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 31, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Influx From Ex-Soviet Lands Falling, Israel Says

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 726 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Jan. 30


As Israel presses the United States for loan guarantees to cope with a projected
huge influx of immigrants from the former Soviet Union, officials here said
today that the immigrant flow this month had sunk to its lowest in almost two
years and could dwindle even further.

Jewish Agency officials attributed the reduced flow of immigrants to the acute
difficulties facing those who have already arrived, cannot find jobs or decent
homes and write back to friends and relatives in the former Soviet Union
chronicling their tribulations.

"Sadly, we have to admit the facts," said Uri Gordon, chairman of the
quasi-governmental agency's immigration department. "We are on the threshold of
losing a great opportunity for immigration because of the dire unemployment
situation and because of housing problems."

"If the existing situation continues, this may lead to a slow dying out of
immigration," he said. "The Government has no answer to the question of
employment. Until now it hasn't formulated a national plan for absorption. Every
ministry is doing things for absorption on its own, but the plans have remained
on paper."

The Jewish Agency, formed before Israel's founding in 1948, takes initial
responsibility for immigrants, but their long-term fortunes here are the
responsibility of Government ministries.

"Absorption is in crisis," Mr. Gordon said. "After three years of immigration
from the Soviet Union, I see a situation of impotence. There is no long-term
planning. I believe there'll be continued immigration, but the situation is
worrisome."

According to the agency's provisional figures, 5,800 immigrants from the former
Soviet Union have arrived so far this month, with 600 more expected before the
start of February, a lower figure than those recorded during the Persian Gulf
war, when Iraqi Scud missiles fell on Tel Aviv and other places. The last time
the figure fell below 7,000 was in February 1990.

"No doubt the main reason for lower immigration figures is indeed hardships of
absorption principally in the field of employment," said Gad Ben Ari, a Jewish
Agency spokesman who took issue with Mr. Gordon's comments, saying there had
been fluctuations in immigration patterns in the past. "I do not see this
month's low figure as a significant change."

Even after Iraq's Scud attacks began last January, however, more than 7,000
immigrants arrived the month after and the flow rebounded to 13,000 in March
1991.

Since late 1989, when the wave of Jewish emigration from the Soviet Union began,
some 350,000 immigrants have arrived in Israel. The wave peaked in December
1990, when, according to the Jewish Agency, more than 35,000 arrived, making
1990 a record year.

Since then, the figures have generally been lower.

Right now, Israel is heading for early elections in which the immigrants will
play a double role both as an issue and as first-time voters.

The Labor Party's parliamentary chairman, Haim Ramon, said the party would agree
to a proposal by Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir's Likud Party that the vote be
held on June 23. Up until today, Labor had been pressing for a June 16 election.
But by tonight there had been no formal announcement of the election date.

The immigration issue has assumed a further dimension, moreover, as Israel seeks
$10 billion in loan guarantees from the United States to cope with the influx.
The American guarantees would make it easier and cheaper to raise commercial
loans.

Contradictory Arguments

The reportedly dwindling immigration figures, however, could promote two
contradictory arguments: either that the sought-after amount is exaggerated or
that the guarantees are more necessary than ever to persuade would-be immigrants
that they will find a better life than those who have already arrived.

Israeli conversation is peppered with stories of Jews from the former Soviet
Union finding only menial work despite high qualifications -- concert musicians
playing on street corners, a computer systems engineer delivering milk, a doctor
working as a hospital orderly.

The United States is seeking to link the loan guarantees to a halt to further
settlements in occupied territories, but Ariel Sharon, the hard-line Housing
Minister, reiterated today that Israel would continue building settlements
throughout territory under its control.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: As Israel continues to seek United States loan guarantees, the
flow of immigrants from the former Soviet Union is slowing. The expanding Jewish
settlement of Maale Adumim in the West Bank loomed beyond an area where a
Palestinian girl grazed her family's goats. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 4, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

An Unusable Windfall: Israel's Soviet Scientists

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SPECTER

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1427 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


TWO years after the first wave of highly educated, and often remarkably
talented, Soviet immigrants arrived in Israel, thousands of research scientists,
engineers, doctors and technicians remain without jobs or the hope of ever
working here in their professions.

With the help of the Government and their fellow Israelis, most now have homes,
few are hungry, and many have even found sporadic employment. But the nearly
400,000 immigrants who have arrived here since 1989 have more than doubled the
nation's already plentiful supply of scientists, severely straining its tiny
university and research establishment.

The oversupply of specialists is prompting a flood of questions about the
country's ability to offer a new life to any Jew who seeks one. In many
respects, leading scientists here say, the remarkable flow of talent has
produced problems for Israel almost as daunting as those the exodus has caused
for the Soviet Union.

"Never in history has there been such an overwhelming concentration of
scientific potential in one small place," said Dr. Alexander Keynan, a molecular
biologist who recently retired as vice president for research at Hebrew
University and is a special adviser to the president of the Israeli Academy of
Sciences. "I don't know how we can absorb these people, and I don't know how we
can let ourselves fail. It is the most fundamental challenge to our entire
Zionist ideology."

Dr. Kenyan and many other senior members of the scientific establishment here
hope the surplus of scientists will help Israel develop a more vigorous and
competitive network of high-technology industries, a Mediterranean Silicon
Valley, one Government official called it.

But without a major infusion of cash, such as the much disputed $10 billion in
American loan guarantees, the country will have little chance of competing at
the blistering pace required for most small technology or pharmaceutical
companies to succeed. Israeli officials have expressed hope that the loan
guarantees could be used to invest in new research organizations and companies.

Relying on years of education and precise technical skills to prepare them for
life in the West, scientists have led the flood of emigres from the Soviet
Union. In fields like theoretical physics and mathematics, they have already
displayed intellectual dominance; dozens have quickly established themselves at
the nation's universities and within its elite research institutions.

But in many other fields, genetics, electronics, biology, chemistry, computers
and immunology, for instance, researchers find themselves struggling to make up
for decades in which they had little access to the vital new technology or the
critical publications of their professions. While even the youngest and the
brightest have suffered, older and less renowned researchers have almost no hope
of catching up.

More than half of the immigrants have arrived with some advanced degree,
according to statistics from the Ministry of Immigrant Absorption. There are
50,000 new engineers, at least 13,000 physicians and 10,000 research scientists
with doctorates. For those who are famous, or demonstrably brilliant, the
country has rallied to produce more than a hundred new professorships and
research positions, an unusually large number in a nation with only seven
universities.

The Jewish Agency and the Education Ministry have established programs to teach
Hebrew and English to professionals, an absolute necessity for scientists, but
for many the dimming dreams have been hard to accept.

"They keep coming around and thinking I'll be able to find them something like
what they had," said Mira Krichevsky, the director of one of dozens of new
employment centers for Russians. Hers specializes in technical fields.
Throughout the day, men and women stream into her tiny office in a downtown
mall. Most grasp resumes and examples of their past work, often tied by string
or kept together in plastic wrapping.

"I have 10 years' technical experience with phone systems," said Maria Bengert,
45 years old, from Ukraine. Speaking in faltering English, she said she had
tried through the employment agency to make contact with everyone connected with
phone manufacture or repair. Finally, she said, she plans to take a job selling
them. Her husband, Anatoly, holds a Ph.D. in physics with a specialty in steel
structures. For the last year he has cleaned houses to make money.

Assessment Is Difficult

Even when they want to, employers are rarely able to assess an applicant's
credentials. While there are well-known and outstanding universities in the
Soviet Union, there are also hundreds of technical institutes whose quality is
often impossible to determine.

"Many of these people don't understand their training is no good in the West,"
Mrs. Krichevsky said, frowning. "What kind of engineers are they? How were they
trained? What do their degrees mean, and what is their experience? These are the
questions everyone is asking, but there is another basic fact. The answers
hardly matter. Israel already has all the engineers it needs."

With a Jewish population that has surged from 3.7 million to more than 4 million
in the last two years -- as many as a million Russian Jews are expected by the
end of the decade -- Israelis have begun to wonder where the breaking point will
be. The proportion of doctors, engineers and scientists living here now is
almost 10 times greater than that found in other developed countries, according
to the Science Ministry and United Nations statistics.

In some professions the glut has produced unexpected solutions to perennial
problems. Israel apparently has become one of the few developed nations without
a nursing shortage, for instance. Even before the immigration began, the country
had one of the best doctor-to-patient ratios in the world. Now, with fewer than
10 percent of the former Soviet physicians able to pass tough Israeli exams, and
then only a small percentage of those able to find work, nursing has become a
rare opportunity for many who might have shunned it.

'Street Swept by Violinist'

"At my university every gate is guarded by an engineer or doctor," said Dr.
Herman Branover, a world-renowned physics professor at Ben-Gurion University,
who emigrated from the Soviet Union in the 1970's. "My street is swept by a
violinist, and my trash is carried away by an artist. Only 10 to 15 percent of
the newcomers can hope to get jobs in existing industries."

Professor Branover established the first of the special "incubators," small
research concerns modeled on American high-tech operations, that employ only
Russian immigrants. He has been critical of the Government, saying that if it
cannot harness the new Russian talent, many of the brightest scientists will
simply go elsewhere.

Professor Branover's technical and engineering company, Satec, markets products
developed by Russian immigrants and after three years has begun to make a
profit. It has been widely imitated around the country.

Special Scholarships

"We can absorb only the smallest percentage of new scientists into traditional
jobs," said Dr. Ruth Arnon, senior vice president for academic affairs at the
Weizmann Institute of Science, one of the world's most prestigious research
institutions. "We will have 2,000 physicists in this country by 1995. What can
we possibly do with them?"

She, too, has urged the Government to invest more in small industries that could
help the new Israelis prosper. In addition, the Weizmann Institute has
established dozens of special scholarships for the most promising of the
immigrants, from full professors to graduate students.

Thirty-year-old Freywald Andrew, who is completing his doctorate in mathematics
at the institute under a special program for Russian immigrants, is one of the
lucky ones. A highly prized student in Moscow, he was offered several special
fellowships when he arrived in Israel last year.

His parents' lives, however, have taken a different turn. His mother, a Ph.D.
chemist, recently took a job as a secretary after months of searching for
something better. With poor Hebrew and no English, officials here say, she had
little chance for anything more fulfilling.

"My father is an electronics specialist," Mr. Andrew said. "He worked with
missiles in secret research. He has a good degree and many publications. But he
is 55. At his age there is very little hope. He and all his friends spend their
days looking, listening to rumors of jobs and then waiting for nothing."

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thousands of scientists, physicians, engineers and technicians
who migrated from the former Soviet Union to Israel remain without jobs in their
professions. Recently Igor Wolfson, seated, an immigrant from Minsk, filled out
forms at an employment office for academics and scientists in Jerusalem. (Rina
Castelnuovo for The New York Times) (pg. C9)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 12, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Our Haiti Policy Doesn't Help Anyone

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 522 words


To the Editor:

Neither of the two components of United States policy toward Haiti, the embargo
and the forced repatriation of refugees, is serving the goals of either country.
The economic embargo (while well intentioned) has had no impact on changing the
repressive political-military regime. Rather, it has produced a colossal
economic, environmental and health disaster for Haiti, the poorest country in
the Western Hemisphere, as you report in "Land and Health Also Erode in Haiti"
(news article, Jan. 28).

The deforestation and soil erosion caused by the embargo will have repercussions
for years, perhaps decades, and the famine it has caused is referred to in Haiti
as "the curse."

Our refusal to accept the refugees fleeing the country is also in need of
change. The Supreme Court, interpreting the law, has lifted the injunction
against forced repatriation, making it clear that immigration laws must be
altered. We are returning Haitians who risk their lives by boat to escape
executions or beatings in their homes or on their streets for more of the same,
while accepting Cubans who face no personal fear, but see increasing
difficulties ahead.

This differing treatment is the result of: (1) a deep bias in our immigration
law favoring anyone fleeing from any Communist country and particularly from
Cuba; (2) the greater political influence of the United States-Cuban community
compared with the Haitian community, and (3) the fact that the fleeing Haitians,
who now number 15,000, are all black and may, in some unknown number of cases,
have AIDS. Ironically, our embargo is itself a cause of the growth in the number
of refugees we are forcing back. It is a vicious cycle that we are aggravating.

We need to change both policies now. The stranglehold of the military and the
Tontons Macoutes cannot be lifted without some form of military intervention. It
is too deeply ingrained and too powerful, even if a civilian regime may be
temporarily installed. Intervention by a force under the direction of the
Organization of American States or the United Nations will be needed, and a
subsequent period of trusteeship required to establish democratic institutions
and safeguard their emergence.

As for our asylum and refugee rules, the demise of the cold war should be reason
enough to end the unequal and unfair application of basic principles of human
rights. At a minimum, we should provide temporary protective status to the
Haitians who are already here, as we are doing for the Chinese, so they are not
forced to return until after the current political oppression and retributions
end. We gave 125,000 Cubans permanent asylum when they fled in the Mariel boat
lift of 1980 and gave 100,000 Nicaraguans asylum from the Sandinista Government
in the 80's.

It is time we reviewed our asylum-refugee rules so they reflect the true risks
faced by any individuals, fleeing any oppressive or brutal regime, no matter
what the ideological bent of that regime, or the ethnicity of the refugees.

MARTIN E. GOLD
New York, Feb. 3, 1992

The writer is a lawyer who has dealt with immigration matters.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 14, 1992, Friday, Late Edition - Final

For 6 Haitians, Last-Minute Reprieve

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr.,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 820 words

DATELINE: ABOARD THE CUTTER MOHAWK, off Haiti, Feb. 12


As this cutter carrying more than 250 Haitian migrants pulled within sight of
the Port-au-Prince harbor, some of them swayed gently to the rhythms of Bob
Marley and the Wailers playing over the ship's loudspeakers.

"Everything's gonna be all right, everything's gonna be all right," went one
refrain, and another: "Get up, stand up, stand up for your rights."

But for six of the refugees, the words were especially poignant. Instead of
being returned, they were told at the last minute that they would be allowed to
pursue their claims for asylum in the United States.

American immigration officials, it appeared, had made a mistake after a
preliminary screening of the six refugees, who were among 13 picked up in a
small boat by the Coast Guard cutter Mohawk on Sunday as they tried to flee
Haiti. While some of the refugees in that boat were indeed to be sent back to
Haiti without ever leaving the cutter, the screening had determined that the six
had a reasonable fear that they might be persecuted in Haiti if they were forced
to return there.

But when the cutter arrived at the American naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,
where thousands of other refugees are being held, the immigration service mixed
up several of the cases, leaving the six Haitians on the cutter when they should
have been taken ashore.

On Tuesday, as about 250 Haitians from Guantanamo boarded the Mohawk for the
trip home, the six Haitians erupted into angry shouts when they were told that
they too were to be returned home.

They told an officer and a translator aboard the cutter that they might as well
be lined up and shot on the ship, since that is what would happen to them in
Haiti. The officer, visibly shaken, brought forward some of his marines to make
sure the situation did not get out of control.

It was a tense beginning to a new phase of the cutter's operations in these
waters. Until now, the Mohawk had been busy pulling Haitian boat people from the
water and taking them to Cuba. This was the first time since Jan. 31, when the
Supreme Court allowed repatriations to resume, that the ship had taken part in
returning refugees.

'A Pleasure Trip'

As the Haitians filed aboard the cutter on Tuesday, they seemed resigned to
their repatriation. The mood persisted overnight, as the group lay in blankets
under a loosely rigged canopy.

Even this morning, as they filed off the ship and onto the dock in
Port-Au-Prince, they seemed docile.

"A pleasure trip," one of them said when asked why he had fled Haiti. His
companions laughed. And what were his feelings now? "The vacation is over," he
said. Nobody laughed at that.

The Rev. Al Sharpton, who has joined other Americans monitoring the
repatriation, stood on the dock as he watched the Haitians disembark. So did a
number of reporters, Haitian immigration officials, church workers and others.
This reporter was unable to leave the cutter and did not speak to Mr. Sharpton,
who watched the procession silently.

Weapons at the Ready

The cutter's crew, including the burly marines who were standing guard, seemed
relieved that the voyage had gone smoothly. At the outset, the marines had not
shown their weapons, but when the ship approached shore they armed themselves
with shotguns and sidearms. The ship's crews had also kept fire hoses at the
ready.

One nervous moment came when the ship's crew went to the six Haitians who were
not being repatriated, taking them from the crowd one or two at a time and
moving them into a helicopter hangar. They were not to be told yet what was
happening, but many of the boat people could see that something was afoot.

By the time the ship's captain told the six that they would not be getting off
in Haiti, there was no time for them to talk to the other Haitians on board --
including those who had set out to sea with them but whose asylum claims were
rejected.

One of the group, Dejean Myrtil, said he felt sorry for those who had to go back
to Haiti. They all knew one another, he said, and they all had reasonable fears
of facing persecution in Haiti.

Mr. Myrtil, who is an artist, showed photographs of some landscapes he had
painted. He said he had also sold many paintings of the Rev. Jean-Bertrand
Aristide, whose overthrow in September has sent more than 15,000 Haitians
fleeing in boats.

Mr. Myrtil fled with his 7-year-old son, Dejean Jr. He said he picked his son up
at school one day in January and was warned by neighbors not to go home because
the authorities were there. He went into hiding for six weeks before fleeing.
Since that day in January, he said, he has not seen or heard of his wife and two
daughters.

Mr. Myrtil and his son, like the other four who today are making their third
trip in a week over the Windward Passage between Haiti and Cuba, do not yet know
whether they will make it to the United States some day. But for the moment,
they said, they are happy.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: As hundreds of Haitian boat people were returned to
Port-au-Prince on Wednesday, a paralyzed refugee, Bernard Paul, was carried from
the the United States Coast Guard cutter Seneca by crew members. (Associated
Press)

Map of Haiti shows location of Port-au-Prince.

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 17, 1992, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Latin America Offers 'New World' to East Europe Emigrants

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1006 words

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Feb. 11


With an economic boom coming after a brain drain, several South American
countries are turning to the economic rubble of Russia and Eastern Europe to
find skilled workers.

Recalling earlier waves of European immigration to South America, governments
are dusting off a recruiting pitch that was successful in the past: warm
weather, economic opportunity and a fresh start in the New World.

"Let's say I'm an East German," said a businessman who made his fortune after
coming here from Czechoslovakia after World War II. "I've lost my job; I'm fed
up with the cold weather; I'm looking for new horizons. Why not Venezuela?"

But experts warn that the breakup of Communism may be South America's newest El
Dorado. Skilled workers and money have been fleeing this continent for a decade.
The failed coup here this month underlined the region's chronic volatility.

Last on Emigrants' List

"The golden dream of this labor force is first Western Europe, then the United
States, then Australia and finally Latin America." warned Jorge Mora, a Spaniard
who represents the International Organization for Migration, a multilateral
agency.

Plans to attract Eastern Europeans are most advanced here in Venezuela. With the
state oil company starting a six-year, $48 billion expansion, Venezuela faces a
skills shortage. Newspapers write of attracting 50,000 technicians over the next
five years through corporate and embassy recruiting and other incentives.

"The selective immigration project is under way," President Carlos Andres Perez
said in an interview, echoing advisers' predictions that the first families will
arrive this year.

But Please, Bring Money

In mid-January, President Carlos Saul Menem of Argentina presented a plan to
admit 100,000 immigrants from the former Soviet Union.

The catch is that immigrants will be allowed in only if they bring $20,000 per
person -- a fortune in the former Communist republics. The Argentine plan
indicates that payment for those who have no money would come from the United
States and Europe, which have yet to show great enthusiasm for the idea.

In May, Chile's congress is to vote on a law that would ease immigration for
Eastern Europeans, with the incentives still under discussion. The law has a
special clause on attracting Croats, apparently a bow to Chile's substantial
Croatian minority. Bolivia, Paraguay and Uruguay have also expressed interest in
attracting skilled immigrants.

Response to the offers has generally been restrained, perhaps because there has
not been a lot of international publicity on the issue. In late January,
however, Russian newspapers published Mr. Menem's proposal, bringing "hundreds
of inquiries and lines" at Argentina's embassy in Moscow, an Argentine Foreign
Ministry spokesman said in Buenos Aires.

According to a European Commission poll published in January, 13 million Eastern
Europeans are interested in immigrating to the West.

Those Who Have Left

Chile, Argentina and Uruguay all lost many young professionals during the 1970's
and 80's because of a combination of repressive military governments and
stagnant economies. Venezuela, South America's biggest oil exporter, mismanaged
its economy so badly in the 1980's that living standards fell and tens of
thousands of people left. But today, Argentina, Chile and Venezuela share
several traits -- low inflation, rapidly expanding economies and confidence in
the future.

There has been little public discussion of attracting new immigrants to Brazil.
In the 1950's, 590,000 people immigrated to Brazil. But 630,000 Brazilians
emigrated in the 1980's. Today, Brazil is in its deepest recession in a decade,
and proposals to attract East European technicians or professors are often
attacked as a threat to the jobs of professional groups.

The vast majority of this century's immigrants to Argentina, Chile and Venezuela
have been southern Europeans -- Italians, Spanish and Portuguese. There has also
been immigration by Ukrainians, Poles, Yugoslavs, Russians and others, but in
considerably smaller numbers.

With Venezuela hoping to be the first South American nation to receive East
European immigrants in large numnbers, an effort is under way here to make
immigration politically palatable, describing the new policies as selective.

In the 1970's, when Venezuela started to ride an oil-export boom, millions of
semiliterate, unskilled workers flocked here from Colombia, Ecuador and the
Dominican Republic. About 15 percent of the nation's population of 20 million
are illegal immigrants.

Believing that this flood depressed wages, some Venezuelans oppose European
immigration.

"There are more than enough of us who fear there will not be any such
'selectivity' and that a human avalanche will come to compete and to displace,"
Rafael Calderon wrote in El Universal, a newspaper here. "We are full of
immigrants who are hawkers and street peddlers."

Eduardo Fernandez, the opposition's leading presidential candidate for the 1993
elections, said of the illegal immigrants: "We have suffered from a very
negative immigration -- of people with virtually no education, of people who end
up clogging our social services."

Finding the Best

Surveys here show a great shortfall in trained personnel for various industries.
"We need 250 chemical engineers every year, but our universities only graduate
80 a year," said Freddy Rojas, president of the Federation of Chambers of
Commerce and Industry in Venezuela.

To match immigrants to Venezuela's job needs, business executives want to create
a computerized job bank to be used by recruiters in Eastern Europe. Under this
plan, immigrants would sign work contracts with private Venezuelan companies.
The companies and the Government would pay for air fare to Caracas, Spanish
language lessons and several months' housing.

Hoping to reactivate Venezuela's agricultural sector, the National Farmers
Federation has suggested that the state give 500-acre lots of land to immigrant
farming families.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 18, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

CHRONICLE

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Style Desk

LENGTH: 221 words


Many newly arrived refugee and immigrant women are "isolated, illiterate and
victims of domestic violence, but they are expected to bring up children in the
American system," says LE LIEU BROWNE, founder of the Refugee Women Council in
Manhattan. To address these women's needs, the council is holding a conference
today on "Refugee and Immigrant Women's Right to Know" at Hunter College's
School of Social Work.

SIMA WALI, a keynote speaker, said she would call for training that helps
refugee women become leaders. Speaking from personal experience, Ms. Wali will
talk about "the constant marginalization" of women in the traditional Islamic,
male-dominated society of Afghan refugees. After working with the Peace Corps in
Kabul, Ms. Wali fled the war in 1979 and is now executive director of a
Washington-based organization, Refugee Women in Development, and a member of the
Refugee Trauma Center at Harvard University.

ARTHUR HELTON, director of the Refugee Project of the Lawyers Committee for
Human Rights, is to focus on the plight of Haitian and Vietnamese boatpeople,
"the vast majority, women and children." Other scheduled speakers include DR.
REGINA S. PERUGGI, president of Marymount Manhattan College, and EVONNE
JENNINGS-TOLBERT, Deputy General Counsel of the city's Human Resources
Administration.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 7, 1992, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Temporary Sanctuary Tends to Get Permanent;
Political Persecution

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 416 words


To the Editor:

The Jan. 22 decision of the United States Supreme Court in Immigration and
Naturalization Service v. Elias-Zacarias, which overturns the decision of the
United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth District in San Francisco, is
deeply troubling. The person directly affected is a young Guatemalan who fears
persecution for his political opinion because he refused to join a guerrilla
movement.

Beyond this is the chagrin of those in Canada and other refugee-receiving
countries whose courts have reached the opposite conclusion on similar facts.
The handbook on procedures issued by the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees supports the broader interpretation of refugee law on which the Supreme
Court turned its back.

In Justice Antonin Scalia's view, persecution for political opinion is not
established by the attempt of the guerrillas to coerce Mr. Zacarias at gunpoint
into joining their organization. According to Justice Scalia, persecution under
the Refugee Act must be owing to the victim's political opinion, not the
persecutor's.

Most jurisdictions have held that refusal to join a guerrilla organization in
like circumstances is evidence of a political opinion. The Federal Court of
Canada and members of the Canadian Immigration and Refugee Board have held that
political opinion may be imputed by an agent of persecution, including one's
government.

The Court ignored that the refugee definition in United States law domesticates
the international definition taken from the Geneva Refugee Convention of 1951
and its 1967 protocol.

The failure of the majority opinion to cite a single international precedent,
judicial or academic, is doubly frustrating. The amicus brief filed by the
office of the High Commissioner for Refugees is filled with references to
international law and practice. It would have been helpful if the Court had
tried to distinguish the cases cited from other jurisdictions.

Managing the flow of refugees in a humane and compassionate way, including the
protection inherent in due process and fundamental justice can be accomplished
only by close collaboration between states, including respect for one another's
jurisprudence and international norms. In these days of global interdependence
perhaps even the Supreme Court might benefit from looking at how courts and
refugee boards in like-minded countries have decided similar cases.

R. G. L. FAIRWEATHER
Chmn., Immigration & Refugee Bd.
Ottawa, Feb. 20, 1992

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 7, 1992, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Temporary Sanctuary Tends to Get Permanent

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 348 words


To the Editor:

You offer in "Side With Refugees, Not Thugs" (editorial, Feb. 11) a resolution
to the Haitian boat people crisis based heavily on giving "temporary" sanctuary
in the United States. You do not believe most of the Haitians should be allowed
to stay for the long term, but never ask whether or not the United States has
ever offered safe haven to a group that ended up being just temporary.

The answer is never, at least in recent history, says Duke Austin, spokesman for
the Immigration and Naturalization Service. People from nearly two dozen
countries have been offered some sort of "temporary" stay in the last two
decades. In not one case have most of a nationality returned home, according to
Mr. Austin. "I would guess that probably in excess of 80 percent end up
staying," he said of the hundreds of thousands of "temporary" refugees.

The United States might be a lot more hospitable to the Haitians knocking at the
door were the hallway not already crowded with Nicaraguans and Salvadorans and
the den packed with Poles, Iranians, Afghans and Ethiopians who claimed
"temporary" quarters earlier.

Those who push temporary haven on our shores have an obligation to map out a
realistic strategy for how and when guests will leave. Another Immigration and
Naturalization Service spokesman, Verne Jervis, says our laws and court rulings
-- combined with refugee advocacy group actions and a Congress susceptible to
nationality pressure groups -- make it impossible to repatriate a people once
they set foot on United States soil. Perhaps safe haven advocates could help the
Haitians by proving repatriation possible and supporting the return of previous
"temporary" groups to homelands where civil war has ceased.

Our population size has already overtaxed the country's environmental and social
carrying capacity. The United States cannot be the permanent receptacle of the
overflow of the world's 90-million-a-year population explosion.

ROY BECK
Washington, Feb. 18, 1992

The writer is Washington editor of Social Contract, a quarterly journal.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 11, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

For Some in U.S., Peace In Salvador Brings Fear

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1224 words

DATELINE: TAKOMA PARK, Md.


Six weeks after the war ended in El Salvador, tens of thousands of Salvadorans
in the United States are worried that peace may make their already tenuous
position here even worse.

"Everyone is shaking," said Manfredo Granados, a 31-year-old refugee in the
Washington suburb of Langley Park, Md. "People don't know what is going to
happen to them."

Despite lives of poverty and longing for family and friends left behind, the
refugees are not ready to return home and are not sure they will ever be. The
Government of El Salvador also prefers that they stay away because they send
back millions of dollars that the country desperately needs and because the
country can barely take care of the people already there.

The Salvadoran Government estimates that the refugees sent back about $700
million last year, financing an estimated 60 percent of all home purchases in
the country. The Salvadoran Ambassador to the United States, Miguel Salaverria,
said the total was more than the foreign aid from the United States or the
profits of El Salvador's largest industry, agriculture.

For a Time, No Fears

At the end of 1990, about one in five Salvadorans in this country, 186,000,
signed up for an 18-month safe haven, offered because of the civil war. Some had
survived as illegal aliens in the United States for as long as 10 years, but the
temporary residency freed them from fears of being deported. It also gave them
work permits that made it a easier to look for jobs, typically as dishwashers,
housekeepers and other low-paying occupations.

This safe haven, officially known as "temporary protected status," is scheduled
to expire June 30, and many Salvadorans believe that the cease-fire, which took
effect Feb. 1, will prevent it from being extended. The Justice Department,
which oversees the Immigration and Naturalization Service, declined to comment
on its plans.

Last month the immigration service began warning the Salvadoran refugees with
temporary residency status, ordering them "to show cause for why you should not
be deported." Although it says hearings will not begin until next year, the
wording in large type at the top of the page -- "Warrant for arrest of alien" --
has spread panic.

Mr. Granados said he did not worry about deportation before he signed up for
temporary residency. "But this is different," he said. "Now the I.N.S.  knows
where to find me."

To register for the temporary protected status, Mr. Granados and others had to
give their names, addresses and other personal information to the immigration
service. Every six months, they must return to an immigration office to update
it.

Mr. Granados, a construction worker who came to the United States in 1983, said
he signed up for the temporary status when he was having difficulty finding a
permanent full-time job and his wife was expecting a child. It did little good;
he still works only part-time.

"I have a lot of friends who are now saying 'I told you so,' " Mr. Granados
said. "People think there's going to be a mass deportation, like the Haitians."

But Duke Austin, a spokesman for the immigration service, dismissed the fears of
a mass deportation as "ridiculous," saying the agency cannot round up 186,000
people.

'Be Pacing the Floor'

Attorney General William P. Barr could still choose to extend the safe haven for
Salvadorans. In recent months, Mr. Barr has granted temporary residency to
people from three other countries that have been embroiled in civil wars:
Lebanon, Liberia and Somalia. But he has denied it to the Haitians and refused
to extend it for the Kuwaitees.

James McGovern, an aide to Representative Joe Moakley, the Massachusetts
Democrat who is widely credited with gaining passage of the special status
legislation, said, "If I were a Salvadoran, I'd be pacing the floor."

He went on: "The whole thrust of the temporary protected status is that you're
here because there's a reason not to send you back. If there's peace, and it
looks like it's for real, the justification is no longer there."

The Salvadoran Government and leftist rebels of the Farabundo Marti National
Liberation Front signed the peace agreement on Jan. 16. It ended a 12-year war
that left more than 75,000 people dead and was marked by a series of tragedies,
from the assasination of the Archbishop Oscar Romero in 1980 to the murders of
five Jesuit priests in 1989.

Mr. Salaverria, El Salvador's Ambassador to the United States, said his
Government had requested an extension of the safe haven because the arrival of
thousands of refugees could harm the Salvadoran economy and thus "would endanger
the peace process."

"The Salvadorans who live abroad are a strong part of our economy," Mr.
Salaverria said. "They are the middle class upon which we will build a strong
democracy."

Opponents of an extension said jobs should not be used as foreign aid, and they
called the plea for temporary residency a ploy by the Salvadorans to achieve
permanent residency status.

"They're being disingenuous," said Alan C. Nelson, a former Commissioner of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service who is now a consultant to the Federation
of American Immigration Reform, which opposes letting the Salvadorans stay.
"They think that they can chip away at the laws until they can stay
permanently."

"Things may not be perfect in El Salvador now, but most of the world is
fragile," Mr. Nelson said. "What do you do? Not require them to go back?"

In interviews with two dozen Salvadoran refugees from across the United States,
all said that they planned to remain in this country for the next few years.
They said that El Salvador, devestated by bombings and the cost of waging a long
war, offered them little opportunity for work.

The refugees also described their difficult lives in the United States: they
share crowded homes, go years without seeing parents and spouses and spend much
of their days looking for work. Several refugees told of households where a
half-dozen or more people used the beds during the night, only to give them up
to another group in the morning who had worked night shifts.

"Everybody feels fearful about what's going to happen," said Gloria M., 30, a
refugee who would not give her last name because she did not want to draw the
immigration service's attention. "I miss my country, but I honestly don't want
to go home. It's difficult here, but we're comfortable."

Another refugee, Juan A., a 42-year-old janitor in Takoma Park, said he would
lose his work permit if his temporary residency status ended. That, in turn,
would mean that he could not legally keep his $18,000-a-year job as a janitor at
a local church and that he might have to stop sending the monthly $300 checks to
relatives in El Salvador that helped them put a new roof and walls on a house
that had been strafed with machine gun fire and hit by mortar shells.

Although Juan's wife and other children remain in El Salvador, it is hard for
him to imagine returning to live among the people who, he said, fired bullets
through his door and then threatened him with death.

"When I left El Salvador in 1985, a life was not worth more than a penny," he
said. "I want to go back, but it is too soon. The peace agreement is still only
a piece of paper. I want to save some money. I want my son to graduate high
school."

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Refugees in the United States from the war in El Salvador are
worried that they may have to return home now that the war has ended. Juan A.,
right, shown with his son Edwin, said it is hard to imagine returning even
though his wife and other children remain in El Salvador. (Marty Katz for The
New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 17, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Baker Rebuffs Compromise Plan By Congress on Israel Loan Issue

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1119 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 16


The Bush Administration has rejected key elements of a Congressional compromise
proposal for granting loan guarantees to Israel, possibly dooming the Israeli
aid request, Congressional and Administration officials said today.

Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d, in discussions over the weekend with
Senator Patrick J. Leahy, the Vermont Democrat who is chairman of the Senate
Appropriations subcommittee responsible for foreign aid, made clear that the
Administration opposed important parts of the compromise.

These provisions, Mr. Baker argued, would give Israel some of the $10 billion in
housing loan guarantees it is seeking without insisting on a freeze on Israeli
settlements in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip.

Refusal to 'Beg or Crawl'

Today, Israel's Defense Minister, Moshe Arens, said here that his country would
rather abandon its quest for the loan guarantees than "renounce the right of
Jews to live in Judea and Samaria," the biblical names for the West Bank.

Israel would "not beg or crawl for help" to absorb Russian immigrants, Mr. Arens
said, adding: "We are a small people, but we are a proud people. We shall have
to do it ourselves. I know we can do it, and I know we will do it."

Mr. Arens was in Washington for talks with Defense Secretary Dick Cheney.
Pentagon officials said Mr. Arens rebutted United States intelligence reports
that Israel had illegally shared American-made missile technology with China.
[Page A6.]

Senator Leahy, along with Senator Bob Kasten, a Wisconsin Republican and the
ranking minority member of the Appropriations subcommittee on foreign
operations, are scheduled to meet with President Bush on Tuesday in a last-ditch
effort to salvage a deal on the loan guarantees.

While Congressional and Administration officials say the chances of an
understanding are increasingly remote, it cannot be ruled out that both sides
are posturing for an 11th-hour compromise.

According to a senior Administration official, though, there are still
significant differences between the Kasten-Leahy compromise and what the Bush
Administration will accept.

The compromise would grant Israel $1 billion in loan guarantees immediately,
without linking these to a freeze on settlements, and give the President the
authority to provide the rest of the guarantees on the condition that Israel
restrict its settlement activity in the West Bank and Gaza.

Administration officials say Mr. Bush and Mr. Baker are not willing to accept
the granting of any loan guarantees without restrictions on settlements. They
are still saying that Israel can have all $10 billion in guarantees, spread over
five years, if it freezes its settlement activity entirely, or that it can have
a lesser amount for a shorter period if it freezes all housing starts in the
occupied territories.

Mr. Arens, speaking here to delegates to a United Jewish Appeal Leadership
Conference, said Israel could not accept the President's demand that it freeze
settlement building because it considers the settlements critical to its
security.

"This, my friends, we cannot do," Mr. Arens said.

If the Administration continues to set terms that Israel cannot live with, he
said, Israel would go its own way "without rancor."

Terms of Argument

Officials said Senator Leahy had argued with Mr. Baker that the Administration,
by not accepting the compromise, would be giving up an unprecedented opportunity
to have Congressional approval for linking assistance for Israel to a five-year
settlement freeze. This, they said, would come only at the cost of $1 billion in
loan guarantees being made available immediately.

With loan guarantees, Israel could go to private banks and investors and raise
the $10 billion at lower than normal interest rates. Israel would be responsible
for paying back the money. The United States, however, would have to set aside
several hundred million dollars in case of an Israeli default. Israel has
offered to pay that set-aside cost, which is fixed by the Office of Management
and Budget, provided that it is reasonable.

If Tuesday's talks at the White House between the President and the two Senators
produces no last-minute compromise, it sets up three options.

One is that Mr. Leahy and Mr. Kasten will go back to the subcommittee, reshape
their proposal with the Administration's terms, and then push ahead with the
foreign aid bill that they are to start drafting on Tuesday.

A second option is that they will ignore the Administration's demands, put their
compromise into the foreign aid bill as it now stands, and challenge Mr. Bush to
veto the bill. The Administration has already warned that the President will
cast a veto if necessary, and pro-Israel lobbyists say it is very unlikely that
they can muster the two-thirds required in both houses to override a veto.

This veto would come at a price for the Administration, since without a new
foreign aid bill, the President will not get the aid for Russia and money for
United Nations peacekeeping operations that he is seeking as part of the
legislation.

The third option is that Mr. Kasten and Mr. Leahy will drop the request for loan
guarantees from the bill, but it is extremely unlikely that the bill could then
be passed without the votes of Israel's supporters in Congress.

Provisions of Draft

The latest draft of the Leahy-Kasten compromise has these elements:

*Authorization of $2 billion in loan guarantees for Israel each year for the
next five years.

*Release of the first $1 billion in guarantees within 30 days of passage of the
legislation. Out of that $1 billion, though, $150 million would be deducted.
This represents the pro-rated amount Israel is expected to spend, between the
date of enactment of the legislation and the end of the fiscal year, Sept. 30,
on new construction activity in the West Bank and Gaza.

*Release of a second $1 billion in guarantees for 1992, as well as $2 billion a
year for the four years after that, would be at the President's discretion. He
would be able to hold up the guarantees any time he determined that the level of
Israeli settlement building in the territories was "inappropriate."

*Permission to Israel for a certain amount of "natural growth" in the West Bank
and Gaza Strip, even under a total freeze. This means that roads could be built,
wells dug and other development carried out -- provided that they are for the
use of both Arabs and Jews.

There are two other building exemptions in the draft legislation. Israel would
be allowed a certain amount of "security-related infrastructure," as well as
"scattered dwellings built to accommodate expanded families of those persons
living in the territories."

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Defense Minister Moshe Arens in Washington yesterday. (Reuters)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 22, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

IN SHORT: NONFICTION;
First Steps

BYLINE: By RICHARD F. SHEPARD

SECTION: Section 7; Page 16; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 234 words


Of all the vast tides of migration that have swept through history and through
every continent in the world, probably none was more concentrated than the wave
that washed 12 million immigrants onto American shores in little more than three
decades. Their first steps in the new land were taken on a pinpoint of an island
in New York harbor, in the shadow of the Statue of Liberty. ELLIS ISLAND: An
Illustrated History of the Immigrant Experience (Macmillan, $49.95) is a vivid
description of the island and its peak years as an admitting station, between
1892 and 1924. The authors -- Ivan Chermayeff, the vice president of the
American Institute of Graphic Art; Fred Wasserman, a former official of the
Ellis Island Immigration Museum; and Mary J. Shapiro, the author of "Gateway to
Liberty" -- have put between covers the equivalent of an actual visit to the
Ellis Island Immigration Museum. The book describes, often in their own words,
the immigrants and the officials and social workers who played a part in the
great influx. Lavishly produced with reproductions of historical documents and
more than 400 pictures, many in color, "Ellis Island" dramatically re-creates
the story of the immigrants from journey's start to journey's end. The reader
learns of injustices, abuses, hardships, triumphs and defeats -- and, mostly,
about the human treasures from abroad whose dream was the Golden Land.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Children detained on Ellis Island pose for a photograph, about
1910. (National Park Service/From "Ellis Island")

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 23, 1992, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Hidden Lives: New York's Poorest Immigrants -- A special report;
Crammed in Tiny, Illegal Rooms, Tenants of the Margins of Survival

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2367 words


Up three flights of broken stairs in a garment factory building on the western
edge of Chinatown was the windowless 8-by-10-foot cell that Abdulaye Kamara, an
immigrant from Senegal, was happy to call home.

His neighbors were mostly people like himself, resourceful immigrants from
China, Vietnam, Mexico and a few other countries, living quietly in a warren of
16 cubicles constructed illegally, with no apparent regard for building codes.

They had one working toilet, out in the narrow hallway, and no bath or kitchen.
The air they breathed was thick with particles of dust and lint, wafting from
three other floors where hundreds of Chinese women work at sewing machines from
morning till night. They paid $200 to $350 a month and considered it a bargain.

Reduced to Rubble

"I thought, 'This is lucky for me,' " Mr. Kamara said, recalling the day he
moved in four years ago. "Manhattan is very high."

This most rudimentary of dwellings is nothing but rubble now, courtesy of four
men with sledgehammers who showed up one morning in the wake of a
landlord-tenant dispute. Since then, eight tenants have managed to get rooms at
a single-room-occupancy hotel on East 28th Street -- a brief respite in the
ceaseless search for that rarest of New York commodities: a decent and
affordable place for a poor person to live.

But while the fourth floor is no more, the story of 372 Broadway in its
hardscrabble heyday -- and of the lives that brought its tenants together there
-- is the story of tens of thousands of marginal people who live packed together
in similarly subdivided illegal encampments all over New York City.

These are the people who find jobs where there aren't supposed to be any, who
manage to survive in New York -- and feed and shelter their families back home.
They are the people who sell flowers at highway exits and watches on Fifth
Avenue, who drive gypsy cabs in neighborhoods where yellow cabs won't go, who
bus tables in Chinatown and deliver takeout at 2 A.M.

They are from China, the Dominican Republic, Colombia, Haiti, Senegal, Mexico
and a lot of other places where freedom or work or both are in short supply.

At night here in America, they crowd 10 or more to a basement in East Flatbush,
the East Bronx and Washington Heights, or five to a subdivided room in Harlem,
Brighton Beach and Elmhurst. In Chinatown, some people sleep in shifts on bunks
in barracks-style rooms.

More Than 60,000

They are all citizens of an illegal underground network that has been expanding
since the 1970's, as the city's single-room-occupancy hotels have been swallowed
by real-estate development. It is impossible to know just how many of these
dwellings there are, but urban planners, tenant lawyers, social workers and
community organizers, based on their work with the tenants and on reports of
evictions from the Fire Department, estimate there are more than 60,000.

The encampment at 372 Broadway was certainly not the worst -- there were
sprinklers and fire alarms, and the walls were Sheetrock, not plywood and
chicken wire.

"This was actually palatial compared to the standards by which a lot of people
are living," said City Councilwoman Kathryn Freed, who is trying to help the
tenants.

And Mr. Kamara's cell was palatial compared to where he spent his first six
months at 372 Broadway. He is 5-foot-9 and thin, but in the circuit-breaker
closet, there was barely space for him to curl up on a narrow mattress on the
floor. Mr. Kamara, who is 31 years old, came to America 10 years ago to provide
for his mother and nine brothers and sisters back in Dakar. For the last four
years, he has done it on a meager $4.25 an hour as a stockboy. The
circuit-breaker closet cost $35 a week, cash.

Like Mr. Kamara, the other residents of 372 Broadway, devoted to work and saving
money for families back home, led lives as circumscribed as their tiny rooms.

In their two years in America, Fan Yong Guang, 35, and his brother, Fan Yong
Yuan, 30, returned every night from the garment factory where they sew zippers
to eat rice and vegetables cooked on a hot plate in their room. They have never
been to a restaurant, or a movie. Central Park? Fifth Avenue? They had never
heard of them.

"I don't know what is in America," the older brother said.

On one of his last nights at 372 Broadway, Mr. Kamara wore a secondhand winter
coat as he huddled in his cold cubicle, with only a candle for light. He had
just started a new job, as a $5.50-an-hour security guard, and his uniform hung
from a hook on the wall. Displayed on a dented metal desk was a Christmas card
from his family 4,000 miles away.

On his small tape player, his famous countryman, Youssou N'Dour, sang Mr.
Kamara's favorite song, "Immigres," about Senagalese like him who have gone
abroad in search of work.

"Every night before I go to sleep I'm thinking about the future," Mr. Kamara
said, in the smooth English he says he has taught himself here. His smile was
luminous.

"I want to build my mom a house in my country. Not a big house, just four rooms,
including the bathroom and kitchen. Mango trees out front. Sometimes I dream I'm
sitting under the mango trees with my mom and my brothers and sisters. Then I
wake up, and look around, and I'm here."

"This was Frankie's room. Frankie was Spanish. Frankie was a nice guy." Mr.
Kamara, the historian of the fourth floor, was giving a tour of a disaster area.
Frankie's room was one of those demolished by the sledgehammers, and Frankie had
vanished.

So had several Korean peddlers. And Sebastian. "Sebastian was Mexican," Mr.
Kamara said. "He sold stuff on the street, sweaters, scarves, everything."

Anyone who was desperate enough to find the way to the fourth floor, and who had
cash for rent, could get in. Mr. Kamara arrived after he lost the apartment he
shared with five people in the Bronx. Near the electronics store on Canal Street
where he was a stockboy, he had spotted the sign: "Room for Rent -- 372
Broadway."

Mee Ying Chan was a mystery tenant. She owns an apartment building in Queens.
Still, she insists that she is poor. Last year, she declared herself an
Independent candidate for the City Council but then dropped out. Ms. Chan's
neighbors enjoyed watching Chinese movies on her VCR, before it was stolen.

In two rooms down the hall lived Gina Doss and Harry Fromer, both from New York.
"Gina's in the hospital," Mr. Kamara said.

Mr. Fromer had returned to 372 Broadway after a month's absence -- he had also
been in the hospital, he said -- and, before he could reach his door, Mr. Kamara
gently broke the news. His room was no more.

"At least we're not on the street," said Mr. Fromer, whose last job was passing
out fliers for the Plum Blossom restaurant in Chinatown.

Mystery Landlord
Space Leased 'For Storage'

No one knows who put up the cubicles, though the tenants paid their rent to
Javier Arana, who runs a small retail fabric store on the building's ground
floor.

City records list the owner of 372 Broadway as the Broadway-White Realty
Corporation. Besides that building, the company, which has had many addresses
through the years but is not listed in the phone book, owns six apartment
buildings in the Bronx. A man involved in the operation of the building, Zalman
Deitsch, said he did not know that people were living in the building, which is
zoned for commercial use only.

Until recently, Mr. Deitsch said, Mr. Arana leased the fourth floor. He said Mr.
Arana told him he was using it for storage. Reached at the fabric store, Mr.
Arana said he had nothing to do with the fourth floor and refused to comment
further.

For the tenants of the fourth floor, the end may have begun when Ms. Doss,
apparently unaware that her room was illegal, took Mr. Arana to housing court
last October, demanding repairs. On Feb. 10, a judge fined Mr. Arana $3,500. On
Feb. 11, the men with sledgehammers went to work.

No Strangers to Trouble

"Look what they did to the Old Man's home." Mr. Kamara pointed to Room 408,
where the front wall had been knocked in. The Old Man, as Mr. Kamara refers
respectfully to 78-year-old Tsang Kok Wah, stood there in a soiled raincoat and
knit cap.

The tenants were stoic. This disaster was not their first. In the village where
he grew up, Mr. Kamara saw other children swallow stones because there wasn't
enough food. "For a long time it didn't rain," Mr. Kamara said. "For lunch, we
ate a little rice and drank a lot of water. For dinner we had bread and water
with sugar. Then everyone moved to the city."

To build his mother's house, Mr. Kamara says he needs $12,000 -- an enormous sum
of money in Dakar. After several years of nonstop labor -- peddling umbrellas,
icing cookies in a baking factory in the Bronx, making plastic hangers in a
factory in Brooklyn -- he had saved $6,000 in a bank in Senegal, he said.

"A few years ago my mom called," he said. "She told me the bank had gone out of
business. My money was just gone. I was discouraged. My mom said, 'It happened,
it's life. You have to encourage yourself.' So I started over." But he gave up
peddling -- it was too risky, he said -- and it is hard just to keep sending
money home, let alone to save.

Mr. Tsang wept as he talked through a translator about his losses. His family in
China was denounced for owning land when the Communists seized power in 1949.

"The Communists killed my parents," he said. "They executed my brother, and they
banged my wife's head on the wall until she died."

Mr. Tsang escaped to Hong Kong. Ten years ago, he came to New York. Here, he
said, he is safe from Communists. Though he owns property in Florida, Mr. Tsang
said, he can't live anywhere very far from Chinatown. He speaks no English.

On the fourth floor, the only running water was from a small sink in the
hallway. How, then, did Mr. Kamara manage to stay so clean?

Mr. Kamara pulled from his pocket the membership card that, for $25 a year,
admits him to the Carmine Street city pool, two subway stops and a short walk
from his old building. "I love to swim," he said. "I swim half a mile. And I
take a shower."

Work, Hope, Work
A Better Future For Someone Else?

On the morning of their last Sunday at 372 Broadway, no tenants were home. Mr.
Kamara, dignified in his uniform, was at his security guard post -- at the
luxury high-rise next door.

Mr. Tsang was at his job, in Atlantic City, where he trades in cut-rate casino
coupons for a modest profit, $4 a ticket. Seven days a week, he commutes by van
from Chinatown.

On Canal Street, Fan Yong Guang and his brother were peddling men's dress socks
from a cardboard box. "Four for 5 dollar," the older brother said to a couple
who stopped only to look. His sales pitch is the only English he knows.

The brothers peddle socks on their days off from the factory in Brooklyn.  Some
days they sew 200 zippers each; their hands get sore, they said. Other days
there is no work.

They each earn about $900 a month, they said. They send $100 a month to their
wives in China and put away a few hundred dollars for the day when their
families will join them. Food for both of them costs less than $10 a day. They
have one luxury -- 10 unfiltered cigarettes apiece a day.

"I'm going to make money for my son," the older brother said. "He's going to go
to school, and he's going to learn English. Then, when I'm old, he'll take care
of me."

Mr. Kamara is eager to experience the city. "A few years ago, I rented shoes at
Rockefeller Center for $10," he said. "I was falling. My friend took my picture.
I sent it to my family."

The Only Worker

Ice skating was one evening out of 10 years. Mr. Kamara can't afford small
pleasures. "I'm the only one working in my family," he said. "It is very hard to
find a job in my country." The only one he could find was pouring nail polish
into bottles at a factory for $3.50 a day -- when he could get it.

His mother, Ramatoulaye Diop, speaking in French from the home of a friend in
Dakar with a telephone, said the rent on her four-room house is $345 a month.
Abdulaye is the one who pays it, she said. She is proud of her second eldest
son.

Mr. Kamara gladly put in 11-hour days, seven days a week, as a stockboy at the
electronics store. For $45 a day. "I asked the boss for a raise," Mr. Kamara
said. "He told me, 'I can get two Mexicans for $45 a day.' "

Mr. Kamara, who has been searching the classifieds for a second job, recently
invested $3 in a red tie. He was wearing it with his white shirt the other
evening as he walked along bustling Canal Street. "You never know when you could
get a job interview," he said. "They won't hire you if you don't look nice."

In 'Heaven'
Companionship At an S.R.O.

At the Latham Hotel, 4 East 28th Street, the eight former tenants of 372
Broadway meet often in one another's rooms after work. "Now we have a lot of
problems," Mr. Kamara said. "We talk a lot."

It takes some improvising. Mr. Tsang speaks Cantonese, the brothers Mandarin.
Everyone's favorite tenant, Mr. Kamara, makes a point of greeting his Chinese
neighbors in their own language: "Ni hao ma?"

Holding tightly to Mr. Kamara's hand, the Chinese brothers repeated their
one-word assessment -- in English -- of their sparsely furnished hotel room:
"Heaven, heaven!"

After an telephone call from Councilwoman Freed's staff 18 days ago, the Fire
Department vacated the tenants, making them the responsibility of the city. If
they qualify, they will eventually move to housing projects or city-owned
apartments.

After All, Hope Flutters

Mr. Kamara is thinking of the house he wants to build his mother. His dream, he
said, seems distant.

"If I had a dream that this was going to be my life in New York," he said, "I
would just have stayed in my country and been poor."

But New York is where he is. And, he said, "I have to be hopeful." A few days
ago, hope was rising. "I got more hours on my job!" he said. "Double shifts!"

Mr. Kamara heard recently from his 27-year-old brother, Doudou. He can't find a
job. "He wants me to send him a plane ticket," Mr. Kamara said. "He wants to
come to New York."

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fan Yong Guang, left, and his brother, Fan Yong Yuan,
immigrants from China, sitting last month in an illegally built cubicle in
Chinatown before it was demolished in the wake of a landlord-tenant dispute
(Edward Keating/The New York Times); "I thought, 'This is lucky for me,' " said,
Abdulaye Kamara, an immigrant from Senegal, who lived in one of the cubicles at
372 Broadway. "Manhattan is very high." He stood outside his room. (C. M. Hardt
for The New York Times) (pg. B2)

TYPE: Special Report

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 29, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Israel Passport

SECTION: Section 5; Page 12; Column 4; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 340 words


To the Editor: The item on using United States passports in Israel ("U.S. to
Cancel Israel-Only Passports," Feb. 16) says that it is possible to have stamps
placed on documents other than the passport to avoid problems elsewhere.

This was not my experience. On Nov. 2, 1991, I visited Israel using my one U.S.
and only passport. American Express, who planned my itinerary, and others warned
me to not let Israeli immigration stamp my passport. My round-the-world trip
required me to continue to Dubai, which would then deny my entry. I wasn't
interested in Dubai, but any other routing to New Delhi would require hundreds
of dollars and additional miles.

After politely asking the Israel immigration officer twice not to stamp my
passport, he nodded his head in agreement, I thought, and then grinned as he
banged the stamp on.

Because of what this calamity meant to my exacting itinerary, I went to speak
with the officer in charge. The immigration officer who stamped my passport
immediately joined us. When I explained the incident to the superior, he
defiantly said, "We stamped your passport and there's nothing you can do about
it." When I asked the immigration officer why he stamped my passport, he said,
"because I wanted to," and laughed. They both could not have been more offensive
and arrogant.

When I went to the American Consulate, while waiting, I related my situation to
those sitting around me. They told me that they were there for the same reason.

PETER BENTLEY
San Francisco

Joseph Shoval, spokesman for the Israeli Minister of Tourism, responds: There is
usually no problem whatsever in requests such as Mr. Bentley's. We were
therefore surprised to learn that his request was refused. Without specifics on
time and date, we have been unable to identify the specific person involved. We
are extremely sorry for the distress caused to Mr. Bentley. However, we would
like to point out that there is no other country in the world which permits such
stamps to be marked on a separate document.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 13, 1992, Monday, Late Edition - Final

THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
In Chinese or Persian, It's in the Yellow Pages

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 923 words


Where do many new immigrants go when they want to get an immigration lawyer, a
tax consultant or a physician they can talk to? Where do they go to find their
national food, or a newspaper or church service in a language they can
understand?

Why to the Yellow Pages, of course, but not necessarily the telephone companies'
books. Many immigrants instead turn to any one of numerous ethnic directories.

Russian speakers, who make up one of the fastest-growing groups in this country,
can now take advantage of this compartmentalized and concise form of capitalism.
The Russian Yellow Pages has just appeared, with answers to almost anything a
newcomer would like to know.

$9 Billion Business

The Yellow Pages is now a $9-billion-a-year business that has grown sharply
since the breakup of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company in 1984, said
Edward G. Blackman, executive vice president of the Yellow Pages Publishers
Association. In addition to the increase in geographic directories, there has
been a surge in specialty directories, covering minority, ethnic and
second-language groups.

Such specialization can help businesses to reach a specific market, Mr. Blackman
said. "For example, a Chinese grocery can benefit from advertising in a Chinese
directory."

But he warned against the increase in "bogus yellow pages," companies soliciting
advertising for fly-by-night or nonexistent directories.

Scores of foreign-language and bilingual directories are published by
independent organizations.

For example, Asia System Media began publishing the Chinese Yellow Pages and
Business Guide in Southern California in 1982, expanding to Northern California
in 1988. Next month, it will start a directory in Washington, said Sam Yang,
assistant to the general manager.

New York's bilingual Chinese Business Guide and Directory, which also covers New
Jersey and Boston, is in its ninth year, with a distribution of 20,000 copies.
Its 560 pages include categories not found in the regular Nynex Yellow Pages,
like acupuncture and herbalists, Chinese orthopedics, and bean curd and bean
sprout shops. It also devotes 26 pages to Chinese restaurants.

The Iranian Yellow Pages has grown to 1,008 pages, from 98 pages a decade ago,
says Bijan Khalili, chairman of the Ketab Corporation in Van Nuys, Calif. Ketab
publishes a Farsi-language directory and a pocket version, with listings from 10
states, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, and mails some 37,000
free copies a year to Iranian immigrants, mainly in Southern California.

Some telephone companies with large ethnic populations in their markets also
publish Yellow Pages in foreign languages. Pacific Bell, for example, publishes
eight Spanish-language directories in Southern California, with a distribution
of 355,000 copies for the Los Angeles area alone.

In New York City, the Nynex Corporation has been publishing Paginas Amarillas
for the last decade. Current distribution is 468,300 copies.

Inspired by Nynex, Mario Duenas, a former New York truck driver, has been
publishing the Spanish Yellow Pages for Houston and Corpus Christi, Tex., since
1987, with a combined distribution of 165,000. "Things were tough the first two
years," said Mr. Duenas, who started out with $10,000 and had to borrow $100,000
from his family and friends. Now with his debts paid, he said he made close to
$75,000 last year.

Indeed, most of the new publications are the creations of immigrant
entrepreneurs and not the telephone companies.

For example, Francis Ha came to New York from South Korea in 1978. After working
for a year in his brother's grocery, he and his brother started the first Korean
Business Directory, which is now in its 12th edition, with more than 400 pages.
Since 1986, they have also published the Korean Directory of Greater N.Y. with
900 pages offering such information as help for small businesses, how to write a
resume and lessons in civics.

The latest ethnic directory in the New York market is the Russian Yellow Pages.
It is published by Ilya I. Levkov, who came to the United States from Lithuania
in 1956.

Mr. Levkov established Liberty Publishing House Inc. in April 1985, "the same
month Gorbachev came to power," and publishes books in Russian for readers here
and in the former Soviet Union. These include Tom Clancy's "The Hunt for Red
October" and President Bush's autobiography, "Looking Forward."

Plenty of Information

In February, Mr. Levkov printed 5,000 copies of the Russian Yellow Pages. It
includes more chapters of information than commercial listings and sells for
$13, unlike most yellow-page directories, which are free.

For example, readers are told how to write to celebrities like Woody Allen,
Ann-Margret and Kirk Douglas for their autographs. Also listed is a wide
selection of special-interest groups, including the American Fur Industry,
American Society of Inventors, Beer Drinkers of America and Gamblers Anonymous.

Public-service chapters discuss everything from how to cope with taxes and how
to buy a telephone, to the detection of swindlers and the art of returning
merchandise.

"This is an instrument to help Russian speakers enter as deeply as possible into
American life," Mr. Levkov said. "I wanted to excite them with all the
possibilities but warn them against the promises of professional salesmen."

Indeed, Mr. Levkov is so enthusiastic about his latest project that he is
currently negotiating to have an edition of the Russian Yellow Pages published
in Moscow.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Foreighn-languary directories are booming nationwide, and Ilya
I. Levkov has brought New York its latest one, the Russian Yellow Pages. (Nancy
Siesel for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 15, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Schools Cope With Influx of Immigrants

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 828 words


The huddled masses keep pouring into New York City's schools, infusing them with
immigrant ambition and novel folkways but also overloading classrooms and
straining the budget and the teaching staff.

An annual report issued yesterday by the Board of Education showed that about
120,000 immigrants from 167 countries had enrolled in the city's schools over
the past three years, pushing the system's student population close to the
million mark. This year's influx of 43,268 immigrants is greater than the 40,845
that enrolled in the 1990-91 school year, and even more than the 35,600 in the
1989-90 school year, indicating that the trend is nowhere near abating.

Robin Willner, the board's director of strategic planning, compared the tide to
the immigrant waves of the turn of the century and the period after World War I
when New York City's classrooms were brimming with Jewish and Italian immigrants
who frustrated their teachers with their halting English and unfamiliar customs,
but brought with them a vast reservoir of desire and hope.

Stretching a Shrinking Budget

"There's a self-selection process for people who have been through incredible
difficulties and they bring a lot of drive and determination," she said. "But
these are also youngsters who have been through a lot of tumult and they are
usually limited in English proficiency and going through differences in culture,
and we need to provide services to make that transition easier."

Despite a shrinking budget, the board must find and pay for more bilingual
teachers and teachers of English as a second language. It already has more than
5,200 such teachers, about 8 percent of its staff, and has had difficulty
finding more, particularly for immigrant groups like Albanians, who have not
historically been well represented in the city. The cost of immigrant language
programs is $130.6 million a year, most of it paid with Federal and state money.

Many of the immigrants come from countries where education may not be compulsory
for as many years as it is in the United States; New York City's teachers often
must work with students who are illiterate even in their native languages. Ms.
Willner said students also bring with them attitudes toward their teachers'
authority and to class participation that are in sharp contrast to the more
freewheeling customs of the United States.

The school board is also squeezed for classroom space. It has a $4.3 billion
program for constructing new buildings and renovating old ones, but much of the
program has been scaled back in the city's fiscal crunch.

Classes in Auditoriums

Of the 120,000 students who have immigrated during the past three years, 23,000
are from the Dominican Republic, 10,000 from Jamaica, 8,000 from Russia and the
former Soviet Union, 7,000 from Guyana, 7,000 from China, 6,000 from Haiti,
4,800 from Trinidad and 4,200 from Mexico.

One elementary school, P.S. 19 in Elmhurst, in Queens School District 24, has
2,100 students from 45 different countries and is so crowded that it equals the
size of many high schools, which draw from far larger geographical zones.

John Falco, the district's deputy superintendent, told of classrooms in other
schools in his district that are held on auditorium stages or in assistant
principals' offices. One classroom with 45 students is taught simultaneously by
two teachers in order not to violate the union contract.

Carlos Ledee, the district's bilingual director, said the district had enough
Spanish, Chinese and Korean students to form bilingual classes of at least 20 on
a grade. Students from Eastern Europe and other countries with small
representations are assigned to regular classes and pulled out for 45 minutes
each day for instruction in English as a second language.

2d-Generation Challenges

The district, which includes Elmhurst, Corona, Maspeth, Ridgewood and Woodside,
is getting two new schools and additions to another five.

"Our immigrant population is terrific," Mr. Falco said. "Without getting overly
maudlin, it's more or less the way my family arrived in this country a
generation or so ago. You have industrious people who come to this country for
all the benefits our family came for -- freedom and economic prosperity -- with
children eager to learn."

Dr. Emanuel Tobier, a professor of economics and planning at New York
University, suggests that things may get tougher before they get better. Many of
the immigrant couples who are bringing children will be bearing more children
and many of the children they already have may be approaching child-bearing age
themselves. All this promises a mushrooming in the numbers of second-generation
children and the challenges they pose.

Mr. Tobier said that while hard-driving immigrants may find success among the
city's employers, he wondered whether the children of those immigrants may lose
some of their hunger to learn in schools that are overcrowded and underfinanced.


LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: About two-thirds of the 120,000 immigrant children who have entered the
New York City public school system in the past three years, including this
school year, are from the 11 countries.

Dominican Republic          23,000
Jamaica                     10,000
Russia                       8,000
Guyana                       7,000
China                        7,000
Haiti                        6,000
Trinidad                     4,800
Mexico                       4,200
Ecuador                      3,800
Colombia                     3,700
Korea                        3,600


(Source: New York City Public Schools)
Graph: "Education: Immigrants in Class"

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 16, 1992, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Students Teaching Teachers;
Immigrants Reverse Language-Skill Roles in Bronx School

BYLINE: By MARIA NEWMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1147 words


With the nervous expressions of students afraid of being called on, eight
teachers at Theodore Roosevelt High School in the Bronx sat in a semicircle the
other afternoon, while the same number of teen-agers sat beside them looking
smugly self-confident.

"Maria necesita mejorar, Senora Vera," ("Maria needs to improve, Mrs. Vera"),
Claire Santoro, an art teacher turned student, said hesitantly, reciting a mock
teacher-parent conversation from a workbook.

Yesenia Gomez, a 15-year-old ninth grader, gently corrected her pronunciation
and responded, "La nina necesita ayuda." ("The girl needs help.")

The teachers and students are the players in a rare exercise in role reversal
intended to narrow the chasm of language and culture that separates so many of
New York City's young immigrants and their teachers.

A plan that was devised by the school-based management team at Roosevelt, it is
the first attempt in New York City schools to use students as teachers in their
native language, said James S. Vlasto, the spokesman for Chancellor Joseph A.
Fernandez. In addition to the Spanish class, there is one in Vietnamese.

And at a time when students who are not proficient in English are flooding the
schools, the program has attracted the attention of officials at several other
schools who have asked Roosevelt officials how to start their own.

120,000 Immigrant Students in 3 Years

Figures released this week by Mr. Fernandez's office show that in the last three
years, 120,000 immigrant students have come to the New York City public schools
from 167 countries. The growing numbers will tax the school system's ability to
accommodate the students, both with classroom space and with teachers who can
speak the various languages.

The mission of Roosevelt's program is not to train teachers who could qualify to
work in the school's extensive English as a Second Language program. Nor is
there an expectation that the class, which meets for two hours every week for 10
weeks, will turn out staff members who are fluent in Vietnamese or Spanish.
Instead, the program is all about adults and children who inhabit the same
building up to seven hours a day, from school secretaries to Dominican students,
to math teachers and Vietnamese immigrants, and merely want help in
understanding one another just a little bit better in a fast-changing world.

"Putting students and teachers together was an inspired idea," said Mrs.
Santoro, who grew up in the predominantly Italian Belmont section, where
Roosevelt is situated, and has seen the changes in the neighborhood as more
Hispanic and Asian residents have moved in. "This helps you understand what they
go through in learning English.

"You're so used to being on top, of being in control of a classroom, that it's
good to once again be in the situation where you're making the mistakes in front
of them and looking foolish."

Like the students in many other New York City schools, Roosevelt's student
population has become more ethnically diverse over the years. Of its 3,059
students, 1,000 are listed as having limited proficiency in English, meaning
that the school must provide at least some instruction in the student's native
language.

Hispanic students make up 62 percent of the school's student body, while 29
percent are black, 8 percent are Asian and 1 percent are white.

The after-school language program is not part of the English as a Second
Language curriculum, although it is led by Norma Cruz Dunn, the assistant
principal in charge of foreign language instruction and E.S.L. It is open to
anyone on the staff, from teachers to social workers and guidance counselors.
Students are selected on their academic performance and Spanish fluency.

Since it began in the summer of 1990, about a third of the school's 300 teachers
have enrolled in at least one of the courses, Mrs. Dunn said.

"Teachers are able to speak with the parents on open school night, at least a
very basic dialogue, and they get an appreciation of the language," she said.
"This also gives students a good feeling about themselves. When they act as
teachers, it is as if they are saying: 'I have something good and I want you to
appreciate it and you are now looking at me in a different way. I'm not just a
dopey kid you see, who doesn't speak English very well. I have something to
share.' "

Student for Each Teacher

Mrs. Dunn conducts her entire class in Spanish, and a student sits beside each
teacher. Together, they practice a conversation from the workbook and discuss
pronunciation.

One by one, each teacher was called on to stand and recite the conversation with
a student partner, and Mrs. Dunn pointed out how different each student's accent
was, as some of them were from different countries and some from Puerto Rico.

Harvey Kaplan, a special education counselor, had no trouble with the phrases,
but recited them with a bit of a Castilian accent, because he learned Spanish
when he was stationed in Spain in the military. Also, his wife is Spanish.

On the other hand, Eileen Simonetti, the school secretary, spoke more haltingly,
as she has had little experience with Spanish.

No Trouble With 'Amor'

Mrs. Dunn then handed out copies of the song "Eres Tu." She asked them, "What
type of song is this?" in Spanish. The students and some teachers quickly
answered, "Amor."

They practiced the verses several times. Then, accompanied by a recording, they
all tried to sing it together, but some who were less fluent were always a few
beats behind.

Mrs. Dunn told them about joining words together in singing, "so that the words
don't leave you behind."

"That's the way they're supposed to be pronounced," she said; "it's not that we
speak fast."

"Oh, no," most of the teachers said in unison, laughing. One teacher said: "When
I listen to the radio in Spanish, I don't understand a thing, because they speak
so fast."

Business of Subjunctives

After a break of cookies, coffee and sodas, the class divided into an advanced
group and a group of basic speakers. Then, they got down to the business of
subjunctives, past participles and other grammatical issues.

The program is not only giving the teachers basic dialogue to help them
understand students and their parents better, Mrs. Dunn said, but it is also
helping students understand teachers.

"I get involved in their work and I see it's not easy," said Amarilis Salas, 17,
who came from Puerto Rico five years ago. "I know they worry about the students
who come from other countries. And dealing with 40 students all at once is also
not easy."

Rafis Nin, who is 18 and from the Dominican Republic, said trading roles knocks
down walls between students and teachers.

"One can have a better relationship with the teachers through this class," he
said. "I see the way they try to learn, and I also want to improve my English."


LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Turning the tables on teachers has long been the dream of
students. At Theodore Roosevelt High School in the Bronx, it has become reality.
Madeline Estevez gave a language lesson to Stephen C. Hosmer, a teacher, in a
recent class; The Roosevelt program has attracted the attention of other schools
that have large enrollments of students not proficient in English. Amarilis
Salas, a senior, gave a Spanish lesson at the blackboard to Joan Reid, a
teacher's assistant. (Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 26, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE NEW YORK REGION;
Immigrants Jam Schools, Invigorating a System

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 962 words


Despite turn-of-the-century photographs of hollow-eyed Jewish and Italian
children gazing at their teachers with gratitude and zeal, history presents a
less rose-tinted picture of immigrants in the New York public schools.

The swarms of children in the Lower East Side ghetto were often crammed into
classrooms of 60, and truancy and delinquency were rife. Reading and math scores
plummeted and history classes were curtailed so more English could be taught. A
1911 Teachers College study shows that only 60 percent of elementary school
children went on to high school; even the most ardent pupils had to work to
support their families.

But history also shows that waves of immigration have enlivened New York's
schools at the same time as they have overwhelmed them. The news two weeks ago
that 120,000 immigrant children from 167 countries have entered the city's
schools over the last three years was greeted as a sign of renewal as robust as
the cherry and apple blossoms coloring the cityscape.

During the 1970's and 80's, the city's schools had seemed doomed to fade slowly,
hurt by the middle class's steady exodus to the suburbs, by fiscal cuts,
decaying buildings and a growing population of poor youngsters from chaotic
families.

Now immigrant families from the Dominican Republic, Jamaica, Russia, Guyana,
China and other countries have rejuvenated some floundering schools.

Many families are fleeing political oppression or poverty. "Every time there's
an upheaval anywhere in the world, the schools in New York are the first to
absorb it," says Mitchell L. Moss, director of New York University's Urban
Research Center.

Some arrive illiterate even in their native languages. But others, says Dr.
Emanuel Tobier, an economics professor at N.Y.U., are among the most ambitious
and best educated of their compatriots, with an enormous craving to make it and
an energizing fear of catastrophe if they don't.

Seward Park, the Lower East Side's neighborhood high school, was for a long time
a place to avoid, but an influx of Chinese and Latin American students has
brightened its academic tone. The annual dropout rate, for example, fell from
13.5 percent in the 1982-83 school year to 10.7 percent in 1989-90.

The prestigious Westinghouse national science competition is still dominated by
New York City schools, as it has been since it began in the 1940's, but the
faces have changed. Winning often requires working after school in a laboratory
for two years, and many of the recent winners hungry enough to do that have been
the children of immigrants from China, India and the Soviet Union.

Soundings like these, says Dr. Tobier, buoy many executives, who have long
despaired about the quality of the city's work force.

Also, countries like South Korea and Thailand are gaining new prominence in the
world economy. Today's immigrants raised in New York will be well-positioned for
international commerce.

"This is a multicultural world, and we're rich in terms of who is in our
system," said Joseph J. Saccente, who is retiring as the Board of Education's
chief executive for monitoring and improving schools.

But an influx of immigrants brings problems too. District 6 in Washington
Heights is so crowded that students are sent to the east Bronx. In District 24
in Queens, classes are held on the auditorium stage and two assistant principals
moved into the principal's office so classes could be held in their offices.

Hunting Albanian Teachers

Schools are scrounging around for bilingual teachers, and not just in Spanish
and Chinese. District 11 in the northeast Bronx is considering hiring teachers
of Albanian, but they are hard to find. Most immigrants who don't speak Spanish
must take their classes entirely in English, and some educators fear they will
suffer in mathematics and science classes.

The debate over bilingual education, settled legally but not philosophically, is
being stirred up by the new wave of immigrants. Some teachers complain that
students are being funneled into bilingual classes to furnish jobs for bilingual
teachers, and say immigrants would learn more English the old-fashioned way --
by breaking with their own language cold turkey.

But others who grew up in the old system argue that it forces students to endure
years of feeling stupid in subjects like mathematics when their handicap is
linguistic, not arithmetical.

Ambition, Pluck and Pressure



 "I was competent in my own language," recalls Angel Villarreal, the Puerto
Rican-born assistant principal of Junior High School 98 in the Bronx.

Schools are also being asked to revamp their curricula to take account of the
cultural backgrounds of newcomers. Such sensitivity, says David Reimers, a
historian of immigration, was never shown the Irish and German immigrants of the
mid-19th century.

And experts like Mr. Moss believe that new immigrants have injected the system
with ambition, pluck and pressure for better schools. He says Asian families in
the Forest Hills neighborhood where he grew up are joining longtime residents in
demanding improvements.

Perhaps cognizant of that emerging constituency, Mayor David N. Dinkins last
week decided to restore $600 million of almost $1.5 billion he had taken out of
a $4.3 billion school construction plan. Overcrowded District 24 is already
building one elementary school, has a junior high school on the drawing board,
and has five other additions in the works.

"It's more or less the way my family arrived in this country a generation or so
ago," said John Falco, the district's deputy superintendent. "You have
industrious people who come to this country for all the benefits our family came
for -- freedom and economic prosperity -- with children eager to learn."

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: P.S. 19 in Elmhurst, Queens, is overcrowded, with 2,100 students
from 45 countries. (Nancy Siesel for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 29, 1992, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

When the Irish Came Into the American Club

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 572 words


To the Editor:

As an opponent of Patrick J. Buchanan's racist American nationalism, I enjoyed
Prof. Fred Somkin's knock at President Bush's challenger from the right in
"Buchanan's Club" (letter, April 6). But I am disappointed that, as a teacher of
American history, he shows limited knowledge of American assimilation and
nativist history.

Irish and German Roman Catholics were admitted to American club privileges the
moment they got off the boat, as against African-American Protestants. By about
1900, they were members of the club itself -- not without recurring discomfort
about Irish superpapal Catholicism. The rules had to change in the face of
massive immigration from Southern and Eastern Europe.

United States immigration quotas of the 1920's were silent on religion, but
implicitly defined Northwest Europeans as the core of the American nation whose
proportion should be sustained under future immigration. This was abandoned in
the 1960's, but two immigration acts last decade specifically allowed quotas for
the Irish. I am not aware of any other group given such undisguised privilege.
Indochinese refugees got special treatment because of the Vietnam War. With
Poles and Soviet Jews, it was done largley for domestic political
considerations, plus some genuine philo-Semitism, mixed with guilt for
ungenerous behavior 50 years ago. But they still had to pass a test as refugees
from likely persecution.

Irish-American politicians were the central patrons of the Irish immigration
privilege, but many in Congress accepted that the Irish make quintessential
American recruits. Hispanic and Asian groups complained about these Irish quota
acts.

Mr. Buchanan, in his television interview with David Frost, said he was
"multicultural," being the descendant of Scotch-Irish, Irish and Germans. When
campaigning in the South, he drew attention to his "old stock" Protestant
ancestors who had fought for the Confederacy.

A look at the history of the Christian Front in New York City around 1940 is
interesting. It was a fascist-model, openly anti-Semitic group. Like the America
First movement, it opposed United States involvement in World War II (calling it
"Jews' war"). The group took its ideas from the Rev. Charles Coughlin, the
Canadian-Irish radio priest. The membership was disproportionately
Irish-American, but it was American nationalist, not old-country linked, and not
at all explicitly Roman Catholic, but rather devoted to the "white, Christian
American race."

After Pearl Harbor, the Federal Government suppressed the Italian Fascist and
Nazi organizations in this country. The Christian Front presented a continuing
difficulty because it was not foreign linked.

My mother used to point out to me the arrogance of her fellow Irish immigrants
when they referred to native-born Americans of non-English-speaking stock as
"foreigners." It seems that her fellows understood something that the
Congressional majority also intuitively accepts. The Irish Immigration Reform
Movement campaigned in the 1980's with placards reading "Legalize the Irish."
Advocates of special treatment for Salvadorans or Haitians feel it is necessary
to come up with some extraordinary reason, for example, "Don't Send Them Back to
the Death Squads."

ROBERT ST-CYR
Greenlawn, L.I., April 13, 1992

The writer is co-author of "Mick: A Documentary History of Anti-Irish
Discrimination in America."

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 3, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THEATER REVIEW;
Immigrants' Tales

BYLINE: By LEAH D. FRANK

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 17; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 613 words


"VAGABOND STARS," a musical at the Queens Theater in the Park in Flushing
Meadows Corona Park, takes a look at the Yiddish immigrants of the early part of
the century and chronicles their trials and tribulations.

It is a well-worn theme, but like the "boy meets girl, boy loses girl" plot that
propels so many stories, its retelling is satisfying in part because it is so
well known.

Since 1607, when the first English settlers pushed the Indians out of Jamestown,
more than 42 million people have migrated to the United States. The journey
itself was difficult enough, and for many it involved economic hardship and
physical and emotional trauma. Yet, getting into America was frequently as hard,
if not harder, than getting to America in the first place.

One result of human conflict is the synthesizing of real-life drama into
theater, film, art and literature. In this country, 70 percent of the immigrants
who arrived between 1890 and 1910 were refugees from Eastern and southern
Europe, and when they came they brought with them centuries of music and drama
that they had incorporated into an expression of their emotions about their
adopted land.

The vast multicultural movement gave rise to vaudeville, Yiddish theater,
contemporary musicals like "Fiddler on the Roof" and even recent movies like
"Moonstruck." A simple listing of the artistic legacy of the vast immigration
would fill volumes.

"Vagabond Stars," a musical by Nahma Sandrow, Raphael Crystal and Alan Poul, and
adapted from Ms. Sandrow's book "Vagabond Stars: A World History of Yiddish
Theater," nestles comfortably into the theatrical body of immigrant tales.

In a series of sketches and songs, "Vagabond Stars" looks at the excitement and
the loneliness of being a stranger in a strange land, where the only connection
to the old country is a series of letters that form tattered, fragile links to
former lives.

The creators of "Vagabond Stars" have adapted material from turn-of-the-century
New York Yiddish theaters, and the show has the flavor of the pulsating Lower
East Side with its romance, dreams, yearnings, hard work and bittersweet
memories.

As directed by Christopher Catt, the numbers flow easily between song and sketch
and between pathos and humor, and the five-member cast exudes an infectious aura
of good will. In fact, if there is a problem with this production, it is that
everything about it is too nice. The passion of a transplanted people is turned
into something as insubstantial as spun-sugar candy. It is pretty and sweet, but
completely umemorable.

The two women, Cynthia Firing and Guylaine Laperriere, have voices that carry
all of the nuances within the songs. Eugene Flam, Fred Goldberg and John Patti
are also capable vocalists. The five of them, designated points of a shining
star, do their best to convey a sense of the diversity within the major influx
of Jewish immigration. That they never manage to be anything more interesting
than cute is a production flaw rather than a performance failure.

The stage is small and narrow, but the designer, Sarah Lambert, has pegged the
flavor of the material by using scraps. They include bits of photographs of the
Lower East Side with its crowded streets, posters from the Yiddish theater and
headlines in Yiddish from The Jewish Forward. She has turned the curtain into a
huge section of a passport, with its stamps and "official" signatures.

"Vagabond Stars" is pleasant, mild entertainment. In the comfortable cabaret
setting of the Queens Theater's small downstairs space in the New York State
Pavilion, it turns into a mellow evening of reminiscing. It will continue
through May 24.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of the cast of "Vagabond Stars." (Carol Rosegg/Martha
Swope Associates)

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 11, 1992, Monday, Late Edition - Final

AFTER THE RIOTS;
Riots Put Focus on Hispanic Growth and Problems in South-Central Area

BYLINE: By MARIA NEWMAN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1984 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 10


Two days after the rioting began here on April 29, several politicians and
community organizers huddled in a youth center to forge a strategy for
maintaining calm among the city's Hispanic residents, who make up 40 percent of
the Los Angeles population.

The meeting was held in East Los Angeles, an enclave of Mexican-Americans that
is where most of the city's Hispanic leaders have their political roots. But
they could not think of a single Hispanic leader to invite from South-Central
Los Angeles, the area that was hardest hit by rioting and that is home to many
recent Hispanic immigrants.

East Los Angeles, which was largely unaffected by the rioting, has been the home
of generations of Mexican-Americans. But South-Central Los Angeles is quite
different. The area has long been predominantly black, but in the last few years
it has seen a dramatic influx of Latin Americans, many of whom immigrated to the
United States recently or illegally.

The area has become a port of entry for Latin Americans coming from disparate
cultures and countries, some torn by war, and many of the new immigrants are
struggling to make a living in their first jobs in this country.

The changes to the sprawling South-Central area have caught many people,
including local Hispanic officials, almost unaware.

'Lot of Work to Do'

"At a time when we really needed to reach out there, we found that we were not
as informed as we could have been about who the Latino leaders were in that
area," Los Angeles County's only Hispanic Supervisor, Gloria Molina, said in an
interview. "All of us have an awful lot of work to do to learn about the
changing demographics of South-Central Los Angeles."

In the last decade, the number of Hispanic people, who can be of any race, has
increased by 119 percent in that area, while the number of blacks declined by 17
percent. The 1990 census showed that South-Central Los Angeles was 45 percent
Hispanic and 48 percent black.

But there is no Hispanic elected official from South-Central Los Angeles, partly
because many of the Hispanic residents are recent arrivals. There are few
social-service agencies that cater to Spanish speakers, and even in churches
where the congregations are becoming more Hispanic, parishioners barely speak to
newcomers because of the language barrier.

The riots have aroused the attention of Hispanic leaders about the huge bloc of
Hispanic residents in the South-Central area, many of whom are going unserved
and unrepresented.

Many Illegal Aliens Arrested

"There was a void there," said Hector de Paz, an organizer with the California
Immigrant Workers Association. "No one from the Latino leadership came out
during the riots and assured the community that everything would be all right."

The police said that about a third of those arrested in the unrest were Hispanic
people and that many were illegal aliens who were promptly handed over to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service for deportation. Of the 58 people who
died in the riots, more than a third were Hispanic people. Thirty percent to 40
percent of the businesses destroyed were Hispanic-owned, although officials with
the Los Angeles Economic Development Corporation said no one had done an
accurate accounting yet.

"Latinos actually got the brunt of this," said Dr. David E. Hayes-Bautista, a
demographer at the University of California at Los Angeles and head of its
Chicano Studies Research Center. "They got beat up, burned out and arrested. Yet
it is still being looked at as a black-white issue."

The Hispanic residents in the South-Central area are mostly Central Americans,
or recent Mexican immigrants. Slowly, their presence is becoming more evident.
In the shadow of the Watts Towers, a landmark rising over Watts, a row of small
and colorfully painted houses are now inhabited mostly by Hispanic families.
More than half of the babies born at the Martin Luther King Jr. Hospital are
born to Hispanic mothers.

Immigrants Moving In

As blacks have moved out of the South-Central area to better neighborhoods to
the west or south, their homes have been bought by Hispanic immigrants attracted
by the relatively affordable prices.

Carlos Vaquerano, an official with the Central American Refugee Center, said
some moving in are entrepreneurs, who can better afford to begin small
businesses here. Others are working at bottom-rung jobs and trying to support
families who often live in crowded housing.

Central Americans began moving into the Pico-Union neighborhood, just west of
downtown Los Angeles and north of the South-Central area, more than a decade
ago, but as that area became severely overcrowded, Hispanic families have made
their way south of the Santa Monica freeway to the South-Central area, a place
of small California-style bungalows and numerous mom-and-pop businesses now in
the midst of change.

At St. Brigid Roman Catholic Church on Western Avenue, a once predominantly
black church is adapting for new Hispanic members. Now, one of its three Sunday
Masses is in Spanish.

Last week, in response to the riots, church volunteers organized a clothing and
food drive to help those who were burned out of their homes or their jobs. All
the volunteers one morning were black, but many of those who came to seek help
were Hispanic.

"I think a lot of the reason they don't participate is that they don't really
speak English," said Iris Glover, who has attended St. Brigid for 11 years.
"These are not Hispanics who were born here. They emigrated here. Many people do
feel like if I can't speak your language, then I'm certainly not going to
intermingle with you."

One priest has tried to persuade the two groups to begin to communicate,
especially as they see each other at the church between each group's Mass.

"He told us to say hi to one another, if nothing else," said Ethel Hightower.
"He tried to teach us the Spanish way to say hi, and them the English way, but
most people don't want to bother to learn Spanish, so they nod to one another."

As Ms. Glover and Ms. Hightower were talking, Jose Humberto Diaz, who said he
had recently moved into the neighborhood, came by to ask when they would begin
giving out food. The women asked a visitor to translate for them, as Mr. Diaz
did not speak English and they did not speak Spanish.

Satisfaction With Area

Mr. Diaz, a native of El Salvador who has lived in the United States three
years, said many of his friends were surprised when he decided to move to the
South-Central area.

"People asked me why I would want to live here," Mr. Diaz said. "They said it
was a terrible neighborhood. They told me that those who lived here did not get
along with Latinos. But that has not been my experience at all."

Mr. Diaz, who works at a fish market, told of a time his car would not start.
His neighbor, a black who does not speak Spanish, came out and helped him jump
start his car with his own van.

"To me, they have been very good," Mr. Diaz said.

'Not Just a Black Problem'

Some of those who work with the Central American community say many Hispanic
residents of the South-Central area and other parts of Los Angeles were caught
up in the violence after the verdict in the trial of four white police officers
for beating Rodney G. King partly because they lack the deep roots in their
communities that many Mexican-Americans have in East Los Angeles. Others said
participation in the violence occurred because many Hispanic residents suffered
from the same depressed economic conditions as others who were rioting and
looting.

"The Rodney King incident demonstrated a profound dissatisfaction with the
unequal treatment of people of all ethnic races in this country," said Mr.
Vaquerano. "It provoked a lot of people who were not happy with the way things
are. It was not just a black problem, it is one also for whites, Hispanics,
Asians and any one who has human feelings."

Mr. Vaquerano, whose center for refugee assistance is in the Pico-Union area ,
where many Hispanic-owned businesses were burned, said he saw Hispanic people
taking part in the looting like everyone else.

"Some of them were honest people who were pushed forward by the anarchy they saw
around them," he said. "They saw others destroying and burning and they thought
to themselves, 'We will be left with nothing.' And so they also began looting."

As the Hispanic presence in the South-Central area continues to increase, some
community leaders said the Mexican-American political leaders, who are currently
the Hispanic political establishment in Los Angeles, will have to accommodate
them or risk more of the same kind of social unrest seen since April 29. Dr.
Hayes-Bautista has also written scholarly works that portray that as a likely
outcome.

There are already efforts to bring more leadership to the area. After the
rioting and destruction, Mr. Vaquerano's group, along with Councilman Mike
Hernandez, who represents the Pico-Union area and nearby Koreatown, organized
clean-up crews, many of them Hispanic.

Need to Speak Out

But Mr. Hernandez and other leaders said they realized that for Hispanic
residents not to be overlooked in the rebuilding programs, Hispanic leaders must
be more vocal and must speak for those in the South-Central area, where Hispanic
residents have not yet developed their own leaders.

Supervisor Molina said this was a good time to lay the groundwork for the
newcomers to become part of the political process. To that end, she held a
meeting Friday afternoon with Mayor Tom Bradley, the leaders of some Central
American groups and other community groups, "to start a unity dialogue."

Even though the South-Central area is not in her district, Ms. Molina sent six
of her staff members there to insure that the agencies in charge of the recovery
efforts were accommodating Spanish-speakers, too.

Ms. Molina said that many people here, including many Mexican-Americans, would
not find it easy to learn the lessons of inclusion.

In the days when parts of Los Angeles were burning, Ms. Molina said, she
received several telephone calls from Mexican-American constituents, wanting her
to put some distance between them and the Hispanic Angelenos who took part in
the riots.

"They would say, "Well, Gloria, it wasn't us doing the looting and the burning.
It was those immigrants,' " she said. "They wanted me to denounce them. But I
say, let's not let that divide us.

"What happened in South-Central tells us that what we have to do in the future
is build bridges with each other."

AGENCIES COORDINATING AID

The County of Los Angeles has issued a list of agencies to which money may be
sent to assist victims of the Los Angeles riots.

Several 24-hour telephone lines provide general information on agencies that
accept donations. The telephone numbers are, for Central Los Angeles, (213)
686-0950; West Los Angeles, (310) 671-7464; San Gabriel Valley, (818) 350-6833;
San Fernando Valley, (818) 501-4447.

A number of organizations are accepting and distributing aid:

American Red Cross Disaster Relief, 2700 Wilshire Boulevard, Los Angeles 90057.
Telephone: (213) 739-5200.

African-American Community Unity Center, 944 West 53rd Street, Los Angeles
90037. Telephone: (213) 789-7300.

The First African-Methodist-Episcopal Church, 2249 Harvard Street, Los Angeles
90018 Telephone: (213) 735-1251.

Korean Emergency Relief Fund, 610 South Harvard Boulevard No. 111, Los Angeles
90005. Telephone: (213) 380-6175.

Los Angeles Emergency Food and Shelter Program, 621 South Virgil Avenue, Los
Angeles 90005. Telephone: (213) 736-1349.

Para Los Ninos, 845 East 6th Street, Los Angeles 90021. Telephone: (213)
623-8446.

The Urban League, 3450 Mount Vernon Drive, Los Angeles 90008. Telephone: (213)
299-9660.

The Salavation Army, 736 East Compton Boulevard, Los Angeles 90005. Telephone:
(213) 627-7546.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Even though South-Central Los Angeles is 45 percent Hispanic,
there are no Hispanic elected officials from that area, so they have little
voice in rebuilding programs. Councilman Mike Hernandez, right, who represents
the Pico-Union area and Koreatown, greeted a resident in his district. (Monica
Almeida/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 16, 1992, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Supreme Court Ruling Clears Way For Deportation of an I.R.A. Man

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 957 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 15


The Supreme Court today cleared away what would appear to be the last legal
obstacle to the deportation of Joe Doherty, a former Irish Republican Army
guerrilla who has been in Federal custody for more than eight years. The case
has become a rallying point for opposition in this country to British rule in
Northern Ireland.

In a unusual, divided ruling that overturned a 1990 decision by the Federal
appeals court in New York, the Court ruled that Mr. Doherty, who fled a British
prison during his trial for murder, was not entitled to a new hearing in his
prolonged legal struggle to avoid deportation. Chief Justice William H.
Rehnquist wrote the 5-to-3 decision.

He is to be sent to Britain, which has sought him since he escaped from a prison
in Northern Ireland, where he was being held on charges of taking part in the
killing of a British soldier in Belfast in 1980. He was convicted in absentia
and sentenced to life in prison.

Since Mr. Doherty (pronounced DOCK-er-tee) was captured by Federal agents while
tending a Third Avenue bar in Manhattan in 1983, his case has been the subject
of numerous rulings in Federal immigration bureaus and in the Federal courts in
New York. He won support among elected officials, particularly in the Northeast,
where many Irish immigrants and Irish-Americans doggedly pressed his cause. He
also scored a number of legal victories before his luck ran out today. No date
for his deportation has been set, but Government lawyers said today that they
expected to act quickly.

Mr. Doherty's lawyer, Mary Pike, said today that she was trying "to determine
what if any avenues of relief remain available." She said that "the range of
options is very substantially diminished" but that she believed the Justice
Department by law could not deport Mr. Doherty for 25 days.

Representative Gary L. Ackerman of Queens said that he and "more than a hundred"
other members of Congress were seeking a meeting with Attorney General William
P. Barr to try to prevent Mr. Doherty's deportation. "We're not quitting yet,"
he said.

'He Said He Knew'

Ms. Pike said that she had spoken with Mr. Doherty by telephone today and that
he was unsurprised by the decision. "He said he knew," she said. "He was very
resolute, very stoic."

Mr. Doherty, 36 years old, has been held since August in a high-security Federal
prison in Lewisburg, Pa.

Last night about 50 supporters of Mr. Doherty gathered to protest the decision
in the bitter cold at what the city in 1990 renamed Joe Doherty Corner, the
intersection of Pearl and Park South Streets in lower Manhattan. Mary Hayes, who
said she emigrated from County Kerry in 1947, held a hand-lettered sign reading
"Justice is Dead!!"

"I thought when I came here that the government could do no wrong," Ms. Hayes
said in a heavy brogue. "All this talk of America being a free country -- How
foolish we were to believe that."

Michael Price, a spokesman for the British Embassy in Washington, said,
"Obviously, we wish to see a convicted murderer returned to the United Kingdom
to complete the remainder of his sentence."

The Court's ruling today was unusual because, while a majority agreed that Mr.
Doherty had no legal grounds for a further hearing, there was no majority
supporting either of two independent rationales on which Chief Justice Rehnquist
based that conclusion.

Three Justices -- Byron R. White, Harry A. Blackmun and Sandra Day O'Connor --
joined the Chief Justice on one part of the opinion, and one, Anthony M.
Kennedy, joined him on the other. That was sufficient to overturn the ruling by
the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit that Mr. Doherty was
entitled to a new hearing.

Justices Antonin Scalia, John Paul Stevens and David H. Souter dissented.
Justice Clarence Thomas, who was not on the Court when the case was argued in
October, did not take part.

The legal question for the Court was whether Attorney General Dick Thornburgh
had exceeded the discretion granted him under Federal immigration law when, in
1989, he overturned a decision by the Board of Immigration Appeals that would
have permitted Mr. Doherty to make new arguments against deportation and in
favor of political asylum.

Treaty Allowed Extradition

In 1986, hoping to be deported to the Irish Republic, Mr. Doherty had dropped
his legal efforts to seek asylum. He resumed those efforts the next year, after
a new extradition treaty between the republic and Britain made it clear that
even if he succeeded in being sent to the Irish Republic, it would extradite him
to Britain in any event.

The Board of Immigration Appeals ruled that the new treaty was an unexpected
circumstance that entitled Mr. Doherty to resume his effort to resist
deportation. It was this ruling that the Attorney General overturned and which
was, in effect, reinstated by the 1990 appeals court.

"The Court of Appeals placed a much too narrow limit on the authority of the
Attorney General to deny a motion to reopen deportation proceedings," Chief
Justice Rehnquist said today.

He said that under immigration law as interpreted in several recent Supreme
Court decisions, "the Attorney General has broad discretion to grant or deny
such motions."

Each of the two groups of Justices within the majority supported a different
basis for Attorney General Thornburgh's action. Three Justices agreed with Chief
Justice Rehnquist that the change in the Irish extradition law was not "new
evidence" that entitled Mr. Doherty to change his legal strategy. Chief Justice
Rehnquist noted that the treaty had been signed six months before Mr. Doherty
agreed to deportation in 1986.

The case was Immigration and Naturalization Service v. Doherty, No. 90-925.

NAME: Joe Doherty

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joe Doherty (Pool photo by Joan Vitale Strong) (pg. A1); About
50 supporters of Joe Doherty gathered at Pearl and Park South Streets in lower
Manhattan to protest the Supreme Court decision's on his deportation. Among them
was Mary Pike, left, Mr. Doherty's lawyer. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)
(pg. B7)

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 3, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants From China Pay Dearly To Be Slaves

BYLINE: By DONATELLA LORCH

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1063 words


Hundreds of illegal Chinese immigrants pay tens of thousands of dollars to
become modern-day indentured servants in the New York City area in return for
counterfeit identification papers and passage to the United States,
law-enforcement authorities said yesterday.

Searching for a better life, in a country that in Chinese is nicknamed "Jin
Shan," or golden mountain, the immigrants, many of them farmers or laborers from
Fujian Province in southern China, pay or promise to pay as much as $50,000 to
be smuggled into the United States.

On Monday when Kin Wah Fong, a 30-year-old restaurant worker who came from
Fujian Province four months ago refused to pay his smugglers, he was kidnapped,
held for ransom and tortured, the police said. His kidnapping and the arrest of
his 13 captors, all illegal aliens from Fujian Province, shed light on the
highly organized underground world of smugglers that extends thousands of miles
from the villages of Fujian Province to Hong Kong, Thailand, South America,
Canada and the United States.

Slaves in New World

The ultimate destination is most often New York City, with its large Chinese
population, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said. But once here, and
until they pay their debts, the men and women become slaves, often being forced
by the smuggling ring into illegal activities such as collecting extortion
payments and dealing in drugs, said Lieut. Joseph Pollini, of the Police
Department's Major Case Squad.

Kidnapping of undocumented Chinese immigrants is a relatively new phenomenon in
the city, Lieutenant Pollini said. He said the Police Department had solved two
such cases in the last two months. "It seems we're getting more Asian-related
cases. This could be more widespread than it appears," Lieutenant Pollini said.
Police officials say it is impossible to know how many such cases have occurred
because the Chinese community -- traditionally wary of the police and
handicapped by a language barrier -- may not have reported them.

New York City is home to about 300,000 Chinese, 150,00 of them in Chinatown. A
large influx of Chinese immigrants came in the early 1980's, and city officials
estimate that there are 30,000 undocumented Chinese in the city, most of them
from Fujian Province. The province lies across the Taiwan Stait, north of Canton
and is largely rural and impoverished. The number of Chinese leaving Fujian
exploded after China relaxed its travel rules in the 1970's.

Police believe the smuggling network from Fujian is connected with Chinese
organized crime organizations and has grown as the emigrants from Fujian have
taken over a large part of the drug trade in New York.

"They are powerful in the drug trade in the New York area," Mary Irene Cooper, a
spokeswoman for the Drug Enforcement Agency said. "They have a strong allegiance
with the population, and they tend to be more violence prone than the other
Chinese traffickers. They mix with the gangs," she said.

Recruiting in Villages

The number of Chinese illegal aliens arrested in the United States has
quadrupled in the last three years, Duke Austin, a spokesman for the immigration
service said. In 1988, 288 undocumented Chinese were arrested and in 1990 the
number jumped to 1,353, Mr. Austin said.

The Chinese smuggling organizations are sophisticated in that they recruit
directly in the villages in China and follow the immigrant through the whole
emigration process to the United States, where they then provide him with
working papers, food and shelter, law-enforcement authorities said. The price
demanded is also the highest among smugglers. Chinese pay between $20,000 and
$50,000 while Mexicans will pay about $2,000 for a ride across the border hidden
in a truck or car, officials said.

"We're dealing with a changing profile of illegal aliens," said Alan Friess,
chief of the immigration service fraud division in the New York area. "They
travel a greater distance and there is a greater availibility of forged
documents."

In return, the Chinese immigrants, with little knowledge of English or of
American ways, are saddled with a debt that virtually makes him a prisoner in
the New World. If not forced into illegal activities, they become targets of
labor exploitation, working at the most menial jobs.

23 People in 4 Rooms

Lieutenant Pollini said Mr. Fong, the man kidnapped on Monday, had promised the
Hong Kong organization that smuggled himthat he would pay $20,000 for his
papers. But the police said he did not pay because neither he nor his in-laws,
who own the Kam Pam restaurant at 92 Third Avenue, where he worked, had the
money. On Monday night, several men barged into the restaurant, near 13th
Street, and abducted him at gunpoint. Within an hour, his sister-in-law received
a phone call, asking her for a $30,000 ransom. The caller left a beeper number,
Lieutenant Pollini said.

By tracing phone numbers, the police tracked the kidnappers to an apartment at
2327 Arthur Avenue in the East Tremont section of the Bronx. Twenty-three people
lived in the four cramped rooms of the apartment, -- all illegal aliens from
Fujian. The police found $50,000 in cash and several semiautomatic handguns as
well as an AR-15 rifle. A large portion of the money was destined for the
organization in Hong Kong, the police said.

The police said the 11 men and 2 women arrested in the apartment did not have
legal jobs and were the enforcers for the smuggling ring. Mr. Fong was found
handcuffed to a bed and had been beaten repeatedly with a claw hammer.

'Example of Them'

Lieutenant Pollini said he believed that the police had broken another smuggling
ring. In a similar case, two smuggled immigrants from Fujian were kidnapped in
Chinatown for not paying their smuggling fee, taken to Queens and burned and
beaten by their captors, Lieutenant Pollini said. The eight people arrested in
that case were also illegals from Fujian, the lieutenant said.

"They make an example of them to other immigrants by torturing and beating
them," he said. Automatic weapons were recovered in that case, he said.

In separate incidents in November, the immigration service arrested six
smugglers at John F. Kennedy International Airport. The men had in tow a total
of 30 illegal immigrants from Fujian, all of whom were carrying false passports
provided by the smugglers.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 6, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Asian Gangs in New York -- A Special Report;
Immigrant Waves From Asia Bring an Underworld Ashore

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2573 words


As waves of Chinese and Southeast Asian immigrants flood New York City in search
of better lives, their expanding neighborhoods are being plagued by increasingly
violent street gangs and new criminal enterprises that law-enforcement officials
say may come to rival the Mafia in its heyday.

The crimes, concentrated almost entirely in the hard-working Chinese community
itself, are likely to mount even more as three forces separately challenge the
traditional order of the tongs, the fraternal societies that have ruled
Chinatown for generations.

One is the growth of street gangs fighting for control of burgeoning Asian
communities in Queens and Brooklyn. Another is an effort by the criminal Triad
societies in Hong Kong to establish a foothold in New York in anticipation of
the 1997 takeover of the British colony by China. The third is the emergence of
ruthlessly violent gangs of young Vietnamese.

'No Rules, No Values'

The criminal activity is expanding from the longstanding enterprises of
protection rackets, gambling and prostitution into extortion, armed robbery,
large-scale heroin importing and the smuggling of illegal aliens, who are often
held as virtual slaves to pay for their passage.

"There are no norms anymore, no rules, no values; the code has broken down,"
said Dr. Ko Lin Chin, a sociologist studying Chinatown's criminal subculture.
"That is why it is so violent."

Chinatown has burst its traditional boundaries. The new Asian community is
expanding north and east -- along East Broadway, glistening with new banks and
office towers shielding Hong Kong investments, to Division Street, where
immigrants from Fujian province in southeast China are clustered, to Centre
Street, where the Taiwanese are, to Henry Street, where the Burmese can be
found, and along Canal, where the Vietnamese gangs dominate.

But like other immigrant groups in the city, the Chinese have moved out along
the subway lines, particularly the No. 7 to Queens -- the train they call the
Orient Express -- through Jackson Heights, Elmhurst and Flushing. Where the
subway ends, in the shadow of Shea Stadium, new high-rises and signs in Chinese
mark a rapidly growing community. None of the established Chinese tongs operate
there, and that has left a power vacuum for the youth gangs to try to fill.

"Queens is the future, it's open for picking, it's virgin territory," said Lloyd
Hutchinson, a Shanghai-born police detective who went undercover in Chinatown
gambling dens a dozen years ago and is now on the Queens District Attorney's
investigative squad. "It's not sanctioned territory like Chinatown. The question
is who's going to be the first one to take over."

Law-enforcement officials, struggling to penetrate a traditionally closed
society that rarely cooperates with the police or prosecutors or talks to
outsiders, concede that they can see only the tip of the iceberg. The outside
world becomes aware of the level of crime there only when a startling shooting
occurs -- for example, the slaying of a leader of the Vietnamese gang Born to
Kill on Canal Street last July. At his funeral in New Jersey, attackers, who are
still unknown to the police, pulled weapons from behind their funeral wreaths
and sprayed the mourners with gunfire, wounding a dozen.

But a recent series of arrests and indictments gives an idea of the scope of the
crime and violence. One was a raid by Federal Drug Enforcement Administration
agents on a heroin ring in Brooklyn that seized $8.6 million in cash, the
largest such haul in the United States. In Chicago, 29 people, including several
New York Chinatown civic leaders, were indicted on Federal charges of operating
a nationwide gambling ring. Last week in the Bronx, the police raided a crowded
apartment to rescue an illegal immigrant who had been kidnapped and beaten with
a hammer because he had not paid $30,000 to a ring that that had smuggled him
into New York. Thirteen of his captors, themselves all illegal immigrants from
Fujian province, were arrested.

Last month, a joint police and Federal Bureau of Investigation task force
interrupted an investigation of youth gangs extorting Asian merchants in Queens
to arrest seven leaders of the Green Dragons gang. The authorities said the
arrests broke up a plan by the Green Dragons for a shootout with a rival gang,
the White Tigers, who were shaking down the Elmhurst and Flushing areas. Among
the 29 guns seized were two Uzi submachine guns and a Mac-10 machine pistol.
Investigators believe the rivalry has already led to a half-dozen killings.

"Every single business in Chinatown and Chinese areas of Queens is being
extorted, and sometimes not just by one gang," said Catherine E. Palmer, an
assistant United States attorney who specializes in organized crime in the Asian
communities. "Gangs are a day-to-day reality, a real problem. Look at all the
shootings that happen in Chinatown."

The Lords of Chinatown: A Union of Generations

In 1980, there were some 120,000 people from China in New York City; today,
Frank Vardi, a demographer with the city Planning Commission, estimates there
are 300,000 who are here legally and an unknown number who are not. The city's
Chinese population continues to grow by about 11,000 a year.

But the growth and expansion of the Chinese community, fostered by improving
United States relations with China and the 1965 Federal immigration act, which
removed longstanding racial restrictions on immigration, involve more than
numbers.

Under the restrictive policies, Chinatown's residents had been almost
exclusively Cantonese, descendants of poor farmers imported in the mid-19th
century to work in mines and on railroads.

In America they formed an institution known as the tong, which means "meeting
hall," drawing on their tradition of secret societies like the original Triads,
formed in the late 17th century to challenge invading Manchu rulers. The tongs
functioned in part like the self-help organizations of other immigrant groups,
providing protections against the larger society and such services as credit
unions. But they also formed enterprises like high-stakes basement gambling dens
and houses of prostitution that were part of the Chinese culture.

"The tongs, international in scope and enormously powerful, were in part
legitimate merchants' associations," prosecutors said in a brief filed in
Federal court in New York. "However, they and some of the individuals who led
them also sanctioned, participated in and profited from illegal activities."

Inside the traditional boundaries of Chinatown, a tong named On Leong dominates
Mott Street while the Hip Sing controls Pell Street and its environs. The 1970's
saw the emergence of criminal street gangs, largely composed of alienated youths
born in Hong Kong. They were eventually absorbed by the tongs, but not without a
number of gun battles, with the Ghost Shadows allied with the On Leong and the
Flying Dragons with the Hip Sing. Two lesser gangs, the Tong On and the Fuk
Ching, are each also affiliated with an adult association and claim turf on the
fringes of Chinatown.

"It's a symbiotic relationship," said Nancy Ryan, now the chief prosecutor in
the office of the Manhattan District Attorney, Robert M. Morganthau, who formed
what is called the "Jade Squad," concentrating on Asian-rooted crime.

From a tong "the gang gets protection, such as lawyers, under certain
circumstances and vastly increased power in the community," Ms. Ryan said. "The
tongs also get power, in the form of visible muscle. Most of the people in the
tongs could be perfectly respectable. They join to enhance their prestige. But
they are perpetuating gangs by giving them respectability."

Detective Hutchinson, who had a Chinese mother and a British father, said the
tongs' decision to join with the gangs was a mistake. "The tongs don't want this
level of violence, all this heat," he said. "But for them to get rid of these
kids now, they'd literally have to kill them."

The Enforcers: Young, Strong and Ruthless

Typically gangs are headed by a Dai Lo (elder brother), usually in his 20's.
They are paid to guard the tong-controlled gambling dens. They eat free in
neighborhood restaurants, scrawling the gang's name across the check. They
extort money from businesses, particularly restaurants, in return for
protection. They force businesses to buy ceremonial items like firecrackers,
cakes or orange plants for the moon festival or the Chinese new year. And at
gunpoint they rob people unlikely to complain, like winning high-stakes gamblers
and patrons of massage parlors where Korean prostitutes work.

The language used in extorting merchants, the police say, is often diffidently
polite -- although the implied threat is clear -- making prosecution difficult.

The gang members are recruited as young as 14 from high schools and junior high
schools. They are mainly foreign-born, have had trouble speaking English and are
failing in school. They see the easy money and exciting life of the gangs as a
sharp, pleasant contrast to that of their parents, both frequently working two
or three low-paying jobs in restaurants, laundries or garment sweatshops and
often crowded into cramped quarters with other relatives. There are flashy cars,
available women and guns stashed in communal gang apartments.

The gangsters' appeal extends to popular Chinese movies and videotapes, where
they are luridly portrayed. When the shooting at the New Jersey funeral took
place last July, there was a nearly identical scene in a film playing at the Sun
Sing movie theater on East Broadway.

Some progress has been made in weakening the On Leong and its youth gang, the
Ghost Shadows, through Federal indictments. The Chicago charges, for example,
named On Leong's president, along with two past presidents of the Chinatown
Merchant's Association, as leaders of a gambling ring. The On Leong leader,
Eddie T. C. Chan, had already fled the country two years ago ahead of the
mounting charges. Mr. Chan was one of five Hong Kong police sergeants who
abruptly departed in the midst of a corruption inquiry there; investigators in
New York say he is reputed to have arrived in Chinatown with about $19 million.
In New York he grew prominent in local politics.

The Hip Sing, with its and the affiliated Green Dragons, remains a powerful
force, although somewhat more restrained than On Leong. It is directed by the
aging Benny Eng, the reputed "Chinese Godfather."The former Green Dragon leader,
Johnny (Onionhead) Eng -- whose predecessor died of 14 bullet wounds in front of
the Hip Sing office building and Buddhist temple on Pell Street -- is awaiting
extradition from Hong Kong on Federal narcotics charges.

Five years ago, Ms. Ryan, on loan from the Manhattan District Attorney's office
to the Federal attorney's office, successfully prosecuted 21 Ghost Shadows,
using the more flexible Federal racketeering conspiracy laws to get around the
near impossiblity of persuading Chinese witnesses to testify in court.

"We had succeeded in constructing a nice, neat little model," Ms. Ryan recalled.
"Then two things happened -- the expansion to Queens and the advent of
narcotics. That changed everything."

The Wild Frontiers: Enter the Vietnamese

The growth of new Chinese communities in Queens meant that those areas were
outside the control of the Chinatown tongs. In effect this created a vacuum in
which the youth gangs operated unrestrained by adult organizations and without
clearly defined turf.

"Queens is like the Wild West; it's the frontier," said Dr. Chin, author of the
recently published "Chinese Subculture and Criminality" and a researcher with
the city's Criminal Justice office. "

The area is being contested by the White Tigers, a group that split off from the
Chinatown Ghost Shadows, and the Green Dragons, who are composed of Fujianese,
Vietnamese and others who have a reputation for being particularly violent. In
Chinatown, merchants can often negotiate demands down, but in Queens they just
pay up.

"The fight was over extortion money and territory," said Lieut. John O'Brien, a
police member of the joint task force with the F.B.I. that arrested the Green
Dragon leadership. "The White Tigers were actually making collections. They
showed no respect for the Green Dragons."

Teen-age Vietnamese refugees began appearing in the gangs about two and a half
years ago. The Chinese at first enlisted them as enforcers but later shunned
many of them, saying they were too violent even by the Chinese standards. The
Vietnamese then formed their own groups. One, the Gum Sing, operates along
Eighth Avenue in Brooklyn.

"The Vietnamese are willing to do pretty much anything to get a toehold," said
Ms. Palmer, who is a prosecutor in the office of the United States Attorney in
Brooklyn, Andrew J. Maloney. "The use of guns and other kinds of violence is
nothing to them."

Another Vietnamese gang is Born to Kill, a name derived from the phrase many
American soldiers wrote on their helmets in Vietnam. "When the B.T.K. popped up
on Canal Street, they were the craziest group that anybody had ever seen," Ms.
Ryan said.

Luke H. Rettler, the head of the Jade Squad in the Manhattan District Attorney's
office, estimates that about two-thirds of the roughly 40 indictments his group
has brought in the last two years involve Vietnamese gangs."They are a kind of
chaotic group," Mr. Rettler said. "They seem to do things -- like deciding on a
massage parlor to take off -- on the spur of the moment."

Since the shootings last summer and fall, however, the Vietnamese have been
absent from their usual haunts at Maria's coffee shop on Lafayette Street and
the Tung Nam Har mall on Canal. "Right now you couldn't find a B.T.K. if you
went through Chinatown with a fine-tooth comb," Mr. Rettler said.

Chinese smugglers now dominate the city's heroin market, bringing in "China
White" from the seat of the heroin trade, the Golden Triangle of Myanmar,
formerly Burma, and selling it in bulk to drug dealers, Federal drug officials
say. The drug comes in by plane, cargo ships, diplomatic pouches and even in
furniture.

Over the last two years, agents of the Drug Enforcement Agency in New York have
made 130 arrests, confiscated 200 pounds of heroin and seized $25 million in
drug-related assets, including $15 million in cash, houses in Florida, apartment
buildings, boats, jewelry stores and one of the biggest restaurants in
Chinatown, the Golden Palace, which was being used to launder money, the agency
said.

A second new criminal pursuit is the smuggling of illegal aliens, who promise to
pay about $30,000 to be taken to the United States, usually through South
America or Canada. Frequently the immigrants are held in a kind of bondage,
often forced to turn over their wages until they pay off the debt. Some are used
as drug couriers.

For the police and prosecutors, the major problem in dealing with Chinese crime
is the near-impossibility of getting witnesses to testify. Many fear reprisals;
others fear the authorities will deport them.

"This has always been a very insular community, and there is a natural cultural
problem, an inherent distrust from bad experiences in China or Hong Kong," Ms.
Palmer said. "That's why the Green Dragon case is very important. We're trying
to tell the community: 'We're here. We took them off the street.' "


LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 13, 1991, Sunday

CORRECTION:

An article last Sunday described the increasing power of Chinese and Southeast
Asian gangs in New York City. It reported that they were growing in number and
expanding into new types of crime.

An adjoining picture caption said that prostitution and gambling, "while held
illegal by the larger society, have traditionally been accepted in Chinatown."
Since prostitution and gambling also flourish outside Chinatown, the suggestion
that Chinese- Americans are more tolerant of these crimes than other Americans
was unwarranted.

The article referred to basement gambling dens and houses of prostitution as
"part of the Chinese culture." The implication that gambling and prostitution
are uniquely or especially Chinese problems was also unwarranted.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Chinatown, rival Asian gangs control territories. On Pell
Street, which the police say is controlled by the Hip Sing tong, a reputed
gambling den operates from a basement, whose entrance is at left. Houses of
gambling and prostitution, while held illegal by the larger society, have
traditionally been accepted in Chinatown; The On Leong tong dominates Mott
Street in Chinatown, where alienated Asian-born youths first formed street gangs
in the 1970's to gain power in the community. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)
(pg. 20)
 Map: Chinatown, indicating territories of different gangs. (pg. 20)

TYPE: A Special Report

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 8, 1991, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

The J.F.K. Baggage Blues

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 221 words


It is a typical Saturday night at Kennedy International Airport. After a 24-hour
flight from Pakistan, hundreds of passengers, most of them Pakistanis, are
groggily making their way through immigration and customs. No porters are
available to help with the bulky suitcases that all too slowly wind around a
balking carousel.

In these circumstances, other airports provide free self-service baggage carts
to help arrivals keep their wits and luggage together as they proceed to ground
transportation. But not J.F.K.

A rack of carts is available for passengers who can pay $1.50. In quarters. A
change machine is nearby, but as always seems the case, it is out of order. A
booth exists where passengers can change foreign currency, but as usual on
weekends or evenings, it is closed. An American, embarrassed for his country,
complains to an attendant, who replies sullenly: "It's not our problem. Take it
up with the airline."

Of all the miseries of air travel, this seems the most curable and the least
pardonable. At Calcutta's Dum Dum Airport, though it swarms with porters hungry
for rupees, baggage carts are available, gratis. Whatever small revenues are
earned at J.F.K. are surely outweighed by the needless inconvenience inflicted
on weary passengers. No quarter should be given to those responsible.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 9, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

THE NEW ISRAELIS: A SPECIAL REPORT;
Soviet Influx Has the Israelis Building, Fighting and in Awe

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2927 words

DATELINE: TEL AVIV, Jan. 4


Israel has become a nation consumed, not with the prospect of war in the gulf,
but with the extraordinary wave of Soviet Jewish immigration that is altering
the face of Israeli society.

Nearly as many Soviet Jews have arrived in the last year as arrived in the 41
years since independence in 1948. In their numbers, their skills and their
politics, those immigrants -- nearly 200,000 since the end of 1989 -- are
changing life here in ways that are exhilarating for Israelis, and also
difficult for them to understand.

But virtually all Israelis, from politicians of the left and right to ordinary
citizens, remain bewitched by the wave of immigration. They are awed by its
dimension and confident that when all is said and done, it will bring strength,
wealth and increased weight to Israel as a nation and as a military power in the
Middle East.

"Per capita, it's as if the United States were to absorb France," said Amikam
Oren, general manager of the Israeli Housing Ministry, which expects immigrants
to pour in at the rate of 40,000 to 50,000 over the next few months as long as
the Soviet Union keeps its doors open to those who wish to leave.

With all the joy and anticipation, there are questions about the speed with
which Israel is moving to make housing available to the rushing waves of
immigrants, and there are increasingly critical newspaper and television
accounts about the fighting between Housing Ministry and Absorption Ministry
officials, between religious and secular authorities and between the various
political parties that evidently surround the Israeli effort to greet newcomers.

This year alone the number of arrivals is expected to be a record 400,000 Soviet
Jews, more than double that of last year. For the first time in its history,
Israel has an immigration budget that is larger than its military budget.

Nowhere is the extent of the wave more evident than at Ben-Gurion International
Airport outside Tel Aviv.

There, travelers from other countries landing in Israel appear to be a drop in a
sea of largely Soviet Jewish immigrants standing amid an awesome pile of
battered suitcases loaded on trolleys. Those Soviet Jews, who have spent days or
weeks making their way to Israel, appear anxious. They peer across the arrival
hall, looking to make a phone call to a distant relative or waiting for the
Absorption Ministry authorities to greet them, finish their paper work and send
them on to a new home if no relatives are there to take them away.

"It's amazing," said Judith Kipper, a Middle East expert at the Brookings
Institution who is studying the influx. "You get to Tel Aviv and there they are
in the hundreds standing with their luggage. Then in just a few hours they all
disappear, just melting away."

Where they wind up, and their future plans, political and social, have become
pivotal and nagging questions.

Many Israeli Jews of European descent, the Ashkenazim, say they are looking to
the Soviet Jews to redress what they see as an imbalance that has tilted the
weight of Israel's Jewish population toward the Sephardim, or Middle Eastern
Jews. Many of the Ashkenazim say that change has affected their way of life by
increasing the dominance of the rigorously observant religious parties over
Israeli culture, politics and religious affairs.

The numbers of newcomers alone portend a sweeping shift in Israeli political
life. At the end of 1989, the Central Bureau of Statistics put Israel's Jewish
population at 3.7 million. About 1.3 million of those were counted as
Ashkenazim, and 1.6 million were counted as Sephardim. The rest were listed as
Jews born to Israeli-born fathers, but considered neither Ashkenazim nor
Sephardim by Israel.

If Government projections for the influx on Soviet Jews hold true, as many as a
million more Ashkenazim could arrive by the end of 1992.

Israel's Arab population, which excludes the Palestinians living in the occupied
territories, is put at 700,000.

The Immigrants

Who They Are, Why They Came

Dr. Nodari Pichkhadze, a silver-haired dermatologist from Soviet Georgia who
arrived here three months ago, pulled his 5-year-old to his lap and proclaimed
with a smile, "Meir here wants to be President."

The 50-year-old doctor said he had dreamed of coming here since he was 18. "I am
a good physician," he said, sitting quietly in his new apartment in a Tel Aviv
suburb. "I don't want to be rich and I am not particularly religious. I am
Jewish. My family is Jewish, and the future of my children is here. That is why
I came."

Dr. Mikhail Zusman, a 30-year-old physicist who came a year ago from Kharkov in
the Ukraine to live and work at Beersheba said Israelis would have to wait and
see before a solid body of opinion identified with the Russian Jews emerged on
the political scene.

"Generally speaking, the movement from the Soviet Union to here is one from the
left to the right," he said. "But all I can say for now is that I have not made
up my mind about the political situation. I feel this country is my mother
country. This is the main conclusion I can give you, but the problems connected
with Arab territories, et cetera, are very big problems that I am ready to deal
with and maybe my generation will not see them resolved."

Other Russians, like Vladimir Shklyar, a fencing instructor from Leningrad who
has been here for 11 months and has found a job teaching his sport at Hebrew
University, said that most Soviet Jews were escaping the economic and political
chaos of the Soviet Union and that their politics in the end would be shaped by
how they can serve their well-being here.

"As far as what motivates people to come here, I don't think they are coming
driven by the Zionist ideals like in 1949," he said. "They are coming out of
fear of pogroms and because of economic reasons. But once you are here you begin
to explore your Jewish roots and background and you look at the traditon."

Sitting in his modestly furnished two-bedroom apartment in Jerusalem, Mr.
Shklyar did not appear optimistic about the Palestinian question.

"If there is going to be peace in the region, it will help the absorption to
work out," he said.

The Reaction

Changing View Of Israeli Life

The dimension of the challenge of the immigration is evident in conversations
with almost every Israeli. There is unanimous exhilaration at the notion that
this country is watching its population grow by more than 25 percent in the
space of three years or so.

"From the East and West, from Persia and Ethiopia, from Bukhara and Samarkand,
and from Moscow and Kishinev, the Jews are coming to the only country that wants
them and is waiting for them," said Consul General Aryeh Levin as he raised the
Israeli flag above Israel's Consulate in Moscow on Thursday.

The influx is changing Israel's perception of many aspects of life here, from
its electoral system to its perception of its dispute with Arabs over the
Israeli-occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip and its 40-year conflict with the Arab
nations around it.

Meron Benvenisti, an Israeli specialist on the Palestinian issue who has warned
for years that even before the influx, Israel was in the process of absorbing
the occupied territories, said the arrival of the Russian Jews had settled the
issue.

"Israel is totally absorbed by the immigration of one million Jews," he said.
"It couldn't care less about the Palestinians. They are totally beside the
point, which is something the Arabs don't seem to understand. It is not
important whether the Soviet Jews will go in West Bank settlements or not. What
is important is that they will eventually join the army and patrol the West
Bank. This wave means another 100,000 people in the Army of Israel."

That apprehension is shared by the Palestinians living here. Sari Nusseibah, a
prominent Palestinian leader in Jerusalem, said in a recent interview: "As long
as there is no clear indication of a peace process or any intention of the
Israelis to end their occupation of the West Bank and Gaza, immigration is a
terrifying prospect because what it tells Palestinians is that we cannot live as
equals in this country and that the chances of preserving our Palestinian lands
in the West Bank and Gaza for a Palestinian state are getting slimmer by the
day."

The Housing

Construction And Infighting

Arieh Bar, director of the Housing Ministry for the Negev region, sat in the
wind-swept ministry building in Beersheba, the capital of the Negev, speaking of
the dream of Israel's founder, David Ben-Gurion, coming true on the maps hanging
on his office's wall.

In a contradictory twist, not too far away bulldozers are moving mounds of earth
as hundreds of largely Arab workers are putting up prefabricated and new houses
for the Jews coming to Israel. "We are going to change this area from a
peripheral one to a central area, which was Ben-Gurion's dream," said Mr. Bar, a
45-year-old Iraqi-born Jew who came here in 1949. "Two years ago the whole Negev
region received $4.5 million in development money. Today my budget for
development is $115 million. Infrastructure planning projects were valued at
$500,000 then, and today we are spending $20 million on planning for more in the
future."

Leonid Wenkret, one of Mr. Bar's aides, pointed at a barren desert lot called
Ramot, teeming with construction workers, and said, "if we go according to our
assumptions, we will triple the population in the Negev" from 240,000 in four to
seven years.

"Without doubt we are witnessing a historical landmark that can be compared in
the history of the Jewish people to the establishment of Israel itself," Mr. Bar
said. "This country will go from a Jewish population of 3.8 million to perhaps
6, or who knows, 7 million people. We must succeed. It is like a mission. As
someone who came from an Arab country, to me, this, more than anything else,
will establish in front of the Arab world the fact that Israel is here to stay."

To accomplish that, Israel is racing to construct housing, using everything from
prefabricated concrete blocks to what Israelis call caravan cities, which are a
collection of trailers without wheels put in empty lots lent by the army or
given by the state or volunteered by existing Kibbutzims.

As the construction boom gets under way, so does the infighting among competing
politicians, most particularly Absorption Minister Yitzhak Peretz and Housing
Minister Ariel Sharon. And there are already accusations of corruption in the
allocation of funds to contractors, although many of them are hard to prove.

Among other things it has laid the fundamental conflict between religious and
secular parties. Mr. Peretz, an Orthodox Jew, asserted recently that many of
those coming were not even Jews and should have their religious credentials
examined. His remark shocked may secular Jews eager for the Soviet influx to go
smoothly and to tilt the balance in this country, again, in favor of the
secularists.

A few days ago, Mr. Peretz said the Housing Ministry's caravan program was not
enough to house the Soviet Jews and called for the purchase and installment of
thousands of tents, warning that even with new immigrants living two or three
families to an apartment, Israel may be short of housing for some 100,000
newcomers this year.

The Homeless

Rising Ranks Of the Displaced

In contrast to the mood in Beersheba, where thousands of housing units are
nonetheless being built for the immigrants, there is bitterness at a tent
settlement in Jerusalem that houses some of those displaced or shunted aside as
a result of the Soviet influx.

On a damp, barren hill beneath the ultramodern Museum of Israel, Sima Maman, a
24-year-old unemployed Israeli woman of Moroccan descent, also talks of the
Soviet influx.

Standing inside a tent that serves as temporary home to her 2 1/2-year-old
daughter and her husband, a tent pitched in the middle of 22 other tents devoted
to homeless native-born Israeli families, Mrs. Maman can barely disguise her
anger at being evicted from her apartment because she no longer can afford
rising rents, driven up by the new demand for housing for the Soviet wave
arriving here.

"I have nothing against the immigrants, but I ask for a solution," she said,
standing in her dim and poorly heated tent. "They get a year's worth of subsidy
the day they arrive, so they can afford to pay $500 rents. What did they do for
Israel to deserve it. I served in the army. My husband served. I was born here.
I have rights here, but look at the way I live."

Dede Ben-Shitrit is an elected member of the Jerusalem City Council and a
campaigner for a volunteer group that cares for the Sephardim, or Middle Eastern
Jews, who have been displaced because their small incomes cannot keep up with
the rise in housing costs here.

He said there were 70,000 homeless families in Israel.

"I think the immigrants will be next here in those tents once they run out of
subsidies from the state," he said.

The Jobs

A Problem On the Way?

The problems of absorption become particularly complicated when it comes to
finding jobs for the newcomers, many of whom are educated but are heavily
concentrated in professions like medicine, engineering, music and the arts,
fields where Israel already has a plentiful supply.

Israel's most serious problem may be money to support the immigrants and to
expand the economy. The Absorption Ministry's 1991 plan suggests that based on
patterns of the 400,000 arrivals estimated for 1990, 15.3 percent may be over
the age of 60 and therefore will become a net drain on the state's economy and
welfare system.

Herman Branover, a professor of physics at the University of Ben-Gurion at
Beersheba, said the caliber of Soviet engineers coming in was quite high
compared with other professions like medicine, and as such they are a welcome
addition.

But he wondered whether jobs could be found for the thousands of engineers,
doctors and musicians showing up in Israel every month.

"Even if we established a symphony orchestra in every village we couldn't absorb
all the musicians that are pouring in," he said.

To help, Professor Branover, who came from the Soviet Union in 1972, urged the
Israeli private sector and Government to multiply the number of high-technology
projects and private-sector companies that it has to absorb the new engineering
talents. He has established a new Soviet-Israeli venture laboratory for energy
problems in the University of Ben-Gurion in Beersheba, in which he has employed
a dozen of the new scientists and physicists who came over the last year.

He has also founded the Ofakim Technology Center to spin off private-sector
high-tech companies, for the 15 percent of the immigrants estimated to carry
degrees in engineering and are unlikely to find employment in existing companies
in Israel.

It is far too early to tell whether Israel will have a serious problem in making
jobs available to its newcomers. But the problem does not appear to be immediate
for two reasons.

Virtually all those who arrive in Israel receive a generous stipend for living
that carries them for a year. It averages $1,000 a month for a family of three.
And many are already refocusing their skills in related fields, and the Soviet
immigrants, by and large, have proved to be a resourceful lot, with many
relatives who appear more than willing to help.

Though he conceded he had had an easier time than others, Dr. Pichkhadze, whose
wife is a music teacher, said his sister, who has lived here for 18 years,
obtained the two-bedroom apartment where he lives almost as soon as he arrived.

With the stipend he gets from the Government, he could afford the rent, and his
two daughters and son will receive schooling for free.

"All I need to do is learn the language," he said. "With my 20 years' experience
and many relatives who are doctors, I am 100 percent confident I will find a
job. Maybe other, younger doctors will have problems but this country seems to
be like a sponge. Will it absorb all these people? I guess so. They say they can
absorb two million."

Asked what he thought of the problems of the Sephardim native Israeli Jews who
are showing up in tents as they lose their apartments to the higher rents that
immigrants like him can pay with Government subsidies, Dr. Pichkhadze said: "We
are not getting anything for free. We will have to pay everything with our
sweat. I feel some sympathy for those people, but right now everyone is paying a
price."

The Politics

Wooing Voters In a New Arena

On Thursday, Israelis were amused to learn from the television that former Prime
Minister Shimon Peres, leader of the oppositiosn Labor Party, was learning
Russian, presumably because the Labor Party hopes to attract many of the
immigrants to its ranks.

Although much has been made of the fact that most of the new Soviet immigrants
would be leaning to the right, it is far from clear yet what political
convictions the arriving Soviet Jews hold and how those convictions will change
when they consider issues like Palestinian nationalism, war with Iraq, and the
Arab-Israeli conflict.

What is clear is that for most, Israel is something of an invulnerable force
capable to standing up to any challenge, a place that is much safer than the
Soviet homeland they came from.

David Kreizelman, director of the visiting journalists department of Israel's
Government press office, said, "They have a somewhat mythical sense of Israel's
strength."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The immigration of Soviet Jews to Israel is changing Israeli
life. Newly arrived immigrants, among the first of an expected 400,000 this
year, waited at the airport in Lod for processing. "The future of mychildren is
here," said Dr. Nodari Pichkhadze, at right with his 5-year-old son, Meir.
Sculpture at apartment in Givat Savyon is an image from the mythology of Dr.
Pichkhadze's native Soviet Georgia. (Photographs by Micha Bar-Am/The New York
Times) (pg. A10)

Map of Israel highlighting Beersheba (pg. A10)

Graphs: 'Soviet Jews: The Rush to Israel' shows immigration of Soviet Jews to
Israel from '72 to '90; '1990 Month by Month' shows immigration of Soviet Jews
to Israel for each month in 1990 (Source: The Jewish Agency) (pg. A10)

TYPE: Special Report

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 27, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Campus Life: Yeshiva;
Soviet Emigres Help New Arrivals Adjust to U.S. Life

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 32; Column 1; Style Desk

LENGTH: 595 words


Some Soviet im migrants have trouble under standing why grocery prices in this
country vary from store to store. Others find the American health-care system
baffling, although they come from a country with a notable bureaucracy of its
own. But all who visit Dr. Anna Krayn at Yeshiva University find talking about
the problems of adjustment helpful.

"I try to help people investigate themselves," Dr. Krayn said. "I don't give
advice. I help them express their feelings and emotions and look inside
themselves for true help."

Dr. Krayn, a 36-year-old former assistant professor of psychology and sociology
at Leningrad University, is one of five recent Soviet immigrants who are part of
the Scheuer Russian Program at the Yeshiva Wurzweiler School of Social Work. The
two-year program allows the five emigres to pursue a master's degree in social
work while counseling Soviet immigrants who have followed them to America. All
hold either medical, psychiatric or psychological degrees from Soviet
universities, but the degrees are not honored by the American medical community.


 Benefit of Experience

Those in the program said they believed they could help newer immigrants, not
only because they share a language, but also because they endured the same
adjustments.

Dr. Boris Frolov, who was a pediatrician in the Soviet Union, said: "I had
problems with my family, even though they realized we had to leave. They were
frightened, and the new Russians I counsel face the same problems of uncertainty
about coming here." Dr. Frolov, who counsels immigrants in the Washington
Heights section of Manhattan, added, "I can understand them, not only because we
speak the same language, but also because we speak the same emotional language."

The three teen-age girls in Dr. Krayn's therapy group agreed.

"She speaks Russian; she had the same problems we had," said one former
Muscovite who sought counseling. "After a session, I feel better, and I feel
like I need to meet her again."

Charities Pitch In

The Wurzweiler students receive yearly stipends of $19,000, paid by the Jewish
Board of Family and Children's Services and the New York Association for New
Americans. The five people in the program also receive a scholarship endowed by
the Scheuer Family Foundation, a charitable organization founded 15 years ago to
support education, the elderly and underprivileged here and in Israel. The
foundation has committed $120,000 to the Yeshiva University program over the
next two years.

"They add a challenge to the faculty and add diversity to the student body," Dr.
Sheldon R. Gelman said of the emigres. "We have a common link in terms of our
Jewishness, but they come from an environment that allowed for little trust of
authority and change."

Dr. Gelman, who is the Dorothy and David Schachne Dean of the Wurzweiler School
of Social Work, added, "They have to learn to be more flexible and accepting,
and by the same token, we have to learn to be more accepting."

All the Wurzweiler students carry a full course load at the school in addition
to their counseling tasks.

Pinchas Berger, director of special projects for the Jewish Board of Family and
Children's Services -- an organization that employs some of the students as
social workers -- said the 20,000 to 30,000 Soviet Jews expected in the New York
City region this year would require more social workers than are currently
available. Before the first major influx in 1989, the ratio of social workers to
clients was 1 to 35. This year the ratio has dropped to 1 to 100.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Anna Krayn, an immigrant from Leningrad, takes part in the
Scheuer Russian Program at Yeshiva Wurzweiler School of Social Work, which
allows Soviet emigres to pursue master's degrees in social work while counseling
immigrants. Participants have advanced degrees from the Soviet Union that are
not honored in the United States. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 3, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Headliners;
Off the List

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7; Column 2; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 156 words


Four years ago, when Patricia Lara, a reporter for Colombia's leading newspaper,
El Tiempo, came to New York to attend an awards ceremony at Columbia University,
she was held in maximum-security detention and barred from the country. Ms.
Lara's name was on the Immigration and Naturalization Service's "lookout" list
because of suspicions that she was linked with a Colombian terrorist
organization called M-19. Last week, Ms. Lara, who insists that her only contact
with the group was as a journalist, settled a $10 million lawsuit against the
Federal Government by accepting a visa. "You know, I love New York and I thought
it was better to be able to go there whenever I want than to have $10 million,"
said Ms. Lara, who is now married to Colombia's new Ambassador to Austria,
Alfonso Gomez Mendez. She and her husband expect to come to New York in two
weeks on their way to Vienna, where she will be El Tiempo's correspondent.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paricia Lara (Jim Wilson/The New York Times, 1986)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 5, 1991, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Encounters in Israel Make Dinkins Feel at Home

BYLINE: By SABRA CHARTRAND, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 796 words

DATELINE: TEL AVIV, Feb. 4


Mayor David N. Dinkins set out this morning to show solidarity with the Israeli
people in their time of trouble -- and ran into New Yorkers and a Soviet
immigrant hoping for help getting an apartment.

If the encounters seemed more suited to a politician working local voters than
to one dabbling in foreign policy, the Mayor hardly seemed to mind. "This is
just like the campaign trail," he said with a laugh. And his political rivals
might consider his visit here to be a campaign swing of sorts, bolstering his
support among Jewish voters back home.

Mr. Dinkins began his day with a tour of Jerusalem's Old City. Passing through
Jaffa Gate toward the Church of the Holy Sepulcher, Mr. Dinkins said: "This is a
part of history. It is a holy place." Jerusalem's Mayor, Teddy Kollek, drew Mr.
Dinkins's attention to Roman flagstones and led him to a chapel inside the
church built over a rock believed to have supported Jesus' cross.

Immigrant's Problems

The Old City was nearly deserted in the early morning, so Mr. Dinkins did not
meet many Israelis until he visited a center for new immigrants. As the Mayor
talked to television cameras, Shira Hezgi, a 54-year-old immigrant from the
Soviet Union, approached.

"Maybe he can help us," she said in a plaintive tone. Mrs. Hezgi immigrated in
1986, and like many Soviet Jews, she said her family has had difficulty finding
work and earning enough money to rent an apartment.

"We've been living here five years and no one can help us," she said loudly in
the Mayor's direction. He did not hear her, but the director of the center, Meir
Edelstein, did. "Shh -- he's not here to help you," Mr. Edelstein told her.
"He's just here to look."

Later, at an immigrant absorption center, an American who had just moved to
Israel shouted and waved until Mr. Dinkins turned around.

"Mr. Mayor, I'm from Kew Gardens!" the man shouted. "I just came here. Welcome
to Israel and thank you for coming."

As Mr. Dinkins walked through the Old City's Muslim Quarter, Palestinians
stepped out of the way when they saw the armed guards leading his entourage.
When Mr. Dinkins tried to shake hands with a startled Arab shopkeeper, he was
cut short by officials shouting at photographers who were jostling to get a
picture.

Patriot Missile Site

The Mayor also stopped at a Patriot antimissile battery manned by about 300
American troops.  Getting out of his car in a muddy field, Mr. Dinkins looked at
a bearded American reserve officer with a start and said, "What are you doing
here?"

The officer, Army chaplain Rabbi Jacob Goldstein, also happens to be chairman of
the community board in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn, and was just as
surprised to see the Mayor. "Did you see his face?" Rabbi Goldstein said with
glee. "He took one look at me and was shocked."

In Jerusalem and Tel Aviv, Israelis expressed pleasure that the Mayor had come
to show solidarity with Israel.

But throughout his 24-hour visit, Mr. Dinkins was repeatedly asked about
criticism from some of his black constituents, who have suggested that the Mayor
is more concerned with Jewish issues -- or Jewish voters -- than with the
problems of New York City's blacks. With studied patience and his customary
reserve, he deflected the questions, noting instead his history of support for
Israel.

"For some of us, this is not a change," he said. "To those that suggested that
for me to come here was maybe political, or was designed for something other
than the loftiest of motives, I am able to point to a long record of
involvement" with Israel.

As Mr. Dinkins and his group came to the Western Wall, the Mayor considered
whether to wear a plain black yarmulke or one given to him by a New York friend
who had embroidered his name in Hebrew.

The Mayor had just adjusted the embroidered one on his head when a tiny Yemeni
Jewish cantor in a prayer shawl stepped forward and began singing a blessing.
When the cantor reached the point when he must sing the recipient's name, he
turned to Mayor Kollek. "What's his name?" the cantor, Aharon Levy, asked.

"David," several people replied. But the cantor didn't understand until someone
in the crowd shouted "Dahveed," the Hebrew pronunciation.

"Ah, Dahveed," the cantor said, and finished the blessing.

Mr. Dinkins's visit ended at a Tel Aviv community center partly destroyed by an
Iraqi missile last month. Much of the center, including a new gymnasium that was
completely wrecked, was paid for by donations from the New York Jewish
community.

"When I looked at that rubble," said the Mayor, who left tonight to fly back to
New York, "it put things in perspective. I realized there are children not able
to go to school, and people are in great danger of their lives."

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 10, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The World;
As Soviet Borders Open, the West Braces for an Economic Exodus

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 3; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 595 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS


THE withering of the Soviet empire and the economic strains that accompany it
may produce the largest migration since World War II, demographers say, and that
will present Western governments that have long pressed Moscow to open its
frontiers with the uncomfortable problem of what to do about a flood of would-be
immigrants.

Most are in search of work, food, a better life, sometimes safety. They include
Soviet Jews heading for Israel, Germany and the United States, Armenians going
to France, German-speaking Poles and Hungarians entering unified Germany,
Albanians scrambling into Greece.

The exodus has been manageable so far, but barely. From a maximum of 100,000 a
year in the 1970's and middle 1980's, immigration from the Warsaw Pact countries
to the West jumped to 1.3 million in 1989, the last year for which figures are
available, and it was probably higher in 1990.

But now Western countries fear an even larger exodus as the Soviet Union starts
lifting travel restrictions just when economic hardship and ethnic tensions are
on the rise.

Specters of Famine and War <>

Last month Vladimir Scherbakov, chairman of the Soviet state Committee on Labor
and Social Services, told West European governments that 1.5 million to 2
million Soviet citizens are likely to move west in search of work in the next
few years. This is well below the more extreme estimates of 25 million to 30
million immigrants that some experts in the United Nations High Commission for
Refugees have warned could head west if famine combines with civil war.

Those who believe the migration from the East can be absorbed say most of those
leaving come from finite ethnic groups -- the roughly 2 million Germans in the
Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, the 2 million or so Soviet Jews, the million
Armenians living outside Armenia, an estimated 3 million displaced Hungarians
and some 3 million gypsies. The great mass of the Soviet people, according to
this theory, have no tradition of migration and remain attached to the soil.
But some 25 million ethnic Russians already live in other Soviet republics --
including 9 million in predominantly Moslem Central Asia and Azerbaijan, where
they are often considered unwelcome foreigners -- and they might decide to flee.

Other experts warn of a steady stream of Easterners taking advantage of their
new freedom to travel and study abroad, overstaying their visas and joining the
underground economy.

Bimal Ghosh, an expert with the Geneva-based International Organization for
Migration, warns that the switch to a market economy could put 14 million people
out of work in Eastern Europe and 30 million to 40 million people in the Soviet
Union by 1994.

The prospect of rising migration creates a dilemma for Western European
governments and for the United States, Canada and Australia, the countries that
have absorbed most recent migrations. With the cold war over, immigrants are
unlikely to qualify for political asylum as refugees facing "well-founded fear
of persecution." But it is equally difficult for Western governments to keep
them out after telling the Soviet bloc for decades to open its frontiers.

More Western countries, however, are closing the door to potential migrants from
the East, requiring visas, return tickets and a minimum amount of cash. And
Austria, a traditional haven for refugees in cold war days, has sent 4,000
soldiers to seal its borders.

Many argue the real answer is for the West to do more to help the east make a
success of capitalism quickly so its people stay home.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 14, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

OTAY MESA JOURNAL;
Can One Airport Unite Two Nations?

BYLINE: By MARK A. UHLIG, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 731 words

DATELINE: OTAY MESA, Calif.


For years the flat scrub lands here have been best known for nightly wrangles
between illegal Mexican immigrants and the United States Border Patrol. But
these days, Otay Mesa has also come to symbolize a far different vision of
Mexican-American relations: a proposed binational airport that would join the
two countries in a new experiment in cross-border cooperation.

Otay (pronounced oh-TIE) Mesa, thousands of acres of largely undeveloped land on
the southern edge of California, is just 40 minutes from San Diego and is one of
the few potential sites that city has found for replacing, or at least
relieving, its overburdened downtown airport.

The mesa's terrain is so flat and mostly treeless that the Mexican side is
already home to the Tijuana airport. But low mountains nearby make it impossible
to build a new airport on American soil that would operate separately from the
Mexican airport.

For many San Diego city officials and politicians, the answer to that problem
would be to join a new San Diego airport with the existing Tijuana field in what
would be one of the few -- and certainly the largest -- binational airport in
the world. Straddling the border, the airport would have separate customs and
immigration terminals but enable both countries to share runways that could
handle the largest passenger jets.


The idea has provoked sharp opposition from some residents on the American side,
who say the complex would create unacceptable noise and other disruptions in an
area that had been set aside for industrial, commercial and residential
developments. More important, the proposal has received only mixed reactions
from the Mexican Government, which would have to approve any cross-border
airport.

But proponents remain undaunted, and have gathered a formidable body of
technical analyses and political support. In mid-1990, the San Diego Association
of Governments, the regional authority charged with overseeing airport
development, made public a federally financed study stating the feasibility of
the proposed Otay Mesa airport. In late November, a delegation approached
Mexican officials for the first time to promote direct government-to-government
talks.

"This would change the whole psychology of the region," said Michael C. Abrams,
an aide to Councilman Ron Roberts, who has been a big supporter of the airport.

Under the most ambitious plans yet discussed, the airport would cost about $2
billion, cover some 4,000 acres and be able to handle up to 40 million
passengers and 400,000 takeoffs and landings a year. San Diego's current
airport, Lindbergh Field, has 471 acres and handles 11.5 million passengers a
year.


Some who fear the noise and other disturbances such a huge airport would create
want a scaled-back version, with only one large new runway and associated
terminal buildings.

But all of the configurations would be aimed at giving Otay Mesa the ability to
handle long-haul flights of aircraft as large as the Boeing 747, directly
linking the region for the first time with such trading partners as Japan and
Taiwan.

Together with a new $200 million aircraft maintentance complex now being
constructed on the site of the current Tijuana airport, proponents say, the new
airport would make the border region a vital new gateway to international trade.

The most formidable obstacle is winning approval of the Mexican Government for a
binational commission to study the project. Although many business leaders have
expressed support for the plan, President Carlos Salinas de Gortari has taken no
formal position on it, and Mexico's Secretary of Communications and Transport,
Andres Caso Lombardo, has opposed the project.

"The questions of national sovereignty are very important," said San Diego's
Deputy Mayor, Bob Filner, whose City Council district includes Otay Mesa, which
is administered by San Diego. "Why would either side want to put a major
transportation network under the control of the other side?"


But advocates say that, even if President Salinas attempts to derail or postpone
the Otay Mesa idea, the pressures generated by northern Mexico's own economic
growth will eventually overcome nationalist resistance.

As Jack Koerper, director of special projects for the San Diego government
group, put it, "In a few years, they will be coming to us, just like we are
coming to them now."

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 18, 1991, Monday, Late Edition - Final

WAR IN THE GULF: Israel;
Israel Rules Out Palestinian Talks Until War Ends

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 480 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Feb. 17


Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir said tonight that Israel would not be willing to
discuss any new regional peace initiatives until the war in the Persian Gulf
ended and the new order of the Middle East became clear.

In the meantime, he said, Israel needs billions of dollars in new economic
assistance for the repair of damage caused by Iraqi missile attacks and for the
resettlement of Soviet Jews. That money should be provided with no political
strings attached, the Prime Minister added.

"I've never heard that the assistance of the United States for the absorption of
the Soviet immigrants in Israel is conditioned on political steps we will take
or not take," Mr. Shamir said in an address to visiting Jewish leaders. "It was
not so in the past, and I hope very much that it will not change in the future."

The latest allotment of American financial aid, $400 million in loan guarantees
for immigrant housing, is being held up, apparently because of Israel's policy
of expanding Jewish settlements in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip.

U.S. Asks for Details

Washington asked Israel to provide detailed information on settlement costs and
plans before the guarantees would be issued, apparently to insure that no
American money would find its way to the West Bank. Recently, the Government did
turn over a report.

But last week, two opposition members of Parliament released a report of their
own, quoting Housing Ministry figures, showing that the Shamir Government
intended to increase the Jewish population in the West Bank and Gaza by 50
percent in the next three years with the construction of 12,000 housing units.

The Government report had not even hinted at such plans, and officials here said
they were certain the legislators' report had angered the White House just when
deliberations on the loan guarantees seemed to be concluding.

Then, late last week, Israel's Ambassador in Washington, Zalmon Shoval,
complained that the United States was holding up the aid. For that he received
an extraordinary, angry public rebuke from the State Department.

Levy to Visit Washington

Today, the Foreign Ministry said Foreign Minster David Levy would visit
Washington in the near future to try to straighten matters out.

In any case, Mr. Shamir said tonight, Israel needs money -- lots of it and soon.
The missile attacks and the added military costs caused by the gulf war are
costing Israel at least $3 billion, officials say.

Iraq fired two more missiles at Israel on Saturday night, the 14th attack since
the war began Jan. 17. Iraq asserted today that the missiles had hit Israel's
nuclear weapons plant at Dimona, in the Negev. The Israeli military said one of
the missiles had fallen in the Negev but had caused no casualties or damage.
Military censorship regulations prevent publication of the precise point of
impact.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 19, 1991, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Hong Kong Court Rules on a Refugee

BYLINE: By BARBARA BASLER, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 849 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Feb. 18


In the first court case to challenge the fairness of Hong Kong's screening of
Vietnamese boat people, a judge ordered a new hearing today for a Vietnamese man
who was denied refugee status because a decisive error was written into his
record by an immigration officer.

The case of the man, Do Giao, who was once forced to gather land mines with his
bare hands as punishment for his family's anti-Communist past, was ordered
returned to the Hong Kong Immigration Department for a new hearing. Both human
rights lawyers and the Hong Kong government claimed victory over the decision.

Justice Barry Mortimer of the High Court ruled that the 24-year-old Vietnamese
was entitled to a new hearing because an immigration officer had written,
incorrectly, that Mr. Do once worked in a state-owned factory, a statement that
appeared to contradict the young man's claim that he had been persecuted by the
Vietnamese Government.

The lawyers for Mr. Do, who said he was once tortured by Vietnamese officials,
said he had lived an underground life, dodging authorities and working only at
night because he had no identity papers.

Error Blamed on Interpretation

Justice Mortimer said the erroneous statement was included in Mr. Do's record,
probably because the immigration officer, who had only limited knowledge of
Vietnamese, had misinterpreted what Mr. Do had said.

Mr. Do was never allowed to read the immigration officer's report, or to correct
any inaccuracies in it, and the judge recommended that to avoid such problems in
the future, immigration reports should be read to the Vietnamese refugees and
then signed by them.

"The decision was technical and narrow, legally speaking, but politically it
will have enormous consequences," said Arthur C. Helton, director of the Refugee
Project of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, based in the United States.

Speaking from New York, Mr. Helton, who helped organize the Do appeal, said:
"This was the very first judicial challenge to the screening process, and a Hong
Kong judge found the screening decision flawed. I think that fact will figure
prominently in any future discussions among the United States, the United
Nations, Hong Kong and Britain over the fairness of the process."

Daniel Fung, the lawyer who argued Mr. Do's case in court, said, "I welcome this
decision as laying down some very important guidelines that ought to be
followed, and in establishing law governing judicial review of administrative
decisions." Mr. Do's case had been brought by the Hong Kong Legal Aid
Department.

Government Sees Vindication

But Clinton Leeks, refugee coordinator for the Hong Kong government, said: "The
fact is that following a very very close scrutiny of the screening process, our
procedures have been found to be pretty fair and accurate. The case tried to
cover an enormously wide area -- it was brought as an attack on a whole range of
screening procedures -- and in reviewing that wide area the judge has come down
to a problem with one specific point.

"Far from declaring our screening procedures in disarray, this decision
vindicates our procedures," Mr. Leeks said.

Mr. Leeks said the Hong Kong Government would consider the judge's
recommendation that every Vietnamese should have his application read to him to
check its accuracy. But he added, "We must weigh that consideration against the
thousands of people awaiting screening in the camps."

Hong Kong now has about 45,000 Vietnamese in camps awaiting resettlement as
refugees, or, if rejected by the screening process, eventual return to Vietnam.
About 20,000 of those have been screened already, and human rights lawyers
pointed out that since the court cases challenging the process were scheduled,
the number of Vietnamese allowed in as refugees has risen.

When screening began in 1989, on the average, less than 10 percent were allowed
in as refugees. In the last few months, the average has been between 15 and 20
percent.

Eight Other Cases to Be Heard

Robin Bridge, the solicitor in the Do case, said the judge set March 4 as the
date to begin hearing eight other cases challenging the screening process.

After news of Mr. Do's impending case spread through the camps this fall, camp
workers said the number of boat people volunteering to return home has dropped
sharply. Many of the boat people decided to wait for the court decision, hoping
the Do case would bring them another chance.

Both sides said today they had no idea whether the judge's decision would prompt
a flood of new court cases.

The decision in the Do case comes just two months after another judge ruled that
111 boat people had been held illegally in detention camps for 18 months. Those
Vietnamese had refused to submit to the screening process, asserting that they
were sailing for Japan and never intended to seek asylum in Hong Kong. Officials
here had seen the passing vessel and hauled it into shore, promising to repair
it. When repairs were deemed too expensive, the boat was scrapped and the
Vietnamese were told to apply for screening.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 21, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Approves $400 Million in Guarantees for Israeli Housing

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 646 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 20


After months of often bitter negotiations, the Bush Administration approved a
$400 million loan guarantee to Israel today to enable it to build housing for
Soviet Jewish immigrants.

The State Department announced that Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d
telephoned Foreign Minister David Levy of Israel to inform him of Washington's
decision "to release the $400 million in housing loan guarantees," now that
Israel has given Washington assurances that the money will not be used to build
housing units in the Israeli-occupied West Bank, Gaza Strip or neighborhoods of
East Jerusalem.

For a year, the Bush Administration had held up approval of the guarantees,
which will enable Israel to obtain commercial loans at lower rates, while the
State Department negotiated with the Israelis the letter of assurances, which
became a major source of tension between the two countries.

No American financial aid to Israel is supposed to spent in the occupied
territories, and each year the Israelis send the United States a pro forma
letter stating that this was the case. But because such aid dollars are
virtually impossible to trace, the Bush Administration insisted that it will no
longer accept the pro-forma commitments and demanded a letter, signed by Foreign
Minister Levy on Oct. 2, 1990, making more explicit promises. The Administration
also sought various technical data to support those promises.

Last Questions Answered

Last Wednesday night, Israel's Ambassador to Washington, Zalman Shoval, handed
the State Department answers to the last three questions it had about Israeli
spending plans. These dealt with Israeli road-building in the occupied
territories and settlement plans since Oct. 2.

On Thursday morning, Mr. Baker read in The Washington Post an article from
Israel quoting two Israeli opposition lawmakers as saying that the Government of
Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir was secretly planning to build 12,000 new housing
units in the West Bank and Gaza Strip to house Soviet immigrants. Mr. Baker
instructed his aides to find out from the Ambassador whether or not this was
official policy.

That afternoon, Ambassador Shoval gave an interview to Reuters in which he
reportedly accused the United States of giving his country the "runaround" on
its request for loan guarantees, complained that Israel had so far received no
compensation for losses incurred as a result of the Persian Gulf war and
demanded that its needs be met.

Mr. Baker and President Bush were described by aides as "livid" with the Israeli
Ambassador's "demand" for more money and his claim that Israel had been getting
a "runaround." The Secretary immediately summoned Mr. Shoval to the State
Department and delivered a sharp rebuke. The next day, the White House issued a
statement describing the Israeli Ambassador's remarks as "outrageous."

Jewish Leaders Complain

Some American Jewish spokesmen complained to the White House that while they
could understand the Secretary privately having a talk with Mr. Shoval, the
additional White House public rebuke was excessive.

Administration officials countered that the Israelis knew full well that
Washington was prepared to release the $400 million as soon as they provided the
information they had promised, and therefore to claim they were getting a
"runaround" was dishonest. The officials also claimed that the President and
Secretary were upset by the fact that the Ambassador, as well as other Israeli
officials, were complaining that the United States had done nothing for Israel
since the gulf war began, when in fact the United States Army was in the process
of destroying a major threat to Israel -- the army and Government of President
Saddam Hussein.

On Sunday Mr. Shoval sought to end the matter, saying: "I did say some things
which diplomats are not supposed to say and I am sorry for that."

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 22, 1991, Friday, Late Edition - Final

New York Growth is Linked to Immigration

BYLINE: By EDWARD B. FISKE

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1105 words


New York City took in 854,000 immigrants between 1980 and 1989, who fanned out
into all five boroughs to feed great changes in racial and ethnic
concentrations, according to data released yesterday by Federal immigration
officials and the Census Bureau.

The figures show that the city's rebound in population in the 1980's rode upon
waves of immigrants from Asia, the Caribbean and Latin America, who more than
made up for a continuing loss of whites.

All this created a much different city, where one out of nine New Yorkers came
from another country in the last decade and where whites of European ancestry
now account for less than half of the city's population.

Residents identifying themselves as Hispanic grew by 281,797 -- to 1,783,511.
Asians more than doubled in number, growing by 281,218 -- to 512,719.

Decline in White Population

Asians grew sharply across the country, according to the census, and that
pattern held across New York State, where they grew to 693,760 residents from
310,526 in 1980. More than half live in Brooklyn and Queens, whose Asian
populations now both outnumber Manhattan's Asian population.

The city's overall population increased by 3.5 percent, to 7,322,564, despite a
10.9 percent decline in whites. The number of whites, which in the data released
yesterday includes several hundred thousand Hispanic residents who identify
themselves as white, fell to 3,827,088, from 4,294,075 in 1980.

Similar patterns were seen in New York State, where the overall population
increased by 2.5 percent, to 17,990,455, even though the white population fell
by 4.1 percent. There were 13,385,255 whites in the state in 1990, down from
13,960,868 a decade earlier.

In contrast with the growth in New York City, though, immigration in New York's
next largest cities -- Buffalo, Rochester, Yonkers and Syracuse -- was not
enough to prevent overall population declines because of the loss of whites.

The new census data confirm trends that have long been noted by demographers and
others. "We've gotten used to the fact that New York City is a place where the
whiteEuropean population is now less than 50 percent and falling," said Rosemary
Scanlon, chief economist of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.

The data released yesterday elaborated on overall population figures released
last month. New York and other cities have challenged the data in a lawsuit, on
the ground that the Census Bureau failed to count thousands of residents, many
of them minorities.

The figures, according to New York officials, are likely to understate the
actual minority population. Figures from the Immigration and Naturalization
Service show that between 1980 and 1989 New York City took in 854,000
immigrants. This is seen as the principal reason why the city's population grew
both in absolute numbers and diversity in the last decade.

Among the various racial and ethnic groups, blacks showed the largest increase:
318,175. The census put the number of blacks at 2,102,512, up 17.8 percent over
the 1,784,337 reported in 1980. Nearly half of the increase -- 149,493 -- was
registered in Brooklyn, which has seen a large influx from the Caribbean.

The most dramatic increases were registered by Asians, whose population was put
at 512,719, more than double the 1980 total of 231,501. The largest influx was
in Queens, which has become a favorite destination of Chinese immigrants. There
were 238,336 Asians in that borough, or 154 percent morethan the 93,780 counted
in 1980. The Asian population also grew by 159 percent in Brooklyn, 135 percent
in the Bronx, 153 percent on Staten Island and 52 percent in Manhattan.

The data released yesterday showed that whites still constitute 52 percent of
New York City's population. But the figure of 3,827,088 whites includes a high
percentage of the city's 1,783,511 Hispanic residents.

Demographers thus agree that sometime during the mid-1980's non-Hispanic whites
ceased to be a majority of the city's population. Confirmation of this must
await the release of further data from the Census Bureau, possibly next week.

Many Whites Leave City

The proportion of non-Hispanic whites in the city has been declining for several
decades, and analysts generally agree that the net loss of 466,987 whites over
the decade was caused almost entirely by continued migration of this group.

Manhattan and Staten Island could be exceptions to this trend. The white
population of Manhattan, including some Hispanic residents, grew by 26,023
during the decade, to 867,227, a gain of 3.1 percent. Staten Island added 8,509
whites for a total of 322,043, a gain of 2.7 percent.

The number of Hispanic people in the city increased by 281,797, a gain of 18.8
percent. The largest gain, 126,758, was in the Bronx, which became the only
borough in which Hispanic residents now outnumber whites. In 1980 there were
554,046 whites and 396,353 Hispanics in the Bronx. In 1990, the bureau reported,
there were 430,077 whites and 523,111 Hispanics.

Data for New York State showed that, among the various racial and ethnic groups,
Hispanic people accounted for the biggest gains. There were 1,659,300 Hispanic
residents in 1980, or 9.5 percent of the overall popultion. By last year this
figure had increased by 554,726 to 2,214,026, or 12.3 percent of the total.

Strong Black Growth

Blacks also showed strong growth in the state, increasing by 457,049. The black
population went from 2,402,006, or 13.7 percent of the population, in 1980 to
2,859,055, or 15.9 percent of the total, in 1990.

Asians showed the strongest percentage growth, registering an increase of 123.4
percent. The statewide Asian population grew from 310,526, or 1.8 percent of the
total, in 1980 to 693,760, or 3.9 percent, in 1990.

Suburban counties showed what is also becoming a pattern throughout the
metropolitan area: stagnation of the white population and an increase in the
number of residents from racial and ethnic minorities.

Nassau and Westchester Counties, for example, both registered overall declines
in population because of loss of whites. In Nassau the white population dropped
by 7.4 percent, to 1,115,119, while in Westchester the number of whites declined
by 4.9 percent, to 694,308.

Ms. Scanlon of the Port Authority said that the decline in white population in
such suburbs was largely a result of declining family size. "There's a lot of
empty nesting in those areas," she said.

Suffolk County, which has a somewhat younger overall population, was something
of an exception to this trend.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Table: "The Census Count for New York"
Graphs: "New York City's Decade of Change" shows percentage of New York City's
population in 1980 and 1990, from the Census Bureau (pg. B1);

From the Census Bureau, New York City continues to dispute the Census Bureau's
count.

An error occurred in the processing of a table at this point in the document.
Please refer to the table in the online document.

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 22, 1991, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Israel Asserts New U.S. Aid For Housing Is Insufficient

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 824 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Feb. 21


Only hours after the United States finally approved a long-disputed $400 million
in loan guarantees for housing Soviet immigrants, Israeli officials warned today
that the sum was grossly insufficient.

"In fact, it's a very small sum that only accounts for 3 or 4 percent of the
overall figure," the Immigrant Absorption Minister, Yitzhak Peretz, said today.

As he spoke, leaders of the Jewish Agency, the semi-public office with the
largest role in immigration matters, were meeting here, working out agreement on
the private fund-raising goal for the coming year.

After several days of debate, the agency's leaders said they had decided to seek
$1 billion in donations from the world's Jews -- 60 percent more than was raised
in the current year's fund-raising drive, already a record.

The new figure would have to be approved by fund-raisers in the United States
and Europe. If past practice holds true, American Jews would be asked to
contribute about 70 percent of the $1 billion.

$10 Billion Need Seen

Last month, Israel's Finance Minister told a visiting American official that
Israel would also need another $10 billion in grants and loans from the United
States Government over the next few years. Washington's reception to that
request was cool.

The Administration approved the $400 million in housing loan guarantees
Wednesday after it had held up the package for a year while negotiating with
Israel over assurances that the money would not be used to build housing in the
occupied West Bank or Gaza Strip or in neighborhoods of East Jerusalem. The
guarantees will enable Israel to get commercial loans at lower rates.

The action came as Israeli officials are lowering their estimate of the numbers
of immigrants expected this year because of the Persian Gulf war.

Before the war began, Israeli officials repeatedly said they expected a million
Soviet immigrants within two or three years. About 185,000 arrived last year.

But earlier this week, Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir said the gulf war and the
Iraqi missile attacks on Israel had forced Israeli officials to revise the
estimates.

"Before the war, it looked like this number would arrive within three or four
years," he said, including 1990 as one of those years. "Perhaps now it will take
another year or two."

300,000 Expected This Year

In the short term, officials say immigration this year is likely to be 25
percent lower than expected -- 300,000 people instead of the 400,000 projected
earlier.

About 10,000 Soviet Jews have arrived here in the five weeks since the war
began, compared with about 35,000 in December. While fear of attack is an
important reason Soviet immigration has dropped, there are others as well.

For one thing, on Jan. 1 Israel seriously reduced the financial benefits given
to all new immigrants because the state could no longer afford what it had been
offering.

Word of that circulated among Jews in the Soviet Union, and many people who
arrived in December said they rushed to get here before Jan. 1.

In one sense, the decline is good for Israel, since the Government is more than
a year behind in building housing for the newcomers. The gulf war, with its
missile attacks on Israel and attendant problems, has seriously worsened the
economic problems already affecting the nation, hindering Israel's ability to
absorb the immigrants.

Appeal by Shamir

Those are among the reasons that Mr. Shamir, Mr. Dinitz and others called on the
world's Jews to give even more money than the unparalleled donations already
given.

"I cannot deal in specific numbers," Mr. Shamir told the group of visiting
Jewish leaders, but he then urged his audience to "double and treble your
efforts -- and even more."

Even with the increased fund-raising and reduced immigration, the Jewish Agency
has still been forced to propose reducing immigrant benefits even more --
changing some gifts to long-term, low-interest loans, for instance.

Mr. Peretz, who competes with Mr. Dinitz for influence in the immigration field,
said he thought that would be a mistake.

Some Blame Foreign Jews

"We're expecting that when the crisis ends that we'll return to same numbers as
we had in December," he said of the immigrants, "on the condition that the
Israeli Government and the Jewish Agency don't cut the aid to immigrants but
strengthen it."

Behind all this, some in Israel are blaming foreign Jews for the shortfall in
cash, despite the record donations last year.

As an example, an editorial in the daily newspaper Yediot Aharonot on Tuesday
complained that Jews who live in other countries "are clenching their fists."

"Russian Jews are their brothers as much as they are our brothers, perhaps even
more," the editorial said. "But when it comes to responsibility and sharing it,
they, our brothers abroad, disappear. And the gentlemen in the Jewish Agency are
left to absorb the complaints and the scorn."

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 24, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Miami's Caribbean Enclaves

BYLINE: By JOANN BIONDI; JOANN BIONDI is editor of the "Insight Guide to Miami,"
scheduled to be published in March.

SECTION: Section 5; Page 8; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2713 words


LIKE most ethnic enclaves of big cities elsewhere, Miami's Little Havana and
Little Haiti are classic juxta positions of immigrant optimism and inner-city
decay. Simmering with promise for a paradise found, they are America's modern
melting pot, the new Ellis Island. In both the food is saturated with spices,
the music hip-grinding good and the people resourceful and proud. For the
tourist, a foray into these neighborhoods offers an intimate and eye-opening
encounter with cultures determined to maintain the traditions of their
homelands.

But unlike the pastel-pretty Art Deco district of south Miami Beach, Little
Havana and Little Haiti are not tourist destinations of carefree abandon. They
are real city neighborhoods with real city problems, and crime is a reality.
During the day both areas are safe because the streets are filled with people.
At night the main artery of Little Havana warrants no worry but meandering down
the side streets should be avoided. The same holds true for Little Haiti:
evening escapades should be limited to a particular restaurant or nightclub
excursion.

Little Havana has for decades been the initial resting spot for Cuban refugees.
In the 1960's several hundred thousand Cubans fleeing the Communist takeover
settled in the city. These early immigrants, who were the bulk of Cuba's
entrepreneurial and professional sectors, used their skills to transform the
dying areas that were once known as Riverside and Shenandoah into a bustling
exile center. Of the approximately two million people that now make up what is
called Greater Miami, over 500,000 of them are of Cuban descent.

Today Little Havana remains an immigrant's dream -- Spanish is the language of
choice, home-cooked food is abundant and the network for finding work is easily
accessible. Catholic shrines decorate the front lawns of neatly painted houses
as roosters scurry about in backyards. Salsa music, which permeates the evening
air, seems an integral part of the collective unconscious.  The neighborhood is
27 blocks long and 24 blocks wide. The main street that cuts through the heart
of the area is Calle Ocho, or, as Anglos call it, Eighth Street. Between 27th
and First Avenues on Eighth Street you can find just about every aspect of Cuban
culture common to Havana in the 1950's.

Tiny cafeterias that sell cafe Cubano, thimble-sized cups of coffee that are
served sweet and swampy and absolutely fresh, can be found on each block. At the
McDonald's restaurant you can even order a cup of cafe Cubano to go with your
Huevo McMuffin. Shops that specialize in lace and taffeta dresses for quinces,
parties for girls' 15th birthdays, buzz with mothers shopping for the best.
Magic shops sell comical tricks for adults and pinatas, paper animals stuffed
with toys, for children.

Botanicas, pharmacies that cater to practitioners of the Afro-Caribbean
religions of santeria and voodoo, are busy with serious shoppers. Although they
are now found throughout the city, botanicas are most common in Little Havana
and Little Haiti. Their shelves are stocked with serenity salves, black candles,
fake monkey heads, herb extracts, virility pills and voodoo dolls. Visitors are
welcome but making fun of the merchandise should be avoided.

For a nostalgic experience of Havana circa 1955, stop in at the Credito cigar
factory on Eighth Street near 11th Avenue. The largest factory producing
hand-made cigars in Miami, El Credito was founded in Cuba in 1907 and still has
dozens of workers who hand wrap, roll and press those potent-smelling stogies.

Surprisingly, Cuban food has a cold-weather heartiness about it and usually
comes with a good dousing of garlic juice. Meals often feature pork and beef,
with plenty of rice and beans and fried bananas or yucca on the side. Along with
the many restaurants and sandwich shops that draw outsiders to the neighborhood,
there are several ice-cream parlors, like King's Cream near 18th Avenue, that
specialize in exotic flavors of coconut, mango and mamey -- a rich, sweet
tropical fruit. Bakeries sell flaky guava pastries and cream-soaked sweet cakes
for a treat. Gurapo, pure sugar cane juice, is sold fresh.

For some campy live theater with a political slant, try one of the weekend shows
at Teatro Marti or Bellas Artes. Both offer performances in Spanish starring
local Cuban actors in shows that range from Shakespearean dramas to a humorous
farce about the most hated man in the neighborhood -- Fidel Castro.


CALLE OCHO is where Little Havana holds an annual Sunday street party that has
become an outrageous afternoon bacchanalia. It is billed as the largest Hispanic
street party in the United States. The party is the culmination of a 10-day
event known as Carnaval Miami, which will run this year from March 1 to 10. The
March 10 party, called simply Calle Ocho, winds its way down 23 blocks of Eighth
Street. Other events in the festival, which celebrates the city's Hispanic
heritage, include a masquerade ball, a Latin and jazz concert at the Orange
Bowl, a parade and an eight-kilometer run.

At the corner of Eighth Street and Cuban Memorial Boulevard (13th Avenue) stands
the Bay of Pigs Monument, which pays tribute to the men who lost their lives in
the foiled invasion of Cuba in 1961. Here, young schoolchildren come to place
flowers and say a prayer for a homeland they never knew. Nearby is Maximo Gomez
Park, locally known as Domino Park. Every day the fenced-in courtyard fills up
by about 10 A.M. with domino players who take part in games that often erupt
into arm-flailing arguments. A park official enforces a custom that restricts
admittance to men over 55, but tourists are welcomed in for a look.

The lively conversations in the park, as in most of Little Havana, are often
highly political and passionate. Anti-Castroism, anti-Communism and
anti-anything-non-Republican is the popular feeling. Recently, Miami
commissioners listened to developers who proposed a name change from Little
Havana to the Latin Quarter. The meeting erupted in pandemonium when Little
Havana Cubans declared the proposal an action instigated "by Communist pigs."

This territorial outlook of Cubans for Little Havana is warranted. At Woodlawn
Park Cemetery on Eighth Street and 32d Avenue, three former presidents of Cuba
are buried as is the Nicaraguan dictator Anastasio Somoza Debayle.

Toward the east end of Little Havana, on the banks of the Miami River, is Jose
Marti Park.

NAMED for the revered Cuban writer and patriot, the 10-acre park has an
elaborate maze of red-brick walkways that lead down to the river, where rusty
old freighters piled high with bicycles await their journeys to Haiti. Many of
them are believed stolen from the streets of Miami, where bicyle thievery is
rampant. A dramatic view of the Miami skyline serves as a backdrop. The park is
full of schoolchildren in the daytime and poses no threat to tourists. At night
its character becomes slightly menacing, and the park should be avoided.

Across the street from the park, surrounded by a high wrought-iron fence, is a
cluster of historic wooden buildings that stand as a harbinger of hope of good
things to come to the neighborhood. The Miami River Inn, which opened last
April, is the personal mission of a Miami preservationist, Sallye Jude, who
believes the rundown area of east Little Havana will soon see a gentrification
of sorts and serve as a center for cultural and heritage-based tourism in Miami.

The yellow and green two-story buildings, which were built in 1904, have 41
rooms full fluffy pastel fabrics and authentic antiques. Frosted-glass street
lamps line the property, which is under constant surveillance by private guards.
Although surrounded by apartments that are in less than good condition, the inn
can serve as a comfortable home base for exploring Little Havana while offering
an historic environment not common in Miami.

North of Little Havana is Miami's other ethnic enclave. While the charms of
Little Haiti may be a bit more subtle than those of Little Havana, the
neighborhood is well worth a visit. Like the vivid scenes in a primitive Haitian
painting, brilliant hues brighten up these inner city streets. Buildings are
painted the primary colors of blue, red and yellow. Women wearing colorful
cotton dresses saunter to the market balancing straw baskets atop their heads.
Children jump rope while counting in Creole as the energetic rhythms of Haitian
music blares from boom-box stereos.

Many having fled their poverty-stricken homeland in leaky wooden boats, Miami's
Haitians, estimated to total about 50,000, have none of the economic clout that
the Cuban community has, but is just as hard-working and hopeful about the
possibilities of a better life. When Marjorie Vincent, the daughter of
Haitian-born parents, was crowned Miss America last September, Little Haiti
bubbled with a joyous commotion -- the American dream was now theirs to behold.

The main commercial artery of Little Haiti's approximately 200 square blocks
lies along N.E. Second Avenue. At the intersection of N.E. 54th Street is the
Haiti-Miami Market where you'll find the Haitian delicacy of fresh goat heads
along with the essential rice and beans sold from huge wooden bins. At the
Botanica d'Haiti across the street, the sweet tang of incense hangs in the air
and leaves from the Jericho plant are soaked in a bowl for good luck. Special
elixirs are stored in the back behind a beaded curtain that clatters in the
breeze.

The colorful focal point of Little Haiti these days is the Caribbean Marketplace
at 59th Street.The structure, which this month was awarded the 1991 National
Honor Award by the American Institute of Architects, was designed by a
Haitian-born Miami architect, Charles Harrison Pawley, to resemble the Iron
Market of Port-au-Prince and spur tourism in the area. With its gabled tin roof
that glistens in the sun and its colors of yellow, blue, green and orange, it
stands as a spectacle of grandeur among shabby neighboring storefronts. Although
maintained in tiptop condition, most of its airy stalls have not yet been
rented. A few vendors are selling handcrafts, produce, records and clothing. A
United Nations development group is trying to set up an organization that would
import goods from Haiti to be sold at the market.

A few blocks away is the Toussaint Louverture Elementary School, named after the
Haitian hero who led a peasant uprising against the French. Pierre Toussaint's
descendants live in a home nearby. Les Cousins Book and Record Store, near 79th
Street, has the largest assortment of Haitian compas, Guadeloupean zouk and
calypso in Miami, along with a fair selection of Haitian paintings and wood
carvings. Although many accomplished artists live in the area, there are few
places in Little Haiti that sell good quality Haitian art because most local
Haitians would not buy it and few tourists ever visit the neighborhood.

On Saturday street-corner vendors set up impromptu markets in various places and
the action resembles the theatrical haggling of an outdoor Caribbean market. On
Sunday much of the Haitian community goes to the Church of Notre Dame for an
early morning mass. Women sing in the choir as little boys wearing high-collar
Haitian bow ties sit still through it all. A local band provides African rhythms
that merge with French melodies and the entire congregation joins in.


 THE restaurants of Little Haiti are small and rustic and offer inexpensive
meals of traditional Haitian cuisine. Griot (fried pork), lambi (stewed conch)
and rum-tainted oxtail stew are classics. At most area restaurants you can
almost always find Haitians gathering for a dinner and a discussion on the
politics of their country. And Little Haiti nightclubs that pulsate with live
music have become trendy dance spots for young in-the-know Miamians.

One of the most delightful aspects of a visit to Little Haiti or Little Havana
is the sensation of being totally enveloped by the Caribbean cultures of these
two island nations. You are bemused by the menus, you fumble with the languages
and instantly feel as if you are the foreigner.

AROUND LITTLE HAVANA

The neighborhood lies within the area of N.W. Seventh Street to the north, S.W.
17th Street to the south, S.W. First Avenue to the east and S.W. 27th Avenue to
the west. The annual Calle Ocho street festival is scheduled for March 10. More
information: 644-8888; the area code for Miami is 305.

Getting Around

The Historical Museum of Southern Florida (375-1625) will offer two walking
tours of Little Havana this year, on March 9 (covering the area's western part)
and April 20 (covering the eastern part). Other tours may be added. The tours,
conducted by a local historian, Dr. Paul George, cost $13 a person and begin at
10 A.M.

Places to Stay

Miami River Inn, 118 S.W. South River Drive (325-0045), is an historic bed and
breakfast inn with a Jacuzzi and pool. Rooms are decorated with antiques and
local memorabilia. Most have private bathrooms. Rates for a double room with
breakfast are $60 to $80 a night.

Places to Eat

Calle Ocho has dozens of dining establishments that range from mom-and-pop
cafeterias to elegant lace-tablecloth restaurants. Many tend to be loud and
colorful, especially on weekends, when entire families gather for a meal. All
serve very large portions.

Versailles, 3555 S.W. Eighth Street (444-0240), is the quintessential Cuban
experience. Crystal chandeliers, wall-to-wall mirrors and a wonderfully gaudy
atmosphere. Try some fried plantain chips, pork chunks in garlic-laden mojo
sauce and a pitcher of sangria. Open for breakfast, lunch and dinner. Dinner for
two with wine about $25.

La Esquina de Tejas, 101 S.W. 12th Avenue (545-5341), still boasts about the day
Ronald Reagan stopped in for a bite to eat while on the campaign trail. Meals
are home-cooked hearty with a menu that changes daily. Delicious black bean soup
and traditional picadillo, a ground beef dish with green olives served on a bed
of rice. Lunch and dinner $20 for two with wine. Centro Vasco, 2235 S.W. Eighth
Street (643-9606), is a local gathering spot for successful Cuban immigrants.
Open for lunch and dinner, the atmosphere is elegant and the clientele always
well-dressed. Specialties are more Spanish than Cuban, but delicious
nonetheless. Meals range from $30 to $55 for two with wine.

La Carreta, 3632 S.W. Eighth Street (444-7501), is open 24 hours and has become
a Little Havana institution. It is a great late-night place for a medianoche, a
small Cuban sandwich at $3.35 that is made with tidbits of pork, cheese and beef
in a soft, round egg-rich roll that is pressed under a hot grill till cheese
oozes out the sides.

Theaters

Teatro Marti, 420 S.W. Eighth Avenue (545-7866). Shows Friday and Saturday at 9
P.M., Sunday at 5 and 9 P.M. Tickets $13.

Bellas Artes, 2173 S.W. Eighth Street (325-0515). Shows Friday at 9 P.M. ($12),
Saturday at 8:30 and midnight ($15), Sunday 3 and 9:15 P.M. ($12).  J. B.

AROUND LITTLE HAITI

The district lies within 79th street to the north, 46th street to the south,
Biscayne Boulevard to the east and I-95 to the west.

Shopping

Caribbean Marketplace, 5927 N.E. Second Avenue (758-8708). Open Tuesday to
Thursday from 10:30 A.M. to 7 P.M.; Friday and Saturday from 10:30 A.M. to 9
P.M.; Sunday 10:30 A.M. to 5 P.M.

Places to Eat

Palmistes, 6820 N.E. Second Avenue (759-8527) attracts local Haitians who come
for a good meal and local gossip.  A plate of griot with rice and beans and a
West Indian beer can all be had for less than $8. Live music weekend nights.

Chez Moy, 1 N.W. 54th Street (756-7540), is one of the more upscale spots in
Little Haiti. It offers spicy seafood Creole dishes such as succulent chicken
and okra and an assortment of Haitian specialties for lunch and dinner.  Prices
from $15 to $30 for two with wine.

Obsession, 69 N.E. 79th Street (756-7575), next door to the Cordon Bleu
restaurant, is one of the hottest nightclubs in Miami. Haitians flock to the
club on weekends to hear the best Haitian bands in the city.

Open Friday, Saturday and Sunday from 10 P.M. to 3 A.M. Cover charge varies from
$8 to $10.  -- J. B.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Domino players in Maximo Gomez Park, Little Havana, known
locally as Domino Park. Owner of Les Cousins Book and Record Store, Viter Juste,
with grandson, Andrew Watson, top; musicians at Caribbean Marketplace. (pg. 8);
El Credito cigar factory on Eighth Street. (pg. 26)(Photographs by Miguel Martin
for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 2, 1991, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

You'd Think the U.S. Wanted to Discourage Resident Aliens

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 308 words


To the Editor:

So Beverly Kitching thinks the French make residence in their country tough for
outsiders ("So You Want to Live in France, Do You?", letter, Feb. 12)? I am a
British citizen married (in the United States 20 years ago) to a United States
citizen, and we have a 12-year-old son, who is also a United States citizen. My
wife joined me in Britain with no more formality than the need to register her
residence with the immigration authorities.

Now, with a change of circumstances, I would like to live here with my American
family as a resident alien. I have an external income and am ready and willing
to pay United States taxes.

I have spent two whole days either standing on line in the street in bitterly
cold weather or cooped up in crowded waiting rooms to acquire, fill in and
submit application forms to the Immigration and Naturalization Service. I have
supplied my life history, denied I was ever a Nazi, have had my fingerprints
taken, a blood test, an X-ray and now await an interview to decide if I might be
acceptable.

To open a bank account, get a driving license and insure myself, I need a Social
Security number. I applied for this three weeks ago (another afternoon spent in
an uncomfortable, crowded waiting room), was told it would take 10 days to a
fortnight and have now been informed that the file might have been mislaid and
that perhaps I should go through the process again.

With very rare and then oh-so-welcome exceptions, this sapping, depressing
experience has been conducted with cold detachment, bordering on hostility. I
cannot help reflecting on the fact that, when it comes to wars, Brits are very
acceptable allies. To be a resident alien in your country is less easy than
fighting alongside you. Does it have to be like this?

GEOFFREY D. PAUL
Paterson, N.J., Feb. 12, 1991

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 18, 1991, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Changes in Albania Rekindle Pride in Immigrants

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1561 words


As Albania stumbles from its Stalinist past, a distant footfall is heard in
parts of New York.

"It was like a dream," Dr. Sami Repishti said, recalling how his telephone rang
on Long Island one morning last year -- 23 years after the Albanian authorities,
having outlawed religion and private cars, cut their citizens' communications
with the outside world. "I could not believe it when I heard my brother's voice.
It brought hopes to me that Albania would one day be democratic."

From the Belmont section of the Bronx, where Albanian social clubs have
shouldered in among the pizzerias, to dusky Manhattan restaurants where
partisans of the late King Zog plot their return, there are huddles of men
filled with cigarette smoke and grappa and with talk of wondrous things:
protests and political liberties in their homeland, Albanian boat people washing
up on Italian shores, even the toppling of statues of the late leader Enver
Hoxha.

The discussions are easily missed. Not long after coming to America, immigrants
named Gjergj usually become "George," and somewhat more quietly Albanian; at a
busy Italian restaurant in Manhattan, the Albanian Muslim proprietor, a man
named Sejdi, is known to his patrons as Sergio.

But while outsiders glancing at the Albanians of New York have often seen only a
reflection of the small Balkan country's insular and sometimes violent image,
the faraway stirrings have opened a window on a community of extraordinary vigor
and success. And to immigrants used to having their origins treated here as a
kind of running joke, the thought of the ruling Albanian Labor Party wobbling
like one of Europe's last Communist dominoes has also renewed old pride.

"People would say, 'You're Albanian? Does that mean you're from Albany? Are you
an Albino?' " said the Rev. Arthur Liolin, chancellor of the Albanian Orthodox
Archdiocese of America. "Now people know who you are."

On Friday, after more than half a century of mutual antagonism and
non-recognition, Albania and the United States renewed full diplomatic ties.
American officials have argued for the move by saying they wanted to encourage
the new pluralism in advance of multiparty elections scheduled for March 31. But
despite the promise of closer ties to their homeland after four decades in which
it seemed lost in time, not all Albanian-Americans were ready to celebrate.

A Surge of Energy

"We're waiting for the big change -- to be a free country," the Imam Isa Hoxha,
the Brooklyn-based spiritual leader of thousands of Albanian Muslim New Yorkers,
had said earlier.

Still, there has been a surge of energy and activism among Albanian-Americans.
In the elegant Flatbush manse that houses his mosque, the Imam reports a steady
rise in prayer attendance. Outside the Albanian Roman Catholic church in the
Bronx, a desolate stretch of Park Avenue seems to clog each Sunday with more
triple-parked cars, Volvos and Toyotas that crunch over crack vials in the
street.

In recent weeks, the Albanian Orthodox church has collected hundreds of packages
of food, clothing and other items to be sent to Albania. Even the Zogista, as
the monarchists are known, claim a stream of fresh recruits, while their old
rivals, stalwarts of the Balli Kombetar, or National Front, say they have more
listeners for their show on an ethnic radio station, WNWK-FM.

But some mysteries of Albanian New York remain impenetrable. No one knows, for
instance, just how many Albanians live in the area, because many came from
Yugoslavia's southern province of Kosovo, which was split off from Albania in
1913. The estimates of community and church leaders range from 75,000 people to
more than 150,000, but others say the figure may be much lower.

Still, there are mysteries that Albanian-Americans are happier than ever to
unravel. There is, for example, the one about how unswerving devotion to an
ancient ethical canon that governs such issues as betrothals, plundering and
damages done by family pigs became a prescription for business success in the
Bronx.

After a first large group of Albanians came to the United States in the early
1900's, and a second after the country fell to Communists in 1944, the story is
told, the Gegs began coming to the Bronx. The Gegs, as northern Albanians are
called (and distinguished from the Tosks of the Albanian south), had always been
fiercely independent. Some were mountain farmers who fled over Albania's closed
borders; others were Kosovars allowed to leave Yugoslavia beginning in the
1960's.

Through Albanian friends, they found precarious homes in the borough's Fordham,
Belmont and Bedford Park sections, and jobs as dishwashers and maintenance men.
More quickly than they could perfect their English, many worked their way to
jobs cooking and managing restaurants, or maintaining and running apartment
buildings. And in something of a departure from the tradition of Albania's
male-dominated society, many women went to work outside their homes.

Then, pooling the savings of friends and relatives, they bought pizzerias and
diners, and dilapidated Bronx apartment buildings by the hundreds.

"You had landlords leaving the Bronx, you had landlords who were afraid to visit
the buildings, and the Albanians came, moved in, and grabbed the kids writing
the graffiti and said, 'Hey! Don't do that anymore!' " recalled Harry
Bajraktari, who came from Kosovo 20 years ago and now, at the age of 34,
commands a suite of real-estate offices in the Belmont section. "Every time an
Albanian said, 'I'm going to do this,' he did it."

Asked to trace the iron value of their promises, such men often cite "the
Kanuni": the Canon of Lek Dukagjini.

Named for a 15th-century Albanian aristocrat, the Canon includes laws that do
not always seem relevant to 20th-century New York. "If the people approve of the
judgment of the Chiefs and Elders," one edict insists, "it is a law that they
must shout in unison, 'Another's foot, our heads!' "

Yet the code also contains customary laws -- such as the terrible consequences
of breaking one's besa, or word, and the right to revenge -- that still make
sense in Albanian homes from New Jersey to Long Island.

With the reputation for steadfastness have come unusual headlines -- of blood
feuds on the Lower East Side, gun seizures in the Bronx and turf battles between
youths of Albanian and Hispanic descent. Albanians say this has more to do with
history than with Lek.

"In our country, we were always pushed against the wall, so we had to be tough,"
Mr. Bajraktari said, recalling invasions of Bulgars, Serbs, Turks, Italians,
Greeks and Nazi Germans, among others. "When we came here and people pushed, we
stood our ground."

Modernity, it would seem, dictated only the choice of weapons. So many Albanian
building superintendents carried guns that complaints from their nervous tenants
in the Bronx grew common. "It's not that they're criminals," said Sgt. Frank
Viggiano, commander of the 49th Precinct Detective Squad in the Bronx. "It's a
tradition -- a sort of macho kind of thing."

Tony Shkreli, a Bronx travel agent, did not contradict this. "We don't carry
guns to hurt anybody," he said. "But we Albanians, as men, must show that we can
protect ourselves."

Did Mr. Shkreli, a genial, graying man in a pin-striped suit, carry a gun? "Uh.
. . Eh. . . Yes," he answered.

Might he show it to a visitor?

"Albanians have a tradition," Mr. Shkreli explained. "Don't show anyone your
horse, your wife, or your gun. Same rule applies here."

For a community so self-contained that its members can often guess each others'
political sympathies by their last names, so traditional that arranged marriages
are not unheard of, the democracy protests in Albania have brought a sense of
relief.

"It's very clear now that what was there was held by repression," the Rev. Rrok
Mirdita, pastor of the Our Lady of Good Counsel Roman Catholic church in the
Bronx, said of the country's truculent brand of Communism. "That has helped
people here to get out of the kind of inferiority complex, the kind of guilt
they had during the last 40 years. It has been liberating, morally and
psychologically."

But new concerns have tempered the joy. As the real-estate boom of the 1980's
brought many Albanian landlords sudden wealth and homes in the suburbs, so the
current downturn in property values has left some in trouble. And many worry
that Albanian-Americans' prized tradition of rich hospitality toward new
immigrants will be sorely tested by the sheer numbers of the Albanians who are
expected to arrive in New York as renewed diplomatic ties help to unite
long-separated families.

Nua Shala, the head of an Albanian-American landlords association, said, "You
love to see them, and you're happy for them, but then you have to help them."

And despite the excitement of freedom and consumer goods, some of the newest
arrivals are not convinced that the country they have found is worthy of their
dreams.

Gjergj (George) Uli, who arrived in the Bronx last fall after 35 years in
Tirana, the Albanian capital, was discouraged by months without a job. And he
was especially disappointed with what he perceived as the shallowness of
American culture. "On television, I don't see the classics of literature, of
music," he complained. "And you have about 100 channels!"

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Albanian-Americans during a service at Our Lady of Good Counsel
Roman Catholic church in the Bronx. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) (pg.
B4)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 24, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

France Sees Integration as Answer to View of Immigrants as 'Taking Over'

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1309 words

DATELINE: PARIS


Sifting through his papers, Claude Desvaux counted 203 foreigners among the 280
students attending his public school in the crowded Belleville section of Paris.
But the real number, he added with a resigned smile, is much higher.

"We have children born in France who remain culturally foreign because they
speak Arabic or some other language at home," the school principal said. "We
have kids from the French Antilles who are French citizens but they don't feel
French."

Across France, foreigners represent around 9 percent of all students under the
age of 16, but in districts with high concentrations of immigrants, they
invariably account for more than 70 percent of pupils.

Throughout Western Europe, there is a perception that immigrants -- Arabs in
France, Turks in Germany, Pakistanis in Britain and so on -- are "taking over"
schools, housing complexes and neighborhoods. That in turn has led to the
movement of European families and the entire process has become known as the
ghetto phenomenon. That in turn has become a major factor contributing to rising
opposition to new immigration.

Viewed With Hostility

Whether in Birmingham, Frankfurt, Florence or Marseilles, third-world
communities have become the target of simmering xenophobia and occasional racist
violence, with some ultra-nationalist groups even trying to court popularity by
demanding that poor foreigners be forcibly repatriated.

Yet, with immigration already strictly controlled in Western Europe, many
experts are now arguing that the problem and the solution lie elsewhere. Today's
immigrants are viewed with hostility, they say, because earlier waves of
immigrants and their children were not properly integrated.

With many governments under strong pressure to do something about immigration,
this view is also gaining favor in European capitals. A recent report by the
European Community's executive commission said the focus should now switch to
integration, while France's new Council on Integration has just published its
first findings.

In many European cities, as in the United States, the ghetto phenomenon occurs
almost naturally.

Immigrants are drawn to where their relatives or friends already live. And as
they start crowding schools, apartment blocks and hostels, often changing the
local scenery with their shops and places of worship, European families move
away.

The result is evident in the patio below Mr. Desvaux's office at the College de
Fontaine-au-Roi in Paris's 11th arrondissement. At different times of the day,
teen-agers of 28 nationalities, five religions and all races take breaks there
between classes, but hardly a white French child is to be seen. "The ghetto
phenomenon is a permanent danger to us," Mr. Desvaux said.

Experts argue, though, that race is not the principal obstacle to integration.
Asked in a recent French poll why cohabitation with immigrants was difficult,
respondents overwhelmingly identified different customs and religion and, to a
smaller extent, language, while skin color was barely mentioned.

Attitudes have also hardened as immigrants have gone from guest workers to
permanent residents. For example, when France, Britain, Germany, Belgium and the
Netherlands were welcoming the cheap foreign labor of single men between the
late 1950's and the early 1970's, they represented an economic solution.

But by the 1980's, many immigrants had brought their families, customs and
religions and had formed highly visible communities in countries with little
"melting pot" tradition. Western Europe's economies still need them but, often
trapped in poverty, they are now considered a social problem.

"They continually run the risk of unemployment, of having to accept the worst
housing and of facing disproportionate difficulties in schools," according to
the European Commission's recent report on immigration and integration. "They
run the risk of becoming marginalized and remaining marginalized."

The report stressed that the problem not only affected newly arrived immigrants
and refugees. "Their children and grandchildren also comprise a social and
economic underclass," it said, "and this will not change until integration
policies become stronger and more imaginative."

In France, it was only last year after a wave of violent racist incidents and
rising support for the extreme-rightist National Front that the socialist
Government of President Francois Mitterrand concluded that there was no viable
alternative to speeding integration.

As a first step, it appointed a high-level Council on Integration to analyze the
crisis and recommend action. And last month, the council issued its first
report, drawing a dark picture of an immigrant population that is largely cut
off from French society in its schools, housing and employment.

'Equality of Rights and Duties'

Dealing first with principles, it declared that France's concept of integration
meant guaranteeing "equality of rights and duties" for everyone rather than
reinforcing segregation of immigrants by treating them as special communities or
minorities.

But it also recognized that, while earlier generations of immigrants and
refugees from Eastern Europe had been naturally assimilated, "patient, vigorous
and inventive" measures would be needed to integrate the Arabs, Africans and
Asians now crowding schools, housing complexes and hostels.

The problems involved are apparent enough in Paris's 11th arrondissement, where
parents can choose among five public schools. And that means, in Mr. Desvaux's
words, "they can choose not to integrate." As a result, his school carries the
main burden of handling local immigrant children

That in turn has predictable consequences. While 80 percent of pupils at a
nearby lycee continue studying after the age of 16, only 40 percent of Mr.
Desvaux's students do so. Similarly, nationwide, while 30 percent of immigrants
between the ages of 16 and 24 are unemployed, the figure for French youths is 20
percent.

French schools in turn mirror the concentration of immigrant housing. About
120,000 immigrants live in some 400 "temporary" hostels owned and managed by the
Government. But most other immigrants live in low-cost housing that quickly
brings the ghetto phenomenon to districts and towns.

The French Government has established greater integration of the hostels and the
low-cost housing blocks among its objectives, but the problems are myriad. In
one well-run hostel in Evry, 30 miles outside Paris, the fact that most of its
271 guests are foreign permanent residents means there is little room for French
workers.

A few hundred yards away, a low-cost housing complex crowded with Algerians,
Moroccans, Tunisians and growing numbers of sub-Saharan Africans poses even
greater obstacles to integration because, in Evry at least, it is already
identified with uncollected garbage, violence and frequent police raids.

At the College de Fontaine-au-Rois in Belleville, Mr. Desvaux said he had no
difficulty maintaining order inside the school. "But there is a problem of
delinquency outside," he said. "The problem is that when the kids go home,
there's no one there, so they hit the streets. Often the only social structure
is a street gang."

But winding up a two-hour French lesson before a class of 15-year-olds, Claude
Beaudoin insisted that the children of immigrants were gradually becoming
integrated. "We get young Arab girls asking for our help to prevent them from
being sent home to get married," the young teacher said.

In the class, impatient for lunch after studying a poem by Paul Verlaine, there
were children from Sri Lanka, India, Cambodia, Mali, Yugoslavia, the French
Antilles and all the countries of North Africa. But when asked who wanted to go
home, only one boy from Guadeloupe raised his hand. "I miss the weather," he
said.


LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Immigrant youngsters outside the College de Fontaine-au-Roi in
Paris's 11th arrondissement. At different times of the day, teen-agers of 28
nationalities, five religions and all races take breaks there between classes,
but with very few white French children. Seventy percent of the pupils are
foreign. (Alan Riding/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 4, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Flow of Soviet Jews Into Israel Surges Again

BYLINE: By HENRY KAMM, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 676 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, April 3


Immigration of Jews from the Soviet Union last month reached a total of almost
15,000 and will climb to 25,000 this month, according to the head of the agency
that organizes immigrants' preparation and transport.

"To our delight, immigration is rising again to pre-gulf war levels," the
official, Simcha Dinitz, head of the Jewish Agency and former Ambassador to the
United States, said in an interview on Tuesday.

He said the expectation of 25,000 arrivals this month was based on applications
received and on the fact that the daily line of visa-seekers at the Israeli
Consulate in Moscow had bounced back to the peak of 1,200 that preceded the
fighting in the Persian Gulf war.

Mr. Dinitz said his agency's estimate, with which the Interior Ministry concurs,
is that about 5 percent of the total number of Soviet immigrants were non-Jews,
most of them spouses or children of Jews. This contrasts with statements by the
Immigrant Absorption Minister, Rabbi Yitzhak Peretz, that about 30 percent of
arrivals from the Soviet Union were non-Jews.

Mr. Dinitz said the Absorption Minister, whose office organizes the integration
of immigrants into Israel, may apply "criteria that are more severe than the
normal ones" to determine if a person is Jewish.

"We will continue to transport to Israel all Jews who have received visas," Mr.
Dinitz said. "We won't start selective methods, putting in doubt someone's
Judaism after he has survived 70 years of Communism."

The allegation by Rabbi Peretz, who was elected on behalf of Shas, a religious
party that draws its strength from the Sephardim, the Middle Eastern and North
African Jews, was first made last July. He spoke during a legislative debate on
a proposed tightening of the Law of Return, which gives citizenship to all Jews
who ask for it. At that time, Mr. Peretz said that if the law was not modified,
"five million non-kosher Jews" would enter Israel.

The Minister's views caused dismay across the political spectrum, as well as
among Soviet immigrants. Likud, the governing party of Prime Minister Yitzhak
Shamir, prevailed on the bill's sponsor, Michael Kleiner, to withdraw it.

Rabbi Peretz resigned from Shas last year in an internal dispute and is now an
independent member of the Cabinet and Parliament.

Mr. Dinitz declined to comment on possible political motivation of Rabbi
Peretz's objections. But a senior official of the agency said that the
Absorption Minister's criticism reflected growing concern among what he called
the "Orthodox establishment" that Soviet immigration, which approached 200,000
last year and might reach 300,000 this year, might change the political balance
of the nation to the detriment of the four religious parties.

Over the last 10 years, the two major parties, Likud and Labor, have been unable
to form a majority Government. The religious parties, with only a few
legislators, have held the balance of power, giving the reins of Government to
either major party.

The Jewish Agency official said that Soviet immigrants were in the great
majority secular in outlook. There is much speculation what their voting pattern
will be, he said, but there is slight chance that many would favor the religious
parties.

Soviet Jewish leaders and immigrants here have charged that the Moscow consulate
is applying severe challenges to visa applicants.

In a news conference last month, Interior Minister Aryeh Deri, also from Shas,
said his ministry accepted the consulate's standards, after a visit to Moscow by
Interior Ministry officials.

In an interview published today in the daily Yediot Ahronot, Lev Gorditsky,
chairman of the Zionist Federation in the Soviet Union, was reported to have
said during a visit here that "thousands" of Jews had been subjected to great
hardship, giving up jobs and apartments, only to be refused immigration visas.

"There is no possibility of turning back, and masses find themselves in despair
in the streets," Mr. Gorditsky was reported to have said.

Mr. Dinitz said he was unaware of such a problem.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 14, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

For 60, Home Was Once a 6-by-9-Foot Space

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 32; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 687 words


In lower Manhattan, where Jacob Riis chronicled the squalor of crowded slums a
century ago, 60 immigrants had until recently been living in cold windowless
cubicles smaller than jail cells.

They lived at 118-122 Baxter Street, an unremarkable seven-story factory and
warehouse. Hidden behind its brick exterior was an illegal makeshift warren of
Masonite, plasterboard and chicken wire where cubicles rented for as much as
$300 a month.

The discovery of the Baxter Street cubicles hardly surprised inspectors, housing
experts and immigration caseworkers. They said such warehousing of immigrants
had been found in apartments, basement dormitories and attics. No one knows how
many such dwellings exist.

Fire officials say that when they come across situations like the one on Baxter
Street, they try to close them quickly. William M. Feehan, the Acting Chief of
Department, recalled a fire in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn a few years ago
that killed six cab drivers, all of them Haitian immigrants, in similar
cubicles.

On Baxter Street, the immigrants, all of them Chinese, considered the
arrangement a good deal in a city where even bad housing can be hard to find.

"If the Fire Department checked every building in Chinatown, they would probably
have to vacate half the population," said Sam Mui, a staff worker who visited
the building for Asian-Americans for Equality, a nonprofit housing group. "I
don't know where the people would go."

On March 15, Ladder Company No. 6 checked the Baxter Street building in what
officials described as a routine inspection. They found 25 cubicles, which had
inadequate exits and fire protection, among other problems. The building was
ordered vacated and the cubicles dismantled, displacing 60 tenants.

Although the city provides tenants evicted in such situations with help in
finding shelter, Chief Feehan said, the Fire Department is still sensitive to
the cry that such orders to vacate contribute to homelessness. But he said such
action is necessary because "I don't want them carried out in canvas bags at 3
o'clock in the morning."

Of those who were displaced, about 10 visited Mr. Mui's office, where a
representative from the city's Housing Preservation and Development Department
helped relocate them in hotels while permanent housing was sought. The hotel
bills will be charged as a lien on the Baxter Street property.

But "the illegals fled, as they do when anybody who seems official comes," said
Lee Chong, associate director of the nonprofit housing group.

Chinatown is one of New York's most crowded neighborhoods, with a large
underclass. Most people, like those who lived in the cubicles on Baxter Street,
work for substandard wages in the garment and restaurant industries and as
street vendors, often toiling 60 hours a week for $150, Ms. Chong said.

Exploitation extends from the workplace to housing. In state prisons, each
inmate has a 6-by-10-foot cell with a toilet and a sink. On Baxter Street, most
cubicles measured 6-by-9 and were shared by two to three occupants. The plumbing
was at the end of a winding hallway, where a single toilet, a dark stained
shower and an encrusted gas stove served as a communal bathroom and kitchen. At
the end of another long hallway, a second toilet served another cluster. There
was little heat. The cubicles had electricity, some with professional-looking
metal conduit installations, others with bare bulbs on wires dangling from
overhead hooks.

One person who lived in the warehouse said it had been subleased by a man for
$1,250 a month, then subdivided. Although some tenants paid two months' security
deposits and now feared that they would lose them, they were generally grateful
to the landlord for the accommodations, Mr. Mui said, "They love him."

The building's owner is listed as Wing Tat Realty, Fire Department records show.
Formal papers were served on Gene Quan as an officer of the company. He said in
an interview that the cubicles were installed without the warehouse owner's
knowledge, and that the company was "complying fully" with paying for their
removal.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 28, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Coins

BYLINE: By Jed Stevenson

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 61; Column 1; Style Desk; Pastimes Page

LENGTH: 528 words


Commemorative coins are a strange lot. Often they are used as a promotional
gimmick to sell bullion at a much higher price than the open-market price. And
while advertisements allude to eventual profits, many commemoratives barely
return their original investment.

But occasionally a commemorative appeals more to the heartstrings than to the
purse strings. Some examples are the coins struck for Israel's 1991 Independence
Day to commemorate the immigration of Jews from around the world, a process that
is continuing with the arrival of Jews from Ethiopia and the Soviet Union.

In 1950, the Israeli Parliament passed the Law of Return, which guarantees
citizenship to any Jewish immigrant. Since then, millions of Jews have
immigrated. Previous surges of such immigration have strained the Israeli
Government's resources, and the new surge's proportions are nearly overwhelming.
To raise money for the new immigrants, Israel has been selling bonds and seeking
donations. The Government Coins and Medals Corporation has minted three new
commemoratives.

The three coins are similar in design. Each shows immigrants alighting from a
Boeing 747. Around the outside of the coin, in English and Hebrew, appears a
phrase from the Book of Jeremiah: "I will gather them out of all countries." On
the other side is a wide band running through the center of the coin with a
large numeral -- the coin's value.

The coins are available in one-shekel and two- and 10-sheqalim pieces. The
smaller denominations are 92.5 percent silver, while the 10-sheqalim piece is 90
percent gold. The coins will have a limited mintage -- 15,000 of each silver
coin and 6,000 gold 10-sheqalim coins. The silver shekel and the gold
10-sheqalim coin both weigh close to half a troy ounce, while the two-sheqalim
coin is nearly a troy ounce of silver.

The prices are $32 for the large proof silver two-sheqalim coin and $52 for both
the brilliant uncirculated one-shekel and the proof two-sheqalim coins. The gold
proof 10-sheqalim coin is $399. All are packaged in a presentation case. The
coins may be ordered from the American Israel Numismatic Association at (800)
562-6467 (in New York, (718) 224-9393).  Allow one to two months for shipment.


For anyone seeking a good old-fashioned coin show, the Greater New York
Numismatic Convention this week at the Omni Park Central Hotel should be
perfect.

Dealers will display American, foreign and ancient coins. Even medals will be
well represented, with an auction scheduled for Saturday.

Two speeches are scheduled for 1 P.M. Saturday: one on the coins, tokens and
bank notes of Sarawak in Southeast Asia in the time of the white rajahs, the
other on coin collecting. A free program for children will run from 10 A.M. to 3
P.M. Saturday. The children's program includes speeches, gifts, seminars and
lunch, and concludes with a special auction for children, using play money
provided by the convention.

The convention will begin on Wednesday at 9 A.M. and close at 7 P.M. each day
except Saturday, when it closes at 5 P.M. The Omni Park Central is at 7th Avenue
and 56th Street in Manhattan. More information: (718) 634-9266.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Israel's new silver and gold commemorative coins, which depict
immigration of Jews from around the world.

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 5, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Miami Airport

SECTION: Section 5; Page 21; Column 6; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 136 words


To the Editor: I had to laugh at a recent letter complaining of discrimination
toward foreign tourists in India. If you want to see discrimination toward
foreigners, come to Miami International Airport any busy afternoon. While the
handful of returning American passengers on international flights gets whisked
through immigration in 5 or 10 minutes, hundreds of exhausted, confused
foreigners are herded into a 45-minute wait for one of the few available
immigration officers.

On a recent flight from London to Miami it took my husband and me -- British
citizens who live in Miami -- two and a half hours to get out of the airport.
Miami is trying to attract European tourists, but a welcome like this will drive
people off to Orlando or Fort Lauderdale as fast as they can get there.

MOYNA PRINCE
Miami

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 14, 1991, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Census Finds Households Are Growing In New York

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 896 words


After declining steadily for most of this century, the average number of people
living in a household in New York City began to rise again in the last decade,
according to an analysis of 1990 census data by New York City planners.

The reversal of the longstanding trend toward smaller households appeared to
signal a return to an old phenomenon for a new generation in this city of
immigrants -- one in which families with many children and older members had to
live together.

Richard L. Schaffer, the Director of City Planning, said yesterday that the
average size of New York households increased to 2.54 people in 1990 from 2.49
in 1980. Despite the citywide increase, Manhattan -- with fewer than two people
in each living unit -- retained its distinction as the county with the smallest
household size in the nation.

"This modest increase in household size reflects recent changes in the
composition of our population," Mr. Schaffer said of the citywide figures. "For
example, we have many new immigrant groups with extended families and
multigenerational households."

Living With Relatives

And in a city that gained at least 250,000 people in the 1980's, and perhaps
many more if census figures are adjusted upward, a declining economy and a
shortage of affordable housing may also have contributed to the rise in the
average household size, Mr. Schaffer said. Both factors make it harder for
immigrants and young people to establish their own households.

While experts say hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers are living with relatives
or friends in overcrowded apartments, Evelyn Mann, the Planning Department's
population division director, cautioned against interpreting the figures as
confirmation that families are doubled up.

"It doesn't necessarily mean that people are being squeezed in," she said. "It
only means that more housing in certain areas of the city is being used at their
designed levels. I don't think the census actually counted many people who were
doubled up. If such arrangements were illegal, it would not have been reported."

Average household size is figured by dividing the number of people in households
in a given area by the number of occupied units in that area. New York City
contends that both the population and the housing count were seriously flawed in
the 1990 census, partly because residents in illegally overcrowded housing were
not reported.

If people were undercounted, Mr. Schaffer noted, the average number of people in
New York households might well be higher than 2.54.

In any case, he said, the 1990 census showed a reversal in trends toward smaller
households that had been noted since 1900.

The average size of New York households at the turn of the century -- in an era
of heavy immigration by ethnic groups that tended to have many children and
lived in large, multigenerational families -- was 4.51 people, according to
figures supplied by the Planning Department.

But as increasing prosperity and a growing housing stock in New York allowed for
more privacy and greater choice in living arrangements, the extended families
broke up, young people increasingly established their own homes. Household size
declined to 3.89 people in 1930, to 3.2 in 1950 and to 2.74 in 1970.

Immigrant Pattern Cited

Mrs. Mann said the 1990 census figures for average household size suggested a
return in some neighborhoods "to the family structure at the turn of the
century" by new immigrants who had many children and lived in multigenerational
households.

For example, she said, an apartment in Flatbush that once was the home of a
large extended immigrant family was occupied down through the decades by fewer
people as the family prospered and children moved out, until finally the
apartment was occupied by a lone widowed grandmother.

When that woman dies or goes to a nursing home, the apartment again becomes
occupied by a new large extended immigrant family. This has the effect of
raising the size of the household and using the housing stock more efficiently,
Mrs. Mann said.

"It's turning back the clock in some neighborhoods," she said of the reversal of
the long decline in household size.

Moreover economic hard times and an inadequate stock of affordable housing have
prompted many young people to remain longer at home with their parents. People
who are doubled up with relatives or friends have also postponed establishing
their own households.

Mr. Schaffer said that while all five boroughs gained population in the 1990
census, the Bronx and Brooklyn experienced declines in housing units and
occupied housing units. In the Bronx, average household size rose from 2.66 to
2.74, while Brooklyn's increased from 2.66 to 2.73.

Thus, he said "more people lived in fewer housing units in these two boroughs
than in the past."

Manhattan and Queens gained in total and occupied housing units and the number
of people in each household. Manhattan's increase, to 1.99 people from 1.92 in
each household, did not jeopardize its national standing as the county with the
lowest average household size. Queens showed an increase from 2.62 to 2.67 over
the decade.

Staten Island had the highest percentage increase among the boroughs in both
housing units and people in each household, but nonetheless it experienced a
decrease in average household size from 2.99 to 2.85.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 15, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

AFTER THE WAR;
Canada Admits Errors in Giving Speedy Entry to Ex-Hussein Aide

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 509 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA, May 14


The Canadian Government has acknowledged a series of mistakes that gave
fast-track immigration privileges to one of the chief apologists of Iraq's
President, Saddam Hussein.

The refuge obtained here by Mohammed al-Mashat, Iraq's former Ambassador to
Washington and one of the senior members of Iraq's ruling Baath Party, has
stirred sharp controversy over the country's immigration procedures.

It has also raised suspicions that the Conservative Government may have speeded
Mr. Mashat's entry to obtain intelligence to share with the Central Intelligence
Agency. Unlike most North Atlantic Treaty Organization countries, Canada has no
foreign intelligence-gathering bureau and traditionally prides itself on keeping
a good distance from the C.I.A.

The suspicions and rumors, combined with a number of critical editorials in
Canadian newspapers, have led the Government into making what it says are
"embarrassing" disclosures about the breakdown of communications inside two
departments that it says allowed Mr. Mashat into the country without
notification to anyone in the Cabinet.

'No Espionage Capers'

"Officials failed to insure that ministers were consulted or even informed,"
said a joint statement by Minister of External Affairs Barbara McDougall and
Immigration Minister Bernard Valcourt.

On the question of intelligence sharing, the two ministers insisted that there
had been "no espionage capers and no conspiracies by any individual or
governmental agency -- either Canadian or foreign -- involved in this case."

John C. Thompson, director of the MacKenzie Institute of Toronto, a research
group that studies terrorism, said he was "at a loss to understand" why Mr.
Mashat was given a visa unless he provided intelligence. He noted that the
60-year-old Iraqi diplomat, who had also served as Ambassador to London, Paris
and Vienna, could have been a source of important information about the
procurement of foreign military technology by Iraq and its harassment of Iraqi
dissidents abroad.

Mr. Mashat took a month to obtain for himself, his wife and son so-called landed
emigrant status, entitling him to work and live in Canada and eventually obtain
citizenship. Normally the process takes several years.

In the Vancouver Area

Mr. Mashat is reported to be in the Vancouver area.

According to a Government report published today, the Iraqi diplomat put out
feelers about defecting to the Canadians while in Vienna in late February. But
an inter-departmental Canadian Government committee rejected defector status for
him, based in part on an assessment by the Canadian Security Intelligence
Service that he was "not considered a valuable source of intelligence." The
intelligence service is a domestic security agency similar to the Federal Bureau
of Investigation.

Today's report went on to say that his subsequent request for landed emigrant
status was expedited because of concern about his safety in Vienna expressed by
the Associate Under Secretary of State for External Affairs, Raymond Chretien.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 19, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Poor and Illegal, Mexicans Lose Hope in New York

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1637 words


Beaten down by a dismal economy, Lucas V. left his construction job, a wife and
two children in Mexico and ventured to New York in search of the nest egg that
would enable him to open a small business back home. After two years of laboring
on construction sites for $260 a week, he is no closer to his goal than when he
first arrived.

"I think I made a mistake coming here," the trim 30-year-old said one recent
afternoon on the sidelines of a soccer match in upper Manhattan, one of his few
diversions. "What you earn here stays here."

Lucas, who scrapes by without immigration documents or English, is like many in
a new wave of Mexican immigrants who have arrived in the New York metropolitan
region in recent years. The exact numbers are uncertain, since many are here
illegally, but the Mexican Consulate in New York estimated that since the
mid-1980's, the number of Mexicans living in the region has grown from about
60,000 to as many as 200,000, with increasing numbers of women and children
making the trek north.

While the United States and Mexico are discussing the technicalities of a
possible free-trade agreement, the stream of new arrivals in New York City shows
a human dimension often overlooked in the economic equation.

"When we talk about globalization, we mostly talk about capital, but it's
happening at the level of people," said Saskia Sassen, a professor of urban
planning at Columbia who has studied the city's burgeoning Mexican community.

In past decades, the city attracted a small group of Mexican professionals,
businessmen and artists. But the most recent migration, which gathered steam
about five years ago, is bringing many poorer, mostly illegal Mexican
immigrants. Many of them have settled in small pockets in the city's established
Hispanic neighborhoods, like East Harlem in Manhattan, the Williamsburg section
of Brooklyn and the Tremont section of the Bronx.

Farming to Dishwashing

Peasant farmers who once picked vegetables in the fields of Mexico now wash and
stack produce at greengrocers or peddle flowers from rickety shopping carts at
busy intersections. For others, the journey that began on sun-baked dirt roads
in distant corners of Mexico ends with a spray of hot water, washing dishes
inside a humid kitchen.

The tales of friends and relatives who returned home sporting new suits and
lugging boxes and suitcases bulging with the trappings of North American success
have lured them here. But many find themselves underpaid by employers,
overcharged by landlords and overrun by neighborhood toughs who see them as easy
prey, since their fear of deportation often forces them to endure indignities in
silence.

It is a cruel test of faith. "They are carriers of the American Dream in a way
those who have been here a long time no longer are," said Ms. Sassen. "They
really believe it will work out. But for a growing number, it is not working
out."

The most recent Mexican immigrants are unlike earlier waves of Dominicans or
Colombians who came to the United States with some money and education. They are
coming from some of the poorest regions of Mexico -- the states of Puebla,
Oaxaca, Guerrero and the capital, Mexico City, said Robert Smith, a doctoral
candidate in political science at Columbia who is writing his dissertation on
the new immigrants.

Demand for Cheap Labor

Traditional destinations in the Southwestern United States had become saturated
with new migrants -- and also riskier, as immigration authorities cracked down
on employers who were hiring illegal immigrants, Mr. Smith said. Cities like New
York became attractive, he said, because jobs were plentiful and attention from
immigration authorities minimal.

"What happened in the mid- and late 80's was the economic need had become so
much worse and the demand for cheap labor in New York found this source, so
immigration spread quickly," Mr. Smith said.

Ms. Sassen said the 1986 Federal law imposing penalties on employers who hire
undocumented workers also pushed down wages. She said some employers decided
that if hiring undocumented workers would put them at risk of fines, they would
minimize their losses by hiring the cheapest labor possible.

So the new Mexican immigrants have become the favored source of cheap labor. In
some garment factories, workers are getting as little as $2 an hour, while
others who make restaurant deliveries work just for tips, Ms. Sassen said.

At a park by the Hudson River in upper Manhattan, Alejandro M. weaves through
the crowd with an instant camera, ready to shoot portraits against the backdrop
of the Palisades for $4. During the week, he pushes a cart loaded down with a
block of ice and jangling bottles of fruit flavors, selling snow cones along
Broadway.

'They Return Defeated'

"It's not dignified work, but it's serious," said Alejandro, who like other
illegal immigrants interviewed for this article spoke on condition that his last
name not be used. On a good day, he can earn $50, which combined with his wife's
work at home as a hairdresser helps pay their rent of $500 a month, feed and
clothe their two children and perhaps salt away a few dollars.

"We came with the illusion of earning a little money, investing it and doing
something in Mexico," he said.

"In any country, those who work can survive. But those who get $180 for working
seven days, what can they do? They return defeated to Mexico."

Going back to Mexico is out of the question for Lucila M. and her brothers,
Leandro and Eduardo, since their jobs help support their parents and four
brothers and sisters in Puebla.

"We came to New York because we are poor farmers and our parents did not have
enough resources to send us to school," said Leandro, 26, who earns $200 a week
delivering food.

"Here we found work, but nobody pays us," said Lucila, adding that her employers
at a garment factory owe her three weeks' back wages.

Lucila, Leandro and Eduardo live with Lucila's two children and three other
relatives in a two-bedroom apartment on the Lower East Side, splitting the $380
rent. Though the water sputters out for days at a time, the heat fails often in
the winter and the walls have crumbled so badly that her two children have been
diagnosed as having lead poisoning, Lucila and her relatives do not complain.
"We're scared because if we say anything, the landlady might throw us out," she
said.

The fear of arbitrary evictions, dismissal from their jobs and the threat of
deportation keeps many illegal immigrants silent.

Alberto L., an 18-year-old factory worker, was robbed recently of $75 as he
walked home in the nascent Mexican community on the fringe of the Belmont
section of the Bronx. Rather than report the robbery, he borrowed some money
until the next pay day.

"I can't go to the police -- I don't have documents," he said. "The police will
only add to my problems."

That is a common misconception, immigrants' rights advocates say. An executive
order issued during the Koch administration prohibits city agencies from turning
over information on immigrants to the Federal authorities unless the person
involved committed a crime, said Elizabeth Aivars, director of the Mayor's
Office on Immigrant Affairs. But getting that message out has proved difficult.

"Part of the problem of the undocumented is they don't know what rights they
have," said Marie Guiardinu, director of Hermandad Hispana, an immigrant-rights
group in Manhattan.

She has tried cajoling the flower vendors she sees on the street into coming
into her organization's office for help with labor and immigration problems. She
considers them among the poorest and most vulnerable of the immigrants,
sometimes pooling their meager incomes to rent basement apartments where 10 or
more people live huddled together.

But despite her entreaties, they never come in. "I think they are worried about
losing whatever they have," she said.

In recent years, the Mexican Consulate has tried to strengthen the handful of
nonprofit agencies working with the immigrants, said Jose Antonio Lagunas, the
vice consul in charge of the effort. He said he has tried to make city agencies
more aware of the problems in the community and is hoping to get volunteers to
offer immigrants legal advice.

But many immigrants seek guidance in more familiar settings. La Tejanita, a tiny
Mexican grocery, is an unofficial center for Mexicans in the Belmont section.
Jose Andon opened the store last year after working in cafeterias and hotels in
New York for 23 years.

He knows his newly arrived countrymen can have a hard time surviving in New
York, so he helps when he can with clothing or job leads.

"When they arrive in this country, they make you want to cry," he said. Still,
he thinks that for those who work hard, some measure of success -- a car, or
money for a nicer home in Mexico -- is attainable.

But many immigrants remain adrift, unsure whom to trust for help.

After six months working for a greengrocer who paid him $150 a week -- when he
was paid at all -- Guadalupe G. started selling oranges on the streets of upper
Manhattan. He can earn $30 a day, enough to feed his wife and three young
daughters and pay the $450 rent on a basement apartment.

His oldest daughter, Susana, is 6 years old, but he is afraid to enroll her in
school since the family is here illegally. Instead, she and the other children
stay at home or scamper nearby as he peels oranges.

He expected life would be hard, and it has gotten tougher with the arrival of
more Mexicans. "There are too many for work," he said. "It's filling up here."

Like the others, he had hoped to save money, but has failed. "The reality is,
you work here so you won't suffer much, and pay the rent," he said. "At least
we're not dying of hunger."

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Part of the problem of the undocumented is they don't know
what rights they have," said Marie Guiardinu, the director of Hermandad Hispana,
an immigrant-rights group in Manhattan (John Sotomayor/The New York Times) (pg.
24); Guadalupe G. with his wife, Ana, and their three daughters selling oranges
on the streets of upper Manhattan. The family will mark the first anniversary of
their journey from Guerrero, Mexico, to New York this week. He started selling
fruit on the street, where he says he can make about $30 a day, after quitting
his job working for a greengrocer, who had paid him just $150 a week when he was
paid at all (John Sotomayor/The New York Times); Jose Andon and his wife, Carmen
Reyes, who own a Mexican grocery store in the Belmont section of the Bronx,
selling food from a stand at a park festival along the Hudson River in upper
Manhattan. Mr. Andon opened his own store last year after saving up money for
the last 23 years. He earned the money while working in cafeterias and hotels in
New York. (Dith Pran/The New York Times) (pg. 24)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 27, 1991, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Celebrating a Place Where for So Many The Good Life Began

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1106 words


A boatload of visitors docked at Ellis Island the other day to plan the staging
of a dramatic extravaganza called "Immigrant Voices." One of their number, an
actress, raised her own immigrant voice to recall her personal journey.

"I wasn't exactly in steerage, dear," said Geraldine Fitzgerald with a laugh,
recalling her first voyage to the United States in 1937 to find work at Orson
Welles's Mercury Theater. "It was a French liner. I was 23. I remember Hermione
Gingold was on board, and alas, we did not dock at Ellis Island.

"But I'm an immigrant nevertheless," she continued, "and I became an American
citizen 40 years ago. Ellis Island belongs to me -- to all of us -- and that's
why I wanted to be part of this event."

"Immigrant Voices" is a 70-minute dramatic spectacle -- part docudrama, part
musical extravaganza and part son-et-lumiere entertainment -- that will take
place in the museum's Grand Registry Hall on the nights of June 10 and 11, when
a Circle Line boat will leave Battery Park to take the 750 ticketholders for
each night's performance to Ellis Island. There will be an additional
performance on June 12 if ticket demand is strong enough. The production is one
of the 60 performing-arts events in the New York International Festival of the
Arts, which will run from June 8 to 23.

A cast of 12 -- including Miss Fitzgerald, Colleen Dewhurst, Barnard Hughes,
Ally Sheedy, Paul Hecht and Helen Stenborg -- will be joined by the 60 members
of the Concert Chorale of New York and the Orchestra of St. Luke's. The show is
designed by Jerome Sirlin and produced by David Griffiths; Ellen Taaffe Zwilich
composed the score.

The script, taken from the words of immigrants archived at the museum, is by
Geoffrey Ward, a former editor of American Heritage who was principal writer of
"The Civil War: An Illustrated History," the best-selling book that was
companion to the acclaimed PBS documentary series.

"The idea was to follow the exact sequence experienced by the immigrants," said
Mr. Ward. "We start in Europe, then there's the harrowing account of the passage
in steerage, then finally the passengers see the Statue of Liberty after they
anchor in the harbor. Then it's time for processing on Ellis Island. And the
feeling of that for them, I suppose, was similar to one's first day in a new
school -- on a very grand scale."

The idea for the production came from another immigrant: Martin E. Segal,
chairman of the festival, who came to the United States from Russia at the age
of 5. "I remember that we came through Ellis Island, but my younger sister
thinks it was the port of Boston," he said. "Just out of curiosity, we're
checking it with the archives."

"There is a sense of awe, knowing that my ancestors came right through here,"
said Ms. Sheedy, seated on one of the hard wooden benches in the registry hall.
"One side of my family is Irish Catholic, and one side is Russian Jewish, and I
can't imagine what they must have felt here. All the families, and the choices
involved -- it sends chills up your spine."

Ms. Zwilich gestured toward the tiled ceiling of the registry hall and observed,
"this room is like a cathedral space." She said that her initial idea, in
composing the music, was to create a score "as if I were writing for a great
organ, where space itself is part of the instrument." The composer has arrayed a
chorus of 20 onstage in the floor of the hall, and there will be a chorus of 60
on the balcony, flanked by a cordon of brass players.

Organizers of the festival have distributed more than 200,000 calendars of
events around the city, and 250,000 ticket brochures have been mailed to arts
patrons. (Information on "Immigrant Voices" is available by calling
212-633-1258; other festival event information is available by phoning
212-768-1818.)

Currently consuming the organizers' attention is a scramble for accommodations
for nearly 1,000 performers from 34 countries who will stay in a variety of
places ranging from private homes to the Columbia University dormitories, the
Mayflower Hotel and the Downtown Athletic Club. In addition, half a dozen
consulates -- including those of Switzerland, Brazil, Yugoslavia and India --
are planning celebrations in honor of their artistic countrymen.

There have been a few problems. Communications with the Moscow directors of
Gulanye, a Russian folk troupe that will be performing in the Cathedral of St.
John the Divine on June 14 and 15, seemed nearly impossible. Finally, fax
transmission proved to be the only viable solution. However, it was necessary
for David Eden, the project director at St. John the Divine, to take a facsimile
machine to the Soviet Union before the first fax could be sent. "Now they tell
me not to send so many, because there's no way to get more fax paper," he said.

The State Theater of Lithuania enthusiastically agreed to make some new
publicity photographs of the troupe, which will perform "Uncle Vanya" and "The
Square," in Lithuanian with simultaneous translation, starting on June 13. But
there was one hitch: pictures could only be taken after the festival producers
sent some film, said Claudia Goddard, director of marketing at the Joyce
Theater, which will host the Lithuanian performances.

Like Live Television

Although "Immigrant Voices" has had its problems too -- mostly logistical
glitches due to the long trek to the island -- the show's true test will come on
opening night, when its grand complexity and modest rehearsal time "will make it
something like doing live television," said Mr. Griffiths, the producer.

Aside from providing a celebration of Ellis Island, "Immigrant Voices" will
offer some more tangible benefits to the museum. A portion of the proceeds from
the tickets, which cost $45 per person, will be donated to the Ellis Island
Volunteer Program, which enables immigrants who originally passed through the
island to speak at the museum on a regular basis about their experiences.

At least one recent visitor to Ellis Island, however, had no need for a
re-creation of the spirit of the island in the early decades of the century.
Dominick Crapelli, a tourist from Scranton, Pa., who stopped to talk with the
"Immigrant Voices" cast, had passed through the hall at the age of 16 in 1914.
The 93-year-old native of Calabria recalled how his family had sewn $70 in his
underwear and insisted that he bring along "olive oil and provolone, because
they might not have them in America."

"I remember how it looked then," he said, his gaze taking in the horizon of the
hall. "And can I tell you. It looks much, much better today."

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Planning "Immigrant Voices" last week in the Grand Registry Hall
at Ellis Island were, seated from the left, Ally Sheedy, Ellen Taaffe Zwilich,
Geoffrey Ward and Helen Stenborg. Standing, from the left, were David Griffiths,
Bob Bennett and Barnard Hughes. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              246 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 28, 1991, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Health Dept. Loses in AIDS Rule Dispute

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1176 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 27


The Bush Administration's sudden reversal on admitting foreigners infected with
the AIDS virus resulted from a fierce struggle in which the Justice Department
prevailed over public health experts, Administration officials said today.

In January, Dr. Louis W. Sullivan, Secretary of Health and Human Services,
proposed to take AIDS off the list of diseases justifying the exclusion of
aliens from the United States. But now the Administration has shelved that
proposal.

The decision followed objections by conservatives and a flow of letters
contending that the admission of foreigners infected with the AIDS virus would
expose this country to public health risks and huge potential medical costs.

The Justice Department says it is not trying to second-guess medical judgments
by the Public Health Service. But it questions whether Dr. Sullivan adequately
documented his conclusion that AIDS is not "a communicable disease of public
health significance."

Bureaucratic Pique

Justice Department officials said Dr. Sullivan's own agency had said that AIDS
was a public health problem of immense significance.

In its proposal, the Department of Health and Human Services had also said that
AIDS was not communicable through casual contact.

Bureaucratic pique also had a role in the Justice Department's opposition.
Justice Department officials said Dr. Sullivan had not consulted any senior
official of their department when making his decision, even though the Attorney
General has primary responsibility for administering United States immigration
laws. The Immigration and Naturalization Service is part of the Justice
Department.

The White House has been trying to get Dr. Sullivan and Attorney General Dick
Thornburgh to thrash out the issue, but so far the two men have not met to
discuss it.

Potential for Compromise

Administration officials said they could discern the outline of a possible
compromise. They suggested that aliens infected with the AIDS virus would still
be prohibited from immigrating to the United States to become permanent
residents, thus meeting the concerns about costs. But at the same time, they
suggested, travelers and visitors would be able to obtain visas more easily for
relatively brief stays. This would meet the concerns of advocacy groups and
others who have complained for years that people infected with the AIDS virus
were being kept out for no good reason.

Dr. Sullivan's proposal followed a change in Federal law. Under current law,
aliens "afflicted with any dangerous contagious disease" are generally
ineligible for visas to visit or live in the United States. The Immigration Act
of 1990 redefined the grounds for exclusion and said aliens must be barred from
the United States if they have "a communicable disease of public health
significance."

That provision takes effect June 1, this Saturday. Administration officials said
Dr. Sullivan might continue deliberations beyond that date to seek a compromise
with the Justice Department.

In a notice published in the Federal Register on Jan. 23, Dr. Sullivan said
aliens should not be excluded from the United States just because of infection
with the human immunodeficiency virus, which causes AIDS.

Little Added Risk of Contagion

"Allowing HIV-infected aliens into this country will not impose a significant
additional risk of HIV infection to the U.S. population," Dr. Sullivan said
then. AIDS is not transmitted by "casual contact" or through air, food or water,
he noted.

Infection with the AIDS virus, Dr. Sullivan said, is "transmitted among adults
in this country almost exclusively by two routes: sexual intercourse with an
infected person and sharing of contaminated injection equipment" by drug users.

After receiving a torrent of public comments criticizing the proposal, Federal
health officials told the Justice Department that people infected with the AIDS
virus could be barred under another section of the immigration law if it
appeared that they were likely at any time to become a "public charge," because
of the high cost of their medical care.

This argument put the onus on the service and its parent agency, the Justice
Department, to exclude people infected with the AIDS virus, because this section
of the law is administered by immigration officials.

Assessing Longevity

But Justice Department officials led by Deputy Attorney General William P. Barr
argued that it was completely impractical for an immigration examiner to make a
sophisticated analysis of an alien's infection and health insurance coverage to
determine whether that person might become a public charge in 5 or 10 years.

It is "very common" for people infected with the AIDS virus to live for five
years or more, said Dr. Jonathan M. Mann, a professor of epidemiology and
international health at Harvard University.

In an interview today, Dr. Mann, who served as director of the global program on
AIDS at the World Health Organization from 1986 to 1990, said, "A restriction on
travel of people infected with the AIDS virus is inappropriate, unnecessary and
unhelpful and would represent a clear victory for fear, misinformation and
simplistic thinking over public health realities."

Jeffrey Levi, director of government affairs for the AIDS Action Council, whose
members care for people with AIDS, said, "This issue is a battle for the soul of
the Department of Health and Human Services because it comes down to a question
of whether the agency will maintain its professional integrity in the face of
this epidemic."

In revising the immigration law last year, Congress said the Secretary of Health
and Human Services should identify such diseases "based on current
epidemiological principles and medical standards."

Million in U.S. Already Infected

Some officials at the Department of Health and Human Services seemed reluctant
today to defend Dr. Sullivan, who could not be reached for comment himself
today. For example, Dr. William L. Roper, director of the Centers for Disease
Control, which drafted the proposal to remove AIDS from the list of excludable
conditions, said he did not care to discuss it. He noted that the department had
received more than 30,000 public comments on the proposal, many in opposition.

Likewise, Constance Horner, the Deputy Secretary of Health and Human Services,
said she would pass up the opportunity to explain Dr. Sullivan's position
because she was "away Friday" and had not consulted recently with senior
Administration officials. Mrs. Horner is often regarded as an exponent of
conservative views in the department.

Dr. Mann said a million people in the United States were already infected with
the AIDS virus. Excluding aliens with the virus "conveys the message that the
danger is outside the U.S., is a foreigner, a stranger," he said.

If the United States continues to bar aliens infected with the AIDS virus, it
could jeopardize the eighth international conference on AIDS scheduled to be
held in Boston next year, conference planners said.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Louis W. Sullivan, Secretary of Health and Human Services,
proposed in January to take AIDS off the list of diseases justifying the
exclusion of aliens from the United States.; Deputy Attorney General William P.
Barr led the Justice Department's efforts to exclude aliens with the AIDS virus.
(The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 30, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Ban on Aliens With AIDS to Continue for Now

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 793 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 29


The United States plans to continue excluding foreigners infected with the AIDS
virus at least through July while the Bush Administration tries to settle a
dispute on the question among several Federal agencies, Administration officials
said tonight.

The officials said Dr. Louis W. Sullivan, the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, would maintain existing restrictions for at least 60 days by reissuing
the current list of diseases justifying the exclusion of aliens from the United
States.

The list includes infection with the AIDS virus, gonorrhea, syphilis and active,
or infectious, tuberculosis.

An assistant to Dr. Sullivan said, "The Department of Health and Human Services
and the Justice Department have every intention of working expeditiously to come
to a final conclusion on this issue."

Strong Objection to Proposal

In a notice published in the Federal Register on Jan. 23, Dr. Sullivan proposed
to remove infection with the AIDS virus from the list of conditions requiring
the exclusion of aliens. Officials from the Justice Department, the Immigration
and Naturalization Service and the State Department objected to the proposal.

The Government received a torrent of letters opposing the admission of
foreigners infected with the AIDS virus on the ground that they might spread the
infection and could impose a financial burden on the nation's health care
system.

Administration officials disclosed over the weekend that Dr. Sullivan's proposal
would be shelved, at least temporarily. He cannot move forward with it unless
the White House and the Justice Department concur.

In a confidential memorandum to the White House earlier this month, Robin H.
Carle, executive secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services,
estimated that 600 to 800 people infected with the AIDS virus might be admitted
to the United States as permanent residents each year under Dr. Sullivan's
proposal.

A Relatively Small Number

Federal health officials said that number was relatively small in comparison
with the one million people in this country believed to be already infected with
the AIDS virus. Allowing infected aliens into the country "will not impose a
significant additional risk" of infection to people in the United States, Dr.
Sullivan said.

In 1989 about 420 would-be immigrants were barred from the United States after
they were found to be infected with the AIDS virus. That represents 1 out of
every 1,000 applicants tested for infection. Federal officials said they did not
immediately know the number of infected aliens denied visas for brief visits to
this country. In selected cases, the Government has allowed people with the
virus to visit for a week or two, but applicants cannot be sure of getting such
waivers.

Under current procedures, people who want to immigrate to this country to become
permanent residents must undergo a medical examination before obtaining visas.
Doctors designated by State Department consular officers examine prospective
immigrants to see if they are infected with the AIDS virus or have any other
medical condition that would require exclusion from the United States under
immigration law.

With some exceptions, foreigners who want to come to the United States for a
short stay, for business or tourism or family visits, also need visas. In
applying for such visas they are supposed to disclose if they have any medical
condition that would make them excludable.

In most cases they do not have to be examined by a doctor. But if an alien makes
false statements to obtain a visa, the visa may be revoked and the person may
have difficulty getting visas in the future.

A 'Capitulation' to Fear

Robert F. Bray, a spokesman for the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, a gay
political organization, said the Government's decision to continue excluding
foreigners infected with the AIDS virus showed "an abdication of responsible
leadership by President Bush."

Jeffrey Levi, director of government affairs for the AIDS Action Council, whose
members care for people with AIDS, said: "This is an unfortunate capitulation to
unwarranted fears. We won't know anything more in 60 days than we do now."

A new law, the Immigration Act of 1990, forced the Administration to re-examine
the question of admitting foreigners infected with the AIDS virus. A section of
the law that takes effect Saturday says aliens must be barred from the United
States if they have "a communicable disease of public health significance."

Dr. Sullivan and the United States Public Health Service contend that neither
AIDS nor venereal disease fits that definition. Under Dr. Sullivan's proposal,
infectious tuberculosis was the only disease justifying exclusion of aliens.


LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 2, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

HIGHBROW: THEATER

SECTION: Section 13; Page 30; Column 1; Cultural Desk - SummerTimes Supplement

LENGTH: 4190 words


International Festival

Here is a sampling of events that are part of the 1991 New York International
Festival of the Arts, which runs from June 8 to 23. Dates and times are subject
to change.

 BERGMAN ON STAGE, Brooklyn Academy of Music, Majestic Theater, 651 Fulton
Street, Fort Greene. Ingmar Bergman directs the Royal Dramatic Theater of Sweden
in three classic dramas: August Strindberg's "Miss Julie," with Lena Olin and
Peter Stormare, June 10 at 7 P.M. and June 11 and 12 at 8 P.M.; Eugene O'Neill's
"Long Day's Journey Into Night," with Bibi Andersson, June 14 and 15 at 8 P.M.
and June 16 at 2 P.M., and Henrik Ibsen's "Doll's House," with Pernilla
Ostergren and Erland Josephson, June 18 to 20 at 8 P.M. Tickets: $15 to $35.
Information: (718) 636-4100.



"IMMIGRANT VOICES," with text by Geoffrey Ward and score by Ellen Taaffe
Zwilich, Ellis Island Immigration Museum. A dramatic work celebrating the
immigrant experience. June 10 and 11, 8:30 P.M. Boat leaves from the West Shore
at the center of Battery Park at 7:15 P.M. Harbor tour around Liberty Island
with on-board music after the performance. Tickets: $45. Information: (212)
633-1258.

 "FORBIDDEN BROADWAY 1991," by Gerald Alessandrini, Theater East, 211 East 60th
Street, Manhattan. Parody of current Broadway productions. New edition previews
during the International Festival of the Arts: June 11 to 14, 8 P.M.; June 15,
7:30 and 10:30 P.M.; June 16, 3:30 and 7:30 P.M. Opening June 20.  Tickets:
$32.50 and $35. Information: (212) 838-9090.

 ABRIDGED SHAKESPEARE -- COMPLETE WORKS, Marymount Manhattan Theater, 221 East
71st Street, Manhattan. The New York debut of the Reduced Shakespeare Company,
consisting of three fast-talking and agile actors who perform all 37 of
Shakespeare's plays and his sonnets. June 13 to 15 and 20 to 22, 8 P.M.; June 16
and 23, 3 P.M. Tickets: $25. Information: Ticket Central, (212) 279-4200.

 "UNCLE VANYA," Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Manhattan.
Chekhov's directed by Eimuntas Nekrosius; New York debut of the State Theater of
Lithuania. In Lithuanian with simultaneous English translation. June 13 and 14,
8 P.M.; June 15, 2 and 8 P.M.; June 16, 2 and 7:30 P.M. Tickets: $30.
Information: (212) 242-0800.

 "MACBETH," St. Bartholomew's Church, 109 East 50th Street, Manhattan. World
premiere of Stephen Rayne's production of Shakespeare's tragedy. This version,
reflecting the current political climate in Africa, features a cast of Britain's
leading black actors from the Royal Shakespeare Company and the Royal National
Theater. June 14, 17, 18, 20 and 21, 8 P.M.; June 15, 19, 22, 2 and 8 P.M.; June
16 and 23, 3 P.M. Tickets: $25; $10 students and the elderly. Information:
Ticketmaster (212) 307-7171.

 "TATTOO THEATER," by Mladen Materic, the Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street,
Manhattan. Surrealistic treatment of domestic life. Performed by the Open Stage
Obala, a theater company from Sarajevo, Yugoslavia. June 19 to June 22, 8 P.M.
Tickets: $15. Information: (212) 255-5793.

 "EL ESPLENDOR," Pregones Theater, 295 St. Ann's Avenue, at 140th Street,
Morrisania, the Bronx. A play about a Chicano theater troupe that discovers an
old vaudeville house in a border town; Group Zero from Mexico and El Taller,
Chicano/Latino performance group; in Spanish and English. June 19 to 22, 8 P.M.;
June 23, 3 P.M. Tickets: $7. Information: (212) 585-1202.

On or Off Broadway

The following is a sampling of other theater productions opening during the
summer in New York City. Times and dates are subject to change.

"MAMBO MOUTH," Orpheum Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at St. Marks Place,
Manhattan. Character sketches written and performed by John Leguizamo. The
critically acclaimed monologue reopens Tuesday, 8 P.M. Wednesdays through
Fridays, 8 P.M., Saturdays at 7 and 10 P.M., Sundays at 3 P.M. Tickets: $25.
Information: (212) 477-2477.

 "THE SUBJECT WAS ROSES," Roundabout Theater Company, 100 East 17th Street,
Manhattan. A revival of Frank Gilroy's play about a young soldier's relationship
with his parents; with John Mahoney, Dana Ivey and Patrick Dempsey. Now in
previews; opens Wednesday. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 8 P.M.; also Wednesdays,
Saturdays and Sundays, 2 P.M. Tickets: $25 to $35. Information: (212) 420-1883
or (212) 420-1360.

 "THE BAY OF NAPLES," La Mama, first-floor theater, 74A East Fourth Street,
Manhattan. Written and directed by Joel Dragutin and performed by Theater 95.
Thursday to June 16, 8 P.M. Tickets: $12. Information: (212) 475-7710.

 "MR. GOGOL AND MR. PREEN," by Elaine May, Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, Lincoln
Center. A comedy about a vacuum-cleaner salesman's relationship with an
immigrant from Eastern Europe. With W. H. Macy, Mike Nussbaum and Zohra Lampert.
Opening June 9. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 8 P.M.; also, Wednesdays and
Saturdays, 2 P.M.; Sundays at 3 P.M. Tickets: $35. Information: (212) 239-6200.

 "THE HAVE-LITTLE," Intar Theater, 420 West 42d Street, Manhattan. A drama by
Migdalia Cruz about a woman's life in the South Bronx, from childhood to
motherhood. Now in previews; opens next Sunday. Through June 30. Wednesdays
through Saturdays, 8 P.M.; Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays, 3 P.M. Tickets:
$18 and $20. Information: (212) 279-4200.

 "LIPS TOGETHER, TEETH APART," by Terrence McNally, Manhattan Theater Club Stage
I, City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan. Two married couples spend
Fourth of July weekend at a Fire Island beach house. Now in previews; opens June
25. Through July 12. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 P.M.; Saturdays at 2:30 and 8
P.M.; Sundays at 2:30 and 7 P.M. Tickets: $35. Information: (212) 581-7907.

 "GETTING MARRIED," Circle in the Square Theater, 254 West 50th Street,
Manhattan. The comedy by George Bernard Shaw begins previews Friday; opening
night is scheduled for June 26. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 8 P.M.; Wednesdays
and Saturdays, 2 P.M.; Sundays, 3 P.M. Tickets: $36 and $40. Information:
Telecharge, (212) 239-6200.

Dance

International Festival

 Here is a sampling of dance events that are part of the 1991 New York
International Festival of the Arts, which runs from Wednesday to June 23. Dates
and times are subject to change.

PONGSAN, Korean masked-dance drama, Asia Society, 725 Park Avenue, at 70th
Street, Manhattan. Saturday at 8 P.M. (Also next Sunday at 2 and 8 P.M.)
Admission: $20; $16 for Asia Society members. Information: (212) 288-6400.

 COMPAGNIE PHILIPPE SAIRE, 14th Street Dance Center, 344 East 14th Street,
Manhattan. Saturday and next Sunday at 8 P.M. Admission: $12. Information: (212)
673-2207.

 ALARMEL VALLI, Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street,
Manhattan. Traditional Indian dance, June 13 to 16 at 8:30 P.M. Admission: $10.
Information: (212) 529-2318.

 COMPAGNIE PHILIPPE GENTY, Gould Hall, 55 East 59th Street, Manhattan.
"Driftings," a blend of mime, puppetry and dance. June 13 to 15 at 8 P.M. and
June 16 at 3 P.M. Admission: $15; $12 for French Institute/Alliance Francaise
members, students and the elderly. Information: (212) 355-6160.

 Balanchine to Rioja

 Here is a sampling of other dance events scheduled in New York City this
summer. Dates and times are subject to change.

DANCE AFRICA 1991, Brooklyn Academy of Music Opera House, 30 Lafayette Avenue,
at Ashland Place, Fort Greene section. With Ladygourd Sangoma, Forces of Nature,
Touch of Folklore and the African American Dance Ensemble. Today at 3 P.M.
Admission $12 to $25. Information: (718) 636-4100.

 NEW YORK CITY BALLET, New York State Theater, Lincoln Center. City Ballet
continues its season with works by George Balanchine, Peter Martins and Jerome
Robbins, today at 1 P.M., and works by John Taras, Mr. Robbins, Balanchine and
Twyla Tharp, tonight at 7. Highlights of the run include: Balanchine's "Jewels,"
June 13 at 8 P.M., June 15 at 2 P.M., June 16 at 7 P.M., June 18 at 8 P.M. and
June 23 at 1 P.M., and the premiere of a new ballet by Mr. Martins on a program
with works by Balanchine and Mr. Robbins, June 20 at 8 P.M. The runs ends on
June 30 with works by Mr. Robbins and Balanchine at 1 P.M. and works by
Balanchine and Mr. Martins at 7 P.M. Tickets: $7 to $50. Information: (212)
870-5570.

 AMERICAN BALLET THEATER, Metropolitan Opera House. Works by Fernando Bujones,
Agnes de Mille and Twyla Tharp tomorrow at 8 P.M. Other programs include Jean
Coralli's staging of "Giselle," Tuesday to Saturday at 8 P.M., with matinees on
Wednesday and Saturday at 2 P.M.; Act II of "Swan Lake," choreographed by David
Blair after Lev Ivanov, and works by Sir Frederick Ashton and Jiri Kylian, June
10 at 8 P.M.; Act II of "Swan Lake" and works by Sir Kenneth MacMillan and Ms.
Tharp, June 11 at 8 P.M.; Act II of "Swan Lake" and works by Sir Frederick and
Ms. Tharp, June 12 at 8 P.M.; "Don Quixote," choreography by Marius Petipa and
Aleksandr Gorsky, June 13 to 15 at 8 P.M. and June 15 at 2 P.M. also; Sir
Kenneth's "Romeo and Juliet," June 17 to 22 at 8 P.M., with matinees at 2 P.M.
June 19 and 22. Tickets: $12 to $60. Information: (212) 362-6000.

 THE ROYAL BALLET, Metropolitan Opera House. "Swan Lake," staged by Anthony
Dowell with choreography by Marius Petipa and Lev Ivanov, July 8 at 7 P.M., July
9, 13, 15 and 16 at 8 P.M. and July 13 at 2 P.M. also. Other programs include:
Sir Frederick Ashton's "Scenes de Ballets," Sir Kenneth MacMillan's "Winter
Dreams," David Bintley's "Still Life at the Penguin Cafe," July 10 to 12 at 8
P.M.; Sir Kenneth's "Manon," July 17 to 19 at 8 P.M. and July 20 at 2 and 8 P.M.
Tickets: $12 to $95. Information: (212) 362-2080.

 PILAR RIOJA, Repertorio Espanol, 138 East 27th Street, Manhattan. Aug. 6 to
Sept. 1 with varied repertory. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 P.M., Saturdays at
3 P.M. and Sundays at 7 P.M. Tickets: $25. Information: (212) 889-2850.


Music and Opera

 Here is a sampling of classical-music and opera events scheduled this summer in
New York City. Dates and times are subject to change.

This Week

 NEW YORK YOUTH SYMPHONY, Carnegie Hall. Glinka's "Ruslan and Ludmila" overture,
the premiere of Augusta Read Thomas's "Ritual," Saint-Saens's Concerto No. 1 for
Cello and Orchestra, and Beethoven's Symphony No. 5. Samuel Wong, conductor,
Moon-Sun Kang, cellist. Today, 3 P.M. Free. Information: (212) 247-7800.

 MOZART SONATAS, Avery Fisher Hall. With the violinist Itzhak Perlman and the
pianist Daniel Barenboim. Two programs of sonatas: today at 7:30 P.M. and
tomorrow at 8 P.M. Tickets: $22 to $50. Reservations: (212) 721-6500.

 NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC, Avery Fisher Hall. The orchestra, conducted by Andre
Previn, will perform Berlioz's "Corsaire," Dutilleux's Symphony No. 2 and
Brahms's Symphony No. 4. Tuesday, 7:30 P.M.; Thursday and Saturday, 8 P.M.;
Friday, 2 P.M., and June 11, 7:30 P.M. Tickets: $10 to $43. Information: (212)
875-5030.

 BERLIN PHILHARMONIC ORCHESTRA, Carnegie Hall. Conducted by Bernard Haitink, the
orchestra will perform works by Haydn and Bruckner on Thursday. Other programs
by the orchestra: Mahler's Symphony No. 6 (Friday); Mozart and Brahms
(Saturday). All concerts at 8 P.M. Tickets: $15 to $110. Information: (212)
247-7800.

 BARGEMUSIC IN BROOKLYN, at the Fulton Ferry Landing every Thursday and Friday
at 7:30 P.M. and Sunday at 4 P.M., June through August. Music by Beethoven,
Mozart, Liszt and Mendelssohn on Thursday and Friday and next Sunday, with
Stephanie Chase, violinist, and Eduardus Halim, pianist. Also: June 13, 14, and
16, works by Mozart and Ravel with Theodore Arm and Pamela Frank, violinists;
Toby Hoffman, violist; David Shifrin, clarinetist, and Ronald Thomas, cellist.
On July 25, 26 and 28, works by Haydn, Bernstein, Rachmaninoff and Tchaikovsky,
with Nai-Yuan, violinist; Ko Iwasaki, cellist, and Norman Krieger, pianist. On
Aug. 1, 2 and 4, music by Beethoven and Shostakovich with Ik-Hwan Bae,
violinist; Christopher Costanza, cellist, and Anne-Marie McDermott, pianist. On
Aug. 15 to 18, music by Beethoven, Brahms and Mendelssohn with Christiaan Bor,
violinist; David Shifrin, clarinetist; Joseph Villa, pianist, and Jian Wang, a
cellist. On Aug. 29, 30 and Sept. 1, music by Handel, Brahms and Shostakovich.
Tickets: $15 on Thursdays ($12 for the elderly and children under 12) and $18 on
Fridays and Sundays ($13 for the elderly and children under 12). Reservations:
(718) 624-4061.

 THE 1991 NEW YORK INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL OF THE ARTS, at various locations in
New York City. Music highlights include: DAVID BYRNE'S "FOREST," JOHN CALE'S
"SANCTUS," GLENN BRANCA, UNTITLED WORK, Town Hall, 123 West 43d Street,
Manhattan. Saturday and next Sunday, 8 P.M. Tickets, $30. Information:
212-840-2824; CONTEMPORARY ITALIAN MUSIC, with works by Claudio Ambrosini,
Alessandro Lucchetti, Salvatore Sciarrino, Fabio Vacchi and Federico Incardona,
Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan. June 10 and 11, 8:30 P.M.;
"GRANUAILE," an Irish song cycle composed by Shaun Davey, South Meadow, at Snug
Harbor Cultural Center, 1000 Richmond Terrace, Livingston, S.I., June 14, 8 P.M.
Take blankets or lawn chairs. Tickets: $14; free for children under 12.
Information: 718-448-2500; ACCADEMIA DEL SANTO SPIRITO DI TORINO, presenting "La
Pazzia Senile," an Italian madrigal comedy, Merkin Concert Hall, June 13, 8:30
P.M.; "AGADOT," Stephen Horenstein and the Jerusalem New Music Ensemble in a
production combining music, sculpture, lighting design and staged movement,
Merkin Concert Hall, June 16, 7 P.M., and June 17, 8:30 P.M.; GRUPO SEMA OF
MADRID, in two evenings of Spanish Renaissance music and medieval hymns,
performed on period instruments, Merkin Concert Hall, June 18 and 19, 8:30 P.M.
For Merkin Concert Hall events, tickets are $15; information: (212) 362-8719.

 June 9-15

 METROPOLITAN OPERA IN THE PARKS, at parks around New York City. The series
opens with an all-Verdi gala concert, with Luciano Pavarotti and the
Metropolitan Opera Orchestra and Chorus conducted by James Levine. It is to take
place on June 11 at 8:30 P.M. on the Great Lawn of Central Park. Other
productions: "Don Giovanni," (June 12 in Central Park; June 14 at Juniper Valley
Park in Middle Village, Queens; June 19 at Prospect Park, Brooklyn; June 22 at
Clove Lakes Park, Staten Island. "Un Ballo in Maschera" (June 15 in Cunningham
Park, Queens; June 18 in Central Park; June 21 in Van Cortlandt Park, the
Bronx). All performances, except the opening night, at 8 P.M. Information: (212)
362-6000.

June 23-29

 BOLSHOI OPERA, the Metropolitan Opera House. Tchaikovsky's "Eugene Onegin,"
June 25, 8 P.M. (Also June 26 and 27 at 8 P.M., June 29 at 1 P.M. and July 6 at
8 P.M.) Other productions: Rimsky-Korsakov's "Mlada," June 28 at 8 P.M. (Also:
June 29 at 8 P.M., July 1 and 2 at 8 P.M.) Tchaikovsky's "Maid of Orleans," on
July 3 at 8 P.M. (Also: July 5 at 8 P.M. and July 6 at 1 P.M.) Tickets: $15 to
$135. Information: (212) 362-6000.

June 30-July 6

 SUMMERGARDEN, the Sculpture Garden at the Museum of Modern Art, 14 West 54th
Street, Manhattan. Marking the 125th anniversary of Erik Satie's birth with
performances by artists and recent graduates of the Juilliard School. The series
begins with incidental music to "Les Fils des Etoiles," Emily George, pianist,
on July 5 and 6. Other concerts include music by Mozart, Rameau, Couperin and
Satie, with Ms. George on July 12 and 13; nine Satie selections played by
Michael Torre, pianist, on July 19 and 20; Charles Koechlin's "Heures Persanes,"
played by Karen Becker, pianist, on July 26 and 27; Satie's "Socrate" and John
Cage's "Symphonic Dream in Three Parts (on the Dialogues of Plato)," with Ms.
Becker and Corinne Fujiwara, violinist, on Aug. 2 and 3; music of Alberto
Savinio with Ms. Becker on piano and celesta; Rosalyn Rees and Eileen Reisner,
sopranos; Donald Collup, baritone, and Rhys Ritter, bass, on Aug. 9 and 10; and
Satie's "Trois Gnossiennes," "Sports et Divertissements" and "Uspud," ensemble
conducted by Paul Zukofsky. Performances are at 7:30 P.M. and are canceled in
bad weather. Information: (212) 708-9480.

July 7-13

 MOSTLY MOZART FESTIVAL, Avery Fisher Hall. The Mostly Mozart Festival
Orchestra, conducted by Gerard Schwarz, begins performances July 9 at 8 P.M.
with James Galway, flutist; Andre Watts, pianist; Raphael Hillyer, violist.
Other concerts feature Vladimir Feltsman, pianist, and Nadja Salerno-Sonnenberg,
violinist (July 18 and 19, 8 P.M.); the Chamber Ensemble Winds Spectacular with
56 wind players (July 22, 8 P.M.); "The 1791 Weekend: An Exploration of Mozart's
Last Year," with the London Classical Players (July 27 and 28, 8 P.M.). Tickets:
$11 to $35. Information: (212) 875-5020.

 OPENING NIGHTS AT THE NEW YORK CITY OPERA, New York State Theater. Sondheim's
"Little Night Music," July 9, 8 P.M.; Puccini's "Tosca," July 11, 8 P.M.;
Bizet's "Pecheurs de Perles," July 13, 2 P.M.; Puccini's "Boheme," Aug. 9, 8
P.M.; Janacek's "Cunning Little Vixen," Aug. 20, 8 P.M. Tickets: $8 to $32.
Information: (212) 870-5570.

Aug. 4-10

 CLASSICAL JAZZ SERIES, Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center. "At the Court of King
Oliver," a performance with Michael White, Wynton Marsalis and others, Aug. 6 at
8 P.M. Other highlights: "Coltrane Serenade," with the Tommy Flanagan Trio,
Marcus Roberts, McCoy Tyner, Wynton Marsalis, Joe Henderson and others, Aug. 9
at 8 P.M. "Two Divas of Jazz: Abbey Lincoln and Shirley Horn" with Branford
Marsalis, Wynton Marsalis, Frank Morgan and others, Aug. 7 at 8 P.M.; "Kansas
City Swing and Shout" with Jay McShann, Claude (Fiddler) Williams, Jimmy Slyde,
the tap dancer, and the Classical Jazz Orchestra, Aug. 8 at 8 P.M.; "Portraits
by Ellington," with the Classical Jazz Orchestra, Milt Grayson, Wild Bill
Davison and others, on Aug. 10 and 11 at 8 P.M. Tickets to each show are $30, or
$135 for five performances. Information: (212) 875-5580.

Museums

Here is a sampling of museum shows scheduled this summer in New York City. Dates
and museum hours are subject to change.

Delacroix to Noguchi

BROOKLYN MUSEUM, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Washington Avenue, Crown Heights.
"Quattrocento: Early Italian Panel Painting," including works from the 15th
century: altarpieces, triptychs and polyptychs commissioned for the Roman
Catholic Church. June 14 to February 1992. "Medusa's Head," Chris Burden's Grand
Lobby installation, June 28 to Sept 2. Wednesdays through Sundays, 10 A.M. to 5
P.M. Admission: $4; $2 for students; $1.50 for the elderly; free under age 12.
On-site parking available. Information: (718) 638-5000.

CENTER FOR AFRICAN ART, 54 East 68th Street, Manhattan, and the NEW MUSEUM OF
CONTEMPORARY ART, 583 Broadway, near Prince Street, SoHo.  "Africa Explores:
20th-Century African Art," featuring five strains of art in sub-Saharan Africa
today: Traditional art, New Functional art, Urban art, International art and
"Extinct" art. At the Center for African Art through December, Tuesdays through
Fridays, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M., and Saturdays 11 A.M. to 5 P.M.; admission, $2.50;
information: (212) 861-1200. At the New Museum through Aug. 18, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, Sundays, noon to 6 P.M., and Fridays and Saturdays, noon to 8 P.M.
Admission: $3.50; $2.50 for students and the elderly. Information: (212)
219-1222.

COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL MUSEUM OF DESIGN, Smithsonian Institution, 2 East 91st
Street, Manhattan. "The Cooper-Hewitt Collection: A Design Resource," an
exhibition showing the diversity of the museum's acquisitions since its founding
in 1897. Through Aug. 30, 1992. Hours: Tuesdays, 10 A.M. to 9 P.M. (free after 5
P.M.); Wednesdays through Saturdays, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Sundays, noon to 5 P.M.
Admission, $3; $1.50 for students and the elderly. Information: (212) 860-6868.

EL MUSEO DEL BARRIO, 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, Manhattan. Pepon Osorio
retrospective, including the installation "With All You've Got." "Another Face:
Mexican Masks," from the museum's collection. Both through Aug. 4. Wednesdays
through Sundays, 11 A.M. to 5 P.M. Admission: $2; $1 for students and the
elderly; free for those under 12. Information: (212) 831-7272.

FRICK COLLECTION, 1 East 70th Street, Manhattan. "From Pontormo to Seurat,"
drawings from the Art Institute of Chicago's collection, through July 7.
Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 A.M. to 6 P.M., and Sundays, 1 to 6 P.M.
Admission: $3; $1.50 for students and the elderly. Information: (212) 288-0700.

ISAMU NOGUCHI GARDEN MUSEUM, 32-37 Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens.
Permanent exhibition includes more than 250 sculptures in stone, wood, metal and
paper, as well as models, drawings and photographs of Noguchi's gardens and
plazas. Wednesdays and Saturdays, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. Shuttle bus departs from the
Asia Society, 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, on Saturdays every hour on the
half-hour from 11:30 A.M. to 3:30 P.M. and returns on the hour. Round-trip fare:
$5. Suggested museum contribution: $2. Information: (718) 721-1932.

JEWISH MUSEUM AT NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 170 Central Park West, at 77th
Street, Manhattan. "Painting a Place in America: Jewish Artists in New York,
1900 to 1945." A tribute to five Jewish arts organizations, including the
Educational Alliance Art School, with 145 paintings, sculptures and graphic
works by such artists as Peter Blume, Ilya Bolotowsky, Adolph Gottlieb, William
Gropper, Chaim Gross, Louise Nevelson, Barnett Newman, Mark Rothko, Ben Shahn,
Raphael Soyer, Abraham Walkowitz and Max Weber. Through Sept. 29. Sundays,
Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, 10 A.M to 5 P.M.; Fridays, 10 A.M. to 3 P.M.
Admission: $4.50; $3 for students and the elderly; $1 for those under 12.
Information: (212) 399-3344.

METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART. "Masterpieces of Impressionism and
Post-Impressionism: The Annenberg Collection," including 55 works by such
artists as Renoir, Monet, van Gogh, Gauguin, Picasso and Braque, collected by
Walter H. and Leonore Annenberg in the last 40 years. Tuesday through Oct. 13.
Also at the Met: "Eugene Delacroix (1798 to 1863): Paintings, Drawings and
Prints From North American Collections," through June 16. Fridays and Saturdays,
9:30 A.M. to 8:45 P.M.; Sundays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, 9:30 A.M.
to 5:15 P.M. Suggested admission: $6; $3 for students. Information: (212)
879-5500.

MUSEUM OF MODERN ART, 11 West 53d Street, Manhattan. "Ad Reinhardt," including
more than 90 of the artist's paintings, drawings and collages from the late
1930's to the 60's. Through Sept. 2. Also on view: "Air," a piece by the
Japanese fiber artist Kyoko Kumai made of thousands of feet of stainless-steel
fiber, through June 13; "Mean Streets: American Photographs From the
Collection," an exhibition of photos from the 1940's through the 80's by Harry
Callahan, Robert Frank, William Klein and Garry Winogrand, through July 16;
works by four German printmakers: Max Klinger, Lovis Corinth, Christian Rohlfs
and Otto Dix, through July 23. Sundays through Tuesdays and Fridays and
Saturdays, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M.; Thursdays, 11 A.M. to 9 P.M. Admission, $7; $4 for
students and the elderly; under age 16, pay what you wish. Information: (212)
708-9480.

SCHOMBURG CENTER FOR RESEARCH IN BLACK CULTURE, 515 Lenox Avenue, at 135th
Street, Manhattan. "African Presence in the Americas," maps, rare books, art and
artifacts, and photographs focusing on the themes of migration, work culture and
struggle, through Dec. 31. "African-Americans in Space Science," a exhibition of
photographs of astronauts, scientists and others working in space science,
through Oct. 31. Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays, noon to 8 P.M.; Fridays and
Saturdays, 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. Information: (212) 491-2200.

STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM, 144 West 125th Street, Manhattan. "Memory and Metaphor:
The Art of Romare Bearden," works on subjects including women, jazz, blues,
Harlem, myths and journeys, through Aug. 11. Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 A.M.
to 5 P.M.; Saturdays and Sundays, 1 to 6 P.M. Admission: $2; $1 for students and
the elderly. Information: (212) 864-4500.

WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, Manhattan.
The 1991 Biennial Exhibition, on all floors of the museum, includes the work of
100 American painters, sculptors, photographers, and film and video artists.
(Galleries close on different dates from June 16 through June 30.) John
Baldessari exhibition, a collection of 75 paintings and photographic works,
large-scale composite works, and books produced in the last 20 years, July 19 to
Oct. 20. "American Life in American Art: Selections From the Permanent
Collection," an exhibition that spans the Whitney's 60-year history, July 11
through Nov. 10. Hunt Diederich, a selection of works on paper, paper
silhouettes and metal sculpture, June 28 to Sept. 29. Museum hours: Tuesdays 1
to 8 P.M.;, Wednesdays through Saturdays, 11 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Sundays, noon to 6
P.M.; closed Mondays and July 4. Admission: $5. Information: (212) 570-3600.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: John Leguizamo in "Mambo Mouth," at the Orpheum Theater. (David
Hughes/Mambo Mouth); Glassware designed by Matteo Thun, part of the exhibition
"The Cooper-Hewitt Collections: A Design Resource." (John White/Cooper-Hewitt
Museum)

TYPE: Schedule; List

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              249 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 5, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

No Manslaughter Charge for Suspect in Baby's Death

BYLINE: By RONALD SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 802 words


The driver accused of dragging an 18-month-old boy to his death at an East
Harlem intersection was not charged yesterday with the most serious offense he
might have faced, vehicular manslaughter.

Instead the suspect, 46-year-old Pablo Linares, was accused of leaving the scene
of an accident, a less serious felony, and driving without a license, a
misdemeanor. He was ordered held on $15,000 bail at an arraignment in Criminal
Court.

The Manhattan District Attorney's office said it could not press for
manslaughter charges because there was no evidence that Mr. Linares was
speeding, running a red light or driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs
when he hit the baby's stroller.

Leaving the scene of an accident carries a penalty of up to four years in
prison, said Gerald McKelvey, a spokesman for District Attorney Robert M.
Morgenthau. The maximum penalty for vehicular manslaughter is seven years.

Law-enforcement officials said Mr. Linares was an illegal immigrant from Cuba
and apparently a parole violator who would have been in prison this week if
there had not been a mix-up at a 1988 parole hearing.

In 1987 he was paroled from a New York State prison after serving five years of
a 5-to-15-year sentence for attempted murder and illegal possession of a weapon.
State officials said he was immediately taken into custody by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service and sent to an Atlanta detention center as an illegal
alien.

Released and Arrested Again

For reasons that were unclear yesterday, he was released from the Atlanta center
in July 1988. He was arrested on drug charges a month later in Newark and later
served a nine-month sentence in New Jersey. Prison officials there said he was
released on parole on Dec. 21, 1990.

Normally the New Jersey conviction would have constituted a violation of Mr.
Linares's New York parole, and he would have been returned to prison. But Martin
Horn, executive director of the New York State Division of Parole, said efforts
to revoke that parole failed at a hearing on Dec. 19, 1988, when New Jersey
officials did not appear to testify that Mr. Linares had been convicted there.
Mr. Linares was allowed to remain free.

Patricia Mulcahy, a spokeswoman for the New Jersey Department of Corrections,
said she would have no comment on Mr. Horn's statement until she had an
opportunity to investigate.

Had that not happened, Mr. Linares presumably would have been in a state prison
instead of driving his 1985 Oldsmobile on Monday afternoon. The police said he
had tried to pass in front of a tractortrailer making a wide front turn when he
struck 22-year-old Elizabeth Avellet and her son, Hyram Hueca Jr., at East 106th
Street and Third Avenue. Mrs. Avellet was critically injured, and part of her
right foot was severed. She was listed in stable condition yesterday at Bellevue
Hospital.

Her son, still in his stroller, was dragged a block and killed.

Suspect Seized 5 Blocks Away

Mr. Linares, who lives at 2080 Grand Avenue in the University Heights section of
the Bronx, was taken into custody five blocks away by officers in a patrol car
who saw the damage to the front of his maroon Oldsmobile.

Now, if he is convicted of a crime in this hit-and-run case, he will be in
violation of the conditions of his paroles in both New York and New Jersey.

Law-enforcement officials estimated that he would face seven more years of
imprisonment in the two states in addition to any sentence in this case if he is
convicted.

Yesterday, near the corner where the accident occurred, dozens of buckets lined
a roped-off area where people stopped to drop off flowers and pray.

Mrs. Avellet's brother, Eddie Seda, 25, said she was struggling to get off
public assistance and had planned to move today from Fox House, a shelter for
women at St. Paul's Roman Catholic Church on East 117th Street, into a Manhattan
apartment.

"All she lived for was her son," he said. "I just wish I could get my hands on
the guy."

A neighborhood resident, Diana Rivera, 32, said Mrs. Avellet "was a beautiful
person with a good heart -- a true mother."

"She loved her son and was careful with him, and this hurts all of our hearts,"
Ms. Rivera said. She added: "I think this was no accident. I think he meant it,
because he could see her crossing the street, and he ate the light. He tried to
beat an 18-wheeler, and he should be locked up."

Rafael Negro, who lives at Lexington and 104th Street, said: "This is horrible,
worse than the movies. I saw him coming out of the police station, and he was
smiling. There are a lot of people who think he should be killed."

Another resident, Vinnie Portela, 29, said, "I saw him drag the baby a whole
block, and of course I think he should be convicted on the highest count."

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 6, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

200 Ethiopians Trapped in West Bank

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1029 words

DATELINE: QIRYAT ARBA, Israeli-Occupied West Bank, June 4


While Israel has promised not to settle any of its new Ethiopian immigrants in
the occupied territories, nearly 200 Ethiopians from the last airlift, in 1984,
say they have been trapped against their will for seven years here in the West
Bank's most militant Jewish settlement.

As soon as the 14,100 new immigrants stepped off the planes late last month,
Simcha Dinitz, the nation's most senior immigration official, said all of them
"are going to be housed in our 100 absorption centers, and none of them are in
the territories."

Mr. Dinitz's promise seemed to satisfy the United States and other governments
that had expressed concern. But here in the West Bank's oldest settlement, in
the heart of Hebron, Erez Mekerit, a 22-year-old soldier, and his friends are
asking: What about us?

Mr. Mekerit was a part of Operation Moses, the secret airlift in 1984 that
brought 10,000 Ethiopian Jews to Israel. A few months after they arrived, before
any of them had got their bearings, "they brought us out here," said Avraham
Kasu, 20, another soldier.

'Won't Let Us' Leave

"And for seven years we've been requesting to leave," Mr. Mekerit said. "But
they won't let us. We don't have any options."

His friend Rutti Kasa, 18, a high school student, nodded at that and said:
"Everybody here wants to leave. Lots of people are afraid. There's no place to
work out here. Our relatives are afraid to visit us. We've been crying and
complaining the whole time we've been here. But they won't let us go."

With hardly an exception, nearly all of their Ethiopian neighbors agree.

It is not that these people are prisoners of the West Bank. In theory every one
of them could pack up and leave Qiryat Arba tomorrow. Some of them have.

But the Ethiopians cannot move without significant Government assistance, and
that has not been forthcoming.

Spreading Them Across Country

In 1984, as now, the Ethiopian immigrants arrived in Israel with few
possessions, no money, little education and not much idea of how or where they
should live in Israel. For the first year, the Government made almost all of
their decisions for them -- fed them, clothed them, found them jobs and assigned
them places to live.

Late in 1984, after the immigrants had been in the country for about six months,
the Government moved them out of absorption centers and into permanent homes
they had been assigned. The policy then, as now, was to spread them all over the
country. As Gad Ben Ari, spokesman for the Jewish Agency, puts it now, "there
was much less sensitivity about these things then."

So about 60 families, more than 300 people, were assigned homes in Qiryat Arba.

The mayors of some small towns in Israel were complaining that they had too few
apartments for their own residents' children. But Qiryat Arba welcomed the
Ethiopians with open arms; like all settlements, it was always eager to expand,

"Other places don't want them," the settlement's leader, Elyakim Haetzni, said
at the time. "We'll take all they can send."

U.S. Protested in 1985

When the United States learned of that early in 1985, the Reagan Administration
delivered an official protest to Israel. But Yaacov Tzur, the Absorption
Minister then, assured Washington that Qiryat Arba would not be the immigrants'
final home. Soon the matter was forgotten. And now, six years later, the
Ethiopians say they have been forgotten, too.

Most of these people are not ideological; few of them seem to care much about
the debate over the West Bank. They want only to be near places of employment,
close to their families. One after another of them complained that their
parents, brothers, sisters and others would not even visit them here.

"They think it's like Lebanon out here," Mr. Kasu said.

Time and time again they have put in requests to move. But many are unemployed,
for there is little work in the West Bank. And for most of those who do have
jobs, the work is menial.

"I don't have any work; I can't find any work out here," said Eli Noga, who is
34. "It's pretty here; the people are nice. But like everyone else, I've asked
to leave. I want to live with other Ethiopians."

Needs Government Subsidy

But Mr. Noga, like the others, lives in a Government-subsidized apartments. He
would need another wherever he lived.

"I remember that many of them didn't want to be there even in 1984," Mr. Ben Ari
said. But then, he added, the division of the Jewish agency involved in settling
immigrants was controlled by a Likud Party official, a strong advocate of West
Bank settlement. There was also a Likud Government of the time.

With Mr. Dinitz at the head, the Jewish Agency is under Labor Party control
today. But now, with all the new Soviet immigrants, there is a drastic housing
shortage nationwide.

The Jewish Agency is a quasi-governmental organization. But the Government would
have the largest role in trying to resettle Qiryat Arba's Ethiopians. Still, the
right-wing administration of Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, struggling to catch
up with the drastic housing shortages while also eager to see the West Bank's
population grow, has shown no inclination to help them.

Priority to the Homeless

"We know they are unhappy," Mr. Ben Ari said. "But they already live in their
housing solutions. For new homes, we need to give priority to those people who
are still in absorption centers and don't have any permanent homes at all."

So the Ethiopians say they are trapped.

"Maybe they aren't trying to keep us against our will," Miss Kasa said. "But
nobody's giving us any place to go. And you definitely see that they want new
immigrants out here."

With that, she gestured behind her to a large shipping crate that had held the
belongings of new neighbors, a family that had just arrived in Israel. The
stenciled letters on the side of the box were in Russian. Others like it are
scattered among several buildings.

In the last two years, some of the Ethiopian families with independent means
have managed to move out of Qiryat Arba on their own. And in almost every case
that an apartment is vacated, Miss Kasa says now, "Russian immigrants are moving
in."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nearly 200 Ethiopians airlifted to Israel in 1984 have been kept
against their wills for seven years in Qiryat Arba, the West Bank's most ilitant
Jewish settlement. "Everybody here wants to leave," said Rutti Kasa, right, an
18-year-old high school student. "We've been crying and complaining the whole
time we've been here. But they won't let us go." Miss Kasa joked with friends at
the settlement. (Micha Bar-Am/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 11, 1991, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Indians Balance Changes and Tradition

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1547 words


When New York City's first Hindu temple opened in Flushing, Queens, 14 years
ago, volunteer priests had to be culled from the handful of devotees who
worshiped before silver-sheathed sculptures of ancient deities.

Now, seven full-time priests minister to a congregation of thousands of Indian
immigrants. On some feast days a line of barefoot worshipers snakes down the
ornate temple's steps waiting to chant prayers and make offerings of fruits and
flowers.

"The demand has far outstripped what we have," said Dr. Alagappa Alagappan,
chairman of the temple, the Hindu Temple Society of North America.

Growing Population

In the latest sign of the growth and vitality of the Indian community in New
York, the temple broke ground last month on a $4.5 million addition that will
house a wedding hall, auditorium and banquet room.

The city's Indian population has skyrocketed from about 6,000 in 1970 to more
than 94,000 in 1990, according to the Department of City Planning. Many of those
immigrants came as part of a stream of professionals who began arriving from
India's teeming urban centers after American immigration rules were liberalized
in 1965.

Their familiarity with city life and English has helped many to blend
prosperously into the city's economic mainstream and eventually to send for
relatives in India. Now many Indians here find themselves grappling with a
common struggle among immigrants: the battle between parents and children over
maintaining traditional values or adopting American customs.

"The tension is increasing between maintaining Indian traditions and adapting to
American society," said Dr. Madhulika Khandelwal, a historian at Queens College
who has studied the post-1965 influx. "This is a society very much at the
crossroads."

Indians have lived in New York City since the early decades of this century,
when a handful of professionals and students settled here in search of
opportunity. Many of them later played major roles in the nationalist movement
for Indian independence.

In the 1950's, India endured a brain drain in which many unemployed college
graduates left the country. But with strict limits on the number of Indian
immigrants allowed into the United States, many settled in the United Kingdom
and some African nations.

American immigration policy eased in the mid-60's, increasing the annual flow
from 100 to 20,000 Indians. Thousands of doctors, engineers, scientists and
academics, most of them young men, joined the small nucleus of students,
diplomats and professionals who had preceded them here, and quickly landed jobs.

"The professional community has done exceedingly well," said Dr. Anand Mohan, a
professor of philosophy and political science at Queens College who immigrated
35 years ago. "Most of them are pretty bi-cultural."

Greater Diversity

As the first wave achieved economic success in the 1970's and applied for
citizenship, they were joined by relatives, many of whom were not professionals.
With those arrivals, Dr. Mohan said, the community's profile changed, making it
more diverse and reflective of Indian society. Many of the new immigrants opened
clothing stores, newsstands, electronics shops and insurance and travel agencies
that catered to the growing community. Unskilled laborers who spoke limited
English worked at gas stations, drove cabs or hawked newspapers.

Economics was the driving force that brought many of the immigrants here. For
others, the motivations were even stronger.

Harbans Singh, who works for a courier service, said he and his parents left
their farm five years ago to escape the turmoil in the Punjab, long plagued with
feuding between Hindus and Sikhs, a separate religious group concentrated in the
region.

In New York, such problems seem nonexistent. The various elements of the city's
Indian community have coexisted with little factional strife, respecting one
another's traditions. Perhaps it is appropriate that the bulk of the Indian
community is in Flushing, an area first settled in the 1600's by Quakers fleeing
religious persecution.

"There is no enmity or anything of that sort," said Sewa Singh, secretary of the
Sikh Center on Parsons Boulevard. "We go to see our Hindu friends and they come
to see us."

Traditional Prayers

At last month's celebration at the Hindu Temple Society, devotees chanted
ancient Sanskrit prayers while priests made offerings of incense, apples and
split coconuts. The temple, with its conical, tiered towers embellished with
figures of monkeys, peacocks and eagles, may look out of place to some, rising
above a row of boxy Archie Bunker-style houses along a tree-lined stretch of
Bowne Street -- but not to Mr. Alagappan. "John Bowne was a great religious
freedom fighter," he said of one of founders of the Quaker community in
Flushing. "Somehow all these things come together here."

Sikhs and Hindus work side by side at Wholesale Liquidators in SoHo, where
turbaned security guards stand watch as young Indian women work the cash
registers.

Suman Chand, a 19-year-old student at Queens College who works at the store,
said Americans tended to see all Indians as a single group, a tendency that had
carried over into her community.

"Here, Sikhs, Hindus and Muslims, we don't care, we stick together," she said.
"We just think, 'Oh, they're Indian.' We share that."

They also share an abiding interest in news from the homeland, eagerly snapping
up copies of Indian newspapers, most recently to read about the assassination of
Rajiv Gandhi, the former Prime Minister. While some Indian political groups have
chapters in the United States, many Indians said political activism was not a
priority.

"You can't influence Indian politics by remote control," said Dr. Mohan, who
added, "There is nothing to do but feel utterly helpless."

Preserving a Heritage

Instead, some professionals have focused on charitable work, raising money to
refurbish temples in their hometowns or to establish health clinics in rural
villages.

"It is a drop in the ocean considering the needs of India," said Dr. Mohan, who
has donated money to rebuild a 1,200-year-old temple in his ancestral village in
southern India.

At the same time, some Indians are keeping a wary eye on the future of their
community in the United States. "Our endeavor is to look forward," Dr. Alagappan
said during the groundbreaking ceremonies at the Hindu temple. "We have to go
forward in the 21st century and have the children preserve the Hindu heritage."

In a house adjoining the temple, barefoot children sat cross-legged on the floor
repeating the prayers chanted by a temple priest. Across the street, a handful
of young girls practiced the sleek, angular movements of traditional Indian
dance. To entice more children to come to the temple, the adults have tried to
leaven spiritual and cultural lessons with sports and academic activities.

The clash between traditional and contemporary values most often erupts when
children become teen-agers. While they want to please their parents by excelling
in school, they bristle at traditional strictures involving dating and dress.
Some young women have even begun rebelling against arranged marriages.

Shriki Jhaveri, 35, who owns an ice-cream-making business, said assimilation is
tugging at his children.

At home, Indian records play on the stereo while traditional food is served for
dinner in a household where both parents speak their native language of
Gujarati. But Mr. Jhaveri's two daughters -- aged 5 and 9 -- prefer Western
dress and music and wonder why their friends can eat meat while their family is
vegetarian. Mr. Jhaveri frowns when he thinks of the effect the openness of
American society could have on them.

"They see too much openness of women, like on the beach when they are half
naked," he said. "It's hard, because our children are picking up Western values,
but I still want them to look to me for Indian guidance."

Jayakrishna Ambati, a 20-year-old medical student, said traditional values need
not be rejected by the young. "There are youngsters who feel pulled by two
cultures," he said. "It is important to glean the best of both worlds. You can
do it."

Few Return to India

Dr. Khandelwal said that while many immigrants have integrated into the economy
and their professions here, they have tried to prevent the Americanization of
their families and social lives. "Not all are going through tensions, but there
are clear signs of a generation gap, which is there in India, too," she said.
"The pressure to keep traditions is strong."

Despite the emphasis on cultural traditions and interest in news from their
homeland, few Indians move back to India once they have migrated. For many,
professional ties and the responsibilities of raising a family make them
reluctant to pull up stakes. "Sometimes I think I would like to go back and set
up a knitting factory, and the Government would help me, but we can't get
financing for homes," said Mr. Jhaveri. "It just gets too expensive to go back."

Others have no desire to return. "I would never think of going back to India,"
said Harbans Singh. "Americans help each other, but it's the opposite in India.
Everybody gives you a hard time."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Indian businesses on Main Street in Flushing, Queens, where
many Indian immigrants have settled. The city's Indian population has grown from
about 6,000 in 1970 to about 94,000 in 1990, according to the Department of City
Planning.; A Hindu temple in Flushing, Queens, where seven full-time priests
minister to a congregation of thousands of Indian immigrants. (pg. B1); Prayers
being offered to the fire god during a ceremony celebrating the groundbreaking
for a $4.5 million addition to a Hindu temple in Flushing, Queens, which is to
house a wedding hall and auditorium. (pg. B2) (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The
New York Times)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 12, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

We Shouldn't Exclude Aliens With AIDS

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 403 words


To the Editor:

You report that the Bush Administration decided to shelve the proposal by Louis
W. Sullivan, Secretary of Health and Human Services, to take acquired immune
deficiency syndrome off the list of diseases justifying the exclusion of aliens
from the United States (news article, May 28). The Justice Department, you
report, questions Dr. Sullivan's documentation of his reasons. Dr. Sullivan and
the Centers for Disease Control provided compelling reasons.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has been conducting one of the
largest human immunodeficiency virus screening programs in the world, which has
tested more than 3 million foreigners. Even under the most optimistic
assumptions, the program results in one false positive result for every 15
infected people detected. Thus, hundreds of people not infected are unfairly
denied entry to the United States.

No significant public health risk is entailed by United States citizens because
HIV is not transmitted casually. People who engage in sexual relations or who
share needles can be protected by following public health advice, not by
excluding entry of people living with the virus into this country. Restrictions
based upon infection, rather than risky behavior, are discriminatory and
overinclusive. The United States penalizes those who behave responsibly, as well
as the few who do not.

The policy is actually harmful to the public health. No effort is made to
provide foreigners with education and counseling to help them avoid high risk
behavior. The program causes people to avoid testing and to falsify their
results, rather than promoting testing and changes in behavior. Aliens with AIDS
living in the United States are advised by immigration lawyers to go underground
because no waivers are available on humanitarian grounds.

I suspect that cost, not public health, is the Government's driving
consideration. But what is the financial justification for excluding people with
HIV, but not people with other chronic costly diseases, such as cancer and heart
disease. Could fear, ignorance or prejudice be a motive?

In the xenophobic context of testing "outsiders," it is all too easy to forget
that the HIV test is a clinical test that was designed to promote health, not to
exclude people from the right to travel.

LAWRENCE O. GOSTIN
Executive Director
American Society of Law & Medicine
Boston, June 3, 1991

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 12, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Review/Readings;
Immigrants' Memories In Ellis Island Festivity

BYLINE: By RICHARD F. SHEPARD

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 479 words


The audience itself was the epilogue for "Immigrant Voices," an elaborate
program staged Monday and last night on location -- that is, at Ellis Island, in
the very hall where the forebears of many of the onlookers began a new life in
the United States. It was a thoughtfully wrought blend of readings of the words
of those who had passed through there, with a musical framework that attempted
to echo the soul-testing transits of this gateway to America.

Set in the restored Grand Registry Hall of the immigrant station, the program,
on Monday night, was a pensive footnote to the day of extravaganza that had
occupied the neighboring island of Manhattan, with parades and fireworks paying
tribute to the might of a nation that imported its muscle from other corners of
the world, whether by way of Plymouth Rock, slave ship, Ellis Island or John F.
Kennedy International Airport.

Actually, the audience for this special presentation of the International
Festival of the Arts sailed to Ellis Island with appreciably lighter hearts than
their daring but nervous ancestors, who knew the course of their lives would be
determined by others: who would enter, who would not. This tension of decision
permeated the text of the program.

What better setting could there be for such a story than this grand hall with
its barrel ceiling, its gallery from which visitors could look down on the poor
but hopeful newcomers as they underwent their ordeal by bureaucracy. The
audience sat on hard benches, like those occupied by the immigrants as they
sweated out their futures. But today there is air-conditioning and a guarantee
for visitors of a quick trip off the island with no more documentation than a
ticket of admission.

The dozen readers -- among them Geraldine Fitzgerald, Barnard Hughes and Paul
Hecht -- carried their scripts with them. The excerpts they delivered took the
immigrant from the old country to final acceptance as a full-blown American.

It is a moving odyssey that Geoffrey Ward has assembled for his text.  While
readings may lack the fire of large-scale drama, the spectacle had its built-in
impact: it was here that all this history took place, it was the place where the
parents and grandparents of these well turned-out visitors had acted out the
stuff of a million nonfiction sagas.

If there was need for an exclamation point in the name of theater, it was
provided by Ellen Taaffe Zwilich's original music, performed by the Orchestra of
St. Luke's under the direction of Peter Leonard and rounded out by the
International Arts Festival Choir.

As the trumpets blared from the gallery and the chorus proclaimed a variation on
the Pledge of Allegiance, concluding with "America, America, America for All,
America for All," skyrockets from the Persian Gulf war homecoming celebration
burst in meteoric clusters over New York Harbor.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Barnard Hughes and Helen Stenborg were among the readers of
"Immigrant Voices" at the Grand Registry Hall on Ellis Island. (Anita
Bartsch/"Immigrant Voices")

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 15, 1991, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Stricter Checks of U.S. Passports Produce Long Lines at Kennedy

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1101 words


As the peak summer season approaches, many international travelers passing
through Kennedy International Airport at busy weekend arrival times are enduring
long delays clearing immigration because of strict new inspection policies.

The waits stem from the immigration service's decision to reinstitute its
screening of United States citizens. Until January, they had been allowed to
bypass immigration and move directly to customs.

Now, American citizens arriving at Kennedy wait an average of 20 to 30 minutes
to clear immigration, airport officials say; largely because of more exacting
screening, foreigners wait about twice as long. And on weekend afternoons, when
arrivals peak, the waits are often more than doubled.

Ron Wexler, a quality-control analyst for an electronics company, travels
between New York and Rome at least once a month. Although he spent only about 10
minutes in line in the immigration hall at the International Arrivals Building
yesterday afternoon, he said that on his last two trips, he spent about 40
minutes waiting.

"I don't think this is a good policy because it takes much longer, and most of
the waiting is just standing around in line," he said. "It doesn't take long for
them to look at your passport once you get up there."

Warning of even longer delays with the arrival of summer, customs and airport
officials are demanding that the Immigration and Naturalization Service abandon
screening every passenger's passport until the service can install computer
technology to clear arriving travelers en route.

Faster System Starts Next Week

"We are anticipating a disaster situation, with people waiting out on planes
because the immigration area is so congested," said David Z. Plavin, director of
aviation for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which operates
Kennedy.

The problems have not been confined to Kennedy. Immigration officials began
tougher screening at other international gates in 1989, and long waits have been
reported in Los Angeles, Honolulu and other cities.

On Thursday, in the face of criticism across the nation, the immigration service
said it was taking steps to ease the crush.

Starting next week, the immigration authorities at international airports will
be allowed to use a faster modified examination process during heavy arrival
times, said Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the service. Instead of clearing every
arriving United States citizen's name through a computer, inspectors will make
selective checks, like checking only the names of family heads or every fourth
person. Mr. Jervis said the specifics will be left to the port directors.

But Port Authority officials say they are skeptical that the change will insure
that all passengers clear all checks within 45 minutes, as recommended by the
International Civil Aviation Organization. "If this does that, we'll support
it," said Armando Arrastia, a spokesman for the Port Authority.

The mathematics of the problem are simple: Many more passports are being
examined by the same number of inspectors. At Kennedy, half of the 52
immigration booths are now devoted solely to inspecting the passports of
American citizens.

And passengers often must wait outside in the corridors before they can wait in
the immigration line itself.

As Long as 52 Minutes

"On one unseasonably warm day in early April, with the air-conditioning system
not yet operative, we held passengers from 10 flights for as long as 52 minutes"
in the corridors, Mr. Plavin told members of the House immigration subcommittee
during a hearing last month.

The immigration service says it began the stricter screenings because the
Customs Service was not thorough enough in checking United States citizens; its
inspectors were looking only selectively at passports instead of checking each.

"When we started surveying people to find out what citizens were being
inspected, we found that only 10 percent were being checked by customs," said
Duke Austin, a spokesman for the immigration service. "Customs said they
couldn't do 100 percent, but the law requires that all persons entering the
country be checked."

The Customs Service, which checks for drugs and other illegal imports and
collects duties on goods bought abroad, insists that its selective screening
works both for detecting contraband and people without legitimate passports.

70 Percent More Cocaine

The screening identifies potential drug smugglers, terrorists and other
criminals based on certain indicators, like whether the reasons for a
passenger's visit match its duration. Michael Lovejoy, the service's program
manager for air-sea passenger operations, said that using this system, the
Customs Service confiscated 70 percent more cocaine and 40 percent more heroin
in 1990 than in 1989.

Port Authority officials described the squabbling between immigration and
customs as finger-pointing that obscured immigration's failure to hire a full
contingent of inspectors to meet its increased requirements.

Kennedy rarely has its full contingent of 342 inspectors because, immigration
officials have said, the agency lacks the money. But even though a $5 fee levied
on passengers entering the country was extended last year to travelers from
Mexico, the Caribbean and Canada to finance more inspectors, 68 positions were
vacant yesterday.

The immigration service said it planned to add 32 more inspectors on Monday.

Technology to the Rescue

Airport officials expect technology to solve the problem eventually. Some
airlines already use a system on flights from Japan and Europe called the
Advanced Passenger Information Program. It electronically transfers data on
arriving passengers to the immigration service while the passengers are en
route. Immigration officials run the information through computers so that when
passengers land, they have already cleared inspection.

At Kennedy yesterday, the stream of American citizens moved fairly steadily. But
the line for foreign citizens moved much more slowly, and foreigners arriving on
two jumbo jets around 3 P.M. filled the international side of the inspection
hall.

Foreign passengers, however, seemed much less agitated by the long lines than
their American counterparts. "In Italia, it's the same thing, the waiting," said
Giussino D'Alessandro, who arrived on an Alitalia flight from Rome.

"Forty minutes, 45 minutes is not such a long time," said Giovanni Scorpati, who
had arrived on the same flight.

They spent about 35 minutes in line before proceeding to Immigration and
Naturalization Service inspectors.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Strict new inspection policies are causing long delays for
international travelers who try to clear immigration at Kennedy International
Airport during busy arrival times. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              255 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 17, 1991, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Ethiopians in Israel Get Equal Treatment

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 197 words


To the Editor:

Your June 6 report "200 Ethiopians Trapped in West Bank" implies that these
immigrants from the 1984 airlift are being denied choices in housing and
employment, being forced to hold menial jobs far from home.

Yes, Ethiopian immigrants to Israel in 1984 were sent to Kiryat Arba, as well as
many other cities. Kiryat Arba is a small, residential town in the West Bank,
which houses primarily Israelis, many of whom work in Israel proper. Their daily
commute is a fact of life. Israel's economy allows people to pursue education
and jobs as they wish.

The Ethiopians living in Kiryat Arba are in the same boat as the other Israelis.
Although many of them hold menial jobs or are unemployed, others have become
professionals who have had a positive impact on their communities and Israel as
a whole. As they progress up the economic ladder, they can use their new
resources to make life style changes as they see fit.

Is it a government's responsibility to move residents to more comfortable public
housing or to encourage them to be part of the economic mainstream and enable
them to move themselves?

DAVID B. SAMSON
Binghamton, N.Y., June 6, 1991

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              256 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 19, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

This AIDS Ban Invites Ridicule

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 462 words


The American policy to block visits or permanent immigration by foreigners
infected with the AIDS virus came under justifiable criticism at the
international AIDS conference in Italy this week. The policy has very little
public health value. Its chief effect is to make the United States a
laughingstock in world medical circles. The policy should be abandoned, quickly.

 The U.S. currently bans entry to foreigners infected with several diseases,
including syphilis, gonorrhea, leprosy, tuberculosis -- and the virus that
causes AIDS. But the Department of Health and Human Services has proposed to
eliminate all but infectious tuberculosis from the list.

The wisdom behind that proposal seems plain. Neither AIDS nor any of the other
diseases to be struck is spread through air, food or water to casual bystanders.
Virtually the only way for an adult to get AIDS in this country is through
unprotected sexual intercourse with an infected person or by sharing
contaminated drug needles.

But the Justice Department, responding to an avalanche of complaints, blocked
the new H.H.S. policy, leaving the old rules in place pending further debate.
The two chief arguments for the ban are superficially plausible. One is that
some of the infected foreigners will surely spread the virus to Americans. The
other is that infected immigrants will eventually require costly care.

But the danger is slight. And if cost is the issue, then the U.S. would ban all
foreigners with kidney disease, cancer or other costly ailments. It enforces no
such mean-spirited policy in those cases, nor should it for AIDS.

The ban is particularly silly for short-term visitors. Trying even to identify
such individuals brings widespread condemnation. The World Health Organization
and European health ministers plan to boycott the international AIDS conference
in Boston next year unless the U.S. changes its policy.

How to handle foreigners seeking permanent residency is a tougher issue because
the longer they stay the greater the chance some might spread the virus or
require care. But by one government estimate, only about 600 AIDS-infected
individuals would be admitted as permanent residents each year -- compared with
a million Americans already infected. And finding them among the 600,000
admitted each year would require costly testing. If the goal is to fight AIDS,
this is not where to spend the money. The rate of infection is far less among
the foreigners than among Americans.

What a travesty that the United States, with one of the largest AIDS-infected
populations in the world, has taken a stance that implies the danger comes from
abroad. The Bush Administration should reverse this ban, whose chief effect is
to give the U.S. an international black eye.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              257 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 20, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Where Baseball Is the Immigrant Dream

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 200 words


To the Editor:

Your May 25 article in the series about New York City's George Washington High
School baseball team describes in remarkable and living detail the immigrant
adjustment of the Dominican community through its dedication to the national
pastime.

The young Dominicans "just want to play the game that they see as their only
escape from the crowded tenements of Washington Heights," you write. "They are
desperate, they say, to elude the local drug dealers, young men they grew up
with, who tempt them with promises of big money and BMW's."

Athletics have always been a path of upward mobility for newly arriving
immigrants and blacks. But through the lens of a community's passion for
baseball, you have focused sharply on the experience of an entire community in
its day-to-day struggles of adaptation to life in the United States.

Sociologists have so far paid too little attention to the role of athletics as a
value that binds a struggling community together. In my future lectures about
immigrant adjustment, your series will be required reading.

JOSEPH P. FITZPATRICK
Bronx, June 4, 1991

The writer is a retired professor of sociology at Fordham University.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              258 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 23, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Ambassador to U.S. Warns Israel That New Settlements Imperil Aid

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 8; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 388 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, June 22


The Israeli Ambassador to Washington warned his Government today that it would
have to choose between building more settlement housing in the Israeli-occupied
West Bank and Gaza Strip or receiving additional United States aid for the
resettlement of Soviet Jews.

"Sometimes there are moments when governments must face issues and take hard
decisions one way or another," Ambassador Zalman Shoval said in a radio
interview here. "The Israeli Government, when it has all the data in hand, will
have to decide if it prefers settlements or aid."

The Government has announced its intention to request $10 billion in American
loan guarantees in September. The money would be used to pay for new immigrant
housing, and American officials have said they do not think Israel can build
sufficient housing without it. About 300,000 immigrants have moved to Israel in
the last 18 months.

Mr. Shoval's statement came just a week after Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir
confidently predicted that the United States would give Israel additional aid,
even with the continued settlement construction. But President Bush, in a
meeting with a group of rabbis earlier this month, had suggested that the money
would not be approved unless the settlement activity stopped.

"Settlement in every part of the country continues and will continue," Mr.
Shamir said. "They try to link the two things, but no one said aid will end. I
don't think it will happen."

Earlier, Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d said that the rapid pace of
settlement construction was the single largest obstacle stalling his Middle East
peace initiative.

More settlement housing is under construction now than at any time in Israel's
history. Government architects say they have been asked to draw up contingency
plans for the possible construction of hundreds of thousands of settlement
dwellings with the expectation that many new immigrants will move to the
occupied territories.

"The question now," Mr. Shoval said, "is whether we can meet absorption and
immigration needs if we cannot receive, for one reason or another, the aid we
think we deserve from the United States. If the Government decides it does not
want to freeze settlements for one reason or another, it will obviously have to
figure out for itself how to fulfill immigration needs."

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              259 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 29, 1991, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Agent Guilty of Violating Rights

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 426 words


A New Jersey man who called himself the most decorated immigration agent in
history with more than 70 commendations watched in silence yesterday as a
Federal jury convicted him of civil-rights violations and making false
statements against recent immigrants.

The charges stemmed from searches that the agent, Joseph Occhipinti, made while
running "Project Bodega" and "Project Kuala Lumpur," two programs he organized
to detect illegal aliens from the Dominican Republic and Malaysia who might be
involved in illicit activities.

Mr. Occhipinti, 41 years old and a 22-year veteran of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, grew pale as the jury foreman repeated the word "guilty"
17 times in response to Judge Constance Baker Motley's request for the verdicts
on individual charges. But the jury of seven women and five men found Mr.
Occhipinti not guilty of three counts of embezzlement, two counts of making
false statements and one count of violating civil rights.

The verdict came after three days of deliberations, following a four-week trial
in Federal District Court in Manhattan.

Sentencing Set for Oct. 4

Mr. Occhipinti, whose sentencing is set for Oct. 4, is free on bail. He faces a
maximum sentence of one year to 10 years in prison, as well as a maximum fine of
$250,000, on each of the 17 counts.

He told reporters afterward that he had dismissed his lawyer, Norman J.
Mordkofsky, but refused to say why. "This verdict reflects one important thing,
that I'm not a thief," Mr. Occhipinti said, adding that he plans an appeal. "And
it sends a message to dedicated Federal agents to think twice about doing their
jobs. They have to be concerned about going to prison and disrupting their
entire family life."

One of the prosecutors in the case, Jeh C. Johnson, called the verdict "fair and
just."

In opening arguments, Mr. Johnson said that he would prove that Mr. Occhipinti
stole money from his victims in the course of conducting illegal searches. About
$16,000 was said to be missing from money confiscated during those searches, but
the jury apparently was not convinced that Mr. Occhipinti took it.

Witnesses included Mr. Occhipinti and several store owners, one of whom wept as
she described suffering a miscarriage after being arrested by Mr. Occhipinti.

Another witness was John F. Kennedy Jr., an assistant Manhattan District
Attorney, who said he questioned whether Mr. Occhipinti had obtained
consent-to-search permission from store owners in upper Manhattan, who "may have
had something to hide."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              260 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 4, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Uncle Anselm, Uncle Sam

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 554 words


Listening to all the controversy about multicultural education, the man realized
how lucky he had been as an immigrant boy in America. He had his very own Uncle
Sam.

Uncle Anselm, a cousin really, was born in this country but for him, foreign
forebears were a source of pride. To the boy, Uncle Anselm personified America.
He stalked the streets, tall, bald and correct. As a concession to summer, he
sported a straw boater but wore a vest even on hot days. Though he seemed gruff,
he talked easily of American wonders like scrimshaw, panning for gold and
baseball.

Best of all, when the whole family gathered for July 4th, the boy knew Uncle
Anselm could be cajoled into sitting down with him at the black upright piano to
play from the big Yankee Doodle song book. When they got to "Put a feather in
his cap and called it ma-ca-ro-ni," the boy roared in certifiably American
delight.

His own Uncle Sam. That was how it felt after lunch, when Uncle Anselm took the
boy to his first baseball game. What could be more American: sitting in the
bleachers, gripping a heavy brown bottle of Orange Crush and giggling when the
organ played "Three Blind Mice" as the umpires came out.

The thoughts came flooding back now, stirred by the angry commotion about
"multiculturalism," the demand for respect and recognition from diverse groups
once quick to shed their cultural identity. The agitation came to a new boil in
recent days with the publication of a report urging that social studies in New
York public schools be taught from multiple perspectives.

The outcry was eloquent. Champions of cultural unity rightly appealed for
understanding: Common values must transcend racial and ethnic differences.
Otherwise, there's no melting pot; indeed, there's no pot at all, only
antagonism. Still, there's a danger of overreacting to a sometimes-exaggerated
desire for recognition and thus forgetting that for many people from racial and
ethnic minorities there's a deeper yearning: to find the mainstream.

That was true a half-century ago when the immigration tide swept in refugees
from Hitler. It is true now, when the tide carries thousands of Hmong mountain
people from Laos to places like Eau Claire, Wis., and when the largest group of
new citizens sworn in at New York City's 1991 naturalization ceremony is from
Guyana.

Of course minorities do not want to be punished for their background the way
Mexican children were in Southwest schools for speaking the only language they
knew. Of course immigrants wish to preserve their heritage. Of course blacks
want recognition of their long oppression and its effects on the present.

But Hispanic parents know what language their children need to succeed -- and
press for them to become proficient in English. Korean grocers want Ivy League
educations for their children. David Dinkins and Douglas Wilder triumphed as
majority, not minority, candidates.

Assimilate is not a dirty word; not a denial of diversity; not a synonym for the
arrogant dominion of one culture over others. Neither is respect an outrageous
demand. The man couldn't help thinking of Uncle Anselm's pride in his American
ancestry and his foreign roots. There was no need to choose, then or now,
especially not today, as Americans celebrate who they were and who we are.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              261 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 12, 1991, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Tourist Killing Tied to Gang Fight

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 307 words


The gang dispute that led to the fatal shooting of a Maryland tourist in
Chinatown last week concerned a Vietnamese immigrant who recently had been
thrown out of the gang because he was suspected of using drugs, the police said
yesterday.

Officers said that they had been unable to locate the immigrant, whom they
identified as Hung Liu, 29 years old. The police said they believe that Mr.
Hung's presence on a crowded Chinatown street corner on the Fourth of July led
to the dispute, but added that they had not determined whether he fired the
bullet that struck and killed the tourist who was passing by, riding with
friends to a restaurant.

"We want to talk to him to see what his involvement was in the dispute that
night," said Chief Joseph G. DeMartino of the Manhattan Detectives. "At this
moment we're seeking him as a witness. We're not going to comment on whether he
was the shooter or not."

Mr. Hung, an illegal alien who is a longtime member of the Ghost Shadows gang,
had recently fallen out of favor with its other members, Chief DeMartino said.

"There's some suspicion that he was a drug user and they didn't like the idea of
him being in Chinatown," the Chief said. "Recently he was told not to come
around any more."

Though Chinese smugglers dominate the city's heroin market, Chinatown gangs
frown upon the use of drugs by their members, police officials said.

Vietnamese refugees like Mr. Hung began appearing in Chinatown gangs about three
years ago, law-enforcement officials have said. The Chinese at first enlisted
them as enforcers but later shunned many of them, saying they were too violent.

Last week, the tourist, Rhona Lantin, 29 years old, was shot as she and her
friends drove through the intersection of Bayard Street and Mulberry Street,
where the dispute was unfolding at 11:30 P.M.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              262 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 16, 1991, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

New Aid to Israel Can Only Hinder Peace

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 330 words


To the Editor:

"New U.S. Dispute With Israel Seen" (news article, June 26) quotes Thomas A.
Dine, executive director of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the
pro-Israel lobby in this country, arguing that absorption of immigrants to
Israel must not be linked to the peace process.

But the first to make this linkage was not the Bush Administration; it was the
Israeli Government. Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir has twice declared in the last
year and a half that Israel needs the occupied territories to absorb immigrants.
Every time Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d visited Israel in the last few
months, he was greeted by a new settlement, erected, with barely concealed
government sanction, to make the same political statement.

Despite official undertakings to the United States Government not to settle
Soviet immigrants in the territories, much of the last year's new housing
construction has been beyond the 1967 borders. Housing Minister Ariel Sharon has
made the linkage to the peace process explicit: he wants to prevent any
possibility of Israel's relinquishing territories.

It is the Israeli right wing that has made the absorption of immigrants a very
political issue by using Israel's desperate need for housing to advance the de
facto annexation of the territories. These ultranationalists agree with Mr.
Baker that the settlements obstruct the peace process, but that is exactly what
they desire.

Given the Shamir Government's settlement policy, it is impossible at this stage
to separate aid to Israel from the peace process: more money means more
settlements and less chance of a territorial compromise. If Mr. Dine and the
Israel lobby support aid without a change in Israeli policy, they should be
honest enough to accept these consequences and not hide behind the smokescreen
that aid is apolitical.

DAVID BIALE
Berkeley, Calif., July 2, 1991

The writer is professor of Jewish history, Graduate Theological Union.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              263 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 21, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

A Bridge New Jersey Wants but New York Doesn't

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1897 words

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY


AFTER languishing quietly for decades in the shadow of the Statute of Liberty,
Ellis Island, the "Isle of Hope" for many of this nation's immigrants, acquired
celebrity status of its own when it was reopened to the public last September
after years of painstaking renovation.

But even as visitors flock to the tiny island, Ellis Island has become the focus
of an intensifying debate among officials of New York, New Jersey and the
National Park Service, the official caretaker of the national monument.

The controversy revolves around a temporary construction bridge that connects
Ellis Island with Liberty State Park in Jersey City.

New Jersey officials want the bridge to remain. They envision a free walkway
that will allow visitors easy access to the island from the mainland.

New York officials want the bridge torn down. Its use as a walkway, they say,
will hurt the city's tourist industry.

And National Park Service officials, who are responsible for the operation of
Ellis Island, say the bridge can stay for now but should ultimately be removed.
A waterborne approach to the island, they say, is an integral part of the
"immigrant experience."

The debate, which is yet another skirmish in the continuing "border war" between
New York and New Jersey, intensified recently when the Park Service, which is
opposed to using the bridge as a walkway, indicated a desire to take over
responsibility for the structure. Just 10 days before, the United States Senate
had passed legislation that would make construction of a permanent bridge to the
island eligible for Federal funds.

"Ellis Island is an important part of our national heritage," said United States
Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, Democrat of New Jersey. "I want to make it easier
and less costly for families to visit the place where many of their ancestors
first landed in America."

The easiest way to insure that, Mr. Lautenberg said, would be either to build a
new pedestrian bridge to the island from Liberty State Park or to make the
necessary modifications to the existing bridge to make it permanent.

To that end, Mr. Lautenberg included a provision in the Surface Transportation
Efficiency Act, a five-year $105 billion blueprint for Federal highway spending
that was passed last month by the United States Senate. Mr. Lautenberg said the
House of Representatives was working on its own highway bill, which must be
reconciled with the Senate bill in the fall.

According to a Park Service study, it would cost $16.5 million to upgrade the
existing bridge and about $22 million to build a new one.

But while Mr. Lautenberg, Gov. Jim Florio, the state's Congressional delegation
and most state legislators firmly support the concept of a permanent pedestrian
bridge linking New Jersey with Ellis Island, New York City officials and
officials of the National Park Service are not so inclined.

"I frankly would prefer not to have it," said Betsy Gotbaum, Commissioner of
Parks and Recreation for New York City. "I don't really think that it's
necessary; it would hurt our concessionaires, and I try to be supportive of our
concessionaires."

Specifically, Ms. Gotbaum said, a bridge from New Jersey to Ellis Island would
hurt the business of the Circle Line-Statute of Liberty Ferry, which now takes
passengers to the island from both Battery Park in Manhattan and Liberty State
Park in Jersey City.

In addition, Ms. Gotbaum said, "the people who sell stuff down in Battery Park
say they would be hurt because people wouldn't go there to take the ferry."

Officials are also concerned that free access to Ellis Island for Jersey City
will divert bus tours from New York to New Jersey.

Earlier this year, Ms. Gotbaum sent a letter to the National Park Service in
response to the service's request for comments on whether the bridge should be
made permanent. In her letter she said, "If access to the island through Liberty
State Park increases, there will be a negative effect on New York City tourism
in general."

Ms. Gotbaum's concerns have been echoed by several New York City officials who
also fear that free access to Ellis Island from New Jersey will divert thousands
of tourists from New York, affecting not only the ferry service but also
restaurants and other tourist attractions in Manhattan.

Leslie Doggett, New York City's director of tourism, in her letter to the
National Park Service, said that making the bridge permanent "would only serve
to divert visitors from Manhattan and result in a setback for New York City's
tourism business." Allowing free pedestrian access, she said, would constitute
"dealing a bad hand to a city already beset with fiscal difficulties."

Ms. Doggett, who declined to be interviewed for this article, urged the Park
Service to "quietly dismantle the pedestrian bridge."

New Jersey officials, however, say their New York counterparts may be
overreacting.

"New York's claim that their multibillion-dollar tourism industry would be
affected by a pedestrian walkway from New Jersey to Ellis Island is just plain
silly," said Emma Byrne, a spokeswoman for Governor Florio.

She said Mr. Florio's office was working with the state's Congressional
delegation to push for Federal legislation that will make the bridge permanent.

The bridge, which is 24 feet wide and 1,344 feet long, was built in 1985 as a
temporary structure to be used by construction crews involved in the renovation
of Ellis Island. The 12-foot-high bridge crosses the channel that separates the
eastern shore of Liberty State Park from the western shore of Ellis Island.

Leased to Foundation

The bridge, which is owned by Gates Construction, a Little Ferry-based
contractor, is leased by the company to the Statute of Liberty-Ellis Island
Foundation Inc., the nonprofit organization that led the restoration of both the
Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island.

Stephen A. Briganti, president of the foundation, said that the lease would
expire in December 1992 and at that time the leaseholder was required to
dismantle the bridge. But, Mr. Briganti said, the work for which the foundation
originally leased the bridge is already completed.

"So now we want to end our relationship with the bridge," he said. He cited
expensive carrying costs -- including a $100,000 annual insurance premium -- and
financial responsibilities to contributors as factors that played a role in that
decision.

"We were going to take it down as of July 1," Mr. Briganti said.

On June 28, however, the foundation entered into an informal agreement with the
National Park Service to transfer its rights under the lease to the service. The
service would then be responsible for the bridge and for making the remaining
payments that are due to Gates Construction, an amount estimated to be $135,000.


'Long and Happy Relationship'

Mr. Briganti said the offer was made to the Park Service because "we've had a
long and happy relationship with them."

New Jersey officials are concerned with the move, however, because the Park
Service is opposed to using the bridge to provide pedestrian access to the
island.

Indeed, while the Park Service intends to continue using the bridge for
additional construction scheduled over the next three years, it has recommended
to Congress that the structure be removed when that work is completed.

"We studied building a new bridge, upgrading the existing bridge or having no
bridge at all," said Michael Adlerstein, chief of urban projects for the North
Atlantic region in the United States Department of the Interior.  The conclusion
reached by the department, he said, was that the bridge should ultimately come
down.

"Our desire is to retain the visitor experience of arriving by water, the same
way the immigrants experienced it," he said. In addition, Mr. Adlerstein said,
officials are concerned that the island could become overcrowded with visitors
if pedestrians are given unimpeded access.

'They're Playing Coy'

But Mr. Lautenberg, whose grandparents and parents arrived in this country
through Ellis Island, said such concerns were exaggerated.

"They're playing coy as far as I'm concerned," he said of the Park Service's
insistence on visitors' arriving at the island by boat. Restrictions can be
placed on how many people are allowed on the island at any given time, he said,
whether those people walk over or are carried by ferry.

And concerns that visitors who walk to the island will miss out on the
"immigrant experience," he said, are unfounded.

"My grandparents climbed out of the hold of a ship," he said. "When you talk
about replication of the immigrant experience, you sure don't get it while
eating a hot dog on the deck of a semi-cruise boat."

Indeed, Mr. Lautenberg said, he finds it troubling that access to a national
monument like Ellis Island is not free when it could easily be made so.

"It comes down to something that's fairly insulting." he said. "If you can't
afford it, then you can't see it."

Other Officials Troubled

The fact that the only access to Ellis Island is now provided by a sole private
vendor for a fee is troubling to other officials as well.

Representative Frank J. Guarini, Democrat of Jersey City, said that in his
opinion, the real issue that underlay New York officials' concerns was not the
effect the bridge might have on tourism, but its financial effect on one of the
city's main concessionaires -- the Circle Line-Statue of Liberty Ferry.

"The issues about tourism are phony issues," Mr. Guarini said. The ferry
service, he said, "has longstanding friends in New York and is putting political
pressure on people to support their position."

It is impossible, Mr. Guarini said, to get to either Ellis Island or Liberty
Island, both national monuments, without paying the ferry service a fare.

"In effect, Circle Line is holding Lady Liberty and Ellis Island hostage," he
said. "Nearly 40 percent of all Americans today can trace their ancestors to
Ellis Island. How many of them can afford to pay $18 for a family of four to
visit the island?"

Company's Position

But company officials are unmoved by Mr. Guarini's concerns.

"We have no comment on what the Congressman has to say," said Beverly Barry,
vice president of the company.

The Circle Line-Statute of Liberty Ferry, which is not associated with the
Circle Line cruise ships that circumnavigate Manhattan, charges $6 for adults
and $3 for children for round-trip service from either Battery Park or Liberty
State Park to both Ellis Island and Liberty Island.

Ms. Barry said that from September 1990 to June 1991, the Circle Line-Statute of
Liberty Ferry from Liberty State Park transported more than half a million
visitors to Ellis Island and the Statue of Liberty.

Under contracts that it has with the National Park Service, the company pays the
service a franchise fee of 10 percent on all gross receipts. In addition, the
company pays the City of New York a franchise fee of 7.4 percent on all receipts
generated at Battery Park and an annual fee of $50,000 or 5 percent, whichever
is greater, to the State of New Jersey for all Jersey City passengers.

As for the controversy over the future of the pedestrian bridge, however, the
company is noncommital.

"That issue is between the National Park Service and the State of New Jersey,"
Ms. Barry said. "We have no comment."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The temporary bridge that connects Ellis Island, in background,
with Liberty State Park in Jersey City (pg. 1); A Circle Line-Statute of Liberty
ferry approaching Ellis Island from New York. Some New York officials hope that
the construction bridge, at left, connecting Ellis Island with Liberty State
Park in Jersey City will be removed. (Kim Garnick for The New York Times) (pg.
8)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              264 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 22, 1991, Monday, Late Edition - Final

How Castle Garden Came to Mean Chaos

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 260 words


To the Editor:

Your July 5 article about Ellis Island ends with the statement, "I finally
understood the meaning of 'kesl'gartn,' an American Yiddish expression for
chaos."

My immigrant parents used the expression often when referring to a chaotic
situation with crowds, but you did not go into the expression's origin.

The reception area for immigrants before Ellis Island was Castle Garden, which
has in recent times resumed the name Castle Clinton. A large structure built as
a fort in 1807 on a small island close to the west side of the Battery, it was
later attached to the Battery by a landfill. But starting in 1855 it became a
reception area for immigrants.

By the 1880's, the flow of immigrants became massive, and Castle Garden could no
longer handle the thousands arriving each week. The Government opened Ellis
Island as an immigration center in 1892. Only a few years before that, the
Federal Government took over control of immigration from the states.

Jewish immigrants coming to Castle Garden mostly from small towns and villages
in Poland, Hungary, Romania and Russia had never seen such crowds, all speaking
their native languages, seemingly unable to communicate with one another,
milling about in apparently chaotic fashion, having to listen to officials who
told them in rude shouts to hurry to the various inspection stations.

This vision of Castle Garden remained with the immigrants, and "kesl-gartn"
became a byword for chaotic crowds in their newly adopted land.

IRVING TOBIN
Elizabeth, N.J., July 10, 1991

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              265 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 26, 1991, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Soviet Jews Mustn't Be Mideast Pawns

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 332 words


To the Editor:

As David Biale points out in "New Aid to Israel Can Only Hinder Peace" (letter,
July 16), I am indeed opposed to linkage between loan guarantees for the
humanitarian purpose of absorbing Soviet immigrants in Israel and the political
issue of the peace process. But he is off the mark when he says that Israel is
sending the Soviet immigrants into the territories and that the issues can
therefore not be separated.

Foreign Minister David Levy committed Israel last October not to spend any
United States aid money in the territories and not to direct or settle Soviet
Jews in those areas. The commitments have been restated by Israeli leaders. Just
last week, Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d denied the Administration had
said any of those commitments had been breached.

The facts prove Israel's adherence to Mr. Levy's commitments. A March 1991 State
Department report indicates that only 1.2 percent of the Soviet immigrants
settled in the territories last year; a subsequent Israeli Absorption Ministry
survey states the rate for last January to last April was less than 1 percent.

Clearly, if Israel had a policy of settling Soviet immigrants in the
territories, many more would have gone there. The few who have gone there
exercised their free choice under the long-established policy of allowing Jews
to live anywhere they wish -- a policy Israel has never said it would repudiate.

The hundreds of thousands of Jews beginning a new life of freedom and dignity in
Israel ought not to become pawns in the political campaign to stop settlements,
for which they were not responsible and which are unrelated to their absorption
in Israel. I was delighted to hear President Bush announce July 1 that he would
"avoid the linkage" between absorption loan guarantees and settlements and that
he did "not think it ought to be a quid pro quo."

THOMAS A. DINE
Executive Director, American Israel
Public Affairs Committee
Washington, July 16, 1991

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              266 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 2, 1991, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Planning to Allow Visits by People with AIDS

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 452 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 1


Bush Administration officials have decided to permit some immigrants with AIDS
into the country while barring others, health officials said today.
 After two years of raucous debate, Federal health officials have reached a
consensus about the policy they will establish on the immigration of people with
AIDS.

Health officials said today that while the policy has not yet been drafted, its
intent is to allow people infected with AIDS to enter the country, provided they
do not intend to seek permanent residence. The officials said that the
Government would explicitly state that those with AIDS were not being excluded
because of their disease. Those with AIDS seeking permanent residence will be
excluded solely because of cost considerations. Some officials said they
believed that poor people with AIDS seeking to enter the country could become a
burden to taxpayers.

Officials called this a compromise, because public health groups across the
country have expressed outrage that AIDS would be listed as a disease for which
one could be excluded from the country, when in fact the disease is not easily
communicable.

But officials at the Justice Department, which administers immigration law
through the Immigration and Naturalization Service, have continued to bar those
infected with AIDS from the United States..
 It is the Secretary of Health and Human Services who determines which diseases,
if any, are put on the list of communicable diseases that are a public health
threat if carried in by immigrants. Health service officials have tried to
eliminate AIDS from the list of diseases for which a person might be excluded.
 The list currently contains only AIDS and infectious tuberculosis.
 But the Justice Department adminsters the rules, and with support from other
White House officials, it has been negotiating the matter with the staff of
Health Secretary Louis W. Sullivan.
 The issue was first joined when Congress passed a law directing the Secretary
to make AIDS infection a disease that could bar a person's entry into the
country. This threatened to keep many in AIDS organizations from atttending
international AIDS meetings in the United States.
 The next international AIDS conference is scheduled to be held in Boston in
1992. Under the proposed policy, delegates who are infected would be permitted
to enter the country.

Jeffrey Levi, policy director for the AIDS Action Council in Washington, said
there was no rational reason for the exclusion, because there were many other
expensive diseases like cancer, which could create a far greater economic
burden.
 "Once again the Bush Administration is giving AIDS special treatment, but in
the wrong way," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              267 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 3, 1991, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. to Admit Some Immigrants With AIDS Under New Health Policy

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 401 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 1


Bush Administration officials have decided to permit some immigrants with AIDS
into the country while barring others, health officials said Thursday.
 After two years of raucous debate, Federal health officials have reached a
consensus about the policy they will establish on the immigration of people with
AIDS.

Health officials said Thursday that while the policy has not yet been drafted,
its intent is to allow people infected with AIDS to enter the country, provided
they do not intend to seek permanent residence. The officials said that the
Government would explicitly state that those with AIDS were not being excluded
because of their disease. Rather, they said those with AIDS seeking permanent
residence would be excluded solely because of cost considerations. Some
officials said they believed that poor people with AIDS seeking to enter the
country could become a burden to taxpayers.

Officials called this a compromise, because public health groups around the
country have expressed outrage that AIDS would be listed as a disease for which
a person could be excluded from the country, because the disease is not easily
communicable.

But officials at the Justice Department, which administers immigration law
through the Immigration and Naturalization Service, have continued to bar entry
to this country of people infected with AIDS.

It is the Secretary of Health and Human Services who determines which diseases
are put on the list of communicable diseases that are a public health threat if
carried by immigrants. Health service officials have tried to eliminate AIDS
from the list of diseases for which a person might be excluded.

The list currently includes only AIDS and infectious tuberculosis.

But the Justice Department adminsters the rules, and with support from other
White House officials, it has been negotiating the matter with the staff of the
Secretary of Health and Human Services, Louis W. Sullivan.

The issue was first joined when Congress passed a law directing the Secretary to
make AIDS infection a disease that could bar a person's entry into the country.
This threatened to keep many in AIDS organizations from atttending international
AIDS meetings in the United States.

The next international AIDS conference is scheduled to be held in Boston in
1992. Under the proposed policy, delegates who are infected would be permitted
to enter the country.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              268 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 4, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. TAKING STEPS TO BAR NEW WAVE OF CUBAN EMIGRES

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1307 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 3


Concerned about a resurgence of migration from Cuba, the Administration is
taking steps to curb the number of Cubans applying to come to the United States
as tourists.

The Administration last week temporarily froze new applications for six-month
tourist visas, which are running at a rate about triple that of last year. Not
only are more Cubans applying for tourist visas, but more than a third are
illegally overstaying the visas.

A senior State Department official said Washington would soon announce currency
restrictions designed to cut visa fees that have provided the Cuban Government
with desperately needed dollars as more Cubans leave.

Illegal Entries Increase

The number of Cubans coming to the United States illegally on boats or rafts is
also increasing, but it is far lower than of those coming legally as tourists.
Nevertheless, the Defense Department has drawn up contingency plans for a naval
blockade in the event that President Fidel Castro unleashes an exodus of the
kind that flooded south Florida with 129,000 immigrants in a matter of weeks in
1980.

"There's widespread acknowledgement that Castro could strike out in any number
of ways, but we are committed to stopping another Mariel," a senior Pentagon
official said, referring to the Cuban port from which the 1980 exodus took
place.

Administration officials say the new policies come in response to the sudden
surge of migration and are not a ploy to ratchet up pressure on a government
they believe is doomed to topple in the next few years.

Soviets Urged to Cut Aid

Senior state Department officials said President Bush's recent public calls for
free elections in Cuba, combined with his private urgings to President Mikhail
S. Gorbachev at this week's summit meeting in Moscow to cut Soviet support to
Havana, represent the Administration's major initiatives at isolating and
squeezing the Castro Government.

But some prominent Cuban-Americans and Congressional leaders who have the
Administration's ear are urging officials to use immigration policy as a weapon
against Havana. They say they are convinced that the moratorium on accepting new
visa applications represents a testing period to gauge the political reaction of
Cuban-American in Miami before the Admnistration moves to impose more drastic
restrictions.

While Administration officials do not consider another Mariel imminent, they
have become concerned by the growing numbers of Cubans who are remaining beyond
their visas with no apparent intention of returning. Officials of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service say they believe that about 13,000 of the
36,000 Cubans who have come to the United States since November have stayed
illegally. If the current rate of applications were allowed to continue, they
would total 100,000 this year, as against 35,000 in 1990.

State Department officials say the changes in immigration policy were initiated
primarily because Florida officials have warned that such an increase would pose
an intolerable strain on the state's schools, hospitals and other social
services. But they say the Bush Adminstration would not be unhappy if the new
policies put added strains on the Castro Government.

"Cuba is undergoing pressures that are more severe than at any time since Castro
came to power," Bernard W. Aronson, Assistant Secretary of State for
Interamerican Affairs, said in an interview. "One of the differences today is
that the Cuban people don't believe the future is going to be better under
Communism, and obviously that means many more are desperate to leave."

Representative Robert G. Torricelli, Democrat of New Jersey and chairman of the
House subcommittee on Western Hemisphere affairs, said he had concluded from his
discussions with Administration officials that the new immigration measures "are
part of a wider review" of Cuba policy, an idea that Administration officials
dispute.

"A pause in the issuance of visas," Mr. Torricelli said, "provides a chance to
increase pressure on Castro and explore a change of policy that restricts his
ability to export his dissenters and economic problems."

The Cuban-American Factor

The Administration is moving quietly as it tightens immigration regulations
because of fears it will put itself on a collision course with politically
influential Cuban-Americans in Miami, which has traditionally objected to
shutting the door on Cubans trying to flee the Communist Government. But many
Cuban-Americans, viewing Mr. Castro as increasingly vulnerable to a possible
internal revolt, are beginning to believe that a reduction of immigration might
help build pressures on Havana.

Some officials note that Mr. Castro has lowered age restrictions for travel
abroad, possibly to unload youthful dissidents on the United States, and they
see this development as a "slow-motion Mariel."

While the more than 100,000 "boat people" whom Mr. Castro sent off to the shores
of Florida in 1980 included a number of former political prisoners, many more
were relatives of Cubans in the United States and included unemployed men,
terminal cancer patients and common criminals.

To deprive the Castro Government of badly needed hard currency, the
Administration plans to announce restrictions on the transfer of millions of
dollars a year that Cuban-Americans send to relatives to help pay their visa
fees. Cubans are required to pay up to $1,000 in United States currency to the
Cuban Government to process their tourist visa applications. The new controls
would require dollars transfered to Cuba to pass through agents licensed by the
Treasury Department.

Officials believe that Mr. Castro, while unhappy with the restrictions, will be
forced to go along, and that his Government could lose about $20 million a year
once the moratorium on visas is lifted.

Officials said the consular office at the United States Interests Section in
Havana is buried under a backlog of 28,000 applications for tourist visas, and
will not consider new applications until the current number awaiting processing
is significantly reduced.

Officials said some Cubans apply for tourist visas because they seek to
circumvent the stiffer requirements to receive immigrant visas, about 2,000 of
which are granted annually to people with relatives living in the United States.
A visitor on an immigrant visa is eligible to apply for citizenship after
residing in the country for a year. Administration officials said there were no
plans to tighten regulations on immigrant visas or on political asylums, dozens
of which have been granted over the last few years.

In recent weeks, the State Department has rejected about a third of the travel
visa applications it considered, a rate three times greater than last year's
average.

The shifts in Administration policy on tourist visas accompany growing efforts
to persuade the Soviet Union to cut economic and military support to the Castro
Government and otherwise control Cuba's interference in the affairs of other
Latin American countries. Senior State Department officials said Mr. Bush told
Mr. Gorbachev at the summit meeting that he would strengthen his campaign for
increased Western economic support if he quickened the pace of reductions in
Moscow's $4.5 billion in annual aid and subsidies to Cuba.

Mr. Gorbachev made no firm commitments. But Foreign Minister Aleksandr A.
Bessmertnyk agreed to sign a joint statement with Secretary of State James A.
Baker 3d that specifically called on Cuba to help attain a cease-fire and peace
settlement in El Salvador, where a right-wing Government battles Communist
insurgents. Administration officials said the statement appeared to indicate a
growing Soviet willingness to cooperate with Washington in curbing continuing
Cuban military aid shipments to the guerrillas in El Salvador.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              269 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 4, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEWS SUMMARY

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 826 words



International 3-18

Steps to reduce Cuban immigration to the United States have been taken by the
Bush Administration. A surge in Cuban migration this year led officials to
temporarily freeze six-month tourist visas. Page 1

Haiti's new leader appears moderate despite fears that he would bring jarring
change and a crackdown on supporters of past dictators. The Rev. Jean-Bertrand
Aristide has surprised both skeptics and supporters. 16

Brazil's President sides with military against Congress 17

Israelis welcome the peace meeting, but are divided sharply on whether the talks
will actually produce peace. Some see peace around the corner, while others
believe it is as likely as a blizzard on the Mediterranean. 1

Talks between the Kurds and Iraq stand at an impasse as Kurdish leaders decide
whether to fight with Saddam Hussein or talk some more. A total collapse in the
talks could lead to renewed violence. 14

Iranians steal in by sea to find work in Kuwait 14

Emirate had data on fraud at bank 15

President Gorbachev' success at the summit meeting was to turn President Bush
into a major supporter on the explosive Soviet hustings, thereby opening a new
far more subtle state of Soviet-American relations. 4

The families of Hungarians who died in camps and prisons during the Communist
regime are finding few answers from the new Government. So many died that the
Government is worried about a "witch hunt." 3

Yugoslav fighting flares as truce plan is approved 6

Japan's finance chief tainted again by scandal 12

Deaths at school in Japan put focus on rules 13

Market revives feudal evil: The sale of wives 11

Mandela's group names moderates to new posts 10

 National 20-36

Weapons makers and the military face smaller budgets, but the change may not be
as severe for the economy as was feared. While the initial jolt has been
difficult, most are finding ways to adapt. 1

A $291 billion military budget bill was approved by the Senate late Friday that
adapts only slightly to improved United States-Soviet relations by continuing to
increase the nation's strategic weaponry. 35

Bush and advisers lay groundwork for '92 race 26

A woman who is dying from AIDS contracted because of careless health workers has
sent President Bush a letter pleading compassion for AIDS victims and arguing
against screening doctors for the disease. 1

The mask that hid Jeffrey Dahmer, the Milwaukee man who confessed to a horrific
string of slayings, was one of a normal young man. But the mask slipped as he
drank, turned violent or cried out for attention. 1

The agencies that rate insurers all gave high marks to three giant insurance
companies not long before they were seized by regulators. Now they are
scrambling to make their evaluations more accurate. 1

Indebted students gain in battle on fraudulent trade schools 32

In home of movies, using fantasy to lure subway riders 20

M.B.A.'s going east to build up capitalism from ground up 30

Huge anti-abortion actions in Wichita have made the city the nation's most vivid
symbol of an emboldened anti-abortion movement. Over 1,600 people have been
arrested at the city's three abortion clinics. 20

Drought taking its toll on California environment 21

Portland Journal: 40's songs by Guthrie for project are found 20

On second day, shuttle crew measures earth's ozone layer 22

Process for recognizing tribes divides Indians 33

Jurors are irked by ruse of TV presence 27

Regional 37-47

A group of bias crimes in Canarsie appears to stem from two factors, the large
influx of blacks in the 1980's and long-held anxieties about race and change in
the neighborhood. 1

Police report 11th bias incident in Canarsie 38

A black congregation charges bias in Co-op City 38

Connecticut called off budget talks, even as the state faced another shutdown on
Monday. Leaders decided to leave everything until today, when the temporary
budget expires. 39

A retarded man was severely beaten, sexually assaulted and robbed by a group of
youths at a Coney Island playground in an attack that the police called
unusually cruel. 39

Foes of Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato said that his chances for re-election next
year had been set back by a Senate ethics inquiry into his conduct, despite a
finding of no evidence to support allegations of wrongdoing. 41

A group of once-homeless veterans patrols the streets near their house in the
Prospect Heights section of Brooklyn. Their lives are bittersweet, as some
struggle with old addictions and others find new lives.  42

Residents of adult group home sue over living conditions 37

Problems have four legs in a tranquil resort area 43

Greyhound bus accident near Ithaca injures 30 40

Obituaries 46

Aly Sabry, a former Vice President of Egypt

Arts/Reviews 63-64, 68

Campus Life 51-53

Fashion 56-57

Life Style 54

Pastimes 65-66

Weddings 60-63

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              270 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 7, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Banks Follow Immigrants to Flushing

BYLINE: By DONATELLA LORCH

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1172 words


On a street where hardware, electronics and shoe stores competed for space 10
years ago, a gleaming new glass obelisk juts above the squat buildings. Each
block, it seems, has a new type of tenant -- with sleek gray steel, polished
brass and tinted windows suggesting an international financial center.

Seven banks crowd into just two blocks in the din and traffic of Main Street in
downtown Flushing, Queens, and the incongruous glass obelisk will make eight.
Wander down the side streets or nearby Roosevelt Avenue and Northern Boulevard
and the number of banks multiplies to at least 35 -- American, Chinese, Korean,
British, Indian, Pakistani and Colombian.

As thousands of immigrants, particularly Chinese and Koreans, have settled in
Flushing in the last decade, the banks have followed, tailoring their strategies
to serve the savings-minded workers and flourishing small businesses.

Many are branches of the big American banks, which continue to dominate business
in Flushing. But small AsianAmerican banks, with headquarters in Flushing or
Chinatown, also compete fiercely for customers, and the latest arrival is a
branch of a large Taiwan-based bank.

The China Trust Bank -- the largest private bank in Taiwan, which has its
American headquarters in lower Manhattan -- opened its doors four weeks ago in a
temporary office that was once a vegetable stand at 40-36 Main Street. Just a
few steps away are the Hong Kong-Shanghai Banking Corporation, Amerasia Bank and
Golden City Bank, which will open soon in the new glass obelisk on Main Street.
Across the street is Manufacturers Hanover, and a block away are Green Point
Savings and Citibank. Around the corner is Asia Bank, the oldest
Chinese-American bank in Flushing, which opened in 1984.

In its first two weeks, the China Trust branch took in $6 million from 400
depositors, said the manager, Frank Lin. "It's fantastic," Mr. Lin said of the
new business, and a state banking official described the total as "pretty darn
good."

China Trust officials say they expect business in Flushing to keep growing, and
they are spending $13 million to build a new three-story office just down the
street.

The banks have in part been lured by the booming businesses in the area, where
scores of restaurants and flashy boutiques have helped transform Flushing into
the fourth-largest retail center in New York City. Pauline Chu, a Community
School Board member who is running for City Council, said there are 200 stores
in a three-block area and 800 restaurants in the neighborhood. A new 175-room
Sheraton hotel will open in November.

But business executives and state banking officials say another big reason for
the influx of banks and capital is fear over the Chinese takeover of Hong Kong
in 1997. Uncertainty over the future of the British colony has prompted a flight
of people and money from Hong Kong and Taiwan into the area since the early
1980's.

"The scare over 1997 is definitely one of the factors," said Clare E. Sykes, a
spokeswoman for the State Banking Department. "Flushing is a fast-growth,
healthy area, a good bankable area. It is faster growing than Chinatown."

Separate From Chinatown

Ms. Chu said about 140,000 Chinese and Korean immigrants now live in the
Flushing area, which had few Asian residents 10 years ago.

Many residents and business owners envision Flushing as a flourishing
international community, separate from Chinatown in Manhattan and uniquely
positioned between New York City, Long Island, New Jersey and Connecticut, said
Ho Pei Lee, a developer and builder.

A study comparing banks in Chinatown and Flushing convinced China Trust Bank to
open its new Main Street branch, Mr. Lin said. The 1990 study showed that
deposits in 28 Chinatown banks totaled $3.24 billion, while deposits in 34
Flushing banks totaled $3.13 billion.

"We are going to surpass the money deposited in Chinatown," Mr. Lee said.
"Flushing has a lot of potential for the future."

A Mix of Strategies

The study found that American banks still have the greatest share of deposits in
the area, and many have tailored their banking strategies to the community.
Automatic teller machines offer transactions in three languages, and Citibank
has a special Asian Banking Center where Korean, Mandarin and Cantonese are
spoken.

The much smaller Chinese-American banks, including Asia Bank, Amerasia, Great
Eastern and others, held only 12 percent of the deposits in the 1990 study. But
they have managed to survive and thrive in Flushing, where banking strategies
are a mix of old world and new.

The Chinese and Korean immigrants, traditionally great savers, are often wary of
outsiders. Many prefer to speak their native language with tellers and say they
find a more personal touch -- and shorter lines -- at the Chinese-American and
Korean banks.

"We have a lot of new blood here -- immigrants, money and investments," said
Thomas Tai, president of the Flushing Chinese Business Association. "Chinese
banks thrive because of their personal relationships. They pay attention to past
records, reputations of friends and family from the original country."

Mr. Lin, the manager of the new China Trust branch, said his bank expected to
attract many Taiwanese as well as immigrants from Hong Kong and mainland China
familiar with the bank's reputation. It has a capital base 10 times that of
local Chinese-American banks and therefore can compete directly with the
American giants, Mr. Lin said. "Chinese people have a lot of savings," he said.
"They will come to us because we are Chinese. Chinese people are traditionally
shy. They won't talk to strangers."

Service and Interest Rates

China Bank also hopes to lure non-Asian customers, Mr. Lin said, with automatic
teller machines and high rates on certificates of deposit. "We are here to
compete against Citibank and Chase, not with the local Chinese community banks,"
he said.

Many market-wise depositors in Flushing keep accounts in both Asian and American
banks, and shop around for the best deposit yields. Competition centers on the
rates on certificates of deposit, with the Chinese banks generally offering
higher rates than the American banks. Many of the banks have weekend hours, and
some even offer free parking, a premium in traffic-jammed Flushing.

Joy Xu, 25 years old, arrived in the United States two years ago and banks at
Asia Bank. "My uncle introduced me, and they speak Chinese," Ms. Xu said. "It's
quick here, while in Citibank you have to wait a long time and they're always
out to lunch."

Yeming Wang, 40, a Shanghai native, uses an American bank but has also kept an
account at Asia Bank because, she said, the interest and the service is good and
"they always give you a gift for Chinese New Year."

Some residents choose a bank because they know its reputation. "I feel better in
two banks," said Alex Lee, 22, a construction worker. "One is Hong-Kong
Shanghai, because I had it before in Hong Kong and I feel familiar with it."


LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: As thousands of immigrants have settled during the last decade
in Flushing, Queens, banks have followed, tailoring their strategies to serve
workers and small businesses. Seven banks crowd into two blocks on Main Street,
above. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) (pg. B1)

Map of Flushing, Queens, showing locations of banks (pg. B2)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              271 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 15, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

The Stick Congress Gave Castro

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 486 words


Once again Fidel Castro has caught Washington off guard, lowering the minimum
age for foreign travel from 60 to 20 years. This has opened floodgates for an
illegal exodus of Cubans -- and created a painful dilemma for Americans:

Having regularly censured him for reining Cubans in, how can critics now condemn
him for letting them out?

The game has a further twist. Cuba's new boat people, lancheros in Spanish,
automatically obtain the right to settle and work in the United States under a
special law that applies only to Cubans.

The newcomers merely need to make themselves known to the Immigration Service to
obtain a right for which other foreigners must wait years. And the same Cuban
Adjustment Act also applies to as many as 30,000 Cubans who have illegally
overstayed their tourist visas. Thus Mr. Castro is beating on America with a
stick Congress gave him -- meanwhile ridding his island of potential
troublemakers.

Efforts to repeal this dated law have been torpedoed by lawmakers from Florida
who are moved by concern for the state's large Cuban community. But if Congress
does not quickly plug this hole, a million Cubans may well sail right through
it.

Cuba's desperate economic situation drives this new migration. Typically, Cubans
are allowed only two bread rolls a day and barely a pound of meat a week. This
is the result of wretched planning, loss of trade with no-longer-Communist
Eastern Europe and dwindling aid from a Soviet Union whose leader Mr. Castro
despises.

There is some truth to claims that Mr. Castro's revolution has provided low-cost
housing, free medical care and schooling. But so has democratic Costa Rica. With
fewer resources, it has made comparable social gains and done so without
enduring a one-party tyranny under a dictator for life. Rather than generate
wealth, Cuba rations poverty.

Small wonder that requests for tourist visas have swamped the U.S. Interests
Section in Havana, forcing it to suspend further applications after issuing
40,000 visas. Small wonder, too, that Cuban youngsters, endlessly exhorted to
choose Socialism or death, respond by braving shark-infested waters in little
boats.

The result is the biggest exodus since the Mariel boatlift in 1980 that sent
125,000 Cubans to southern Florida, including felons spitefully released from
prison. Most of the Marielitos have resettled successfully but it took years of
frustrating negotiations to repatriate the criminal remnant. One such trauma is
enough.

The Cuban Adjustment Act makes America turn an unjust face to the rest of the
world, giving Cubans preference over Haitians, Salvadorans or people from all
other countries. And it gives Fidel Castro the power to push, send or dump
whomever he wishes to the United States. Such a law is difficult to explain and
impossible to defend. Its repeal will be an early order of business when
Congress comes back to work.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              272 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 15, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

For Immigrants' Children, an Adult Role

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 1; Home Desk

LENGTH: 600 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Aug. 14


As more children take on the role of interpreter for parents who do not speak
English, some social science experts express concern that the practice could
interfere with the children's psychological development.

City officials say 42 percent of the 57,000 students in Boston's public schools
are from homes where the principal language is not English and parents speak
little or no English.

The officials say the number of children translating is expected to increase
with the number of non-English-speaking immigrants from Southeast Asia and Latin
America.

Social workers here say that because children play an adult role in doing the
translating, they may grow up too quickly and resent or lose respect for their
parents.

But Lowry Hemphill, a lecturer at Harvard University's Graduate School of
Education who specializes in language development, said translating can help
develop language skills and understand American institutions.

"I don't think it's necessarily something that should be discouraged," she said.
"It is sort of part and parcel of the whole experience of being an immigrant
child. People do what they have to do to get by."

Professor Hemphill added that children's translating should not keep them away
from school or take them into situations they are too young to understand. She
said the practice showed the need for more professional interpreters in official
positions and for more adult English classes.

Many non-English-speaking parents rely on their children to help during doctors'
visits, said Christine Brown, a social worker at the Uphams Corner Health Center
in the Dorchester section of Boston. Children, she said, might not understand
complex medical terminology and information for the parents might be lost in
translation.

"Most parents do not feel comfortable using their children as interpreters," Ms.
Brown said. "They don't trust their kids to translate things properly. But it's
the only option available to a lot of them."

Luisa Pagan, a Puerto Rican who came to Boston in 1984, said she wondered if her
inability to speak English was responsible for her daughter's partial paralysis.
Two years ago, she said, the girl, Elaine, then 8 years old, had a throat
infection and she took her to Boston City Hospital.

There, Elaine spoke with the doctor, who said it was flu, and Elaine was taken
home. Two weeks later, the infection had worsened and she had trouble walking.
The infection was affecting nerves in both her legs.

"I often think," Ms. Pagan said as Elaine translated, "if only I spoke English,
I could have told the doctor exactly what was wrong. I might have been able to
tell them the one symptom that would have helped them diagnose the problem."

She says she is planning to enroll in English classes next month.

"But now it's too late," Ms. Pagan said. "They tell me she's never going to
regain full use of her legs again." Her daughter, now 10, uses leg braces and
crutches.

For the Wong family in the Allston section of Boston, Jeanine Wong, 9, is the
translator, answering telephone calls and reading most of the mail. When her
aunt screamed out one day that she was having a baby, Jeanine phoned for a taxi
and accompanied her aunt to Brigham and Women's Hospital. There, she translated
the doctor's questions and her aunt's answers. "I was really, really scared,"
Jeanine said. "Everything was rush, rush, rush."

Her mother, Margaret Wong, said she was concerned that the incident cost her
daughter a little bit of childhood. "I am trying to shelter her, but it's hard
because we all need her at home," she said.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              273 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 15, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Helping Hands Await Immigrants in Ontario

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH,  Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 651 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, Aug. 14


Toronto Welcome House, an Ontario agency helping 40,000 immigrants a year get
jobs and settle into this city's ethnic enclaves, is something of a family
enterprise for the Xus, formerly of Beijing.

Both Xu Huilian, who holds a doctorate in plant science, and his wife, Xu Liwei,
who has a master's in economics, are using it to improve their English and learn
computer skills.

While they attend classes in a four-story building in downtown Toronto, their
3-year-old daughter, Xu Xianhuizi, nicknamed Chieko, romps in the nursery,
getting her first exposure to English.

Mr. Xu, Mrs. Xu and other classmates, including Zerihun Tensa, who worked as an
accountant in his native Ethiopia, Susana Arenas, a former industrial production
superviser in Peru, and Mathavan Nallalingan, a bookbinder from Sri Lanka, are
all hoping to be able to send off their first English resumes soon.

Forty years ago, three-quarters of the people who lived in metropolitan Toronto
were of British origin. Today, 40 percent of the population are immigrants, and
more than a quarter can speak neither English nor French. About 20 percent are
what Canadians call visible minorities.

The liberalization of immigration policies since the 1960's has not only
transformed cities like Toronto, often called Canada's New York, but also
challenged Government policies of trying to absorb hundreds of thousands of new
citizens a year with a miminum of friction.

Toronto's claim to one of the best records on race relations of any major North
American city is owed in large measure to creative absorption programs like
Welcome House, which have been studied by American municipalities, including New
York City, and by representatives of the Governments of France, Britain, Sweden
and Norway.

For the newcomers, the 40 Welcome House settlement officers in downtown Toronto
and 55 other mainly contract employees at four other sites in the metropolitan
area offer a variety of counseling services, like advice on housing, the job
market and schools and on how to set up a business, cope with taxes, and obtain
welfare or a driver's license. In addition, there are the language and
computer-training classes and the day-care center.

The settlement officers work closely with organizations in the local ethnic
communities to help the new arrivals assimilate.

"It's an example of a government-community partnership working well, for
everyone's benefit," said Shamira Madhany, senior manager of the program,
herself from India by way of Uganda.

Ethnic community organizations are a much more important part of local life here
than in the United States. Canada has always maintained greater emphasis on
maintaining the cultural distinctiveness of its immigrant groups, whereas people
of various nationalities entering the United States tend to be absorbed more
quickly into the great American personality. It is what demographers call the
"salad bowl" as opposed to the "melting pot."

While apparently effective, the Toronto Welcome House network is not cheap. The
Ontario provincial government is spending $2.2 million on its administration
this year, up from $1.9 million last year.

But Elaine Ziemba, the official in charge of the entire program, makes no
apologies. She is a 49-year-old former social worker brought into Ontario's
first Socialist government last year by Premier Bob Rae.

As Minister of Citizenship with Responsibility for Human Rights, Disability
Issues, Senior Citizens and Race Relations, Mrs. Ziemba has the longest official
title of any of the 30 provincial ministers.

"Compared with what the new citizens will eventually give back to this country
in terms of living up to their full potential, that money is really very
little," she said.

Mrs. Ziemba added that the agency's programs "are helping people become
extremely good citizens, giving them the tools to participate fully in Ontario
life."

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              274 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 20, 1991, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

THE SOVIET CRISIS: ISRAEL;
Fears for Emigres And Peace Efforts

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 395 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Aug. 19


For the Israeli authorities and newly arrived Soviet immigrants, the ouster of
Mikhail S. Gorbachev spread doubt and consternation today on two central issues:
the destiny of Jews still waiting to leave the Soviet Union, and the future of
efforts for a Middle East peace. Because of totally different perspectives on
the same two themes, however, news of the overthrow brought something like hope
to many Palestinians in Israeli-occupied lands.

The new authorities in Moscow have not so far clarified their policies either on
Soviet Jewish emigration or on the Middle East diplomacy that had been set to
lead to a peace conference in October under joint United States and Soviet
auspices.

"Everything must be done to assure that whatever is happening in the Soviet
Union does not affect the steps we have already taken and will not slow the
continuation of the peace process," said Foreign Minister David Levy.

But Israel's attitude to the proposed peace conference has always been
ambivalent. While Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir strongly opposes all the
concessions Arabs want from the negotiations, he and his Government apparently
see the planned conference in October as an opportunity to negotiate while the
Palestinians and their Arab sponsors are in a weak posiion.

A new and more aggressive Soviet policy favoring the Arab side, thus, is
something Israel does not want, while Palestinians are clearly hoping the new
Soviet leadership will offer them just that.

In the Israeli-occupied Gaza Strip, Ahmed Yazji, a 44-year-old surgeon and
Palestinian political activist, said: "I'm pleased with the expulsion of
Gorbachev and every Palestinian must be pleased because we have got rid of the
man who was driving tens of thousands of Soviet Jews to settle in the occupied
territories, and who allowed the United States a free hand in world affairs."

Israelis' principal apprehension tonight seemed to focus on the future direction
of Moscow's attitude to Soviet Jews.

Simcha Dinitz, head of the Jewish Agency, which oversees the immigration of the
Soviets, said that currently 100,000 Soviet Jews had secured exit visas to leave
the Soviet Union and that 60,000 of them had been issued visas to enter Israel.
Over 220,000 Soviet Jews have arrived since the beginning of last year in the
massive wave of emigration permitted by Mr. Gorbachev.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              275 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 22, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Shamir Repeats His Willingness to Attend Talks

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL,  Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 530 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Aug. 21


Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir restated his qualified agreement today to attend a
Middle East peace conference sponsored by the United States and the Soviet Union
but said it was "hard to know" whether the failed coup in Moscow would delay the
meeting, tentatively planned for October.

Throughout the crisis in Moscow, Israelis and Palestinians and other Arabs have
been held in thrall by events that bear directly on two issues of profound
concern to all of them -- the immigration of Soviet Jews to Israel and the
prospects for the talks.

Before the coup failed, Israeli and Syrian strategists sought advantage from the
turmoil, with Housing Minister Ariel Sharon urging Jews to leave the Soviet
Union in large numbers to seek safety in Israel and an official Syrian
commentary urging the Soviet coup leaders to "reconsider the question of Jewish
immigration to Israel."

Most Arabs oppose the swelling of Israel's population with Soviet immigrants
because they believe it will increase Israeli settlement of the occupied West
Bank.

Those fears seemed likely to be fueled today when Jewish settlers, ignoring
United States opposition to expanded settlement of the West Bank, set up 10
mobile homes in an army base for Jewish seminary students in the city of Hebron.

But at the same time, in a possible concession to Palestinians, the Israeli
military told administrators at the largest Palestinian university in the
occupied territories, An Najah University in Nablus, that studies could be
resumed, officials of An Najah said. Studies at six Palestinian universities
were suspended after the uprising against Israeli occupation started in December
1987, and four have been reopened.

With the apparent resolution of the Soviet crisis, analysts here said, the
Middle East's adversaries seemed to have resumed their parrying over the
proposed peace conference.

Arafat and Hussein to Meet

The Palestine Liberation Organization insists on its right to name the
Palestinian delegates to a joint Palestinian-Jordanian delegation. But Mr.
Shamir's agreement to attend is conditional on the absence of Palestinians who
are from East Jerusalem or have links to the P.L.O.

News agency reports from Jordan today said the P.L.O. chairman, Yasir Arafat,
was expected to meet soon in Amman with King Hussein, possibly leading to a
summit meeting of Jordan, Syria, Lebanon, Egypt and the organization to
coordinate a negotiating stance for the peace talks. Jordanian officials
reportedly said they would not interfere in the naming of Palestinians to a
Jordanian-Palestinian delegation proposed by King Hussein to sidestep Israel's
opposition to Palestinians it considers unacceptable.

While Middle East peace diplomacy was on hold during the Soviet crisis, senior
officials here apparently took heart from comments attributed by news agencies
in Beirut on Tuesday to an unidentified senior Shiite Muslim leader in the
Lebanese capital on the fate of Western hostages.

The Muslim leader was quoted as saying that Iran's commitment to use its
influence on hostage takers was irreversible, and that the Soviet crisis would
"not affect the hostage release process."

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              276 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 31, 1991, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. AGENTS STORM PRISON IN ALABAMA, FREEING 9 HOSTAGES

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1591 words

DATELINE: TALLADEGA, Ala., Aug. 30


In a predawn raid that lasted just three minutes, Federal assault teams stormed
a prison cellblock today, freed 9 hostages and took custody of the 121 inmates
who rebelled 10 days ago in an effort to block their deportation to Cuba.

The hostages, seven men and two women, barricaded themselves in a room with
mattresses once the assault began and escaped injury, an Immigration and
Naturalization Service official said. One of the Cuban detainees suffered minor
injuries in the assault, on the Talladega Federal Correctional Institution. The
operation was carried out without a shot being fired, officials said, although
nonlethal percussion explosives were apparently used.

Immigration officials said that the 32 detainees whose scheduled deportation
touched off the uprising on Aug. 20 would be put on a plane and sent to Cuba on
Saturday. It was not clear when the other Cuban inmates would be deported.

200 Agents Storm Unit

At least two loud explosions sounded at 3:43 A.M., signaling the start of the
assault, by a team of about 200 specially trained employees of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation and United States Bureau of Prisons.

On a videotape made by the Cable News Network, three or four men dressed in dark
clothing and who appeared to be holding rifles scurried across the roof of the
cellblock. Seconds later, another boom was heard.  Prison officials said the
assault was over by 3:46 A.M., and the hostages, all prison or immigration
employees, were freed.

On the videotape nothing could be seen until 4:11 A.M., when several men milled
about the roof. One could be seen pulling down the Cuban flag that the inmates
had raised during the uprising.

The orders for the assault came from Acting United States Attorney General
William P. Barr on Thursday night after word from the prison that the situation
was deteriorating and that the hostages were in danger, officials said.

Mr. Barr flew to Talladega early today, along with the director of the F.B.I.
and the head of the Bureau of Prisons, to tour the prison and share in the
unabashed elation and self-congratulation at the success of the rescue effort.

"The President called me this morning and wanted me to convey his
congratulations on a job well done," Mr. Barr said. "I am grateful beyond words
and proud beyond measure."

Roger Scott, the prison warden, said at a news conference that the decision to
retake the cellblock by force was made as the 10-day standoff appeared to be
easing. There had been two face-to-face meetings since Wednesday between the
detainees and Federal negotiators. And on Wednesday night one hostage, Kitty
Suddeth, a 34-year-old prison secretary who was ill, had been released in
exchange for a chance to talk with a reporter. Officials said today that Mrs.
Suddeth had provided crucial details on the situation inside the prison.

The Decision to Attack

But Mr. Scott and other officials here said the appearance of progress was
misleading. They said the decision to storm cellblock Alpha was made by Mr.
Barr, on the recommendations of William S. Sessions, the F.B.I. Director, and of
the Bureau of Prisons director, J. Michael Quinlan.

Mr. Barr said today that the officials "weighed the pros and cons of mounting
this rescue operation" and decided to authorize the retaking of the cellblock.
Mr. Scott said some hostages, using hand signals during a food delivery and
medical visit, conveyed their fear to prison officials earlier that night that
they "believed this might be their final opportunity to communicate with their
loved ones."

He said that information from several people over the last several days revealed
that detainees intended to kill one or more of the hostages and, he said, had
discussed specific plans "to throw a hostage from the roof and to stab one or
more hostages."

He added: "At one point, hostages were required to place their identification
cards in a pillowcase, from which the card of one hostage was drawn. 'That
person was informed that he would be killed."

Prison officials declined to name the hostage.

In addition, Mr. Scott said, "Staff observing from outside the unit saw physical
confrontations between detainee leaders, and it became increasingly apparent
that the few detainees who were safeguarding the hostages might not be able to
do so much longer."

A Decision in Crisis

Law-enforcement officials in Washington said that before giving the order to
free the hostages, Mr. Barr polled his aides and prison officials in Alabama
about the risks of the operation before giving the assault order.

Over a telephone line to Alabama, Mr. Barr and the other officials in Washington
waited tensely. "You could have heard a pin drop," one official said. Then
through the phone they could hear the vans carrying the rescuers moving into
position near the cellblock and, moments later, the snaps of detonating
explosives.

Members of the Hostage Rescue Team had converged on the cell building at a
number of points using explosives to break open doors. Once inside, the
officials said, they detonated a number of stun grenades, devices that issue a
huge flash and shockwave intended to temporarily incapacitate anyone caught in
the blast. The team also was equipped with devices called stingers, which, on
exploding, issue rubber pellets that sting the skin, and with fogging devices
that disperse a skin irritant.

"It was loud, confused and smoky," Bill Cole, a member of the F.B.I.'s team from
Knoxville, Tenn., said later.  "It seemed like we caught them completely by
surprise. There were no attempts to fight back."

The rescue team rushed to the hostages. At the same time, members of the F.B.I.
team secured the prison cells and members of the Bureau of Prisons team took
control of the inmates.

Prison officials took several reporters on a brief tour of the area outside the
cellblock today. Windows were broken and shattered glass and other debris
littered the ground. The metal flashing that edged the flat roof of the
one-story cellblock had been mangled and twisted and in other places completely
pulled off the building. The bars that had extended across one of the entrances
to the cellblock hung open and showed signs of charring.

Weapons Are Found

Officials reported that they had found an array of weapons, including knives,
spears, swords and bows and arrows that had been made by the detainees.

The hostages were briefly examined in the prison hospital and then released to
their families, many of whom had kept a vigil here around the clock since the
takeover started.

The wife of one hostage who watched today as families were reunited, Margie
Tinsley, said, "There was a lot of hugging and kissing and crying." Mrs.
Tinsley, 32, whose 34-year-old husband, Mark, is a guard at the prison, said,
"We've just been looking at each other. I'm still not believing he's really
here."

The Rev. Richard Donohoe, the pastor of Sacred Heart Roman Catholic Church in
Anniston where three of the hostages are members, said the hostatages had told
him that "they prayed the whole time they were there and read scripture," adding
that he did not press any of them about what happened during their captivity.
"We needed to lift the moment and not pry into what they were feeling."

Bureau of Prison officials carefully shielded the hostages and their families
and many family members said that they and the released hostages had been
admonished not to talk with reporters. Most were relieved to have their loved
ones back unharmed and gladly complied with the request of Federal officials.

In Miami, the mediators who helped resolve a similar rebellion of Cuban
prisoners in 1987 said they were glad this week's uprising ended without
casualties. But one, Rafael A. Penalver Jr., a Miami lawyer, called on the
Justice Department to begin "a comprehensive review" of its policies for
handling Cuban detainees.

Mr. Penalver said 457 Cuban detainees had been sent back to Cuba since the end
of 1988, when the government of Fidel Castro agreed to accept some prisoners
returned after the Mariel boatlift. Neither human rights groups nor relatives of
the prisoners have been able to track the whereabouts of most of the group, he
said, a situation that has deeply alarmed the prisoners remaining in American
jails.

'Never Heard From Again'

"For the most part, once these people are handed over to Cuban authorities at
Havana Airport, they are never heard from again," Mr. Penalver said.

The uprising began at about 10 A.M. on Wednesday, Aug. 20 in Alpha cellblock,
which housed 139 inmates, 121 of them Cuban detainees and 18 Americans.

Prison officials later said that some of the detainees, who were customarily
locked in their cells for 23 hours a day, had apparently gotten out of their
handcuffs while being taken to the showers or the recreation area.

The detainees initially took 11 hostages, all of them prison or immigration
service employees. One prison employee, Ed Turner, was badly beaten, and was
immediately released.

Before prison officials cut off all outside communication from the cellblock,
the detainees had called lawyers and family members to say that they were acting
in an attempt to stop all deportations of Cubans.

The detainees are among the 125,000 Cubans who came to the United States in the
1980 boatlift. American officials had determined that 2,746 of them were
undesirable because of crimes they committed in the United States or in Cuba and
could therefore be deported.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some of the prison guards who were released yesterday (CNN);
The scene early yestaerday at the Federal Correctional Institution at Talladega,
Ala., just before it was stormed by a SWAT team to free hostages; members of the
rescue team after they stormed Alpha Complex at the Federal prison in Talladega,
Ala., to release hostages who had been held for ten days. Shoes were left behind
after inmates were searched. (Associated Press)(pg. 9)

Map: "Scene of the Siege" shows a schematic view of the Federal prison at
Talladega, Alabama, indicating Alpha unit, the maximum security building where
F.B.I. team freed hostages. (pg. 9)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              277 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 4, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

In Queens District, Visions of Future Races

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1282 words


While five candidates in District 21 in Queens try to woo voters in the City
Council race, another political campaign is under way in the district. In
Jackson Heights, Corona, Elmhurst and East Elmhurst, Hispanic leaders have begun
courting people like Luis Santos, who cannot vote in this election because they
are not American citizens.

"I want to be from here and from there," Mr. Santos, a 61-year-old janitor who
came to the United States from the Dominican Republic 30 years ago, said
recently.

For those who tried to assure that District 21's boundaries encompassed a
substantial Hispanic majority, the prize is not this election but future ones.
Hispanics make up 55 percent of the 137,931 residents in District 21, which is
often the first stop for many immigrants. Because many of the district's
Hispanic residents are recent immigrants from South American and Caribbean
countries, they make up only a quarter of the registered voters.

So while others were busy trying to get a candidate elected in the primary
election this month, many Hispanic leaders conducted voter registration drives
instead.

Huge Registration Drive

The Hispanic leaders, many of whom have written off a Hispanic victory in this
year's primary, hope to get people like Mr. Santos to become United States
citizens and to persuade those who already are citizens to vote. If successful,
Hispanic leaders say, the effort would give Queens its first Hispanic elected
official ever in 1993, when the full and expanded 51-member Council comes up for
re-election.

"The political leaders in our borough say that Latinos don't count because they
don't vote," said Guillermo Vasquez, a member of the New York City Latino
Districting Commission who also heads one of the groups trying to increase voter
registration in the district. "We want to prove them wrong."

When District 21 was first drawn it included Lefrak City, a huge housing complex
that is predominantly black. The Justice Department rejected that version of the
district, saying it shortchanged Hispanic voters. New lines were drawn that
moved the complex into District 25 and left District 21 with a population that
is 55 percent Hispanic, 16 percent white, 15 percent black and 13 percent Asian.
But like several other districts whose lines have set off fierce political
disputes, District 21 will most likely not elect a member of the ethnic group it
was designed for. In District 21, the winning Council candidate will probably be
a black candidate.

The three Hispanic candidates on the ballot for the primary election are
relative unknowns. And while Hispanics in the area account for more than half
the population, only 24.45 percent are registered voters, compared with 38
percent of whites and 33.48 percent of blacks.

Incumbent and 3 Challengers

The five candidates are: Helen M. Marshall, the 62-year-old assemblywoman who
has represented the 35th Assembly District for nine years and is the Queens
Democratic Party and Liberal Party candidate; Irvine A. Bryer Jr., the
44-year-old pastor of the Corona Congregational Church and a member of the New
York City Board of Correction; Rafael Moreno, 60, an electrical engineer with
Consolidated Edison and a member of Community Board 3; Eric Haroldo Ruano, 42, a
civil engineer with the city's Department of Environmental Protection, and
Victor Hernandez, 44, a real-estate broker in Corona who ran unsuccessfully
against Ms. Marshall once for the assembly seat. Ms. Marshall is also supported
by Mayor David N. Dinkins; Mr. Bryer has been endorsed by the Majority Coalition
for a New New York.

Still, as Hispanics emerged from the redistricting process a stronger majority,
most agree that a real opportunity was created for a Hispanic to eventually win
a Council seat. Congressman Thomas J. Manton, the Queens County Democratic
leader, said the two-year target may be too optimistic. But he added that there
is no doubt that Hispanic voters will play a larger and larger role in New York
City elections at every level.

"By the end of the decade Hispanics are going to have a meteoric rise because
you have a young population in all the boroughs that's going to explode," he
said. "They're going to come into their own."

As the first stop for many immigrants, not only Colombians, Dominicans and other
Hispanics but also Indians, Koreans and Chinese, many issues in District 21 have
more to do with economics than with politics. Merchants complain about the
competition from illegal street vendors. Longtime residents complain of illegal
apartments popping up in single-family homes and car repair shops in residential
garages and backyards. Jobs are scarce for newcomers and long-time residents.

A Slew of Languages

The district includes a disparate collage of signs in various languages in the
business district in Jackson Heights, tree-lined streets and elegant homes in
East Elmhurst and Dominican and Italian neighborhoods in Corona, all flanked on
the northeast by LaGuardia Airport, Shea Stadium and Flushing Meadows-Corona
Park.

Across the street from Ms. Marshall's office on Astoria Boulevard, for example,
a billboard advertises jeans in Spanish.

Much of the impetus for the political activism, and for some of the Hispanic
candidacies, is coming from the 1990 census, which showed that the number of
Hispanics grew by 45 percent in the last 10 years. The redrawing of Council
districts further galvanized Hispanics citywide and brought Hispanic leaders
from neighborhoods and the borough together for the first time.

As they register voters at cultural festivals and mail letters to social clubs
and civic organizations asking permission to address their members, Hispanic
leaders in the district say they have reasons to expect that the community will
fulfill its political potential. They point to the continued growth of the
Hispanic population and the pressure sheer numbers will put on the Democratic
Party to support Hispanic candidacies. There is also the nature of that
population in District 21 -- Colombians, Ecuadorians, Peruvians and others, many
of them small-business owners -- that could be a source of financing for future
candidates.

Focus on Homeland

A change in Colombia's constitution this year is also expected to have a major
effect on District 21. William H. Salgado, a lawyer in Jackson Heights and
president of the Federation of Colombian Organizations, said the new
constitution allows those who become citizens of a foreign country to retain
their Colombian nationality, therefore removing a main argument against United
States citizenship and voter registration among Colombians in New York City. The
metropolitan region's Colombian population is estimated at 450,000.

Many other Hispanics in the district remain focused on the homeland. Mr. Santos
said he does not plan to return to the Dominican Republic and will probably
become an American "one of these days." Mr. Santos recently complained that
political candidates have never bothered to come to his neighborhood to explain
what they can do for it.

"If they let themselves be known I would be more interested," he said. "And if
they were Latinos, I'd be even more interested."

Ms. Marshall, who said she is running for the City Council because of her desire
to use her legislative experience in the city, defended her candidacy in the
overwhelmingly Hispanic district, saying she has represented the area as an
assemblywoman and is best suited to continue representing it.

"How many times have white people represented me?" she asked. "What I try to go
for is the best candidate.

"Eventually," she added, "we'll have Hispanic representation."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Neighborhood Politics: Choosing the Council -- An occasional look at the
races for New York's new City Council

GRAPHIC: Photos: Helen M. Marshall; Rev. Irvine A. Bryer Jr.; Rafael Moreno (pg.
B4)

Graph: "The City Council Races 21st District" shows percentage of each race who
are of voting-age and who are registered to vote (Source: City Districting
Commission) (pg. B4)

Chart: "The City Council Races 21st District"

The Candidates

Helen M. Marshall: (D, L) 62, State assemblywoman. Member of the Democratic
National Committee, the Council of Black Elected Democrats of New York State,
the New York State Assembly Puerto Rican/Hispanic Task Force and the East
Elmhurst/Corona Civic Association.

Rev. Irvine A. Bryer Jr.: 44, Pastor of the Corona Congregational Church. Member
of the New York City Board of Correction, the East Elmhurst/Corona Civic
Association and of the Corona-Flushing Meadow Park Corporation.

Rafael Moreno: 60, electrical engineer with Consolidated Edison. Member of
Community Board 3 and president of the 93d Street Block Association.

Eric Haroldo Ruano: 42, civil engineer with the city's Department of
Environmental Protection. Member of the Hispanic Queens Parade. Director of the
Lions Club of Woodside's 5-mile marathon for charity.

Victor Hernandez: 44, real estate broker, President of the Corona Community
Civic Association.

Finger in the Wind

Helen M. Marshall, who has represented the area included in District 21 as an
assemblywoman for nine years, is generally seen as the front-runner because of
name recognition. She is the Queens Democratic Party's candidate and has been
endorsed by Mayor Dinkins. (pg. B4)

Map of Queens highlighting the 21st District (pg. B4)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              278 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 5, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

BAKER ASKS DELAY ON ISRAEL AID BID;
Israel Plans Big Deficit

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 484 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Sept. 4


With Israel poised to ask the United States for $10 billion in loan guarantees
to help absorb new Soviet immigrants, the Government approved a budget proposal
today that some political commentators here warned could undercut Israel's case
in Washington.

The proposed budget for 1992 includes a projected deficit that is higher than
the Finance Ministry had wanted and that critics say may fuel American concerns
about Israel's economy.

In addition, the Government suddenly reduced, from 250,000 to 200,000, the
figure it is using for the number of Soviet Jews that it expects to arrive here
next year.

The shift appeared to be largely a budgetary maneuver. With events moving as
rapidly as they are in the Soviet Union, Israeli officials acknowledge that they
have no way of predicting precisely how many immigrants to expect in coming
months.

Nevertheless, some commentators asserted that the lower forecast could leave
Israel vulnerable to arguments that it needs less American aid.

The newspaper Haaretz said today that the proposed budget "will cast doubts over
Israel's ability to pay back its debts, and raise fears that the repayment will
fall upon the American taxpayer."

The loan guarantees have been developing into a contentious issue. A report on
the Israeli state television Tuesday said President Bush had promised
unidentified Arab leaders that there would be no loan guarantees unless Israeli
halted its settlement activity in the occupied territories. But some Israeli
officials challenged the report's reliability, saying that they knew of no such
linkage and that if it were made they would reject it.

Israel calls the requested guarantees a form of humanitarian aid, to be spread
over five years and intended to help provide housing, schools, roads, hospitals
and jobs for up to a million Soviet Jews expected to come here by 1994. More
than 300,000 have arrived in the last two years.

The aid does not involve actual American loans of $10 billion. Rather, it means
that the United States would serve as ultimate guarantor should the Israelis
fail to pay back money they expect to borrow from commercial banks. With
Washington's backing, Israel would be able to get more favorable interest rates
and terms than it could on its own credit rating.

But under American law, the Administration must set aside a reserve in case of
possible default. This would involve an outlay of cash -- possibly hundreds of
millions of dollars in addition to the $3 billion in yearly economic and
military aid that Israel now gets -- and it could become a political issue in
the United States.

Washington has sought to connect the guarantees to Israeli commitments to
reshape an economy considered overly dependent on centralized planning,
stumbling along with 20 percent inflation and high unemployment that some
forecasters say could climb to 14 percent in two or three years.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              279 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 11, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Senators Rebuff Bush on Israeli Loan Guarantees

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 696 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 10


President Bush met with Senate supporters of Israel today and appealed to them
to back his request for a four-month delay in Congressional consideration of the
Israeli request for $10 billion in loan guarantees to help settle Soviet Jews.

But in return, all they promised him was a two-week delay "to avoid
confrontation if possible," as Senator Bob Kasten, Republican of Wisconsin, put
it. "Compromise on this situation is possible," he said.

Democratic Congressional leaders, who were generally noncommittal today, plan to
discuss the issue at a breakfast meeting on Tuesday. "We will review the matter
and respond," said Senator George J. Mitchell, the majority leader.

The Risk as Bush Sees It

Mr. Bush, in a letter to the Congressional leaders, argued that action on the
loan guarantees would threaten the prospects for a Middle East peace conference.
"If Congress chooses to press forward now," he wrote, "we stand a very real
chance of losing the participation of either our Arab or Israeli negotiating
partners."

He said that when Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d meets with Israeli and
Arab leaders next week, he would reiterate the "unequivocal U.S. support for
Soviet Jewish immigration and absorption in Israel."

Mr. Bush added: "I want him also to be in a position to report to them that, in
the interests of advancing the cause of peace in the Middle East, the
Administration and the Congress -- with the support of the bipartisan leadership
of both houses -- have agreed to defer consideration of Israeli absorption
assistance until January."

During the White House meeting, at which Mr. Kasten was joined by Senators
Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, and Daniel K. Inouye, Democrat of Hawaii,
the Administration also promised not to seek any further delay after January.

Reimbursement Pledged

It also promised that if delay of the loan guarantees cost Israel money, "the
Administration will agree that such cost be offset in the ultimate package," as
an account of Administration promises prepared during the session and given to
reporters by Mr. Inouye put it.

Mr. Kasten said Mr. Bush was joined in the meeting by Brent Scowcroft, his
national security adviser; Lawrence S. Eagleburger, the Deputy Secretary of
State, and John H. Sununu, the White House chief of staff.

The promise of a two-week delay was not a major concession by Congress. The
Senate Appropriations subcommittee on foreign operations, which Mr. Leahy heads,
would be unlikely to act sooner than that because Mr. Leahy is busy with
Judiciary Committee hearings on the nomination of Judge Clarence Thomas for the
Supreme Court.

And Senator Mitchell said today the aid bill had been never been scheduled for
floor action before the end of September.

Mr. Leahy supported the President's call for a delay last week. He was supported
today by his counterpart on the House Appropriations subcommittee on foreign
operations, Representative David R. Obey, Democrat of Wisconsin.

Chance That Shouldn't Be Lost

Mr. Obey, calling Mr. Bush's request "perfectly reasonable," said a Mideast
peace conference was the "last and best" chance for progress that the United
States was likely to see for many years. "It is essential," he said, "that the
Administration and Congress act together in order to maximize the Amwerican
influence for peace."

Senator Bob Dole, the Republican leader, said, "The President would have my
support."

The issue was discussed this afternoon at lunchtime caucuses of both parties in
the Senate, as the lawmakers returned from their summer vacations. Both Mr. Dole
and Mr. Mitchell said there were different views expressed in those meetings.

The House Speaker, Representative Thomas S. Foley, is to meet Wednesday
afternoon with supporters of Israel in his chamber.

One Senate supporter, Senator Harris Wofford, Democrat of Pennsylvania, issued a
statement criticizing Mr. Bush for seeking to delay help to Israel.

"We shouldn't forget who our real friends are," said Mr. Wofford, who is running
in a special election this year. He was appointed to fill the vacancy caused by
the death of Senator John Heinz.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              280 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 17, 1991, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

The President Is Right on Israel

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 558 words


President Bush is wisely standing firm in urging Congress to delay action on
Israel's request for $10 billion in loan guarantees to resettle Soviet Jews. His
request has drawn fierce rhetorical fire from the Israeli Government of Prime
Minister Yitzhak Shamir and its American supporters, and an Israeli Cabinet
minister offensively characterized the President as a liar and an anti-Semite.

But Mr. Bush is serving America's best interests, and Israel's too, by making a
successful peace conference his top Middle East priority.

Soviet Jews are not really the issue here. The U.S. and Western Europe, which
pressed long and hard for the right of these Jews to emigrate, recognize an
obligation to help Israel absorb them. The four-month delay Mr. Bush seeks would
not jeopardize continued immigration. Its only direct consequence would be
higher borrowing cost, and the Administration has hinted it might compensate for
that with additional aid.

The showdown is really about the Shamir Government's policy of rapidly and
provocatively expanding Jewish settlement in the occupied West Bank, Gaza Strip
and Golan Heights. This policy directly compromises both the atmosphere of the
conference and the geographic possibilities for trading land for peace.

A succession of U.S. Administrations has opposed Israeli settlements in the
occupied territories. And a succession of Israeli Governments has built them
anyway. But Mr. Shamir's present Government, the most right-wing in Israeli
history, has been particularly zealous on the settlements issue. The Bush
Administration believes that Israel violated, at least in spirit, past pledges
not to use U.S. loan guarantees to finance settlements. And almost every time
Secretary of State James Baker travels to Israel, he has been greeted by a new
crop of settlers.

Construction plans already approved by Israel's hard-line Housing Minister,
Ariel Sharon, would double the Jewish population of the occupied territories
within a year. At that rate, questions like land for peace or Palestinian
autonomy could become moot even before a peace conference is concluded.

The conference, if it proceeds, will be a historic achievement. Thanks to Mr.
Bush, Mr. Baker and American success in Desert Storm, Israel has a chance to
achieve what it has sought since its creation: direct talks with Arab neighbors
on recognition and peace. Israel now has to recognize the need to negotiate with
representative Palestinians.

America's enhanced stature throughout the region, a product of Desert Storm,
will be tested repeatedly at the peace conference. The U.S. will need to lean on
Arabs and Israelis alike to reach compromises. Further Israeli settlements would
prejudice the possibility of such compromises. Financing them with U.S. dollars
would prejudice America's peacemaking role.

Understandably, Israel would like to pre-empt any U.S. pressure by locking up a
commitment to five years of loan guarantees before the conference begins.
Wisely, Mr. Bush would rather have Israel enter the conference knowing that its
posture could affect the Congressional vote.

Using U.S. financial leverage to nudge along a promising peace process amounts
neither to duplicity nor anti-Semitism. The President deserves credit, not
abuse, for spending his political capital in the cause of Mideast peace.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              281 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 18, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Old Film Mirrors New Immigrant Life

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 841 words


The huddled mass of 300 students who saw the silent film classic, "The
Immigrant," may not have understood English, but they understood Charlie Chaplin
and they recognized the anguish of arriving without money and friends in a
strange country.

In a museum auditorium on Monday, students from Liberty High School in lower
Manhattan, the Board of Education's cadet school for immigrants, laughed at
situations like those that had hurt them or made them feel ashamed: the
confusion of not understanding what people were saying, the impotence of not
being able to afford the pleasures most Americans take for granted.

Their teachers hoped that, in their halting English and excessive politeness,
these greenhorns from the Dominican Republic, China, Poland and the Soviet Union
would begin talking with each other about how they were handling the mixed
blessings of immigration.

The program, the brainchild of the American Museum of the Moving Image in
Astoria, Queens, is among the many approaches the school system is trying as it
seeks to cope with the largest wave of immigrants in decades. Over the last
three years, 95,000 newcomers have raised the system's enrollment to nearly one
million, with one of 10 of the city's 264,000 high school students studying
English as a second language.

Swaying Boats and Steady Jets

"We decided that the best thing to do was to show them a silent film," said
Rochelle Slovin, the museum's director. "You get the sense of what immigrants
felt watching this film in 1917."

Richard Koszarski, the museum's senior film curator, told the students that the
silent cinema is "an international language." There may be little reliance on
words, but silent films exploit "pantomine rooted in cultures around the world."
The museum will show four other films and an episode of "I Love Lucy" as part of
its effort to acquaint high school students with American culture.

The 26-minute Chaplin film, made in 1917, a few years after Chaplin arrived from
England, draws a comic contrast between the promise and the pain of immigration.
The baggy trousered Tramp journeys to America on an endlessly swaying boat where
seasick peasants sprawl across each other on the deck and a bowl of slop slides
back and forth across a table to be shared by ravenous diners. Chaplin's
signature shuffle serves as a counterpoint to the boat's rocking.

The boat's passengers stare with longing and wonder at the Statue of Liberty
only to find themselves herded behind a thick rope for a rough and humiliating
processing by immigration officials. Once on land, Chaplin has to outsmart a
menacing waiter so he can find enough money to pay for the bowl of beans he and
his newfound love have eaten.

'Must Speak English'

Many Liberty High School students, after seeing the film, told of the
disenchantment they also experienced in America. They came on steady jet planes
rather than rocking boats. But like the immigrants of the early part of the
century they learned quickly that America's streets were paved with something
less glittering than gold.

"I came to the United States I found everything different," said Odalise Santos,
a slender 15-year-old from the Dominican Republic with a long pigtail. "They
told me, 'Oh, the life in the United States is so easy,' and I didn't think so.
They think you get money when you want, jobs when you want it. It's not like
that."

Robert Cornelio, an 18-year-old Dominican whose father works in a pocketbook
factory in New Jersey, said: "My father was looking for a job. They told him you
must speak English."

When Jolanda Jasinska, a wispy 17-year-old from Poland, watched Chaplin scrounge
for a meal while others dined in comfort around him, she was reminded of her
astonishment the first time she watched Americans shop.

"They are buying whatever they want to buy," she said. "They don't look for
price. They don't look for quality. They are buying it for one time. They are
shopping for fun, I think."

A Balm Against Distress

Living with the disparities between the American fantasy and its sometimes harsh
truths is something to which the students have not yet grown accustomed. Sheng
Jie Qu, a 19-year-old from China, confided how he has had to share a single room
with two brothers in their Queens apartment. "I have no space to learn
something, to do something," he said.

Wai Sai Fong, a 16-year-old from Hong Kong, was not surprised by how isolated
Chaplin felt in his American refuge. For Wai Sai, as for many immigrant
children, a day without school is an especially empty one.

"I came to America with my parents," Wai Sai said. "We don't have any cousins in
America. So when I came home from school I would feel very lonely. Nobody plays
with me."

Liberty High School, the students said, is often a balm against their distress.
Everyone there is an immigrant and everyone is struggling.

And sometimes uncommon connections are made. Jolanda has learned to say "buenos
dias" to her Dominican friends and Robert has learned a few words in Chinese.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC:  The American Museum of the Moving Image, in an effort to introduce
immigrant students in New York City high schools to American culture, is
planning to show them six films or television shows, including Charlie Chaplin's
1917 film "The Immigrant." The other films and programs are:
Chart: "The Golden Door Through the Silver Screen"

Moscow on the Hudson: Paul Mazursky's comedy about a Soviet immigrant in New
York that is also an introduction to the challenges newcomers are likely to
encounter here.

Mr. Smith Goes to Washington: The Frank Capra classic in which an innocent Jimmy
Stewart tackles the treacherous halls of Congress. Though it is a fantasy, it
suggests how much one person can accomplish in a democratic system.

Twelve Angry Men: A portrayal of the jury system at work, a process about which
many foreign-born students may have little understanding.

West Side Story: The musical about clashing ethnic gangs that suggests the
problems of surviving in a multicultural city.

I Love Lucy: An episode of the television series where Lucy and Ethel get jobs
and Ricky and Fred stay home to do housework. The museum's idea is to show
students what sex roles were like in America of the 1950's and have them realize
how much life has changed.

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              282 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 18, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. TIES ISRAELI AID REQUEST TO FREEZE ON SETTLEMENTS AFTER TALKS END IN
IMPASSE

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1883 words

DATELINE: CAIRO, Sept. 17


Israel and the United States failed today to reach a compromise on the explosive
loan guarantee issue. Within hours after the talks ended the Bush Administration
signaled that it would refuse to provide the requested help unless Israel agreed
to a freeze on future settlements in the occupied territories.

After Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d finished his second day of meetings
in Jerusalem with Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, reporters on Mr. Baker's flight
to Cairo were summoned for an unusually blunt briefing. They were told
explicitly for the first time what has been implicit in the Administration's
position all along: that it will not give the Israelis the $10 billion five-year
loan guarantee for housing for Soviet immigrants without an Israeli agreement to
halt future settlements in the occupied West Bank, Golan Heights and Gaza strip.

The United States has opposed the settlements on legal and political grounds.
The Bush Administration has joined the issue now because it is being pressed by
Israel and its supporters to come through with a huge loan program to aid Soviet
immigrants. If granted without an agreement on freezing further expansion, the
loan program might lead to large-scale settlements, making it much more
difficult to work out an Arab-Israeli peace accord.

Plans for Soviet Influx

Reporters traveling with Mr. Baker were told that it was his recommendation that
the President go to the American people with a nationwide campaign, including a
possible televised address from the Oval Office, "if that is what it takes,
because it is their tax dollars that would be supporting settlement activity,
which we used to characterize as illegal and which we now moderately
characterize as an obstacle to peace."

The sharp words aboard the plane, coming a week after President Bush's tough
remarks in Washington, seemed calculated to put pressure on Mr. Shamir to agree
to put off Israel's request for the loan guarantees until next January.

The issue of settlements will undoubtedly arise if the loan guarantees are again
sought in January, but by then enough progress may have been made in peace talks
that the issue would not be as acute as it is now, American officials said.

Washington has been urging Israel and its supporters to agree to a four-month
delay in raising the loan-guarantee issue to allow a peace conference to take
place this fall without the contentious issue of settlements.

If the Bush Administration sticks to its position, it would mark the first time
that any American Government has attempted to use its economic leverage over
Israel to get it to halt the building of settlements in the occupied
territories.

Successive American Administrations have opposed settlement building since
Israel, in the aftermath of the June 1967 war, took control of the West Bank of
the Jordan, including the eastern part of Jerusalem from Jordan, the Golan
Heights from Syria, and the Gaza strip from Egypt. But not one has ever gone as
far to explicitly tie economic assistance to a formal freeze.

Israel has made it clear that it needs the loans to build housing and roads in
coming years to care for the huge influx of Soviet Jews. Some 300,000 have
entered in the last few years, and a million more are expected in coming years.

U.S. Money and Settlements

Technically, no American aid to Israel can be used in the occupied lands. But
the Israelis have been accused of using the American aid to free up other funds
for the occupied lands and then asserting that American money was being spent in
Israel proper.

The Bush Administration has now concluded, reporters were told, that the only
way to make sure that no American money ends up building new Jewish settlements
is by insisting on a total freeze on settlements.

That move is bound to generate an explosive debate in the United States between
the Administration and Israel's Congressional backers. And that, reporters were
told, is precisely why the Bush Administration wants to delay the Israeli loan
requests until after the start of a proposed peace conference in October.

Since either Israel will be upset or the Arabs will be upset with the outcome of
the coming debate, the Administration wants it to take place after the Arabs and
Israelis have been enticed to the peace conference and will have much more to
lose if they walk out or scuttle it.

Extensive Immigrant Flow

The issue of Jewish settlements and housing projects in lands that have been
predominantly occupied by Arabs is one of the most emotional in Israel, and has
been a thorn in United States-Israeli relations for the last 14 years. With the
rise to power in Israel in 1977 of the conservative Likud party, which has held
that the land taken from Jordan was historically part of Israel, settlement
activity has risen significantly.

There are about 225,000 Jews living in the occupied territories, the State
Department says, including 90,000 in the West Bank; 12,000 in the Golan Heights,
which Israel in effect annexed in 1981; 3,000 in the Gaza strip, and 120,000 in
East Jerusalem, which was annexed by Israel in 1967, and the surrounding suburb.

The United States has taken the position that the Fourth Geneva Convention
signed at the end of World War II bars an occupying power from settling the land
with its citizens. On that basis, the United States has regarded the Israeli
settlements as illegal.

The issue has been complicated by the extensive flow of Soviet immigrants in the
last few years, and the temptation of Israeli officials to open up the West Bank
for settlement even further.

At a news conference last week, Mr. Bush startled supporters of Israel by
sharply criticized Israeli lobbying on the loan-guarantee issue. One reason for
the briefing today appeared to be to try to dispel any notion that there might
be differences between the Secretary of State and the President on how tough to
be with the Israelis.

The Administration's assessment, reporters were told, was that if the United
States were to let the Israelis have the $10 billion loan guarantees without any
prior commitment by Israel to halt new settlements, the Arab countries and
Palestinians would not come to the proposed peace conference -- and that is
something the Bush Administration could understand. The loan guarantees are a
form of insurance to banks and other lending institutions that loans to Israel
will be repaid. That allows Israel to get favorable terms.

Reporters were told that if the United States gave the loan guarantees to Israel
now, without linking them to a settlement halt, Mr. Baker was confident that the
Arabs would not show up.

Paradoxically, no Arab Government has stated that in public. When Egypt's
Foreign Minister, Amr Moussa, was asked today whether Egypt felt that way he
avoided answering explicitly.

The Israelis told Mr. Baker they would agree to the delay provided that the
Administration would promise now that Israel would get the full $10 billion in
loan guarantees in four months without any links to a settlement halt.

When asked for the Administration's reaction to the Israeli offer, reporters
were told "that is just something we are not going to agree to if we only get
one vote" in Congress.

Mr. Baker said he offered the Israelis a six-point compromise proposal of his
own that included an Administration commitment to address the loan-guarantee
issue in principle after the four-month delay, to press its allies to help with
loan guarantees and to compensate Israel for any costs in the delay. But it
explicitly did not include a promise of the full $10 billion in guarantees or a
way to avoid any link to a halt on settlements.

Arab Calls for a Halt

Reporters traveling with Mr. Baker were told that he does not want "to indicate
one inch of flexibility beyond the six points that we have proposed, which are
damn forthcoming and you can use the word damn."

"It is a case frankly of not being able to justify in our own minds or to the
other parties to the peace process an unconditional $10 billion infusion that
does not have any restriction other than the usual boiler plate, which doesn't
have any effect on the question of settlements," he continued.

According to American officials, "every Arab Government" that Mr. Baker spoke
with during his attempts to organize a peace conference over the last seven
months asked him to make a halt on Israeli settlement building in the West Bank
and Gaza strip a precondition for their attending the peace conference.

Mr. Baker was said to have told the Arabs that the question of settlements was a
matter for negotiations between them and Israel. Moreover, he reportedly did not
believe he could get the Israelis to agree to a freeze on settlements in advance
of the talks.

Reporters traveling with Mr. Baker were told the Administration thought that,
having gotten the Arabs to drop their demand for a halt on settlements as a
condition for attending the peace talks, it could not now suddenly turn around
and give Israel the guarantees without insuring first that the money would not
go into new settlements.

It is precisely because there has to be a debate on the terms of the loan
guarantees -- a debate that is bound to alienate either Israel or the Arabs and
lead one of the parties not to attend the peace conference -- that Mr. Bush
wants the issue postponed until the conference is under way.

American officials said that Mr. Baker still had not received a Palestinian
commitment to attend the peace conference or to send representatives who would
be acceptable to Israel. The Israelis insist that they not be from East
Jerusalem, that they not have any ties to the P.L.O. and that they be only from
the West Bank and Gaza Strip, not from the Palestinian diaspora.

American officials are hoping some decision from the Palestinians will emerge
from the Palestine National Council meeting in Algiers, the P.L.O.'s parliament
in exile, which is tentatively scheduled for Sept. 23.

Mr. Baker, in an attempt to win more support in the United States for the
Administration's position, disclosed the elements of the Administration's
six-point compromise proposal, which has been circulating on Capitol Hill for
more than a week.

He said, "If the Government of Israel would agree to the 120-day delay we are
seeking in order that the issue not be the subject of a big divisive debate,
with attendant adverse consequences for the peace process, the Administration
would agree as follows."

"First that we would work with the supporters of absorption assistance in the
Congress in January to find a suitable legislative vehicle."

He continued, "We would agree that we would not ask for a further delay come
January. Third, we would be willing to restate our support for the principle of
absorption aid."

Fourth, he said, the Administration would try to limit the amount of money that
it has to set aside by law in case the Israelis do not repay any of the loans.

Fifth, the United States would compensate Israel for any "out of pocket"
expenses that it would incur by delaying its loan requests for 120 days.

Sixth, said Mr. Baker, the United States would press its allies to help Israel
with similar housing-loan guarantees of their own.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d talking with Prime Minister
Yitzhak Shamir, left, at news conference yesterday in Jerusalem. (Associated
Press) (pg. A6)

Chart/Map: "Jews in the Occupied Territories"

State Department estimates of numbers of Jewish residents in territories
captured by Israel in the June 1987 war.

Golan Heights: Part of Syria before 1967 war; effectively annexed by Israel in
1981. 12,000 Jews

West Bank: Part of Jordan before 1967 war; annexed by Israel in 1967; Israel
claims the unified city of Jerusalem as its capital. 12,000 Jews.

Gaza Strip: Administered by Egypt before 1967 war. 3,000 Jews (pg. A6)

Map of Israel highlighting location of West Bank. (pg. A6)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              283 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 18, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Israel Says It's Ready to Placate Bush, but First It Wants Assurances

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 944 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Sept. 17


Israeli officials said today that they were ready to end their worsening battle
with the Bush Administration by giving up their campaign for swift approval of
American loan guarantees.

But they insisted that before they yield to President Bush's demand for a
four-month delay on Congressional debate over the loan guarantees, they must get
assurances that they will definitely receive the assistance early next year.

It must be the full $10 billion in guarantees that they have been seeking, they
said, and it also must not be tied to any issue that they consider political,
like requiring a promise from them to freeze the building of new Jewish
settlements in the occupied West Bank and the Gaza Strip.

Still at Loggerheads


"We can accept the postponement of 120 days," a senior official said. "But we
must know where we're going after that."

Despite this degree of conciliation, the Israelis still seemed to be caught on a
collision course with the White House over the guarantees, which would be used
to borrow money at favorable interest rates from commercial banks to help
resettle hundreds of thousands of Soviet Jewish immigrants.

After Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d left for Egypt today at the close of
two days of talks with Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, a senior official in the
Baker party made it clear that the United States was not about to agree, even
four months from now, to an aid package that was unconditional. The strong
implication was that conditions would probably include a demand for a halt in
Israeli settlement activity.

And that, officials here insisted after Mr. Baker's departure, was something
they could not accept, for it would leave them with a sword dangling over them.
A six-point compromise plan put forth by the Secretary of State was not new,
they added, and it was in any event unacceptable because it did not contain the
assurances they wanted.

"It's just a different dress for an old lady," one official said.

It was difficult to gauge Israel's assessment of the Baker visit fully because
Government offices, like everything else in this country, started shutting down
for Yom Kippur, the most solemn day in the Jewish year, just as the Secretary's
plane took off for Cairo.

Even so, the Israelis said that the James Baker they met with seemed far
different from the tough-talking senior official on the Secretary's plane to
Egypt, who warned of an even bitterer fight if Israel pressed ahead on the loan
guarantees and who refused to give "one inch of flexibility" on the
Israeli-proposed compromise plan.

Every official interviewed here said that the mood had been conciliatory and
that the two sides -- adversaries on this issue but old allies just the same --
seemed capable of stepping back from the brink of all-out conflict.

"There was a major effort on both sides to prevent any atmosphere for
confrontation," a senior official said. Another said the atmosphere was good and
added, referring to Mr. Baker: "He's a charmer. Even on things that could become
acrimonious, he knows how to do it in a way that is gentle."

Other Points of Discussion

Beyond the matter of loan guarantees, the Israelis said they were satisfied with
some, though not all, of the American assurances they received on arrangements
for a Middle East peace conference that the United States would like to convene
next month. Hope for meeting that timetable is fading, many here believe.

Mr. Baker also met Monday night, and his aides did so again today, with
Palestinian leaders from the West Bank and the Gaza Strip to work out assurances
that the Palestinians wanted before agreeing to attend talks. The Palestinians
are not expected to say what they will do until after the Palestine National
Council, a parliament in exile, meets next week in Algiers.

None of the three Palestinian representatives who met the Americans would
discuss the substance of the conversations, but there were signals that they
might soften their stand on which Palestinians could go to the talks.

They have insisted that Palestinians must have the right to choose their own
delegation, but Israel demands an ultimate veto. It says it will not sit at the
table with any representative of the Palestine Liberation Organization, which it
calls a terrorist group, or with anyone outside the occupied territories, or
with anyone from East Jerusalem. In the Israelis' view, this last would imply
that their incorporation of East Jerusalem in 1967 was negotiable.

Leaving Room to Save Face

Both sides, officials suggested, seem headed to a possible compromise in which
the Palestinians would choose delegates acceptable to Israel while asserting the
right to a final say. From what Mr. Baker reported, a top Israeli official said,
"Some of what he's been telling the Palestinians all along is starting to sink
in."

A Palestinian journalist familiar with the Baker talks said that interest now is
focused on other matters. They include assurances, sought by the Palestinians
and received, that Washington considers East Jerusalem to be part of the
occupied territories and not legitimately annexed by Israel.

For their part, the Israelis got what they had wanted on several important
points, including assurances that the Palestinian delegation must be to their
liking. But several officials said, they did not get a pledge that the United
States, too, would leave the peace talks if the Palestinian delegates, for
example, declared themselves to be P.L.O. representatives.

If the Americans stay on at the talks while Israel walks out, an Israeli
official said, it would leave this country isolated.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              284 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 19, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Loan Dispute Perplexes Israel's Soviet Emigres

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 993 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Sept. 18


Many Soviet Jewish immigrants say they are perplexed and hurt at finding
themselves suddenly at the center of American plans to convene a Middle East
peace conference.

Most Soviet newcomers feel that their integration into Israeli society and the
peace talks are completely different matters that should not be linked.

"Many Soviet immigrants can't understand President Bush's position," said Yosef
Mendelevich, a former dissident who was released from a Soviet prison 10 years
ago and today heads a school where immigrants learn Hebrew.

In one of the most bitter disputes ever between an Israeli Government and an
American Administration, Israel has requested that the United States approve $10
billion in loan guarantees to help resettle more than one million Soviet Jews
expected here by 1994. Israel has already absorbed more than 300,000 in the last
two years.

But President Bush strongly objects to an immediate consideration of the Israeli
request because of a possibly detrimental effect on the peace process. He has
asked Congress to postpone its debate on the guarantees for 120 days.

More Postponements Feared

"We have only one friend, America," Mr. Mendelevich said. "If it's postponed for
120 days, then it'll be postponed again and again. It means posponing it
forever."

In addition, he said, he is afraid that many Soviet Jews will decide to delay
their immigration because of absorption hardships here and may get caught in a
wave of anti-Semitism amid ethnic unrest in the dismantling of the Soviet Union.

Natan Sharansky, who heads the Soviet Jewry Zionist Forum and is perhaps the
most famous dissident, said it was neither appropriate nor effective to link the
peace process with the need for humanitarian aid to help absorb the new
immigrants.

Ida Nudel, 60, another longtime dissident, said the conflict over the loan
guarantees was only on the surface. Miss Nudel, who now lives in a small rural
community called Carmei Yosef, halfway between Jerusalem and Tel Aviv, said the
postponement "is really a pretext for a clash over the occupied territories."

President Bush is concerned that Israel plans to continue building settlements
in the territories.

Many Share Apartments

Of the 10,000 or so Soviet immigrants who are arriving monthly, few can afford
to rent an apartment by themselves because of the housing shortage. Instead,
they either share an apartment with other families or are going to impromptu
absorption centers in hotels, army bases and mobile-home camps.

In fact, the Finance Ministry now assumes that several Soviet families will rent
apartments or even purchase new homes together, and has cut annual Government
subsidies accordingly. It is not unusual for three or more Soviet Jewish
families to live together in the initial stages of their absorption.

At the Migdal Hair office building in Jerusalem, about 150 Soviet Jewish
immigrants are housed in rooms on the top three floors of a former hotel. The
voices of playing children echo in the narrow corridors, which are thick with
the smell of cooking and medication. The kitchen and bathrooms are communal.

"Here I am, for 11 months I have had to live in a hotel with a roommate -- is
this right for a person in old age?" said Leonid Kuperstein, 66, a former
electrical engineer who shares a room with another retiree.

"My opinion is that we have to persevere so that Congress will decide in our
favor," he said, nodding his head and growing more convinced of his own words.
"Yes, you can see the situation for yourself. We need the money."

'Only Pennies Get to Us'

But not everyone agrees with him. Edward Sulemanov, 33, of Tashkent sat across
from him and said with equal conviction that Mr. Bush was doing the right thing.

"Mr. Bush shouldn't give us a penny," said Mr. Sulemanov, who was a bus driver
but works here in a shoe factory. "America gives us all this money to help, but
it doesn't get to us. Only pennies get to us."

Others, more reticent, refused to give their opinion because, they said, they
still hardly spoke the native language and did not have a true understanding of
what was going on here. All of the newcomers in the hotel spoke in Russian,
which was translated into English.

The latest unemployment rates showed that 178,000 people, or 10.8 percent of the
work force, were out of work. Among the new immigrants, the unemployment rate is
running at 40 percent while many of those who have found jobs are not working in
their professions.

"I expected it would be difficult and it's true," said Fima Rutitsky, 55, who
immigrated with his wife, Rita, and 24-year-old daughter, Masha, a pianist. All
now are sharing a cramped room that they have decorated with maps of Israel in
Russian and watercolors by Mr. Rutitsky's brother.

"But I'm happy to put in long hours," said Mr. Rutitsky, a carpenter by
profession who has found work as a shoemaker. "Many just can't find a job. It's
a bad situation -- especially if you're over 50."

'A No-Win Situation'

Ian Furman, 31, a medical student who came here in an earlier wave of Soviet
immigration, said the Government was creating a situation in which many would
have to move to the occupied territories because of the high housing prices in
Israel.

"The Government's not investing anything within Israel," he said. "But in the
territories, they're building villas and roads in the middle of the desert.
Whatever money America gives will go there."

Indeed, a few months ago, the Rutitsky family turned down an offer to move to a
new settlement because of its remoteness from work and major population centers.
So far, fewer than one percent of all Soviet immigrants have chosen to live in
the territories.

"I don't think Israel should be settling people in the territories," said Masha
Rutitsky, petting a red-striped cat named Gingi. "But we might have to go there
because it's cheaper. It's a no-win situation."

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Soviet Jewish immigrants are perplexed and dismayed to find
themselves in the center of a dispute bewtween Israel and the United States.
Yusseff and Soya Pinhasow, who arrived in Jerusalem earlier this year, broke the
Yom Kippur fast yesterday at their temporary living quarters. (Associated Press
for The New York Times)

Graph: "Settlers in the West Bank" shows population estimates for the
Israeli-occupied West Bank from '72 to '91 (Sources: State of Israel Central
Bureau of State Statistics and Economic Research; Foundation for Middle East
Peace; State Department)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              285 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 25, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Where to File for Residency Permit

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 172 words


There is no application form for the new legal residency permit. A letter of
application should be sent to: AA-1 Program, P.O. Box 60000, Arlington, Va.
22218-0001, U.S.A.

The region of which the applicant is a native must appear on the upper left hand
corner of the envelope. Example: Italy.

The application should include the applicant's full name, date and place of
birth, and the name, date and place of birth of the applicant's spouse and
children, if any, as well as the applicant's mailing address and the United
States Consular Office to which a visa registration should be sent.

Those eligible to apply must have come from the following: Albania, Algeria,
Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Bermuda, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland,
France, Germany, Gibraltar, Britain and Northern Ireland, Guadeloupe, Hungary,
Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Monaco, New Caledonia, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, San Marino,
Sweden, Switzerland and Tunisia.


LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              286 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 27, 1991, Friday, Late Edition - Final

5 Held in Brooklyn Asbestos Removal Scheme

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 610 words


Polish immigrants, many of them here illegally, have been buying counterfeit
asbestos removal licenses and using them to get jobs removing the hazardous
material at businesses and residences without proper training, city
investigators said yesterday.

Joined by F.B.I. agents and immigration officials, city investigators arrested
five workers at four private employment agencies in Brooklyn yesterday on
charges of forging and selling the licenses.

The investigators do not know how many fraudulent licenses were sold but believe
the figure could be in the hundreds, said Peter Benjaminson, a spokesman for the
Department of Investigation. The City Department of Environmental Protection,
which issues legitimate asbestos-removal licenses, said it would now try to
track down the holders of fraudulent licenses and figure out which buildings
they had worked on.

The untrained asbestos workers posed a threat both to themselves and, if their
work was shoddy, to others, authorities said.

"We are going to find out who has these licenses and stop them from doing any
work," said Sanford Evans, assistant commissioner for public affairs for the
Department of Environmental Protection. "They're creating a danger for
themselves as well as not being trained to handle this substance. There is the
possibility of a serious public work hazard."

Those arrested yesterday all worked at employment agencies in the Greenpoint
section of Brooklyn, which is home to many Polish immigrants.

City investigators discovered that workers at those agencies were selling $380
"three packs" of forged city, state and Federal asbestos removal licenses.
Investigators also found forged Social Security cards that were also being sold.

To obtain legitimate asbestos removal licenses, workers must complete a two-week
course and pass a city examination. The licensing program, which began in 1987,
costs $230 per license.

Arrested in yesterday's raids were Andrzej Radowski of the York Agency; Anne
Sumiac of the Hudson Asbestos Training Institute; Mark Kolakowski of the Derby
II Agency, and Robert Paskucki and Andrew Makowski of A & R Exports. Calls to
the suspects' homes and businesses went unanswered.

The suspects have been charged with selling forged government documents, a
Federal felony which provides for maximum penalties of three to five years'
imprisonment and fines of $250,000.

The nine-month investigation began when inspectors for the Department of
Environmental Protection noticed during routine checks at job sites that the
license number on documents proffered by some workers did not match a master
list. The city's Department of Investigation sent Polish-speaking undercover
agents to the Brooklyn employment agencies, where they easily bought the
fraudulent documents.

Mr. Benjaminson said the agencies often would first sell forged Social Security
cards as a way of helping to screen customers. "They want to make sure they are
dealing with people they have some control over because they are illegals," he
said.

The investigation, which included agents from the Federal Bureau of
Investigation and the Immigration and Naturalization Service, resulted in the
confiscation of equipment used to manufacture the false documents at two of the
agencies.

Mr. Benjaminson said his agency's investigation did not include tracking down
the holders of the forged licenses.

"The investigation has been focusing on the people selling the documents rather
than the workers," he said. "That's the source of the more important corruption.
We haven't been tracing the workers to the extent that they are almost as much
victims as the public."


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              287 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 6, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

STRANGERS AT THE GATE

SECTION: Section 6; Page 8; Column 3; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 200 words


Miller aptly describes the challenge that mass immigration pre-sents to the
economies of Western Europe, but the tone of the article is that those who would
seek to prevent these movements are somehow racists or reactionaries. Such is
not the case. Control of immigration is essential to the definition of what
constitutes a sovereign nation-state.

The ultimate answers to the reduction of human suffering in the "failed
economies" of Eastern Europe as well as those of most of the Middle East and
North Africa must rest with changes in the economic, social and political
policies of the nations themselves. Western Europe and the United States, too,
can do much to mitigate some of the hardships through the provision of technical
and economic assistance, trade concessions and family-planning information. Such
aid, however, should be directly linked to international standards of human
rights and to a direct diminishment in military expenditures by recipient
nations.

Mass immigration will only add greatly to the existing problems of the receiving
nations, and it does little to rectify the basic causal factors in the sending
nations.

VERNON M. BRIGGS, JR.
Ithaca, N.Y.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              288 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 6, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

STRANGERS AT THE GATE

SECTION: Section 6; Page 8; Column 3; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 103 words


The clamor of immigrants at the various borders of Western Europe reminds me of
the mobs at Louis XVI's gates ("Strangers at the Gate," by Judith Miller, Sept.
15). These people have come to get a piece of the incredible wealth their
exploitation has helped build. Europe has to face the fact that its gleaming
citadels were raised with more than just some sort of innate superiority. It has
only to look to its 500 years of imperialism to see the roots of its present
problem. The main chunks of the immigrant population in most of these countries
are from former colonies.

SHADI SHEYBANI
New York, N.Y.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              289 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 8, 1991, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Shamir Again Criticizes U.S. on Loan Guarantees

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 546 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Oct. 7


Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir today delivered one of his more blistering attacks
on the United States' postponement of loan guarantees for resettling Soviet
immigrants here, saying the action struck at "the deepest foundations of Jewish
and Zionist existence."

Mr. Shamir and his aides have vacillated repeatedly in their public remarks on
the aid battle, swinging back and forth between anger and resignation, with an
occasional pause to worry about the direction of Israel's relations with
Washington.

But an underlying theme has been a consistent berating of the Bush
Administration for having joined two issues: what this Government considers a
humanitarian matter, help for Soviet Jewish emigres, and something that it
considers purely political, President Bush's demand that the assistance take a
back seat to Middle East peace talks he hopes to convene this month.

Opening a session of Parliament today, Mr. Shamir took an outraged stand.

He hardly went so far as one of his Cabinet ministers on the far right who
accused Mr. Bush a few weeks ago of being an anti-Semite. Nonetheless, the Prime
Minister raised Jewish consciousness as an integral component of the dispute,
and he accused Mr. Bush of trampling it.

"The pain and disappointment are especially great because the American
Administration chose to take a step that damages the deepest foundations of
Jewish and Zionist existence," he said.

He praised Mr. Bush for having worked in the past, as Vice President, to win
emigration rights for Soviet and Ethiopian Jews. But this time, he said, the
Administration has neglected to recognize the decades of Arab opposition to
Jewish immigration here.

"I want to believe that if the American leaders had known the extent of our
sensitivity on this subject," he said, they "would have thought twice before
taking the path they chose."

His Government's anti-Administration fire has been stoked anew in the last few
days by reports from Washington challenging Israel's commitment to free-market
changes needed to reshape a lumbering, centrally guided economy. The absence of
such adjustments, according to credit analysts for the United States
Export-Import Bank, raised doubts about this country's ability to repay the
billions it intends to borrow to help Soviet immigrants.

Their analysis was handed to the Administration in July, and senior Government
officials here assert that it was leaked to the press now to undermine Israel's
fiscal credibility.

But Mr. Shamir's domestic critics accuse him of having brought problems upon
himself by, in their view, neglecting economic and social needs, especially for
new immigrants.

The research department of the Bank of Israel issued a report today asserting
that the Government lacked a consistent overall policy for absorbing immigrants
and for lowering the 11 percent unemployment rate.

Shimon Peres, head of the opposition Labor Party, signaled a likely campaign
theme for the national elections expected next year when he criticized Mr.
Shamir in Parliament for what he called his single-minded pursuit of new Jewish
settlements in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip.

"That's the only thing that shows some sign of policy," Mr. Peres said. "And
where is it leading us to?"

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              290 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 10, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Between Worlds: New York's Bangladeshis

BYLINE: By DONATELLA LORCH

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1154 words


When Maksouda Bhuiyan, an announcer on a Bangladeshi cable television program in
New York City, answered a knock at her front door recently, a Bangladeshi man,
his wife and their 5-month-old child were standing outside. The family, who had
arrived in the United States only hours earlier on a flight from Bangladesh,
carried a picture of Mrs. Bhuiyan that they had clipped from a magazine.

The couple, who knew no one in the city when they arrived about three weeks ago,
needed a place to stay. Mrs. Bhuiyan allowed the family to move in with her. She
did not have the heart to refuse them. She continues to feed them, and they live
with the Bangladeshi family next door.

For many Bangladeshi immigrants, that scene has been played out often in New
York City. Newly arrived immigrants who know no one in the United States search
out any Bangladeshi they can find to ask for help, which is often given in the
tradition of their country.

But when one of those newly arrived immigrants was arrested in April in the
slaying of a woman whose family had hired him as a houseboy, Bangladeshis who
had been in New York City for years began to realize the need for better
services and programs to support those immigrants.

"They think they come here and everything is ready for them," said Rehana Hasan,
who owns a pharmacy in Queens, and is a friend of Mrs. Bhuiyan. "The reality
smashes them. It breaks them completely."

Many of the new immigrants have come to New York after winning visas in a
lottery that the State Department began two years ago and that will be closed
this year in an effort to increase the ethnic diversity of those entering the
United States. Most Bangladeshis have settled in Jackson Heights, Astoria and
Corona in Queens and work in restaurants, delicatessens and as taxicab drivers.
Some move to Brooklyn, where many work on construction jobs.

Because the more than 6,500 lottery winners may bring their immediate family
with them, about 20,000 Bangladeshis have come to New York in the last couple of
years, said Sayed Ullah, editor of Probashi, one of the three Bengali-language
newspapers in the city.

But when they arrive after leaving a land cursed by recurrent and massive
natural disasters and beset by extreme poverty and unemployment, they find a
community that is without many job skills or access to job training and
second-language programs and that is plagued by a high unemployment rate, Mr.
Ullah said. Their dreams of economic prosperity quickly dissolve into a
nightmare of economic, social and cultural deprivation, he said.

The result has been a strain on New York's insular Bangladeshi community, whose
50,000 members have been struggling to find links between their native culture
and their new country. The community has eight mosques in addition to the
Bengali-language newspapers.

Frequent Arguments

Bangladeshis point to the life of Abu Ahmed, whose wife was killed by an
immigrant whom the family hired as a house boy and who has hired about 10 of the
immigrants to work in the family's three Manhattan restaurants.

The Ahmeds hired Mohammad Lokman Uddin as the housekeeper at their home in
Little Neck, Queens. Mr. Uddin, a 21-year-old welder from Bangladesh who spoke
no English and could barely read and write in his own language when he arrived
in America less than a year ago, lived with the Ahmeds and was paid $200 for a
six-day week.

But he argued constantly with Noor Ahmed, who was 31 years old, adding to the
strain in a household where the marriage was already troubled, friends and
relatives of Mrs. Ahmed said. The police said that in a fit of rage after
hearing that he would be dismissed by the Ahmeds, Mr. Uddin strangled Mrs. Ahmed
and then dumped her body in her car. The police said he confessed through an
interpreter to the murder.

The slaying has has led many women in the community to question their role as
Bangladeshi women in the United States.

Contrasting Roles

Many of the women work as doctors, dentists, social workers and in other
professions, but signs of independence and assertiveness welcomed at work are
frowned upon in their homes.

The community faced with the realization that a woman's place in the Bangladeshi
community in New York City, while often better than that of women back home, is
ruled by centuries of Muslim and Hindu tradition. Because of that tradition,
Mrs. Ahmed's family and friends say, Mrs. Ahmed felt trapped in a marriage that
she wanted to leave. But to leave meant being ostracized by her family and the
entire community.

Family Influence

"In our society, it is very difficult for a man to see a woman independent,"
said Syeda Khalique, a third-year law student and mother of four who runs three
small businesses, an unusual accomplishment for anyone and especially for a
Bangladeshi woman. "Marriage is a contract, a social duty. In our society if a
woman divorces, the blame is always with the woman. The whole society feels pity
for the man."

Shama Mubdi is a case manager for the New York City Human Resources
Administration who has lived in America for 16 years. "We are here in America,"
he said, but the men "still have the old-country mentality."

And Mrs. Khalique said: "You may work and earn a living, but if you come in
front of men to talk, you are shameless. Aggressiveness means you have no moral
character. It is like a master-servant relationship."

Friends and relatives of Mrs. Ahmed say that Mr. Uddin, who often watched
pornographic movies against her wishes, never respected her and rarely followed
her instructions. Mr. Uddin, for his part, says that Mrs. Ahmed treated him
"like a slave."

"I did not want to come," Mr. Uddin, who was born in Sylhet in northern
Bangladesh, said in an interview at Rikers Island. "Bush gave me the lottery,
and I said, 'Why not make some money.' So I came."

Members of Mrs. Ahmed's family say they are angry with themselves and with Mr.
Ahmed, saying that they could have made her life happier. Mrs. Ahmed's mother,
Suretunessa Laskar, said that her daughter had been deeply unhappy and had
wanted a divorce, but that her family and Mr. Ahmed had forbidden it out of
tradition.

"I told my sister -- you are a woman; he is a man," Sabir Laskar said. "You have
to tolerate him. You can't get divorced because who will marry your daughter?"

Bangladeshi women say such an attitude is prominent in all their lives. Some
women in the community, troubled by their friend's death, have begun to
re-evaluate that view. They have begun to meet and discuss the complexities of
their lives, their role in the Bangladeshi community and their relationships
with their husbands.

But amid their discussions, they think about Mrs. Ahmed.

"I feel so much that her soul is not at rest," Mrs. Khalique said. "She used to
ask me how can you be so free and I would tell her it must come from inside. I
hope she is free now."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: "We are here in America, but the men still have the old-country
mentality," said Shama Mubdi, left, about how women are regarded in the
Bangladeshi immigrant community in New York City. She was joined recently in
Jackson Heights, Queens, by, from right, Syeda Kalique, Shahnaz Khondakar,
Rehana Hasan and Maksouda Bhuiyan. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times); Noor Ahmed,
who the police said was killed by a Bangladeshi hired as a house boy. She is
shown in a family photograph with one of her children. (pg. B1);
Mohammad Lokman Uddin, a Bangladeshi immigrant, is being held on Rikers Island
in the murder of Noor Ahmed. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times) (pg. B10)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              291 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 15, 1991, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

An Old Irish Tale of Leaving Echoes Bittersweetly Today

BYLINE: By JAMES F. CLARITY,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 548 words

DATELINE: DUBLIN, Oct. 14


With more than 100,000 Irish citizens estimated to have mailed their entries for
Washington's immigration lottery that in the next year will provide 16,000 of
them with the green card needed to work legally in the United States, the
subject of departure from Ireland was once again on the minds of those who
wanted to go and those who were staying behind.

As she left Saturday on a 10-day unofficial visit to the United States,
President Mary Robinson touched on the issue, saying emigration was one of her
principal concerns. Mrs. Robinson, whose post is largely ceremonial, noted that
she was from Mayo, in the west of Ireland, where the the famines of the 19th
century were particularly hard and where emigration is a tradition.

"One of the criticisms was that once you left Ireland somehow all links were
cut, and I think that most of all I'll probably be trying to say all links are
not cut," she said of her trip.

While many Irish may consider emigration unavoidable, given an unemployment rate
that recently moved beyond 20 percent, it remains a bittersweet subject. This
was reflected by a sign someone posted last week at the General Post Office on
O'Connell Street here in Dublin, where thousands of last-minute hopefuls,
worried by a two-day postal workers' strike, lined up to mail applications. The
sign said, "Rounds off our history pretty neatly standing on the spot where
Ireland's independence was declared, sending off letters to America to take us
out of here." The reference was to the Easter Uprising in 1916.

In his column in The Sunday Business Post, Damien Kiberd said, "It is difficult
to imagine any other self-respecting Western economy in which the main item on
the news would focus on the possibilities for emigration." He cited a study that
showed unemployment would reach 25 percent by 1993.

Brian Friel, the nation's most prominent playwright, returns constantly to the
subject, from his first major success, "Philadelphia, Here I Come!" to "Dancing
at Lughnasa," which was acclaimed in Dublin and London before it moved to New
York last week.

After several years of relative prosperity, the Irish national economy slid in
the last year, to a degree a reflection of the world recession, and net
emigration has virtually stopped.

In the boom of the late 1980's, about 35,000 emigrants a year left the country
to work abroad, mostly in Britain, Australia and the United States. They sent
back millions to their families and kept unemployment relatively low, but the
rate is still one of the highest in the European Community.

                             --------------------


Millions Apply, U.S. Says

MERRIFIELD, Va., Oct. 14 (AP) -- United States postal officials said today that
two million applications for green cards had been processed so far from
immigrants in a lottery to become one of 40,000 new legal residents.

"We have approximately another four million to five million waiting in the wings
to either be processed or verified," said a Postal Service spokesman, Robert
Faraq. Many immigrants tried to improve their odds by delivering more than 1,000
petitions each over the weekend.

The State Department, in total, is accepting the first 40,000 valid applications
for immigration visas received after 12:01 A.M. today.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              292 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 16, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

In Queens 'Mosaic,' Proof of the Melting Is in the Eating

BYLINE: By DENA KLEIMAN

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1385 words


IT may no longer be fashionable to talk about New York as a melting pot. Mosaic
is the word officials use when they talk about ethnic diversity.

But just go to Queens.

Anyone who has ever had a doubt about the existence of a melting pot (or has
been curious to reach down with a spoon and sample it) need only wander around
the section of Queens known as Elmhurst.

With immigrants from 114 different nations, Elmhurst is the city's most
ethnically diverse neighborhood, according to the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service. "You name it, and they're there," said Frank Vardy, a
demographer for the city's Department of City Planning.

To walk around Elmhurst and visit its Chinese food markets, Indian spice shops,
Korean barbecue restaurants, Argentine butcher shops, Hong Kong bakeries and
Colombian coffeehouses is to be immersed in one of the world's most diverse
culinary cauldrons.

"This is the mixing bowl of America," said Louie Antonio, who operates Singa's
Famous, a pizza restaurant on Broadway, the commercial spine of Elmhurst, a
neighborhood of low apartment buildings and well-kept single-family houses. Mr.
Antonio, who is originally from northern Greece, has discovered that his
thin-crusted, heavily cheesed pan pizza is particularly popular with
neighborhood Indians. The other day, a woman in a sari stood at the counter and
in broken English asked for a slice.

"To stay?" Mr. Antonio asked. Unable to reply, the woman shyly pointed out the
window. Mr. Antonio nodded. "To go," he said.

To walk down Broadway is to witness countless moments like this one, brief and
seemingly inconsequential exchanges that nevertheless add up to the subtle but
powerful osmosis by which newcomers are transformed into Americans.

Not surprisingly many of these experiences have to do with food. Food is its own
currency in Elmhurst. It is a means to learn English, a way to feel at home, a
chance to experiment, a bridge between vastly different cultures. The other day,
for example, Elizabeth Esguerra, who came to this country four years ago from
the Philippines, was shopping at the Topline Supermarket, an Oriental food shop
at Broadway and Britton Avenue.

Ms. Esguerra was at the checkout counter with a sack of rice when she noticed a
woman dressed exotically in an embroidered top and trousers carrying some egg
roll wrappers. "Don't get that kind," Ms. Esguerra said to the woman. She said
that particular brand of wrapper fell apart when used for spring rolls. The
woman, who was from Bombay, was appreciative. Although she was going to use the
wrappers for samosas, a deep-fried Indian specialty, she went back to the
refrigerator to pick up the other kind of wrapper.

Along the half-mile of Broadway that stretches from Roosevelt Avenue to Queens
Boulevard, one finds an East Asian food store next to a Pakistani grocery, a
Thai seafood restaurant next to a Hong Kong noodle shop, a Colombian coffeeshop
next to a pizza parlor.

At 83-19 Broadway, for example, is a shop one could imagine seeing in
Bangladesh. Ibrahim Khalil, 71 years old, is baking nan, an Indian bread, in a
clay oven as customers down bowls of stewed goat with lentils. At No. 82-39,
King's Supermarket, an Oriental market, tilapia swim in a tank in the window. At
No. 82-80, the Anna Bhandar shop, there are more than 100 varieties of Indian
pickles, 30 varieties of beans and, for the harried, frozen Indian dinners
including matar paneer (cheese and peas) and aloo baigan (potato and eggplant
stew). At No. 86-32, the Tsoung Shing Chinese Restaurant and Coffee Shop, there
is a staggering array of Shanghai-style noodles, dumplings, rice cakes and soups
that could easily be on a side street in Hong Kong. At the corner of Broadway
and 74th Street, the Chung Ki Wa Restaurant, with its miniature barbecue on
every table, could have been plucked off the streets of Seoul. At No. 82-78,
there is a vegetarian Indian restaurant, Jhupdi, with the sensually spiced foods
of Gujarat.

The list goes on.

"Big one more," Estevez Ricardo, a 46-year-old immigrant from Cuba, was saying
the other day, holding up an avocado at Pak Fruit and Grocery at 82-33 Broadway.
He and Kichan Kim, a 21-year-old immigrant from Korea, were haggling over the
price of an avocado. Mr. Kim wanted $1.99. Mr. Ricardo wanted to pay $1.29.
There were discussions about size and texture. "O.K.," Mr. Kim finally said in a
combination of English and Spanish, no small feat for someone newly arrived from
Asia. "Uno cincuenta nueve." Mr. Ricardo handed over the $1.59.

Some of the immigrants along Broadway have only recently arrived. Alamgir
Hossain, 21, for example, came to this country three years ago and now works for
his brother in their three-month-old store, Shapla Groceries, at 81-10A
Broadway. The store carries Indian staples like ghee, turmeric powder and
chapati flour. But the Wong family, who run the Shanghai-style Tsoung Shing
restaurant at 86-32 Broadway, have worked in Elmhurst for 12 years. They have
learned the ropes. Tina Wong, 44, for example, buys her Oriental groceries in
Chinatown because she can get them there wholesale. She heads to a Jewish-style
pickle place on the Lower East Side for her cucumbers.

Incongruities in Elmhurst abound, all a part of the rich ethnic stew that makes
up this stretch of immigrant America. Take the El Molino Panaderia Argentino
Confiteria, an Argentine-style bakery at 86-47 Broadway. It sells a wide variety
of faturas (flaky breakfast confections filled with custard), special Argentine
sandwiches with the crusts removed, and all kinds of Argentine pastries filled
with caramel. But the shop is owned by Sung Hong, a 57-year-old Korean, and his
son, Paul, 28. Brenda Lopresti, 27, who is from Uruguay, helps out behind the
counter as well. But for some reason, what El Molino is really known for around
the neighborhood is its bagels and croissants.

"I don't know why," said Paul Hong. "But my father learned everything he knows
at a Jewish bakery."

Mauricio Junca, 25, moved here from Mexico six years ago and has worked for the
last month at David's pizza at 81-13 Broadway. He used to work next door in a
Thai restaurant.

"Everything is here," said John Angelo, who is a customer service representative
in the neighborhood for New York Telephone. He was having lunch the other day on
Broadway at Papaya Queen, which one might assume would be a copy of the many New
York papaya-and-hot-dog places. In fact, it is an eclectic coffee shop where
shrimp rolls sit next to the Caribbean beef stew in a display case (to make it
easy to point), and where it is as easy to order a taco as it is to have bacon
and eggs.

Arriving in a foreign land, not knowing the language or the customs, has never
been easy for new immigrants. Anyone eager to sample the experience would do
well to travel to Elmhurst. There are intriguing opportunities for surprise in
wandering from shop to shop where English is a foreign language and where
pointing is one of the best means of communication.

A visitor to Elmhurst the other day, for example, wandered into Sancocho, a
Colombian coffee shop at 76-09 Broadway, where bunuelos ( a kind of fried dough)
and sancocho (a lusty stew) are the specialties. She asked for a menu, but was
told there was none. In broken Spanish, she explained that she had already had
lunch but wanted to sample a batido, a kind of fruit milkshake. When asked what
flavor she wanted she said she did not know and was directed to several sketches
on the wall, each with the name of a fruit in Spanish, none of which the visitor
recognized. Having no idea what it was, she nevertheless chose maracuya and some
minutes later was presented with a sweet, frothy, delicious concoction that
tasted of mangoes.

Here in Elmhurst the curious can find not only adventure and exotic fare, but
also concrete proof that the city's great melting pot happily bubbles on.

ELMHURST OR BUST

Going to Elmhurst? It's a quick subway ride (less than 20 minutes) from midtown
Manhattan. Take the No. 7 train to 74th Street and Broadway, or take the E, F or
R train to Roosevelt Avenue. From Brooklyn, take the G train to Roosevelt
Avenue. By car, take Queens Boulevard west from the Long Island Expressway to
Broadway. No passport required.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ethnic diversity in Elmhurst, clockwise from top: Nancy Wu
eating pizza with her son Roger; parents collecting children from school;
Argentine, Thai and Indian fare along Broadway; at Kabab and Curry, Ibrahim
Khalil baking bread. (pg. C1); Chang Dong, a sushi chef at Chung Kiwa
restaurant, with an assistant, Lee Young Bok.; Swaati Mehra eats pizza at
Singa's Famous.; Shoppers in El Molino Panaderia Argentino Confiteria. (pg. C6)
(Photographs by Steve Berman for The New York Times)

Drawing (pg. C6)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              293 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 19, 1991, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

News Summary

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1265 words



International 3-5

The Middle East peace conference was announced by the United States and the
Soviet Union, who invited Israel, its Arab neighbors and the Palestinians to
convene in Madrid. Although the parties have yet to formally accept, Washington
and Moscow were confindent that the conference would take place. Page 1

The Soviet Union and Israel restored full diplomatic relations, ending 24 years
of estrangement. The two countries expressed the hope that their new ties would
help the cause of peace in the Middle East. 5

Kuwait is coming out from the ashes at a much faster rate than many had
expected. Eight months after most of its oil wells were set ablaze, Kuwaiti
officials say that all the fires will be extinguished by November. 1

Eight Soviet republics signed a pact to create a free-market Soviet community to
replace the old command economy. Russia signed the ambitious compact, along with
seven smaller republics, while the Ukraine refused to participate. 3

Germany's debate on immigration, which has been fueled by a wave of violence
against foreigners, grew divisive in Parliament. The governing Christian
Democrats urged tightening the country's immigration policy, while others
countered that such steps would be ineffective. 3

Serbian chief rejects peace plan at talks on Yugoslavia 3

Ripples of near-sainthood reach from Brazil to Pennsylvania 4

Vietnamese in Hong Kong resist repatriation plan 4

 National 6-10

Robert M. Gates won approval from the Senate Intelligence Committee by a vote of
11 to 4, after exhaustive hearings that questioned his candor with Congress, his
pessimistic view of Moscow, his stern management style and his integrity. The
nomination now moves to the full Senate. 1

Clarence Thomas was sworn-in as the 106th Justice on the Supreme Court in a
White House ceremony that had the air of a festive political victory rally.
Ordinarily the White House ceremony is a low key affair, which precedes the more
formal Supreme Court ceremony. 8

Will Clarence Thomas show scars from the bitter nomination hearings? Judge
Thomas told the Senate that the hearings would make him more sympathetic to the
falsely accused, while others said he may become a bitter foe of the liberal
groups that opposed him. 8

Thomas hearings turned on racial issues 8

David Duke's candidacy for governor of Louisiana is giving clarity to what had
been a murky race. Mr. Duke, the former grand wizard of the Ku Klux Klan,
appears to have reached a three-way heat in the race with a campaign that uses
code words to appeal to white voters. 1

The town where 23 people were killed, Killeen, Tex., was unprepared for the
massacre at a cafeteria, even if it was not unprepared for death. The central
Texas town borders Fort Hood and 50,000 people from the area served in the
Persian Gulf. About a dozen were killed. 6

Mass murder has increased over the last decade, experts say, adding that mass
murder is a peculiarly American phenomenon that has grown out of the
proliferation of guns, the disintegration of traditional society and a decline
in the standard of living. 6

Man convicted in 1979 slaying is put to death in North Carolina 7

A key figure in the Pentagon scandal, Melvyn R. Paisely, was sentenced to four
years in prison for taking bribes from military contractors. Mr. Paisley pleaded
guilty in June and is the highest-ranking Pentagon official convicted in the
investigation of the procurement scandal. 35

Arkansas Gazette, a state's liberal voice, stops publishing 6

Genetically altered tomatoes can be made that will no longer produce a gas
causing them to ripen, researchers said. The tomatoes grow for weeks longer than
normal, but do not ripen until exposed to the gas, in a discovery that could
limit spoilage. 7

California medical groups rebuff Federal request on AIDS 7

Regional 25-28

Homeless people will be evicted from the subways in the winter under an
agressive new plan, the New York City Transit Police Chief said. The plan
involves strict enforcement of subway rules, such as begging or sleeping, while
offering homeless people help finding shelter. 1

Suggestion on housing draws anger 27

Child falls ill in tainting of baby food 25

New York City's transit chaos ebbed as commuters found that round-the-clock
repair and cleanup had restored their routines to normal after one of city's
worst water-main breaks. 25

Urban Memo: An underground burp makes midtown quake 27

Split verdicts at a major Mafia trial left defense attorneys claiming victory.
Five defendants were acquitted, including John Gotti's brother, Peter. Three
other defendants were convicted on only two charges in a trial about accusations
that the Mafia controlled New York City's lucrative window-installation
industry. 25

Brooklyn District Attorney's office cut its backlog of felony cases by 15
percent in an unusual three-week campaign of plea bargains, reduced charges and
dismissals. The actions gave many defendants a better deal, but helped smooth
reorganization of the office and the courts. 27

Robert Garcia was convicted on one count of extortion in a second trial related
to the former Bronx Congressman's role in the Wedtech scandal. But because of a
misunderstanding between judge and jury, the jury was dismissed without reaching
a verdict on two other felony counts.  26

A student wants the "A" he says he is entitled to by state law because he served
in the Persian Gulf. The student, a Marine reservist in New Jersey, did not take
the final exam. The professor says the state cannot tell her what grade to give
him. 25

Year after tax leap, New Jersey faces budget gap 26

New Jersey bars project in way of skyline view 28

Business Digest 35

Arts/Entertainment

The national anthem can be a burden to a singer, but can also help sustain a
career. For every time a Robert Goulet forgets the lyrics and has to hum, there
is a Whitney Houston whose rendition stirs millions. Gladys Knight will sing at
the first game of the World Series. 1

Brandeis plan to sell art is criticized 13

Kurt Masur to answer the public 13

Film: "Cool as Ice" 12

Music: Murray Perahia 14

Classical Music in Review 16

R. L. Burnside and Others 13

Dance: The Rosas company in "Stella" 13

Choreographic showcase 17

Obituaries 11

William H. Dinkins Jr., father of New York City's Mayor

Walter M. Elsasser, pioneer in study of earth's crust

Consumer's World 50

A valuable Government document, free

The careful art of winning in Small Claims Court

For campers, it's time to lighten up that heavy gear

Guarding against bicycle theft or flats

Sports 29-33

Baseball: A surprise for surprising Series 29

Pittsburgh's big three came up small 31

Boxing: Tyson-Holyfield bout postponed 29

Column: Berkow on the Series 29

Football: Giant coaches erred 30

Jets put McNeil on injured reserve 30

Holtz talks soft but Irish aren't out 31

Hockey: Capitals beat Devils 31

Horse Racing: Twilight Agenda edges Scan33

Outdoors: Surface catch a thing of beauty 33

Soccer: North Koreans arrive 33

Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed

Editorials 22

The Secretary who could

A handle on the homeless

Catharsis at Grand Central

Brent Staples: Racism

Letters 22

Russell Baker: The process baloney 23

Anna Quindlen: Trouble with Teddy 23

Chet Edwards: My view on guns changed 23

Scott Turow: When law imitates art 23

Stephanie Denmark: Birth-control tyranny 23

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              294 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 23, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Blocks Solution to Vietnam Refugee Crisis

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 642 words


To the Editor:

In "Vietnamese Refugees, Reconsidered" (editorial, Oct. 8), you go to great
pains to point out the obvious fact that no country can let in everyone who
wants in, and that governments are constantly forced to make decisions on
returning illegal immigrants to their homeland. The difficulty in this case lies
in the fact the "homeland" happens to be Vietnam.

On this very distressing issue the United States wields a triple-edged sword:
the United States will not accept "economic migrants," strongly condemns and
opposes any move to return "economic migrants" to Vietnam, and at the same time
obstructs Vietnam's attempts at improving its economy, which is the root cause
of "economic migrants."

Although armed hostilities between the United States and Vietnam ended more than
18 years ago, the United States continues to wage war against Vietnam by
maintaining an economic embargo on Vietnam. It has not been a war to protect our
national security interest: it is a war of retribution. It has not been a war
against the Government of Vietnam but against the people of Vietnam. Governments
do not feel pain; people do. More than half of Vietnam's 67 million people were
not even born when the last United States troops left Vietnam, yet we continue
to punish them.

Vietnam is one of the poorest countries in the world. Over the last five years,
Vietnam has been pursuing a policy of economic reform. However, today Vietnam's
reforms are at risk.

Over the last several years, Vietnam has painstakingly followed the rigid
structural readjustment program prescribed by the International Monetary Fund
with such success that most members of that institution are ready to resume
lending activities to Vietnam. The single voice that prevents this type of
assistance and coerces other countries to follow its lead is the United States.

Six months ago (not "last year," as you stated), the United States presented
Vietnam its plan for normalization. The United States plan conditions
normalization on peace in Cambodia and on progress on the issue of servicemen
missing in action.

There is every indication that the tragic war in Cambodia will formally end with
the signing of a peace agreement in Paris within the next few weeks. Members of
the United States M.I.A. team in Hanoi have been given permission to travel to
any province or village in Vietnam in search of remains and to have access to
Vietnam's military archives. (One can only imagine the Pentagon's response if
the Vietnamese asked to look at our archives with the hopes of finding some
information on their hundreds of thousands of servicemen missing in action.)
What more do the Vietnamese need to do before the United States releases its
stranglehold on their economy?

You support forced repatriation while absurdly stating that the prospect of
normalization ought to be an incentive to Vietnam to treat its returnees
decently. Of the more than 13,000 (not 6,000, as you say) Vietnamese asylum
seekers who have returned since 1989, there is no evidence whatsoever that
Vietnam has not been treating them humanely and with dignity. Indeed,
international organizations that monitor the returnees have not reported any
instances of returnees being treated as anything less than decently.

The most humane course of action open to the United States is clear: lift the
embargo and allow the international financial institutions to assist Vietnam.
Through increased economic opportunities and an end to Vietnam's economic
isolation, the incentive to flee would be greatly diminished. By doing this the
United States becomes part of the solution and ceases to be an obstacle to
resolving this issue.

ROBERT O. MULLER
Washington, Oct. 11, 1991

The writer is executive director of the Indochina Project, a Vietnam Veterans of
America Foundation program.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              295 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 30, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Britain and Vietnam to Force Refugees to Return

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1019 words

DATELINE: LONDON, Oct. 29


Britain and Vietnam signed an agreement today opening the way for the forcible
repatriation of tens of thousands of Vietnamese refugees now being detained in
Hong Kong.

The agreement comes one week after Hanoi agreed to accept the return of 222
Vietnamese "doublebackers," people who had come to Hong Kong once before, been
paid a cash incentive to return to Vietnam and then re-entered Hong Kong
illegally a second time.

Officials said the first of those people would be returned to Vietnam sometime
next month. They will be flown from Hong Kong on chartered planes under armed
guard.

Under the terms of today's accord, the authorities in Hong Kong will begin
proceedings immediately to turn back any new illegal immigrants who arrive there
from Vietnam. Later, the two Governments say they will extend the plan to deport
many of the 63,500 Vietnamese who are confined in detention centers in Hong
Kong, and cannot prove they are entitled to asylum as refugees from political
persecution.

At Odds With U.S.

The agreement, reached after months of negotiations, seeks to resolve the fate
of people whose plight has become one of the more enduring legacies of the
Vietnam War. The Vietnamese who ended up in Hong Kong in recent years are among
the final wave of the so-called "boat people," the more than one million who
fled Vietnam's Communist Government by raft and boat after the war ended in
1975.

But in signing the agreement, London appears to have put itself at odds with the
United States, which continues to oppose forced repatriations to Vietnam for any
reason. Officials in London said they had consulted closely with Washington
during recent weeks, but refused to discuss what, if any, agreements or
understanding had been reached prior to signing the agreement with Hanoi.

Earlier this year, President Bush and Prime Minister John Major exchanged
letters on the boat people, and the British Foreign Secretary, Douglas Hurd,
said earlier this month he was hoping to convince the Bush Administration to
acquiese in the matter.

Officials in London have argued that most of the boat people are not fleeing
political repression in Vietnam, but rather are economic refugees who left
Vietnam because they are seeking a better life in Hong Kong, the British colony
that will revert to China in 1997.

Opposition parties in Britain have also said they would oppose any agreement
that would require people to be repatriated against their will. George Foulkes,
a Member of Parliament and spokesman for Britain's Labor Party, expressed fears
that the agreement will mean that Vietnamese will be repatriated "at the point
of the gun."

A spokesman for the Foreign Office here refused to say whether the Government
was prepared to use force against Vietnamese who do want to return to Vietnam.
But in Hong Kong, Alistair Asprey, Secretary of Security for the colony, said
the police were authorized to use force if necessary.

"We will attempt to let them return home with dignity," he said. "Whether they
do so in the final analysis depends on their behavior."

In an attempt to calm fears among the Vietnamese in Hong Kong's detention camps,
the Foreign Office issued a statement today saying that Hanoi had "confirmed"
that no illegal immigrant who returns to Vietnam under the terms of the
agreement will face persecution. The statement also said that Vietnam promised
"to facilitate the monitoring of those who return by United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees, to insure that those guaranteeds are fully
respected."

In recent weeks, thousands of Vietnamese inside the camps have staged peaceful
demonstrations against the repatriation plan and have threatened hunger strikes,
suicides and armed resistance should the Hong Kong authorities try to force them
to return to Vietnam against their will.

In 1989, when Britian forcibly returned 51 boat people, most of them women and
children, to Vietnam, the action touched off riots in the detention camps and
brought sharp protests from the United States.

Under today's agreement, any new arrivals will undergo screening immediately, a
process that takes about six weeks, to determine whether they qualify for
refugee status. If they do not, they will be returned immediately.

By dealing first with the new arrivals, officials say they can freeze the
population already in the camps, a number that has grown by about 20,000 this
year alone.

Of the estimated 63,500 Vietnamese currently in the Hong Kong camps, about 5,000
have qualified for official refugee status, meaning they fled Vietnam for
political rather than economic reasons, and are eligible for resettlment. The
others are awaiting disposition of their requests for asylum.

About 18,000 others have been classified as illegal immigrants rather than
political refugees, and are therefore subject to deportation. The status of
40,500 more has yet to be determined, and the disposition of all the cases could
take two to three years, officials in Hong Kong say.

A spokesman for the Foreign Office said the details on the deportation of those
already in the camps in Hong Kong had not yet been worked out, and discussions
were still continuing.

                             --------------------


U.S. Repeats Opposition

WASHINGTON, Oct. 29 (Special to The New York Times) -- Responding to the British
announcement, the United States repeated today that it opposed the use of force
to return boat people to Vietnam.

"We oppose forced or mandatory repatriation," the spokeswoman said. "We expect
that under this agreement there would be no use of force."

The United States officials were vague about what steps the United States might
take if Britain used force to return boat people to Vietnam.

Administration officials said that they understood the problems Britain faced in
Hong Kong, with the thousands of boat people who do not qualify for refugee
status. But the American officials said that, as far as they knew, President
Bush had not given Prime Minister John Major any reason to expect the United
States to acquiesce if Britain uses force.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              296 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 6, 1991, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Baker Criticizes New Settlement By Israelis in the Golan Heights

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 421 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 5


Secretary of State James A. Baker rebuked Israel today for opening a new
settlement for Soviet immigrants in the Golan Heights, saying such actions are
unlikely "to build the kind of climate that would serve the cause of peace."

Israel has annexed the Golan Heights, which it seized from Syria in the June
1967 war, but Syria has never recognized the loss and has long vowed to retake
the territory.

The Israeli Government moved 25 Soviet immigrant families into a patch of the
northern Golan Heights on Monday, hours after Syria and Israel ended
face-to-face talks in Madrid that failed to reach agreement on a time and site
for further Middle East peace negotiations.

Asked at a White House news conference whether Israel's action sent a message to
the United States or Syria, Mr. Baker stressed the progress made so far in
Madrid, but chided Israel for what he called a "provocative" action.

"What I think is needed now more than anything else are steps that would create
a positive environment for these talks," he said. "And steps or actions that are
provocative or unilateral, steps that would be seen by one side or the other as
provocative, whether they are provocative or not, are hardly likely, I think, to
build the kind of climate that would serve the cause of peace.

"It's hard to see, hard for us to see how inaugurating a new settlement now can
help the negotiating process that we've just finished launching," he said.

Israel has made no secret that its latest settlement is a demonstration to Syria
of its commitment to hold on to the Golan Heights, which it considers to be of
strategic military importance. Referring to Syria, Israel's Agriculture
Minister, Rafael Eitan, said at the dedication of the settlement on Monday that
"we are here as an answer to the tyrant of the east."

U.S. Role Offered

Mr. Baker declined today to say whether he believes that Israel and Syria will
be able to continue direct negotiations without outside assistance, but he
repeated that the United States stands ready to serve as an "honest broker"
should talks bog down.

The White House has suggestions as to how Israel and Syria might make more
progress in negotiations, and is even willing to assume a direct role in the
talks if asked to do so, Mr. Baker said.

"We would be pleased if they wanted us to submit ideas and suggestions. If they
came to us, we've got some and we would be pleased to submit those whether we
were in the room or not," he said. "It's really up to the parties, though."

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              297 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 11, 1991, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Protest Veto on English Classes

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 258 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 10


About 2,500 people took to the streets on Saturday to protest Gov. Pete Wilson's
veto of legislation that would have financed English-language classes for
immigrants.

The protesters carried banners in both Spanish and English that read: "For
Pete's Sake, Remember the Hispanic Voters" and "Governor Wilson, When You Deny
Us English You Cripple Your Work Force."

"We want to participate in the economy of the greatest state in the nation,"
said Juan Jose Gutierrez, who helped organize the march through the
predominantly Hispanic Boyle Heights section of Los Angeles.

State Senator Art Torres, a Los Angeles Democrat who sponsored the legislation,
told marchers that an effort would be made to override the veto. If that failed,
he said, the bill would be reintroduced and other money sources for English
classes would be sought.

The bill, which was vetoed Oct. 10, sought to place $65 million in Federal money
into English proficiency classes for California's 1.6 million newly legalized
immigrants. The money would have been allocated through the 1986 Immigration
Reform and Control Act, which created the amnesty program for illegal aliens.

Senator Torres said the Governor had told him that he believed the money would
be better spent on medical treatment for immigrants at county hospitals.

Protesters noted that Californians voted five years ago to make English the
official state language. The governor "tells us on one hand he wants us to speak
English," said Mr. Torres, adding, "But he removes the money to make it happen."

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              298 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 21, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Transfers Haitians to Base in Cuba

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 533 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 20


The Coast Guard today began transferring hundreds of Haitian refugees from its
cutters patrolling the Caribbean onto a large troop ship anchored at the United
States Navy base at Guantanamo, Cuba.

The shift, made for what the Navy and the Coast Guard called humanitarian
reasons, means that up to 800 or so of the nearly 1,800 recently rescued Haitian
boat people now crammed into 15 cutters can be kept in more hospitable
accommodations. The amphibious landing ship Tortuga is equipped with extensive
medical installations and sleeping berths.

Earlier today, Rear Adm. William P. Leahy Jr. of the Coast Guard told a
Congressional subcommittee that his cutters would be loaded to capacity with
fleeing Haitians within the next two days, and would be unable to rescue any
more refugees at sea.

Timing of Exodus

Congress has become increasingly uneasy with the Bush Administration's policies
on Haiti and its attitude toward political asylum for Haitians fleeing that
country after the military coup that overthrew the democratically elected
Government of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide on Sept. 30.

But the latest wave of refugees fleeing Haiti did not begin in earnest until a
month later, and questions about the timing of the new exodus were left
unresolved by today's hearing. Speculation in Washington is that many Haitians
were waiting to see whether Father Aristide would soon be restored to power, or
for the effects of an international economic boycott of Haiti to begin to be
felt.

This morning, Immigration and Naturalization Service said at least 2,819
Haitians had been intercepted at sea since October. Of this number, the
immigration service said, at least 1,781 refugees remained on Coast Guard
cutters. Of 447 Haitians held at the United States Navy base at Guantanamo,
Cuba, the immigration service said, 350 were flown today to Honduras and
Venezuela. The agency said only 53 had been taken to Miami to apply for asylum.

20 Picked Up Wednesday

For the last several day, the Coast Guard has estimated a higher figure, about
3,000, for the number Haitians picked up at sea. Coast Guard officials said
tonight that at least 20 Haitians had been intercepted today, compared with
nearly 650 on Tuesday, when a Federal judge in Miami ordered a temporary stay of
forced repatriation pending a formal hearing on the interdiction policy
scheduled for Monday.

The State Department says there have been no reports of retribution or
persecution of any of the 538 Haitians returned to Port-au-Prince on Monday and
Tuesday before the stay was issued. Human-rights groups challenge that assertion
by questioning the sources of information on which the United States Embassy in
Haiti relies, particularly the Haitian Red Cross, which they describe as unable
to defy the military Government.

Admiral Leahy said his 15 cutters, nearly half the East Coast fleet, had to be
taken off normal patrol and narcotics-interception duties to pick up refugees in
what he described as a humanitarian process that was saving many from drowning.
But even with the interdiction policy in force, officials say that as many as
half the Haitians who attempt the voyage die at sea.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: More than 500 Haitian refugees were returned to Port-au-Prince
early this week before a temporary stay of forced repatriation was ordered. Red
Cross workers helped a sick refugee from a U.S. Coast Guard cutter. (Associated
Press)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              299 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 22, 1991, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Before Public Theater, An Immigrant Shelter

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 220 words


To the Editor:

Further to "Papp Proved That Landmarks Law Works" by Frank B. Gilbert (letter,
Nov. 13), on Joseph Papp's 1965 negotiation for the old Astor Library: In 1965,
the building's owner was United H.I.A.S. Service (Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society),
which acquired the former library as its world headquarters and temporary
shelter for Jewish refugees and immigrants to the United States in January 1920.

In the book "Visa to Freedom," Mark Wischnitzer quotes a message from President
Warren G. Harding when H.I.A.S. dedicated the building: "I am informed that the
new house was made possible by gifts from persons who came to America as
immigrants. It seems to me there could be no more emphatic testimony to the
usefulness and effectiveness of your society's work for Americanization."

From 1920 to 1965, thousands of nights of shelter and millions of kosher meals
were provided to these future United States citizens.

Joseph Papp's persistence was an essential element in the highly complicated and
successful negotiation that enabled him to acquire the building. But Mr. Papp
was keenly sensitive to the history of the landmark building that became his
Public Theater in 1965.

JAMES P. RICE
Chicago, Nov. 13, 1991

The writer was executive director, United H.I.A.S. Service, 1956-66.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              300 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 22, 1991, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Review/Film;
Immigrant Mice Face the Frontier

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

SECTION: Section C; Page 21; Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 612 words


"An American Tail: Fievel Goes West" continues the saga of the Mousekewitzes, a
plucky family of immigrant mice who, in the animated 1986 hit "An American
Tail," made their way from Czarist Russia to America, naively believing they
would find the streets paved with cheese.

The sequel finds the family living a miserable hand-to-mouth existence in a New
York City tenement and longing for a better life. Young Fievel Mousekewitz,
whose voice is again supplied by Phillip Glasser in a piping boyish voice,
dreams of becoming a Wild West lawman like his idol, the legendary canine Wylie
Burp. His sister, Tanya, yearns to be a singer.

Once again, the family is lured by false promises to pull up stakes and head
west. Along with other impoverished mice, they join a cross-country migration to
the frontier town of Green River. Masterminding the move is a suave, scheming
feline, Cat R. Waul, who plans to ensnare the entire rodent community in a giant
mousetrap. John Cleese, the voice of Cat R. Waul, gives the sales pitch just the
right tone of supercilious villainy.

In addition to the Mouskewitz family, Tiger, the cat who is Fievel's best friend
and the movie's answer to Bert Lahr's Cowardly Lion, returns from the original
film, again in the voice of Dom DeLuise. In one of the sequel's wittier scenes,
Fievel and Tiger, who find themselves separately stranded in the wilderness,
glimpse each other but fail to connect, each believing the other to be a mirage.

When Fievel finally makes it to Green River, he meets his hero, who turns out to
be a broken-down layabout. After Fievel rouses him to action, Wylie teaches the
fearful Tiger how to impersonate a ferocious dog, and the three set about
thwarting the mass extermination. It is left to the old sheriff, whose voice is
James Stewart, to deliver the movie's fuzzy-headed homily: "You pulled me out of
a gutter. Just remember, Fievel, one man's sunset is another man's dawn."

"Fievel Goes West" is not as insistent as its forerunner on being an allegory
about turn-of-the-century immigrants. The film, directed by Phil Nibbelink and
Simon Wells from a screenplay by Flint Dille, is really a bland, randomly
connected series of adventures involving the Mouskewitz children, Tiger and his
girlfriend, Miss Kitty, a sultry barroom chanteuse. While the quality of the
animation is above average, the film's visualization of the American West is
surprisingly dull. The movie has little narrative drive or emotional resonance,
and its final action sequences seem perfunctory and tacked on.

The film features two original songs with music by James Horner and lyrics by
Will Jennings. "The Girl I Left Behind," a peppy bluegrass number, is performed
by Tanya in the Green River saloon, where she makes a sensational debut under
the aegis of Miss Kitty. Cathy Cavadini, the voice of Tanya, also sings "Dreams
to Dream," a saccharine ballad that is this film's answer to the original
movie's hit song, "Somewhere Out There." It is reprised over the final credits
by Linda Ronstadt.

An American Tail
Fievel Goes West

Directed by Phil Nibbelink and Simon Wells; screenplay by Flint Dille; story by
Charles Swenson; created by David Kirschner; songs by James Horner and Will
Jennings; music by Mr. Horner; produced by Steven Spielberg and Robert Watts;
released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 80 minutes. This film is rated G.

Voices:
Fievel . . . Phillip Glasser
Wylie . . . James Stewart
Mama . . . Erica Yohn
Tanya . . . Cathy Cavadini
Papa . . . Nehemiah Persoff
Tiger . . . Dom DeLuise
Miss Kitty . . . Amy Irving
Cat R. Waul . . . John Cleese
Chula . . . Jon Lovitz

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fievel (Universal)

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              301 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 24, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE WORLD;
Between Haiti and the U.S. Lies A Quandary

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 943 words

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti


FROM its inception, the persistent clandestine marine traffic of Haitians toward
southern Florida and the return of the refugees by an ever-vigilant United
States Coast Guard have been fraught with deep moral ambiguities.

Since the early 1970's, shady boat operators, often said to be acting in close
collaboration with Haitian authorities, have preyed upon the poor; they sell the
would-be migrants expensive spots on leaky wooden boats that are known to have
only slim chances ofevading disaster or detection at sea.

These operators have been guaranteed a steady if darkly tainted income by
Haiti's unrelieved poverty and repression, enforced by the very officials who
assented in the trade. The dangers were underscored last week by a shipwreck off
Cuba that took dozens of lives, and by a rescue at sea by the Coast Guard of 246
refugees packed into a 30-foot sailboat.

Now, however, with the United States' decision last Monday to try to repatriate
the Haitians who fled their country following the bloody overthrow of its first
elected president, attention has shifted sharply from the cruelties of Haiti
alone. Now it is also on the American ambivalence toward a people in desperate
need.

The decision to begin repatriating the Haitians, more than 3,000 of whom have
been taken into American custody since September and many of whom had been
stockaded aboard Coast Guard ships for weeks, prompted an outcry from some
members of Congress and from immigration rights advocates; the decision, many of
these critics said, was tinged with racism.

Only days before, the United States had expressed strong concerns over Britain's
decision to allow the forcible return of Vietnamese from Hong Kong. Now the Bush
Administration found itself groping to distinguish the treatment of Haitians
from that of Vietnamese. The State Department spokeswoman, Margaret D. Tutwiler,
said that the situations were simply different, and that the United States's
repatriation efforts were aimed at saving lives. The United States, she said,
wanted to discourage Haitians from undertaking a voyage that experts say kills
as many as half of those who set out from the country's Caribbean shores. But
such arguments proved unconvincing for a Federal judge in Florida, who on
Tuesday ordered the repatriation efforts halted.

For advocates of Haitian immigration rights, the line of reasoning had a
familiar ring. They say that when it comes to Haitians, not even a long history
of violent dictatorships and the worst poverty in the hemisphere have budged
American immigration policies, which have consistently kept people from Haiti at
the very bottom of the list of nationalities who are granted legal refuge in the
United States.

So averse does Washington seem to allowing Haitians into the country, the
immigration advocates say, that it devises one measure after another just to
keep them out; early in the 1980's, for example, reports that Haitians might
bring in AIDS were cited by officials as a reason to contain them in Haiti.
Meanwhile, others with crises in their homelands -- notably Cubans -- are
welcomed.

Since 1981, in fact, an agreement has been in force that allows the United
States to pluck Haitians from international waters and return them to their
shores. No accord like this exists with any other country, the immigration
advocates say. Many argue that the agreement itself is tainted, since it was
reached between the Reagan Administration and the Duvalier family at a time when
the dynasty, in its declining years, was trying to get the United States to turn
a blind eye to human-rights abuses.

In another step also applied only to Haiti, the United States canvassed other
countries in the region at the start of the current refugee crisis, asking them
to accept fleeing Haitians on the ground that allowing them to reach the United
States would only encourage more to flee. This effort met with only limited
success, because most of the countries that were approached agreed to take only
symbolic numbers of the boat people.

Who Is an Economic Refugee?

To those who have raised questions about the disparity between Haitians and
Cuban boat people, who are immediately granted refugee status upon pickup by the
Coast Guard and arrival in the United States, immigration and State Department
officials say Cuba remains a Communist dictatorship, while Haitians are
basically fleeing economic deprivation.  Here again, though, immigration
advocates cry foul, noting that many fleeing Cubans readily identify material
hardships, not politics, as their motive. And interviews suggest that the latest
surge of Haitians was impelled in good measure by fear of army violence and
politically directed arrests.

"The attitude of the U.S. has been that if they are poor and black, they must be
economic refugees," said Anne Fuller, associate director of the New York-based
National Coalition for Haitian Refugees.  "It doesn't occur to people that you
can be poor and have political reasons for seeking refuge too."

In addition to race, which she said remained a factor in the treatment of
Haitians, Ms. Fuller and others said the refugees were victims of a skewed
ideological formula left over from the cold war.

"The whole thing has been terribly politicized," said Ms. Fuller of immigration
policies since World War II. "If you come from a Communist country, you have a
60, 70 or 80 percent chance of receiving refugee status. But if you come from a
right-wing dictatorship like Haiti, Guatemala or El Salvador, that has never
challenged U.S. interests, you will find it extremely difficult to satisfy
anyone that you deserve asylum."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Haitians fleeing their country in a small boat. (U.S. Coast
Guard)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              302 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 30, 1991, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

ABOUT NEW YORK;
Mongolian Immigrant Tries to Find New Life

BYLINE: By Douglas Martin

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 816 words


To most New Yorkers, the homeless long ago ceased being just people who were
down on their luck. They became fundamentally different, like people from some
strange place on the other side of the world. Mongolia, say.

Amarjargal Dorj, a Mongolian, has lived in homeless shelters since early
February, shortly after defecting while working as a journalist covering his
President's visit to the United States. He has feared for his safety, contracted
tuberculosis, slept on the streets when waiter jobs kept him out past lockup.

It beats home. "I haven't regretted any moment," the 26-year-old with the crew
cut and alert eyes said in good English.

Mr. Dorj grew up in one of the world's most isolated countries listening to the
Voice of America as if it were a heavenly visitation. He studied English,
worshiping the sensibility of writers like John Updike.

Unmarried and childless, all that tied him to Mongolia was a promising career
and such creature comforts as a nice apartment. Nothing rivaled the American
ideal of freedom, even as the mountainous, sparsely populated country inched
away from Communism.

"Everybody lives one life, yes?" he said. "It was a spirtual decision."

Things may finally be looking up, though nothing is certain. A series of
contacts brought him to the Fund for Free Expression, a committee of Human
Rights Watch. The fund immediately gave him an emergency grant of $2,000.

But not everything is solved. Mr. Dorj's current home, at the Trinity Lutheran
Shelter on the Lower East Side, has a six-month limit, which he reached a week
ago yesterday. He has been granted a one-month extension.

"We're not going to let him go back on the streets," vowed Jean Zotter, the
shelter's director, who has been taking him apartment hunting.

His job hunt is being aided by the Committee to Protect Journalists, as well as
the Fund for Free Expression. Any sort of office job would be fine.

"He may cut a big figure in Mongolian journalism, but he's not a hot employment
prospect in journalism here," allowed Gara LaMarche, director of the fund.

Not that Mr. Dorj lacks credentials. He received a "red diploma" from Odessa
State University in the Soviet Union. "Equivalent to summa cum laude," he said.
The liguistics major speaks Russian and Spanish, in addition to English and
Mongolian.

He worked as a writer and editor for the Mongolian National News Agency. Though
prestigious, the job involved little more than punctuating official
pronouncements.

"You have no opportunity to grow professionally or intellectually," Mr. Dorj
said. "You lack information. You lack everything. Do you understand?"

But he was named to travel to the United States with President Punsalmaagiyn
Ochirbat, the first state visit here by a Mongolian leader. Mr. Dorj packed only
clothes, worrying that his mother's photo might arouse suspicions.

His chance came when a senior colleague, his assigned roommate, demanded more
luxurious accommodations and got them. Alone, at last.

"I took my suitcase and hailed a taxi to Chinatown," he said. "There are a lot
of Oriental people there and I thought I'd get lost easily."

He certainly got lost. His journey began in a small sleazy hotel where only
pieces of plywood divided "rooms." At $25 a night, his $250 in cash quickly ran
out. He found the name of an immigration lawyer in a phone book. The lawyer
referred him to social workers.

Thus did a proud descendant of the Golden Horde of Genghis Khan, conquerors of
much of Eurasia, end up in Brooklyn's Atlantic Avenue Armory, one of the city's
most dismal shelters. "My first impression was that it was kind of a
concentration camp," he said.

He saw no Asians and few whites. He saw drugs. He learned to put his shoes
beneath his bedposts so no one would steal them. The most appalling lesson was
that many residents were not appalled. "At least 75 percent of them find the
situation normal," Mr. Dorj marveled. "Many of them are real happy."

One thing was crystal clear. "I should just keep my head down and wait and wait
and wait," he said.

The Mongolian, who told no one his background, stayed for two weeks, then moved
to the Franklin Avenue Shelter in the Bronx. It was there that a Lutheran
minister took him under wing and got him admitted to the nine-man Lower East
Side shelter. Much better, but it is still more of the same. Four men have been
expelled for drug use during Mr. Dorj's stay.

"I just see him watching all this happen," Miss Zotter said.

Mr. Dorj, who has applied for asylum, received a work permit in May and has held
temporary jobs as waiter, stock clerk and laborer. He has made around $4.30 an
hour before taxes. He is not asking for special treatment, thank you very much.

"If you want to work in some place, you should prove you can work," Amarjargal
Dorj said. "Nobody should make concessions because you're homeless or from
Mongolia."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Amarjargal Dorj, a Monogolian, has lived in homeless shelters
since early February, shortly after defecting, while working as a journalist. "I
haven't regretted any moment," he said. He stood in front of his home at the
Trinity Lutheran Shelter on the Lower East Side. (John Sotomayor/The New York
Times)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              303 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 30, 1991, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

KOHL AIDE FAVORS IMMIGRANT QUOTAS

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 716 words

DATELINE: BONN, Nov. 29


A newly appointed aide to Chancellor Helmut Kohl says she favors opening Germany
to immigrants by establishing annual quotas like those in the United States.

"Our people like to say that Germany is not a country for immigrants, so they
react against the idea of quotas," said the aide, Cornelia Schmalz-Jacobsen, who
took office last week as Mr.  Kohl's chief adviser on matters relating to
foreigners. "But the fact is that now we are receiving immigrants in an
uncontrolled flow. If we regulate the flow, that will be better for everyone."

This suggestion contradicts Mr. Kohl's official policy. The Chancellor supports
the right of foreigners to come to Germany if they are politically persecuted at
home, but not for other reasons.

Kohl Plays Down Issue

The conflict unfolding in the Kohl Government reflects the intensity of the
debate about how to treat foreigners in Germany. The debate has become more
urgent in recent months, as neo-Nazis and other far-rightists have undertaken a
wave of attacks on asylum-seekers and other foreigners.

The Chancellor has condemned the attacks on foreigners as "shameful for
Germany," but in recent days he has suggested that there are no grounds for
profound concern.

"Germany is a country that is friendly to foreigners, and it will remain so," he
told leaders of the American Jewish Committee, who had written him to express
concern about the recent attacks.

In an interview broadcast on French television last weekend, Mr. Kohl said
Germany faced no political danger from the far right, which he described as
constituting "well under 3 percent" of the population.

His critics say such comments suggest that Mr. Kohl is not taking the violence
seriously enough. By contrast, the news conference given by Mrs.
Schmalz-Jacobsen on her first day in office sounded several notes of alarm.

"Germany can afford less than any other country to have its image determined by
thugs and right-wing extremists," she said. "The urgent goal must be to stop
this violence. It has poisoned the domestic climate."

Little legal authority comes with Mrs. Schmalz-Jacobsen's job, and her
predecessor quit after complaining that Mr. Kohl was not heeding her advice. As
Mrs. Schmalz-Jacobsen seeks to persuade the Chancellor to accept a new approach
to immigration, she will have to compete with more powerful figures in the
Government.

Burden on Taxpayers Cited

Mr. Kohl's closest party ally, Wolfgang Schauble, who resigned as Interior
Minister this week to become majority leader in Parliament, recently gave a
tough speech on the issue that was seen as reflecting the Government's position.
Mr. Schauble said the attacks on foreigners were shameful, but he devoted more
time to denouncing asylum-seekers than condemning their attackers.

"How long can we ask our fellow citizens to accept and bear the burden of
hundreds of thousands of asylum-seekers, with all the demands that they make on
taxpayers, even though it clear from the beginning that most of them will never
be recognized as politically persecuted, and that nonetheless, at the end of
years of proceedings, they are not going to leave our country?" he asked
colleagues in Parliament.

Mrs. Schmalz-Jacobsen is not the first politician to suggest that Germany should
adopt immigration quotas to accommodate a limited number of non-political
refugees. Among the others is President Richard von Weizsacker, whose job is
largely ceremonial and who is expected to stay out of political debates.

Mr. Weizsacker visited a hostel for asylum-seekers soon after the current crisis
began in September, saying he wanted to show his opposition to violence. Then in
a televised interview, he asserted that Germany should establish immigration
quotas. He also criticized politicians who, he said, were using the issue for
political gain.

These remarks stirred immediate objections, especially from Mr. Kohl's
supporters. The influential weekly Die Zeit, however, praised Mr. Weizsacker for
finding "the heart of the problem."

"In the asylum debate, we are clearly seeing how isolated some of our
politicians are from real political problems," the newspaper declared in a
front-page commentary. "Bonn is sticking its head deep in the sand, but the
dunes move anyway."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Richard von Weizsacker of Germany said in a interview
that the country should establish immigration quotas. He met with asylum-seekers
last month in Cologne to express solidarity with them. (Knippertz/Pressebild);
Cornelia Schmalz-Jacobsen, who took office last week as Chancellor Helmut Kohl's
chief adviser on matters relating to foreigners. (Camera Press)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              304 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 3, 1991, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Give the Haitians Safe Haven

BYLINE: By Naomi Flink Zucker and Norman L. Zucker;  Naomi Flink Zucker and
Norman L. Zucker are authors of "The Guarded Gate: The Reality of American
Refugee Policy."

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 655 words

DATELINE: KINGSTON, R.I.


The tragedy of the Haitian refugees mandates that Congress enact a new law that
would grant them, and possibly other future refugees, temporary protected status
in the U.S. Under this status, the Haitians would be allowed to remain in this
country until conditions at home justified their return.

Temporary protected status already exists in law under an amendment to the
Immigration Act of 1990. Under that provision, the Attorney General may grant
such status to noncitizens when he finds they cannot return to their countries
because of internal disorder or armed conflict, among other conditions. Most
recently, the Attorney General has granted Salvadorans, Kuwaitis, Lebanese and
Liberians safe haven.

Temporary protected status is granted to groups, not individuals. Unlike
political asylum, it does not give refugees such benefits as welfare assistance
by states and Federal cash and medical assistance, and does not lead to
permanent residence and eligibility for citizenship.

Why should Congress enact a safe haven law when it has vested authority to grant
such haven in the Attorney General? First, because Justice Department decisions
have been almost exclusively political, reflecting White House foreign policy
and electoral concerns. Federal courts have ruled since 1980 that the department
has denied asylum, due process of law and equal protection to Haitians and other
groups irrespective of the merits of their claims to asylum.

Second, because the amendment is too broad: for example, it permits safe haven
after natural disasters such as earthquakes and floods; in such cases,
humanitarian aid is more useful. The primary need is for protection from
political upheaval of the kind that has made life in Haiti intolerable since the
coup that overthrew the democratically elected President, Jean-Bertrand
Aristide.

Given the Justice Department's hostility to Haitians since at least 1975, when
they started arriving in the U.S. in large numbers, it is not surprising that
the department, as a defendant, argued yesterday in Federal court in Miami that
a court order barring their forced repatriation should be overruled.

Similar cases had been brought against the department under the Refugee Act of
1980. After 25 years of patchwork legislation that admitted various groups, this
act established a uniform standard and procedure for admitting and resettling
political refugees. But it deals only with individuals needing permanent
resettlement; it ignores groups that want temporary protection because of
threatening conditions at home.

A new law on temporary status could meet group problems. It could deal with
these conditions: a civilian government that is unable to maintain order and
protect its citizens; a military government that represses and kills; a civil
war that endangers civilians throughout their country; population displacements
that result in extreme hardship; forced exodus, and repression or human rights
violations by an occupying country.

Congress, not the politically capricious Attorney General, should determine if a
group is eligible for temporary status, for how long (whether it should be
extended) and if work permits would be granted.

Critics of protection argue, validly, that safe haven seems never to be
temporary -- that arrivals never leave. But the Immigration and Naturalization
Service has proved that bureaucratic inertia need not prevail, for it has
repatriated Haitians, Salvadorans, Guatemalans and Iranians.

The new law could legalize the status of large numbers of Haitians and
Guatemalans here illegally, as the 1990 law did for Salvadorans and a 1966 act
did for Cubans.

A further regularizing of immigration law would make it harder for the U.S. to
practice the hypocrisy that leads it to oppose the forced repatriation of
Vietnamese "boat people" from Hong Kong while it wants to forcibly return
desperate Haitians to a constant hell.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              305 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 3, 1991, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

In California, New Talk Of Limits on Immigrants

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1408 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 2


When times were good in the 1980's, California largely welcomed the millions of
domestic and foreign immigrants who flooded into the state. But now that times
have turned tough, a cry has risen to narrow the gates to the Golden State.

The cry has been led by Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican, who has been saying that
immigrants, foreign and domestic, are putting the state in a fiscal squeeze by
using more in services than they pay in taxes. Critics say it is nothing more
than an racist attempt to find a scapegoat for the intractable social problems
that have been building in California for two decades.

Almost from the Gold Rush days, California has vacillated between welcoming
immigrants and resenting them. Thousands of Chinese laborers were brought in to
build the railroads before the turn of the century, and then were excluded in a
wave of anti-Chinese hysteria. During the Depression, waves of Okies migrated in
search of opportunity and found hostility.

The latest great wave of immigration during the 1980's, when millions of
immigrants from other states and from Asia and Latin America poured into
California, added to the state's political power and wealth. Although a few
environmentalists raised doubts about how many more people the state could
absorb, the subject of controlling population was taboo in polite circles, where
people feared being accused of racism.

Breaking the Taboo

But suddenly that taboo has been broken. The state is mired deep in recession,
and Governor Wilson says there are no longer enough taxpayers to support the
growing ranks of tax receivers, many of them immigrants. He visited Washington
on Nov. 25 to ask for more Federal help for California, which absorbed 35
percent of all the legal foreign immigrants to the United States during the last
decade.

And in an interview in the Nov. 18 issue of Time magazine, the Governor argued
that the state must reduce the "magnetic effect" of its generosity. While he
does not claim that immigration is the central reason for California's fiscal
troubles, he has said welfare payments that average $660 a month, nearly double
the national average, are attracting immigrants here.

Governor Wilson's comments have set off a spirited debate, with some critics
drawing parallels to the recent campaign for governor in Louisiana, where David
Duke, a former Ku Klux Klan leader, ran as a Republican on a platform that some
saw as racist and anti-immigrant.

State Senator David Torres, a Los Angeles Democrat who was chairman of a special
Joint Legislative Committee on Refugee Resettlement, said Mr. Wilson "ought not
to use the immigrants as the scapegoat for failed economic policies."

Governor Wilson has denied any racist intent. The state's dominant newspaper,
The Los Angeles Times, agreed but editorialized Wednesday that the Governor's
words could be misinterpreted as "the search not for answers but for scapegoats,
political or otherwise."

Staggering Growth

The debate has underscored the fragility of the social compact of California,
the most ethnically diverse state in the nation. According to the Census Bureau,
the state gained a staggering 6.1 million in population over the last decade and
now is home to 29.8 million. Of that increase, a little more than half came from
migration, about evenly divided between migrants from other states and from
foreign countries, not counting illegal immigration.

By most analyses, this immigration played a major role in the California boom by
providing a cheap labor force and large numbers of entrepreneurs starting up
businesses who added to the demand for housing and services. As recently as
1988, the state returned $1 billion in rebates to taxpayers.

But this year, the state was forced to bridge a $14.3 billion budget gap, a gap
that is still growing. According to a recent analysis by the state's Department
of Finance, this is largely because of a rapid population shift in which the
number of young people, who need schooling and other services, has exploded and
economically productive people between the ages of 45 and 64 have moved out of
state.

Should these demographic changes persist, the report stated, this "imbalance
between taxpayers and tax receivers" could cause a $20 billion budget gap by the
year 2000. By that time, it estimated, the state's dependency rate -- that is,
the proportion of people under 18 and over 64 years old, who tend to need social
services -- would rise from 58 percent today to 68 percent.

Immigrants on Welfare

The department attributed the fiscal troubles in part to immigrants. It said
that in 1990, foreign immigrants accounted for 4.5 percent of the caseload of
Medi-Cal, the state's medical aid program for low-income persons, as against 1.3
percent in 1980. The caseload will increase to nearly 13 percent by the year
2000, it projected.

Experts link the reason for the demand on social services to several factors,
including new laws and the change in the type of migrants from other states.
Kassy Perry, spokeswoman for the state's Health and Welfare Agency, cited the
Federal Immigration Reform Act passed by Congress in 1986 that granted amnesty
to millions of illegal immigrants and other Federal laws that made about 300,000
additional persons eligible for Medi-Cal in 1988.

And while illegal aliens are ineligible for welfare, their American-born
children are not, and the Supreme Court has ruled that local schools must accept
such children. Caseloads forAid to Families with Dependent Children, the state's
main welfare program, have tripled to two million over three years.

And refugees, mainly from Vietnam, Cambodia and other Southeast Asian countries,
who have settled in California in recent years have been a particular burden.
Forty percent of the refugees go on welfare in their first year, Ms. Perry said.
About 7 percent of the general population is on welfare.

But it is not just foreign immigrants who are burdening California services.
Seven percent, or more than 140,000 people, of the Aid to Families with
Dependent Children caseload is accounted for by persons who moved to California
from other states in the last 12 months.

Avoiding the Question

The issue of controlling population has long been a delicate one, tinged as it
is with racial and ethnic overtones. The question was avoided in a recent report
by a panel at the Sacramento campus of the California State University, which
was trying to achieve some consensus on growth management among interest groups.

Environmentalists tried to get a discussion going on the subject, but their
attempt was rejected by Hispanics on the panel. "That was a sign of how
difficult the issue is, especially if your parents were illegal," Larry Orman,
executive director of the Greenbelt Alliance, a nonprofit group that promotes
the preservation of undeveloped land around San Francisco, said last week in an
interview. "How long can California maintain an open-door policy for immigrants
who require services? Even if they climb out over time, California has only so
much resources financially."

Another member of the panel, Fernando J. Guerra, chairman of the Chicano Studies
Department at Loyola Marymount University, whose parents came from Mexico, said
in an interview that the focus on immigrants was "classic scapegoating." He
argued that the critics of immigration fail to take into account the role
immigrants have had in fueling the economy.

But George J. Borjas, an economist at the University of California at San Diego,
author of "Friends or Strangers" (Basic Books), a 1990 book on the economic
effects of immigration, maintained that there is some validity to Governor
Wilson's statements.

"The new immigrants are joining the welfare system at a much higher rate than
the older immigrants," he said. "It's a net loss for the country. They're taking
more out than they're putting in. They seem to be more unskilled and they have
less education."

Another expert on immigration, Julian L. Simon, a professor of business
administration at the University of Maryland and author of the 1989 book "The
Economic Consequences of Immigration" (Basil Blackwell), agreed that in the
short run new immigrants may represent a burden to the state.

"But in the long run, California is definitely helped by immigration," he said.
"It's important to focus on the long-run situation rather than the little
blips."

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Where New Californians Came From" shows net increase in the
state's population from each source from '81 to '90 (Source: California
Department of Finance)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              306 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 8, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Ending 20-Year Exile, Taiwanese Is Seized

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 7; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 204 words

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan, Dec. 7


A Taiwanese dissident was arrested today as he returned home from more than 20
years of exile in the United States, officials and witnesses said.

Immigration officials said the dissident, George Chang, had used a false
Japanese passport when he arrived in Taipei aboard a flight from Tokyo. They
said he was arrested for advocating that the Nationalist Government of Taiwan
give up its claim to China and declare independence.

Mr. Chang, 55 years old, is the leader of the World United Formosans for
Independence and former head of the chemical engineering department at Cooper
Union in Manhattan. He went to the United States as a graduate student in 1961.
After the Taiwanese Government revoked his passport in 1965, it filed sedition
charges against him in 1970 for advocating independence from China. Taiwan then
barred him from returning to the island, apparently fearing his presence would
fan anti-Government sentiment.

Mr. Chang said he had returned to help the opposition Democratic Progressive
Party in the National Assembly elections on Dec. 21. "As a Taiwanese, I have
every right to return to my homeland," he was quoted as saying. "We shall
establish Taiwan as an independent state by all means."

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              307 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 8, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

DANCE VIEW;
Echoes From the Dark Past of Soviet Ballet

BYLINE: By Anna Kisselgoff

SECTION: Section 2; Page 10; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1712 words


Two young women who are corps dancers in the Kirov Ballet leave the renowned
Soviet company in Washington during an American tour. The troupe's artistic
director says later that the women were drugged and taken to New York to be
exploited by a new-found friend. Insisting that they went voluntarily, the
dancers say they became frightened when the director's wife telephoned and sent
a car to return them to Washington. Once there, they say they were kept under
surveillance, occasionally in a locked apartment.

The United States State Department and Immigration officials step in after the
dancers' friend stages a public confrontation, preventing the Kirov director
from taking the women in a van to the Soviet Embassy. The ballet company is
scheduled to leave the next day for its home in St. Petersburg. The Washington
police intervene. The New Jersey Ballet then comes to the rescue by hiring the
two dancers for its "Nutcracker" production while their request for asylum is
pending with the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Does all this have the makings of a bad television script? The case of
Aleksandra Koltun and Zhanna Sinitsyna, the 20-year-old dancers who left the
Kirov on Oct. 26 without the permission of Oleg Vinogradov, the company's
artistic director, suggests something else: it is disturbing evidence of how old
habits die hard. An event that might have been completely unexceptional is
mishandled in a specifically Soviet way, raising countercharges of coercion that
carry echoes of the past.

Mr. Vinogradov accuses Miss Koltun and Miss Sinitsyna of "making the whole story
up" to establish a better case for political asylum, which is now harder to
obtain in the United States than it was during the cold war.

The entire episode, unfortunately, recalls the way the Soviets treated their
dancers during that cold war. Dancers who misbehaved by Soviet standards,
namely, by becoming too friendly with Westerners, were shipped back home. This
was true when the Bolshoi Ballet made its United States debut in 1959 and even
more obvious during a foiled attempt to do the same with Rudolf Nureyev in 1961.
But Mr. Nureyev and his fellow star defectors from the Kirov in the 1970's --
Natalia Makarova and Mikhail Baryshnikov -- have officially been forgiven by the
Soviet authorities.

How could there be even a suspicion today that dancers, much less unknown
dancers, were pressured to return to the Soviet Union?

Mr. Vinogradov and the dancers offer sometimes conflicting accounts of what
happened, both of which could be accepted at face value if Mr. Vinogradov had
not charged that the women had left the Kirov under duress. Whatever the truth
of this tangled tale, the chronology of the story can be pieced together from
various sources. Among these are a telephone interview with Mr. Vinogradov and a
telex from him, as well as interviews with the dancers.

During the Kirov's Kennedy Center engagement, from Oct. 15 to Oct. 27, Miss
Koltun and Miss Sinitsyna met Alexei Avrin, a Russian emigre living in the
Washington area. Both dancers told him they wanted to stay in the United States,
and, Miss Koltun says, "He offered to help."

The dancers went to Mr. Avrin's house on the evening of Oct. 26. According to
Mr. Vinogradov, the women told him they "planned to return, but they woke up two
days later. They had been given something like sleeping pills and were not
feeling well." Mr. Vinogradov went on to say that Mr. Avrin "took them to New
York, where they were forced to audition for the New York City Ballet." Mr.
Vinogradov suggested that Mr. Avrin wanted to be their manager.

Miss Koltun, however, denies that they were drugged or that she told Mr.
Vinogradov they had been. Rather than being unconscious for two days, she says,
they got up early on Sunday and did their ballet exercises on the deck of Mr.
Avrin's house.

When they arrived with Mr. Avrin in New York on Nov. 1, they contacted Leonid
Kozlov, a principal dancer with the New York City Ballet. Mr. Kozlov, who
defected from the Bolshoi Ballet in 1979, arranged for them to dance in the New
Jersey Ballet's "Nutcracker" during December.

According to Peter Martins, the City Ballet director, "They wanted to take
classes with the New York City Ballet, and I said fine. They did not request an
audition."

The key question is why Miss Koltun and Miss Sinitsyna suddenly returned to
Washington in the early hours of Nov. 8. They say they became frightened when
they received a call at midnight from Yelena Vinogradova, Mr. Vinogradov's wife.
She is the deputy artistic director of the Universal Ballet Academy, a
Washington school established in 1990 by the Unification Church of the Rev. Sun
Myung Moon to provide Soviet-style ballet training to American students. Mr.
Vinogradov, in addition to heading the Kirov, is the academy's artistic
director.

The two dancers say that Mrs. Vinogradova had obtained their telephone number
from another Russian they had met in New York, Viktor Pankevich, whose son had
attended the Universal Ballet Academy. According to Miss Sinitsyna, Mr.
Pankevich told them that Mr. Vinogradov had in effect blackballed them by
getting Mr. Martins and Jane Hermann, co-director of American Ballet Theater,
not to hire them. Mr. Martins says Mr. Vinogradov has never phoned him.

The women admit that they had a falling-out with Mr. Avrin, who returned to the
Washington area. They were discouraged by Mr. Pankevich's hint they they might
be barred from major American troupes because American ballet directors did not
wish to offend the Kirov. American friends warned them that they might have
trouble finding work since there was no dearth of female dancers.

Mr. Vinogradov, in a conflicting version, says that the women telephoned him for
help and that he sent his driver to pick them up. "I exerted no pressure," Mr.
Vinogradov says. "When they asked that I help them, I could not do otherwise."
The dancers concede that they returned to Washington with the driver, Vasily
Zakharov, known as Vasya.

At best, the Vinogradovs' attitude could be interpreted as paternalistic. And
the dancers, once in the director's apartment, might have resigned themselves to
returning to Russia. The women say they ate their meals with the Vinogradovs and
Vasya. When the Vinogradovs went to the house they own in the Washington suburb
of Falls Church, Va., they took the dancers along. Mrs. Vingogradov asked them
to set the table because Vladimir Vasiliev and Yekaterina Maksimova, the former
Bolshoi stars, were coming for supper.

The women and Mr. Vinogradov do not agree on how much freedom the dancers had to
move around. When Miss Koltun asked Mr. Vinogradov, "What will happen?" she says
he replied "that he would make me a soloist when we returned to Russia." Both
dancers say they were occasionally left in an empty apartment, with no
telephone, in the same complex as the Vinogradovs' apartment. .  Miss Sinitsyna
says that when the Vinogradovs were out, "Vasya was with us, and when he went
out, he locked the door." Miss Koltun adds that Mr. Vinogradov told them, "Stay
here. Vasya will give you a ballet class." And, she adds, "Vasya even corrected
us; he would say jump higher or hold your back straight."

According to Miss Koltun, the dancers were in this apartment on Tuesday, Nov.
12., when Mr. Vinogradov suddenly came in and said, "Quickly, we're going to the
embassy." She adds, "I was in a leotard and Zhanna was in sweat pants, but we
went with him to the car."

Mr. Avrin, who was watching the building, blocked the driveway with his car. Mr.
Vinogradov says Mr. Avrin threatened him; a security guard called the police.
Immigration officials sent the dancers to a hotel, and a few days later the pair
came to New York.

In a telex from St. Petersburg on Dec. 1 to his Canadian producers (who made it
available to the press), Mr. Vinogradov said: "The girls told lies to
everybody." The dancers, however, say that Mr. Vinogradov had told them to say
they had been drugged by Mr. Avrin so it would appear as if they had left the
Kirov under duress; then it would be "easier for us all if we return to Russia."

Mr. Vinogradov recounted the drug story to this writer and to editors at
Dancemagazine in mid-November. It is this scenario, or rather the idea that Mr.
Vinogradov thought it would sound credible, that is troubling.  Presumably, it
was intended as a face-saving device to reinforce his authority in a company
that appears, like the society it mirrors, to be splintering.

It may be that Mr. Vinogradov tried to help two confused young dancers. It is
just as likely that he understandably wished to avoid, at the corps level, a
precedent for a larger exodus from the Kirov. With various hardships at home and
greater freedom to travel, Soviet dancers are performing increasingly abroad.
Mr. Vinogradov has dismissed some who have done so without his permission.

After the recriminations in this episode have died down, there will remain a
deeper issue that Soviet ballet, given its uneasy history, needs to ponder. Mr.
Vinogradov is credited with pulling together a company that was heavily
demoralized by the star defections of the 60's and 70's. Yet the Kirov appears
to be suffering from a new kind of demoralization. The creative spark is clearly
missing in the repertory, a situation partly remedied by Mr. Vinogradov's
introduction of Western ballets, notably by George Balanchine. But with no
choreographic inspiration of its own and with the appeal of hard currency
beckoning individual dancers, the company's cohesiveness is in a fragile state.

The real issue was addressed -- during the time that Miss Sinitsyna and Miss
Koltun asked for asylum -- by Aleksandr Yakovlev, who was visiting the United
States. Mr. Yakovlov, a chief architect of perestroika, told a Columbia
University gathering on Nov. 15 that the Soviet Union was now "free of the
suffocating atmosphere" of oppressive leadership and added, "We must now ask,
who are we?" Out of this national self-reflection, he hoped, would emerge "a
country not of isms but one with normal conditions of human existence."

Only those conditions will cure Soviet ballet of the malaise that has afflicted
it for decades.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Aleksandra Koltun, left, and Zhanna Sinitsyna rehearsing for
"The Nutcracker" with the New Jersey Ballet (William E. Sauro/The New York
Times)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              308 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 17, 1991, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Supreme Court Roundup;
Court Rules Reservists in Training Have Unlimited Job Leave

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 934 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 16


The Supreme Court ruled today that military reservists and National Guard
members who entered full-time military training programs were legally entitled
to unlimited leaves of absence from their civilian jobs.

Voting 8 to 0, the Court overturned a ruling by a Federal appeals court that
Congress had implicitly required such leaves to be of "reasonable" duration.
That decision, issued in 1990 by the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th
Circuit in Atlanta, held that a Birmingham, Ala., hospital could reject as
"unreasonable" a Guarsdman's request for a three-year leave of absence to serve
in a full-time position as Alabama's top enlisted Guardsman.

In an opinion today by Justice David H. Souter, the Supreme Court said the
Federal law that protected the civilian jobs of those in military service was
"utterly silent abut any durational limit on the protection it provides."

The law at issue, the Veterans' Re-employment Rights Act, requires employers to
grant reservists and National Guard members leaves of absence "for the period
required to perform active duty for training or inactive duty training in the
armed forces of the United States."

The decision today does not apply to reservists who are called to active duty by
Presidential order, like those men and women who were sent to the Persian Gulf.
They are protected by another section of the law guaranteeing a four-year leave.

The case today applies to those who serve in special training programs that
require full-time duty of six months to three years. Some 45,000 reservists and
National Guard members are currently on such tours of "active duty for
training."

Federal courts were split over the re-employment rights of those seeking
extended leaves under these programs. Three Federal appellate circuits had
concluded that the statute implicitly incorporated a "reasonableness"
requirement, while another ruled last year that it did not.

The Federal Government, arguing that it was essential to enable people to serve
in the special training programs "free from economic insecurity," represented
the Alabama guardsman whose leave was at issue. William (Sky) King, a hospital
administrator, was a 35-year veteran of the Alabama Guard when he sought
appointment as command sergeant major, the top enlisted position in the state
Guard.

This position requires a three-year tour of full-time duty. Mr. King's employer,
St. Vincent's, went to Federal court for a ruling on whether it was obliged
under law to honor his request.

Justice Clarence Thomas did not participate in the case, King v. St. Vincent's
Hospital, No. 90-889, which was argued in October, before he joined the Court.

Other decisions at the Court today included these:

Restrictions on Aliens

The Court unanimously upheld an Immigration and Naturalization Service
regulation, adopted in 1983, that bars aliens who are facing deportation
proceedings from obtaining "unauthorized employment."

As interpreted by the Court today in an opinion by Justice John Paul Stevens,
the regulation means that aliens who are arrested and threatened with
deportation may not hold jobs during a temporary period of release from custody
if they do not have green cards or other authorization to work.

The decision, I.N.S. v. National Center for Immigrants' Rights, No. 90-1090,
overturned a ruling by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
in California. That court interpreted the regulation more broadly as applying
even to aliens who had work authorization, and invalidated the regulation as
unauthorized by law.

Safety Regulation

Accepting an appeal by the State of Illinois, the Court agreed to decide whether
states have the discretion, without prior Federal approval, to issue regulations
that protect both public health and worker safety at hazardous waste sites.

The safety of workers at such locations is regulated by a Federal agency, the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration. Under principles of Federal
pre-emption, a state may issue more stringent job safety regulations only after
first submitting its plan for the Federal agency's review.

In this case, Gade v. National Solid Wastes Management Assoc., No. 90-1676,
Illinois sought to protect not only worker safety but public health in the
vicinity of hazardous waste sites, a goal that is not part of the Federal
agency's mandate. The United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in
Chicago, ruled that "dual purpose" state regulations of this type were also
pre-empted.

Drug Testing

Without comment, the Court refused to hear a constitutional challenge to the
Justice Department's drug-testing policy, under which lawyers tentatively
accepted for employment with the department must submit to a urinalysis.

The challenge was brought by a lawyer, Carl Willner, who had tentatively been
offered a job in the department's antitrust division. After the department
refused to waive the rule, Mr. Willner sued on the ground that the test, in the
absence of any suspicion of drug use, was an unreasonable search in violation of
the Fourth Amendment.

Judge Gerhard A. Gesell of Federal District Court here agreed, declaring the
test unconstitutional. But the United States Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia Circuit overturned that ruling in a 2-to-1 decision, with Judge A.
Raymond Randolph stating in the majority opinion, "If individuals view drug
testing as an indignity to be avoided, they need only refrain from applying" for
a job at the Justice Department.

Mr. Willner's appeal was Willner v. Barr, No. 91-448.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              309 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 19, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Debating Park Service Plan To Raze Ellis I. Buildings

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 902 words


The buildings were there when the immigrants poured into Ellis Island in the
early 1900's: the morgue and the crematory, the contagious-disease wards, the
furnace and laundry. But do they have enough historic merit to save them from
the wrecker's ball?

That was the dominant question at a 3 1/2-hour hearing Tuesday night on the
National Park Service's plan to demolish 12 buildings to make room for a
privately owned, $145 million conference center with 325 rooms for overnight
guests.

Gerald Patten, the service's regional director, said 99.5 percent of the 12
million immigrants who passed through Ellis Island never saw these buildings on
the southern half of the island. He argued that the crumbling structures account
for only 10 percent of the building space on the island and are not critical to
a full appreciation of its past. The past, he said, is best remembered in the
exhibits in the island's refurbished Great Hall, the site of Tuesday's hearing.

"This building is substantial enough to tell all the stories of Ellis Island,"
Mr. Patten said. Speaking of the plan, he said, "I think care has been taken to
minimize the impact on the island's historic fabric."

Site of the Nightmare

The most poignant rejoinder came from Ken Fitch, a Manhattan writer, who said
the joy most immigrants felt on Ellis Island was mixed with the dread felt by
ailing immigrants that they would be deported.

"The southern half of the island -- unknown, unseen and hidden -- is the
physicalization of that fear," Mr. Fitch said. "It is the place where the
nightmare dwells. We cannot underestimate the power of a place to teach."
Destroying the buildings destroys the memory of Ellis's most wretched residents,
Mr. Fitch said.

About 40 people spoke at the hearing, and they were evenly divided on the plan.

Preservationists argued to save the 12 buildings, calling them critical to the
full educational value of the island and a true interpretation of its past. A
commercial venture, most of them said, was not appropriate in what they called a
shrine to the nation's immigrant history and ethnic diversity.

Supporters called the conference center plan a boon to tourism and an
opportunity to create new jobs and tax revenues. They said it would be ideal for
international summit meetings and would bring new bustle to New York Harbor. In
addition, they said, the island's 18 other decaying buildings would be rebuilt,
their facades intact, as part of the conference center. And scientific and
academic groups and the general public would be able to use the center on
weekends and holidays and on summer days when corporate conferences ebb.

The Park Service's allies included two Democratic Congressmen, Charles B. Rangel
of Manhattan and Frank Guarini of Jersey City; leaders of several labor unions,
the American Institute of Architects, and various business groups, including the
New York Hotel and Motel Trades Council and the Association for a Better New
York.

In a statement read by an aide, Mr. Rangel said that he regretted the loss of
the crematory, morgue and hospital wards, which he said "should not be
denigrated."

"However," he added, "neither should they be so revered as to prevent rational,
responsible, preservation-minded development that serves the public and national
interests from moving forward."

A critic, J. Jackson Walter, president of the National Trust for Historic
Preservation, said the ancestors of 40 percent of Americans came through Ellis
Island. He questioned whether a private conference center conveyed the true
significance of the island and whether Americans would be proud of it 50 years
from today.

"Economics simply can't be what Ellis Island is all about," Mr. Walter said.
"This place is authentic. That reality needs to be preserved." Mr. Walter called
for a national debate on the issue.

Another critic, Clark Strickland, president of the Preservation League of New
York State, appealed to Congress and the public to provide funds to preserve all
30 decaying buildings.

Mr. Patten, the Park Service official, said the agency has a $200 million
capital budget, a backlog of $2 billion in rehabilitation and repair work at its
parks and landmarks and, consequently, no money for Ellis Island.

For years, the service had insisted on using existing buildings for a conference
center. But its developer, William Hubbard of New York City, was unable to raise
the financing until International Conference Resorts of America of Scottsdale,
Ariz., offered to put up the money if the 12 buildings were demolished.

After the hearing, Michael Adlerstein, the park service's regional chief of
urban projects, said officials would meet with the historic preservation
officers of New York State and New Jersey and the Advisory Council on Historic
Preservation, which advises President Bush and Congress on proposed changes to
national landmark property.

"We'll try to find an acceptable plan within the concept of an international
conference center that satisfies concerns the public raised," Mr. Adlerstein
said.

During the hearing, New York State's preservation officer, Orin Lehman, said the
proposal "tramples on the evocative nature of the island." New Jersey, however,
softened its past criticism of the plan. James Hall, New Jersey's deputy
preservation officer, called it "reasonable" and urged that more hearings be
held.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A crowd waited outside a hearing room in the Great Hall at Ellis
Island before entering a meeting held by the National Park Service. The service
plans to demolish 12 buildings to make room for a $145 million conference
center. Preservationists argued against the move. (F. N. Kinney for The New York
Times)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              310 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 27, 1991, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Listen, New York, This Man Just Wants to Learn English

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1598 words


Sam Baraker, who arrived in Brooklyn 10 months ago from Ukraine, has been
looking for someone who will speak English with him. He spends five mornings a
week in an English class for immigrants, but that is not enough.

"I have no friends in America," he said. "Now I have an empty life. I cannot
connect. If I have language, and job, then I have full life. I need learn
English. I need conversation with people."

He has not found it on the subway. (Could there be a worse place for anyone, let
alone a foreigner, to meet someone than on the subway in New York?) He rides
with his notebook open to his vocabulary list (the words include token,
turnstile, transfer). "I say, 'Can you help me with pronunciation?' " he
explained. "Some people help me. Then I say, 'Maybe we meet after for speak
English.' I give my telephone number. I say, 'Call me.' No one call me."

1-800-TALK TO ME

Mr. Baraker, who repaired electronic watches in his country and wishes he could
find a job here, says he understands. "American people work very hard," he said.
"Very busy. Don't have time speak with me."

He has made it his job to learn English every waking hour. No Americans
telephone him. So Mr. Baraker, whose ingenuity in learning the language awes his
English teacher, Donna Harkavy, telephones them. In his notebook, after the
sections on idioms, grammar and vocabulary, are two pages filled with toll-free
numbers for ordering catalogues -- Tiffany & Company, L. L. Bean, J. Crew, 47th
Street Photo, the Body Shop, Ann Taylor, American Express, Metropolitan Museum
of Art, Sears Farm and Ranch Implements, to name a few.

To order the catalogues, of course, requires conversation. "I speak with people
all over America -- Michigan, California, Colorado," he said.

It is hard enough for New Yorkers who speak the same language to meet one
another. For Mr. Baraker and his 20 classmates struggling to scale the most
formidable barrier of their new lives -- the English language -- the hardest
thing to find in New York may be an American who will converse with them. More
than just hello, how are you and can you tell me how much this costs.

Like the long-distance 800 numbers he calls, Mr. Baraker's English class,
offered through the Board of Education's Office of Adult and Continuing
Education, is free. He is on public assistance and so budget-minded that he
collects the handbills other people discard on the street and does his English
homework on the back. (First, of course, he reads aloud the words on the front,
like "Bomber Jackets" and "Love Store.")

Lonely Christmas Eve

Mr. Baraker, who is 40 years old and who studied mechanical engineering in
Ukraine, feels more at ease discussing computer software and stereo speakers
than, say, jewelry from Tiffany's or sweaters from J. Crew. On Tuesday, when
other New Yorkers were crowding into stores for some last-minute Christmas
shopping, he was on the phone with a salesman at the Crutchfield Corporation, a
discount mail-order electronics company in Charlottesville, Va. He sat on his
narrow bed in his sparsely furnished apartment in Bensonhurst, where he lives
alone, with the catalogue open to page 76.

This is how Mr. Baraker's end of the conversation went:

"I would like know about Sony digital tape recorder on page 76. I interested in
this tape recorder."

"What is price?"

"What kind of tape this tape recorder use?"

"Thank you for information about this digital tape recorder."

"Good-bye. Have a nice day. Have a nice Christmas."

Mr. Baraker was genuinely interested in the tape recorder. He considered it a
bargain, at $599, though he could never afford it. He could not put a price on
the conversation. With his class on holiday recess, it was the longest
conversation in English he would have all day.

Mr. Baraker's class has 20 other students from 14 countries, including
Czechoslovakia, Thailand, Haiti, the Dominican Republic and Zaire. They are all
determined to learn English. They spend five mornings a week at it in a basement
classroom on Bedford Avenue in Crown Heights.

One student, Irma Gudino, who was an accountant in Ecuador and is a babysitter
in Brooklyn, told the class the other day, "I speak only a few words of English
on the street, or with my kids." This is not the Mrs. Gudino of English class.
"That's why here I'm talking, talking, talking."

Talk About Alienation

The week before Christmas Ms. Harkavy showed the movie "E. T." The students said
they all knew how E. T. felt. "I feel like alien," said Panya Tanthaviwat, who
is 22 and from Thailand. "When I go into store and ask for something, they say,
'What you say? Speak louder? Where you from? Go back your country.' "

Mr. Baraker talked his way (in English) into the Level IV class in late October,
six weeks after it had started. "His English wasn't really up to the level of
the others," Ms. Harkavy said. "But he was so good at negotiating the system."

His first days in class Mr. Baraker sat mutely in the back row, punching new
words into his electronic Russian-English dictionary, with its lettered buttons
and miniature display screen. He spent hours copying down the names and numbers
of catalogues from Ms. Harkavy's old magazines.

"I thought, 'This guy is really weird,' " said Ms. Harkavy, who has been
teaching English as a second language for five years.

By December she had revised her assessment of Mr. Baraker. "Sam is brilliant,"
she said. No student, she said, had ever made such rapid progress. He didn't
seem weird anymore, just obsessed.

"As he's had the words, his humanity has come through," Ms. Harkavy said. "His
whole personality has been revealed."

At the Christmas party, Mr. Baraker revealed a poetic side. "First we have
conversation, then Champagne," he told the class, describing the holiday in his
country. "After midnight, dancing. Then everyone go outside and walk under pine
trees. Very beautiful."

Olga Hernandez, from the Dominican Republic, was inspired. "I love Russian
writers," she told Mr. Baraker. "Dostoevsky, Anna Karenina. I read in Spanish."

"Pushkin is the best," Mr. Baraker said. He was enjoying the party. But then,
remembering himself, he added: "I have no time for Russian writers now. I must
study English."

He starts first thing every morning by strapping on his Walkman, which he keeps
tuned to WINS, the all-news station, because it offers him the most words. He
watches television for eight hours every night, listening with headphones, the
better to make out the words.

"TV help me understand American language and culture," he said.

When Mr. Baraker arrived in America, the English language was as indecipherable
to him as the snowy images on a malfunctioning television screen. He had no
reception.

"When I first came to U.S., everything "blah, blah, blah, blah,"' he said. "I
don't understand anything. If I take train, I don't understand when say what
stop. After three, four months I start to understand."

The other day he demonstrated one of his learning techniques for Stephan
Poppick, the coordinator of the Adult Learning Center, where the English class
is held. "This picture dictionary for me," Mr. Baraker said, turning to the
kitchen section of a Macy's advertising supplement. He read aloud: "Cookie tin,
muffin pan, bundt pan. Calphalon -- this Teflon in Russia."

It isn't just the words that attract Mr. Baraker. "I am interested in all
products of America," he said.

His America is contained in the two large cardboard boxes he keeps on his
bedroom floor. Inside is his constantly expanding collection of catalogues,
which at last count numbered close to 200. Americans abroad in search of the
real Mexico, or the real Thailand, say, like to visit the markets. Mr. Baraker
can browse through the marketplace of America without leaving his bedroom. He
can afford almost nothing.

Mr. Baraker was elated three weeks ago when he arrived in class. His relatives
in New York had chipped in to buy him a discount mail-order computer. But three
days later, he reported: "Computer have virus. Hard drive not working. Floppy
drive not working."

He telephoned Allan Arimoto, the technical support man at the computer company,
Profix Inc., in Los Angeles. "Eight hundred number," Mr. Baraker said.

Mr. Arimoto tried to help. "I spent hours on the phone with him," he said. "He
didn't know how to use the DOS command language. He said he had read the book,
but he couldn't understand it, which is understandable."

Finally, Mr. Baraker mailed back the computer. Mr. Arimoto has promised a full
refund.

Mr. Baraker had not lost his sense of humor. "Soviet Union dead," he said last
week. "Computer dead."

This new immigrant says he thinks America is a great country, even if his skills
seem obsolete here. "My profession don't need in New York," he said. "Cost maybe
$5 to repair watch. Go on Broadway, buy new watch for $1." He hopes to find work
repairing electronic equipment.

First, though, he has to master English. The other day he was talking about the
homeless people he sees all over Manhattan.

"Make me sad," he said. He paused, searching for the words to describe human
beings living on the street. "It's terrific."

"I mean terrible!" he said, embarrassed. "Homeless is terrible."

Yes, he said, he understood the difference. "Now my life terrible," he said.
"Maybe in future my life be terrific."

The Series So Far

The first article in this series appeared on Nov. 28. It described the immigrant
students' celebration of the quintessential American holiday, Thanksgiving.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: America 101: Learning the Language - An occasional visit to an English
class for immigrants

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Now I have an empty life," said Sam Baraker, right, who arrived
in Brooklyn 10 months ago from Ukraine. "I cannot connect. If I have language,
and job, then I have full life. I need learn English. I need conversation with
people." With him at an English class was was Meyer Sadigursky. (Marilynn K.
Yee/The New York Times) (pg. B4)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              311 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 29, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Human Tides: The Influx in Europe - A special report.;
Europeans Look for Ways To Bar Door to Immigrants

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2716 words

DATELINE: LONDON, Dec. 28


The "fortress Europe" that Americans, Japanese and other outsiders fear when the
European Community finally becomes a tariff-free, continent-wide market at the
end of next year is already being built. But its walls are intended to keep out
people, not commodities.

A flood of people fleeing poverty and political unrest in parts of Eastern
Europe, in Africa and in South Asia has combined with years of high unemployment
in Europe to inflame social and political tensions not only in European
Community countries but in Austria and Switzerland as well.

A total of 500,000 people applied for asylum in Western Europe as a whole last
year, according to the British Home Secretary, Kenneth Baker. And as
unemployment levels have risen in every major European economy this year,
popular resentment at the influx has nurtured right-wing political movements in
Belgium, Switzerland, France and Germany, among others.

Heaviest Influx in Germany

Time-consuming asylum procedures, including an obligation to house and feed
applicants while their cases are being decided, are also imposing a drain on
governments already hard pressed to meet welfare demands, and raising questions
about how European countries that have never thought of themselves as ethnic
melting pots can preserve their national identities.

The influx has been heaviest in Germany, which because of its past is the
European country most inhibited from just sending the refugees packing. As the
richest European nation and with a population just over 79 million, it already
has its hands full coping with the estimated 2.5 million ethnic Germans from
Eastern Europe who have taken up citizenship over the last three years, a right
the 1949 Constitution automatically guaranteed to Germans everywhere.

While 500,000 applications for asylum does not seem a lot in a continent of more
than 300 million people, there are hundreds of thousands more illegal immigrants
in most of the principal countries. Until 1985, the number of applications for
asylum in Europe and North America combined had never exceeded 250,000.

Not since the collapse of colonialism after World War II have the countries of
Europe faced influxes of people on such a scale. Then, the immigration of
hundreds of thousands of Indians and Pakistanis helped change the face of
Britain, as the flow of North and Central Africans changed the faces of France
and Belgium.

Now the process is repeating itself in countries that had no overseas empires,
challenging Germans, for instance, to re-examine their long-held aversion to
immigration by other ethnic groups. While the Europeans are only groping for
answers, they seem more intent this time on keeping as many of these people out
as they can, if only they can find a way.

Last summer, Italy sent entire boatloads of would-be asylum-seekers from Albania
back across the Adriatic Sea, much as the United States has been barring
Haitians from coming across the Caribbean.

Spian
 Public Attitudes Largely Tolerant

European approaches to the problem vary greatly from country to country. In
Spain, which has tolerated large-scale illegal immigration from Morocco for
years, public attitudes so far are relatively tolerant.

Abdalia Aziz Dukuly, a 27-year-old refugee from the civil war in Liberia,
discovered that life in Spain would not be easy after he arrived in the Canary
Islands on a freighter from Mauretania on Oct. 29. "I lost my family, so I had
nothing to lose," he said one recent morning at the Spanish Red Cross
headquarters in Madrid, waiting in a corridor with a score of other refugees,
most of them new arrivals from Africa.

"My mother was killed in the fighting," he said, "and I made up my mind to come
and hide in Europe. They told me in Las Palmas that Spain couldn't accept me
unless I went to the capital, so here I am."

It is not easy to establish grounds to stay in any European country as a
refugee. Under the terms of the 1951 United Nations Convention that all European
Community countries, as well as the United States, are pledged to observe,
asylum can be granted only to someone who can prove a "well-founded fear of
being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a
particular social group or political opinion."

Only seven percent of applications for refugee or asylum status in Spain are
approved, a figure roughly typical for the whole of the European Community, and
for a basic reason: Most "refugees" coming to Europe actually want to build a
better life for themselves, either here or, eventually, back home, and perhaps
therefore are better described as immigrants.

Since few European countries permit much immigration at all, the only way to get
a foot in the door is to sneak into countries like Spain, which until recently
did not even require visas of people coming over from Morocco, or to fly into an
airport and ask for asylum, then taking advantage of the time it takes to
determine qualification to settle down and take root anyway.

But gradually, the new arrivals are beginning to change the face of the country
in unexpected ways, even in Spain, where the numbers -- about 5,000 a year --
are relatively small in a total population of more than 39 million. A surprising
number of Spaniards had never laid eyes on a black person before Africans began
arriving, for instance.

"King Balthazar was the only black most people here had ever been familiar
with," said Felix Barrena, director of the Spanish Red Cross Center for
Assistance to Foreigners, referring to one of the Three Magi.

Referring to the difficulties asylum-seekers have in being integrated in Spanish
society, he said: "It's a social problem, not a racial problem, in my
experience. People see refugees sleeping in the parks, and last summer some of
them were caught selling drugs on the Plaza de Espana, and they make
stereotypical judgments."

So far Spain has been spared the kind of organized campaigns against foreigners
that have seen gangs of skinheads demonstrate against and attack Vietnamese and
other refugees in some of the hardest-hit industrial towns in eastern Germany,
where unemployment after the collapse of the Communist economy has soared to
around 50 percent of the work force.

Germany
 Both Acceptance And Resistance

The integration of foreigners, whether they are immigrants or refugees, has come
a long way in Germany, which has had substantial populations of Yugoslavs, Turks
and Italians since the 1960's, when they were invited in as "guest workers."

In Berlin, for example, 312,374 foreigners now make up 11 percent of the
population, and 136,302 of them are Turks. In 1960, there were only 22,065
non-German people in the city.

The civil war in Yugoslavia has sent more Yugoslavs fleeing into Germany in
recent months, and they have displaced Romanians as the largest single group
seeking asylum there.

Many Germans have been as shocked as the rest of the world by the beatings and
firebomb attacks on refugee centers. As Barbara John, the Berlin city official
in charge of helping foreigners, sees it, the public image of Germany as a
country where neo-Nazi thugs terrorize anybody who does not look German distorts
the true picture.

"That has happened mainly in the East, and it's a sign of the collapse of the
old system and of the order that held it up," she said.

Racism in a mostly homogeneous, white society like Germany can hide better than
it does in a country like Britain or Belgium that had to accept a large number
of immigrants from former colonies.

And Mrs. John was optimistic. "We know many Germans don't object to foreigners
being here," she said. Hundreds of thousands of them took to the streets in
November to protest the harassment of foreigners and to demand that the
authorities do more to stop it.

The reason Germany attracts almost two-thirds of the total number of
asylum-seekers in the European Community, according to many officials, is that
the German Constitution gives them a better chance of getting one foot in the
door. It allows anyone a chance to make a claim and obliges the state to look
after them while officials painstakingly examine it.

Chancellor Helmut Kohl tried this year to get the Constitution changed to allow
a speedup in the examination procedure, which might discourage some "refugees"
from coming, but he was blocked by the opposition Social Democrats.

Failing that, he tried at the meeting of European leaders in Maastricht, the
Netherlands, to get the others to agree to a common asylum and immigration
policy to be decided by majority vote. Instead, they agreed to coordinate them
as closely as possible by the end of 1993, in effect putting off an attempt to
find a solution.

"Politicians show a helplessness that confuses and disturbs voters," Mrs. John
said. One way out, she suggested, might be for countries like Germany to give up
the pretense that they do not allow immigration -- since most of the asylum
seekers who stay on are not expelled even if they are rejected -- and instead to
set limits on numbers of immigrants.

With civil war in Yugoslavia and economic chaos in the territory of the old
Soviet Union, German newspapers and magazines often speak of the threat of
millions of refugees flooding in unless something is done to bar the door. But
so far, the main group that has come are the descendants of ethnic Germans
imported into Russia in the 18th century by Catherine the Great.  And according
to the weekly news magazine Der Spiegel, only 50,000 non-Germans have been
granted German citizenship in the last 10 years.

France
 New Citizens And Illegal Aliens

In France, by contrast, the census of 1990 showed that 1.77 million people who
had acquired their French citizenship were living in the country at the end of
the year, representing 3.13 percent of the total population of more than 56
million.

Estimates of the number of foreigners living illegally in France range to the
hundreds of thousands. Many of them work in the construction industry in big
cities like Paris, Lyon or Marseille, according to Michel Devacht, a caseworker
with the French Democratic Confederation of Labor.

"Any economist will tell you these people are necessary for the economy," Mr.
Devacht said, because they do dirty or disagreeable work that French workers no
longer want to do.  "But there are three million unemployed, so they are a
scapegoat."

Last month, the ultra-right National Front party of Jean-Marie Le Pen proposed
an anti-immigration platform that would ship out unwanted aliens by boat, and
put those awaiting expulsion into guarded camps.

It is not competition for jobs, but skin color that often defines the true
nature of the antagonism, according to many experts.

"What worries the French is not the number of people who are legally foreigners,
but the number of non-European immigrants and their children," Robert Sole wrote
last month in the daily Le Monde.

Mr. Devacht said, "Eastern Europeans are invisible." Black Africans and people
from the formerly French territories of North Africa stood out and were
resented, even though statistics show that the North Africans are 80 percent
more likely to lose their jobs in hard times than "native" French workers are,
according to Mr. Sole.

Britain
New Rules Due On Asylum-Seekers

Nowhere is the racist aspect of the new European anxiety about immigrants more
open than in Britain, where there were fewer than 20,000 nonwhite residents
before the collapse of the empire.

Today the nonwhite population is about 2.6 million, 4.7 percent of the
population of about 56 million and more than half of them of Indian, Pakistani
or Bangladeshi origin, according to official statistics, and about one-fifth of
West Indian origin. Yet it is still possible for a well-dressed black man to
walk into a barbershop, as one did near Victoria Station the other day, and
cause all three Italian barbers to stop snipping. Asked what he wanted, the man
answered, "A haircut." Apologetically but firmly, the chief barber answered, "We
don't know how to cut your kind of hair."

British immigration from former colonies has been largely stopped, and only
about 50,000 people a year are accepted here for settlement every year, many of
them from Canada or Australia. The thought that more are seeking entry, most of
them from Asia or Africa, raises fears among some Britons that their country
might soon become ethnically unrecognizable.

Applications for asylum in Britain have risen from 5,000 in 1988 to an estimated
50,000 this year, according to Home Secretary Baker.

The British are enacting new legislation so the authorities can determine
whether asylum-seekers qualify within 90 days, instead of years as before.
Refugees would have only two days to appeal refusals, in writing, to immigration
officials who could decide, without a hearing, within five days whether an
"arguable" case exists.

"I do not think the problem is a question of numbers, though numbers make it
worse," wrote Charles Moore in The Spectator Magazine, known for its
conservatism, earlier this fall.

"It is a question of race," he went on. "You can be British without speaking
English or being Christian or being white, but nevertheless Britain is basically
English-speaking, Christian and white, and if one starts to think that it might
become basically Urdu-speaking and Muslim and brown, one gets frightened and
angry."

So the reaction has led, as it has in other European countries, to pressure to
crack down and keep more such people out. At the beginning of November, Britain
doubled the fine on foreign airlines that fly in foreigners without proper entry
documents, from £1,000 to £2,000, or $3,600, per person.

The problem, as Amnesty International and other organizations that look after
the rights of asylum-seekers and refugees have pointed out, is that most people
who do qualify for asylum are likely as not to arrive without passports or visas
because asking for them in the countries from which they fled could have been
dangerous.

Increasingly, the London-based human rights organization said in a report at the
end of November, all governments in Europe, not just Britain's, are taking a
restrictive approach toward asylum-seekers. And increasingly, they are playing
with people's lives.

Last March, in an example Amnesty International cited in its report, 17 Tamils
from Sri Lanka, which has been torn by civil strife for the last several years,
arrived at Schwechat Airport in Vienna and claimed asylum. The Austrian
authorities turned them back to Rome, through which they had passed in transit
on their way to Vienna, saying that because they had first arrived on Italian
soil, Italy should consider their claim first.

"In Vienna, they were held in the transit lounge and denied access to a U.N.
representative," Amnesty International reported. Upon their return to Italy,
they were sent back to Sri Lanka as "deportees in transit" from Austria.

United Nations officials said later that at least some of the Tamils had
presented "clear grounds for asylum" to the Austrian airport authorities,
according to Amnesty.

The Outlook
Restrictions Seem Most Likely

Small wonder, perhaps, that at Maastricht, the European Community countries
agreed to leave asylum policies in the hands of national governments, for the
most part, instead of agreeing to common policies.

"That would have lost us our ability to control our own borders," said a British
official close to Prime Minister John Major. "The long-term solution is to
strengthen everybody's external frontiers."

The outlook, as Eastern Europe and the lands of the former Soviet Union continue
to be wracked by upheavals, is for a restrictive policy that, in most countries,
favors whites from Eastern Europe who can speak the language of the country they
seek to settle in and have, in the eyes of the authorities, a reasonable chance
of economic success.

"Either we continue with a very restrictive immigration policy," Mr. Moore wrote
in The Spectator, "or we develop a more liberal one which is more 'racist.' "

With nationalist parties feeding off the discontent with the present trend in
Belgium, Germany, Austria, and France, many outsiders fear that he may be right.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 12, 1992, Sunday

CORRECTION:

An article on Dec. 29 about migration in Europe misstated an eligibility rule
for German citizenship. The 1949 constitution offers citizenship to ethnic
Germans from all former territories of the Third Reich, and to people who were
deprived of German citizenship on political, racial or religious grounds by the
Nazis.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Resentment over the growing number of refugees and immigrants in
Western Europe has nurtured right-wing political movements in several countries.
The influx has been heaviest in Germany where right-wing youths marched in Halle
in November waving old German flags in protest. (Agence France-Presse)

TYPE: Special report

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              312 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 30, 1991, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Editorial Notebook;
Europe, Fearful

BYLINE: By DIANE CAMPER

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 606 words


"I can't even count the number of conferences on immigration I've been to in the
last few months," said an international consultant on migration issues. "There's
a lot of talk about the subject, but nothing much is being done about it."

The speaker was one of about 45 people at a recent conference on "Immigration
Policies in the Developed World," convened in England by the Ditchley
Foundations, which have sponsored Anglo-American conferences for 30 years. The
participants were Western officials, demographic experts, academics and
journalists. They were encouraged to speak openly on the understanding that
their remarks would not be attributed.

What emerged was fear. Not fear of the racism of young neo-Nazis who have
attacked immigrants in Germany.  Not fear of the hateful anti-immigrant rhetoric
spouted by right-wing politicians like Jean-Marie Le Pen in France. Among the
European participants, there was fear of being overwhelmed by "strangers at the
gate."

Among the other participants, particularly from the U.S., Canada and Australia,
which are used to accepting and assimilating different groups of people, there
was a strong sense that Europe has to do more than just talk about and try to
control "the problem."

No one knows exactly how extensive the flow of migrants will be. But the panic
arises from concern that the numbers will be uncontrollable, and that the
newcomers will represent deep differences of race, culture and religion,
particularly Islam.

Those fears cloud the response to who the "strangers" might be. Economic
migrants, who are traditionally subject to immigration controls, are lumped
together with refugees fleeing political persecution. It is refugees who have
the greatest claim on humanitarian impulses from richer societies.

As one United Nations official noted, most of the future refugees are likely to
be fleeing generalized violence, not individual persecution.  That may call for
broader regional responses to supplement the efforts of individual countries to
give sanctuary to individual asylum seekers. But thus far, Europe's response has
been stingy: tighter border controls and stricter visa requirements.

Philip Rudge, general secretary of the European Consultation on Refugees and
Exiles, who was not a conference participant, wonders whether the new European
community is "creating an economic giant, but a human rights dwarf."

Demography frightens Europeans still more. One British scholar predicts that in
the next decade the population of Africa will double to 1.2 billion, raising the
prospect of a mass of starving people heading north. An American professor
suggested that Europe's reaction might be different if the economies of the
developed countries were more stable. Why let in immigrant workers when there
are some 12 million unemployed in Europe?

After three days, there were no concrete solutions but some worthwhile
suggestions. One U.S. Government official urged European countries to stop
talking about "the problem and try to start managing the issue." That would
include developing coherent and flexible migration policies, particularly for
likely new categories of asylum seekers. Also discussed were regional
containment of disputes and establishing protection for some persecuted people
within their own borders.

Mostly, perhaps, Europe and other developed countries need a greater sense of
positive urgency. As the United Nations official noted, it is the rich and
powerful nations that, ultimately, set the international agenda. "If you are not
moved to do it out of a spirit of decency, then do it for self-preservation."

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              313 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 5, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Duke Takes His Anger Into 1992 Race

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1126 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4


David Duke, the former grand wizard of the Ku Klux Klan who polarized Louisiana
politics with his angry campaigns against welfare and affirmative action,
announced today that he was entering the race for the Republican Presidential
nomination.

Mr. Duke, who declared his candidacy in a packed news conference at the National
Press Building here, accused President Bush of "selling out" the Republican
Party by signing a new civil rights bill, by raising taxes and by failing to
protect American workers from foreign competition.

The former Klansman and one-time neo-Nazi touched on nearly every volatile issue
in American politics: immigration, taxes, crime, racial preferences, "the
welfare illegitimate birth rate," the undermining of "Christian society" to the
point "where we can't even sing Christmas carols in many of our public schools
anymore."

Racial Allusions in Speech

Despite careful security, he was interrupted several times by protesters, but
rarely missed a beat. His speech was riddled with allusions to race and
ethnicity. On the subject of trade, he said, "We must go to the Japanese and
say, 'You no buy our rice, we no buy your cars.' " He described the Democratic
Party as the party of "Jesse Jackson and Ron Brown," referring to the former
Presidential candidate and the chairman of the Democratic National Committee,
both of whom are black.

He also mispronounced the name of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York, pronouncing
it, "Kew-mo." In every instance, when later asked, Mr. Duke replied he did not
mean to make any racial or ethnic point.

Mr. Duke said he would be entering primaries around the country but suggested he
saw particularly ripe opportunities in the South, where a cluster of states will
hold primaries on March 10. He said he would not enter the Feb. 18 primary in
New Hampshire, contending there was a lack of time. This means that Mr. Bush
will now face a two-front challenge: in New Hampshire from Patrick J. Buchanan,
the conservative commentator and former Nixon and Reagan White House aide who is
expected to enter the race next Tuesday, and in the South from Mr. Duke.

Analysts say Mr. Duke's greatest peril to Mr. Bush could be if he uses the
primaries to build a basis for an independent challenge next fall, which Mr.
Duke said today he was "not ruling out." Few analysts expect Mr. Duke to pose
anything like the challenge that George C. Wallace did in 1968 with his
independent candidacy, when by some estimates the former Governor of Alabama
captured more than 60 percent of the white vote in the Deep South states, and 14
percent of the total vote nationwide.

Complicating Primary Season

But Mr. Duke could be troublesome for Mr. Bush, particularly in a close race in
a bad economy, when an independent candidate getting 2 to 3 percent of the vote
in a state could make a very big difference.

Republican strategists and analysts contend that neither Mr. Buchanan nor Mr.
Duke poses a serious threat to Mr. Bush's renomination, although they certainly
complicate a primary season that had been expected to be a mere formality for
the Bush forces.

"They've got four things they never imagined would happen: Buchanan in New
Hampshire, Duke in the South, the economy probably headed into a second-stage
problem and the American electorate sick of Bush running around overseas," said
Kevin Phillips, a conservative analyst.

The White House, which has repeatedly disavowed Mr. Duke and denied his claim to
the Republican label, responded stonily to his announcement today. "We've denied
him every way from Sunday," said Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman.

But the Republicans' inability to shake Mr. Duke was underscored today as the
Presidential motorcade rolled back to the White House from a hotel where Mr.
Bush was speaking. As the Presidential limousine turned a corner, the doors of a
taxi flew open and Mr. Duke emerged to watch the procession. Mr. Bush later
ignored reporters who asked if he had noticed.

Attacking Bush's Right Flank

Mr. Duke clearly intends to nip at Mr. Bush's right flank. "We've had a bigger
government under the Republican Administration; we've had bigger taxes, we've
had affirmative action, we've had an increase in the welfare system, and we've
had an increase in foreign aid," Mr. Duke said.

Mr. Duke said Mr. Bush had the opportunity even now to roll back affirmative
action programs, adding, "I want to say this to George Bush -- you know, whether
I run third party or not is going to depend on what he does."

The Duke Presidential candidacy has been expected almost from the moment he was
defeated in last month's runoff for governor of Louisiana. Mr. Duke, a
41-year-old State Representative whose term ends on Jan. 12, was soundly
defeated by former Gov. Edwin W. Edwards, a Democrat. But the former Klansman
carried 55 percent of the white vote -- much of it, some analysts said, an angry
protest vote against politics as usual. What is unknown, and what is sharply
debated in political circles, is how transferable Mr. Duke's appeal is to other
parts of the country.

It is also unclear whether Mr. Duke can sufficiently organize to compete in
Republican primaries around the nation. Some Republicans said voters likely to
participate in Republican Presidential primaries tended to be party regulars --
not the disaffected voters, many of them Democrats, who swelled Mr. Duke's vote
in Louisiana.

Standard Themes

Mr. Duke hit many of his standard themes today. For example, he argued, "We've
got to reduce the welfare illegitimate birth rate," asserting that preference in
housing allocations, job programs and other benefits should go to those "who go
without having an illegitimate child over a certain period of time.'

He argued "whether we call affirmative action quotas or whether we simply call
it racial preference," such policies discriminate against white people and were
simply "wrong." Mr. Duke also denied the frequent charge that he is a racist,
following his customary argument that his Klan activity was a youthful excess.

Mr. Duke said today that he believed immigration policies would be a major issue
in the election, arguing that "the time has come in America to limit and stop
the illegal immigration into our society." He added: "What's happening is, we
are unraveling. We're losing our way. This country is overwhelmingly European
descent. It's overwhelmingly Christian. And if we lose our underpinning, I think
we're going to lose the foundations of America."

Mr. Duke's professed born-again Christianity came under fire toward the end of
his campaign in Louisiana, when some Christian conservatives questioned his
sincerity and suggested he was using religion as a political ploy.

NAME: David Duke

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: As David Duke, left, announced his candidacy for the Republican
Presidential nomination, a security guard blocked a protester, Rabbi Avi Weiss,
whose sign read, "David Duke Nazi of the 90's." (Reuters)

Chart: "David Ernest Duke"

Republican Presidential Contender

Current Job: Louisiana State Representative since 1989. Term expires Jan. 12.

Born: July 1, 1950, in Tulsa, Okla.

Education: Louisiana State University, B.A. 1974.

Religion: Protestant.

Military service: None.

Martial status: Married to Chloe Hardin in 1975; divorced in 1984.

Children: Erika, 16; Kristin, 14.

Other government positions: None.

Other positions: Grand wizard, Kngihts of the Ku Klux Klan 1975-1980; founder
and president, National Association for the Advancement of White People,
1980-1990.

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              314 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 12, 1991, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Ronald Sanders, 58, Who Wrote On Jewish History and Dispersal

BYLINE: By GLENN FOWLER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 13; Column 3; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 451 words


Ronald Sanders, a writer who specialized in Jewish history and the immigrant
experience in New York and elsewhere, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan.
He was 58 years old.

He died of bone and liver cancer, his family said.

Mr. Sanders, a former editor of Midstream, the Zionist monthly journal, wrote
extensively on Jews in Palestine and in the communities around the world to
which they dispersed. He also dealt with the development of racism in America,
which he traced to Columbian times.

His most popular book, "The Downtown Jews: Portrait of an Immigrant Generation,"
published by Harper & Row in 1970, detailed life on the Lower East Side
beginning with the first wave of Russian Jewish arrivals in the 1880's. He paid
particular attention to the cultural and ideological ferment that gave birth to
a radical movement that fostered the formation of the International Ladies
Garment Workers and other trade unions.

A Demographic Contrast

In his most recent book, "Shores of Refuge: A Hundred Years of Jewish
Emigration" (Henry Holt, 1988), Mr. Sanders provides an account of the
population movement that has resulted in the fact that half the world's Jewish
population lives in the Western Hemisphere, a stark contrast with the third
quarter of the 19th century, when four of five Jews lived in Eastern and Central
Europe.

In "Israel: The View From Masada," published in 1966, he offered an analysis of
the cross-currents in that country's Jewish personality, notably the conflicts
between Israelis with roots in central Europe and other Jews.

Mr. Sanders himself was half Jewish. He was born in Union City, N.J., to a
Jewish mother and a gentile father, both immigrants from England, and grew up in
Brooklyn. "Reflections on a Teapot," published in 1972, was a memoir inspired by
a tune written by his father, George, a songwriter and arranger.

Mr. Sanders was a graduate of Kenyon College and held a master's degree in
history from Columbia. He taught at Queens College in the late 1950's and early
1960's. In 1988 he was named to the B. G. Rudolph Chair in Jewish Studies at
Syracuse University but was unable to accept it because of ill health.

His other books included "The High Walls of Jerusalem," a study of the Balfour
Declaration of 1917 that pledged British support for a Jewish homeland in
Palestine, and "The Days Grow Short," a biography of the composer Kurt Weill.

Before his final illness Mr. Sanders was working on a biography of the author
Isaac Bashevis Singer, for which he had received a fellowship from the National
Endowment for the Humanities.

He is survived by his wife, the former Beverly Gingold, and a sister, Marilyn
O'Bradovich, of Manhattan.

NAME: Ranald Sanders

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ronald Sanders (Beverly Sanders, 1988)

TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              315 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 25, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

I. B. Singer, Narrator of Jewish Folkways, Dies

BYLINE: By ERIC PACE,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 4284 words


Isaac Bashevis Singer, whose vivid evocations of Jewish life in his native
Poland and of his experiences as an immigrant in America won him the Nobel Prize
in Literature, died yesterday. He was 87 years old and lived in Surfside, Fla.

Mr. Singer died after several strokes, said his wife, Alma.

Mr. Singer's stories and novels, written in Yiddish, often dealt with his
upbringing as a rabbi's son in Warsaw and in a small town in eastern Poland and
were redolent of the mysticism of Jewish folklore. But he also wrote about
loneliness in drab cafeterias, worldliness in Miami Beach and chance
acquaintanceship on the sidewalks of upper Broadway.

Throughout his career, he wrote about human passions and high emotions.

"God gave us so many emotions and such strong ones," he once said in an
interview. "Every human being, even if he is an idiot, is a millionaire in
emotions."

He Stuck With Yiddish

Even after decades in the United States Mr. Singer kept using Yiddish for the
long succession of short stories, novels, memoirs and children's books he wrote.

Most of his fiction first appeared in Yiddish in The Jewish Daily Forward, a
newspaper in New York City that is now The Jewish Forward. It has had an
English-language sister publication since last year.

But Mr. Singer's writing reached a large international public through
translations into English and many other languages. Its worldwide appeal was
noted in the citation that accompanied his Nobel Prize in 1978. The citation
praised his "impassioned narratives, which, with roots in a Polish-Jewish
cultural tradition, bring universal human conditions to life."

The New York Times critic Christopher Lehmann-Haupt wrote that this was "another
way of saying what admirers have always observed about Singer: that he has made
of the East European Jew an exemplar of the suffering modern man who has been
exiled from his divine inheritance."

Mr. Singer's more than 30 books ranged from the novel "Satan in Goray," which
came out in 1935, to another novel, "Scum," which was serialized in The Jewish
Daily Forward in 1967 and published in book form this year. They include the
much-praised "A Crown of Feathers" (1973) and other short-story collections.
Many of his stories also appeared in The New Yorker.

Mr. Singer was a modest man with an unassuming and unliterary style of life: he
liked to wear plain business suits and he preferred dairy restaurants to
writers' bars. But his life was enlivened by his passion for metaphysics, his
eye for a pretty ankle and his occasional flair for the dramatic; when he gave
his Nobel Prize lecture in December 1978, he startled the dignitaries in the
Stockholm auditorium by breaking into Yiddish.

In awarding him the prize, he said, the Swedish Academy was also honoring "a
loshon fun golus, ohn a land, ohn grenitzen, nisht gshtitzt fun kein shum
meluchoch" -- "a language of exile, without a land, without frontiers, not
supported by any government."

In the speech, a deft summary of what he thought about his work, Mr. Singer also
voiced his long-held view that one main duty of the writer was to keep the
reader interested.

'An Entertainer Of the Spirit'

"The storyteller of our time, as in any other time, must be an entertainer of
the spirit in the full sense of the word, not just a preacher of social and
political ideals," he declared, speaking in English.

"Nonetheless, it is also true that the serious writer of our time must be deeply
concerned about the problems of his generation." These, he said, included the
decline of the power of religion and the weakening of the family.

That being the case, he said, the world had much to learn from the Jews of his
childhood world, from "their way of thinking, their way of bringing up children,
their finding happiness where others see nothing but misery and humiliation."

Central to that way of life, he said, was the Yiddish language with its "quiet
humor and gratitude for every day of life, every crumb of success, each
encounter of love." And in a figurative way, he told his international audience,
"Yiddish is the wise and humble language of us all, the idiom of the frightened
and hopeful humanity."

Mr. Singer was one of several 20th-century Yiddish writers, including his older
brother, I. J. Singer, Chaim Grade and Sholem Asch, who carried on the tradition
of Mendele Mokher Sforim and other great Yiddish novelists of the 1800's.

Isaac Singer's skill in using the language was a matter of pride with him, so
much so, the story goes, that one day in the 30's, when he was a new, low-
ranking contributor to The Jewish Daily Forward, he flew into a rage when an
editor tried to give him advice on writing.

"Don't try to teach me Yiddish!" Mr. Singer shouted. "I know how to write
Yiddish!"

His pride was understandable, because he came from a learned family; his two
grandfathers and his father were rabbis, and his father, Pinchos Menachem
Singer, wrote books on religious themes.

Isaac Bashevis Singer was born on July 14, 1904, to Bathsheba Zylberman Singer
in Radzymin, a flour-milling town 15 miles northeast of Warsaw. When he was 4,
his family moved to Warsaw, and his father set up a rabbinical court in the
shabby building where they lived.

As a boy, Isaac received a traditional Jewish schooling and spent time with his
maternal grandmother in the small town of Bilgoraj, in the countryside of
eastern Poland. His parents wanted him to be a rabbi, and he obliged them by
enrolling at the Tachkemoni Rabbinical Seminary in Warsaw.

Religious Studies To Secular Writing

But in his early 20's Mr. Singer made a momentous decision: he would drop his
religious studies and become a secular writer. In taking the step, he was
greatly influenced by his older brother, whose full name was Israel Joseph
Singer.

I. J. Singer, who won fame as the author of "The Brothers Ashkenazi," was a
dyed-in-the-wool rationalist. He had been filling Isaac Singer's ears since
boyhood with arguments against religious faith. Now, in manhood, I. J. Singer
had turned to writing short stories with a strongly secular outlook.

Wanting to follow in his brother's footsteps, Isaac got a foot in the door of
the Warsaw literary world by working as a proofreader at Literarishe Bleter, a
Yiddish literary magazine.

Soon he began having book reviews and short stories published. His first work
was in Hebrew, but then he made another momentous decision. Finding that ancient
tongue confining -- "Nobody spoke it where I lived," he recalled -- he began
writing in Yiddish.

In 1932, Mr. Singer became an editor of the Yiddish literary journal Globus,
which published his first novel in installments. The work was "Satan in Goray,"
which drew in part on the Jewish small-town life he had experienced in Bilgoraj.
He was also the author of a Yiddish translation of Thomas Mann's "Buddenbrooks."

In 1935, having become alarmed at the growing menace of Nazism and the worsening
conditions among Polish Jews, Mr. Singer set sail for the United States, where
his brother had settled. At first he was lonely and gloomy about the state of
Yiddish in the New World.

"My first impression was that here Yiddish literature was dead," he later
recalled. "It took me five years to convince myself that Yiddish is still very
much alive."

But he soon made friends, and he began contributing to The Jewish Daily Forward,
remaining on the staff for more than a decade, beginning in 1935. In 1940, he
married Alma Haimann, a stylish emigree from Germany, and he became a United
States citizen in 1943.

Novels Published In Serial Form

It was The Jewish Daily Forward that first serialized his next book, "The Family
Moskat," which, like "Buddenbrooks," was a sweeping novel of Central European
family life; it was about the decline of a well-to-do Jewish family in Poland
during the 50 years before World War II. An executive of The Forward, Harold
Ostroff, recalled in 1990 that over the years all of Mr. Singer's novels first
appeared in that newspaper in serial form.

"The Family Moskat" appeared in book form in Yiddish in 1945, dedicated to the
memory of I. J. Singer, who had died in 1944. An English translation was
published in 1950 and received enthusiastic reviews. In The New York Times,
Richard Plant wrote that from its pages "rises a sense of life -- boundless,
frustrated, but undying."

"The scene he depicts is gone forever," Mr. Plant said, "and his novel may well
be one of its monuments. Still, the novel, reminiscent of Turgenev and Balzac,
stands because of its narrative qualities, its completely credible characters,
its throbbing vitality."

The years that followed passed quietly but productively. In 1957, a short- story
collection, "Gimpel the Fool," appeared; in 1960, a novel, "The Magician of
Lublin"; in 1961 another short-story collection, "The Spinoza of Market
Street.".

Mr. Singer's fourth novel, "The Slave," an allegory about a pious Jewish teacher
in 17th-century Poland, came out in 1962, and was praised by Orville Prescott in
The Times as "a sort of Jewish 'Pilgrim's Progress,' " that was "nobly conceived
and well written."

When another collection of Singer stories, "Short Friday," was published in
1964, Mr. Prescott said, "His stories sound as if they were being told by the
village storyteller" and called him "a natural storyteller who likes to cloak
his moral earnestness in a garment of folk simplicity."

Two years later, in a volume of reminiscences entitled "In My Father's Court,"
Mr. Singer wrote about Jewish life in Eastern Europe during his childhood and
recalled how his own sensibilities and intellect had developed.

Two linked novels, "The Manor" and "The Estate," and another story collection,
"The Seance," came out during the next three years, and in 1970 there appeared
"A Friend of Kafka," another story collection. "Enemies: A Love Story," which
was the first of Mr. Singer's novels to be set in the United States, came out in
1970. It was about Jewish survivors of the Holocaust who felt guilty about
having survived.

Mr. Singer's 1973 collection, "A Crown of Feathers," won particularly high
praise. Writing in The Times Book Review, Alfred Kazin called him "an
extraordinary writer," and said, "This new collection of stories, like so much
that he writes, represents the most delicate imaginative splendor, wit, mischief
and, not least, the now unbelievable life that Jews once lived in Poland."

The 1976 collection "Passions" included a number of stories that openly
described Mr. Singer's experiences as a middle-aged writer, and the 1978 novel
"Shosha" incorporated aspects of his life: refugee, rabbi's son, writer for
children and journalist.

A Recurring Theme: 'The Art of Loving'

In an author's note in the 1979 collection "Old Love," Mr. Singer observed:

"The love of the old and the middle-aged is a theme that is recurring more and
more in my works of fiction. Literature has neglected the old and their
emotions. The novelists never told us that in love, as in other matters, the
young are just beginners and that the art of loving matures with age and
experience."

By then Mr. Singer, though known for thriftiness, was rich in fame and
comfortably well off in worldly goods. Dressed in his somber suits, he had long
since become a familiar figure in various spots around New York: feeding the
pigeons near his apartment, eating in his favorite vegetarian cafeterias and
passing the time of day at The Jewish Daily Forward's East Side offices, where
he startled friends now and then by doing some writing on a pad while he was
talking with them.

In his novels as well as in his stories, Mr. Singer avoided what he regarded as
the dangers of intellectualism. "The very essence of literature is the war
between emotion and intellect," he told an interviewer. "When literature becomes
too intellectual -- when it begins to ignore the passions, the emotions -- it
becomes sterile, silly and actually without any substance."

Another perennial theme in Mr. Singer's fiction is betrayal of one kind or
another, a subject that fascinated him. "I would say a great part of human
history is a history of self-betrayal and betrayal of others," he said in the
late 70's. In his fiction, Mr. Singer looked unblinkingly at betrayal and many
other evils, and in conversation would express great admiration for
Schopenhauer, the gloomy 19th-century German philosopher.

"What I admire in Schopenhauer is his courage to be a pessimist," Mr. Singer
once said. "Because most of the philosophers try, one way or another, to paint
an orderly universe and to give people hopes which are false and nothing more
than wishful thinking. Schopenhauer had the rare courage to say that we are
living in a world of evil."

Nonetheless, Mr. Singer maintained a belief in God, although, he noted, "I have
my doubts about revelation; I have no proof whatever that God reveals Himself or
tells us how to behave. But since I believe in God's existence and since God
created man and formed his brain, I believe also that there must be something of
the divine in men's ideas about Him -- even if they are far from being
adequate."

Mr. Singer said his own faith fluctuated:

"I have moments when I almost deny God," he said. "But I also have moments of
exultation. When I'm in trouble, I pray. In spite of the fact that I pray to
God, I also sin against God.

The Comic Side Of Humanity

"Religion is not a simple thing, and neither is love. You can love a woman and
you can betray her. You can love her, quarrel with her and hate her. Everything
in us is human."

In humanity, as Mr. Singer perceived it, there was much that was deeply comic.
Even his own vegetarianism he saw in a humorous light; it was, he explained,
"not for my health, but for the health of the chickens."

Another abiding theme in his fiction was human sexuality, which was only
natural, because, as he said in an interview:

"In sex and in love, human character is revealed more than anywhere else. Let's
say a man can play a very strong man -- a big man, a dictator. But in sex he may
become reduced to a child or to an imp."

Mr. Singer was particularly fond of talking, joking and writing about the
contradictions in the character of his fellow Jewish intellectuals. "The
intellectual Jew is so restless that he is almost everything simultaneously," he
once observed.

Yet Mr. Singer did not think of himself as a writer of specifically Jewish
works:

"When I sit down to write a story, I'm not saying to myself I'm going to write a
Jewish story. Just like when a Frenchman builds a house in France, he doesn't
say he's going to build a French house. He's going to build a house for his wife
and children, a convenient house. Since it's built in France, it comes out
French.

"When I sit down to write a story, I will write the kind of stories which I
write. It's true that since I know the Jewish people best and since I know the
Yiddish language best, so my heroes, the people of my stories, are always Jewish
and speak Yiddish. I am at home with these people. But just the same, I'm not
just writing about them because they speak Yiddish and are Jewish. I'm
interested in the same things you are interested in and the Japanese are
interested in -- in love, and in treachery, and in hopes and in
disappointments."

Declined to Return To Polish Homeland

Mr. Singer chose not to revisit his Polish homeland after World War II and set
down his reasons in 1980, in declining a Polish literary group's invitation to a
writers' gathering in Warsaw:

"It would be for me a terrible strain to see Poland without my people, without
those who were close to me and who have perished for sins they have never
committed. I just don't have the strength to go through this ordeal at the
present time and in my advanced age.

"I am afraid I will have to continue to write about the Poland that I remember.
After all, literature is about the past."

Yet opinions varied as to the degree of historicity in Mr. Singer's fiction. The
author Cynthia Ozick, reviewing "The Collected Stories of Isaac Bashevis Singer"
in The Times in 1982, said it was a misapprehension to view him as "the recorder
of a lost world, the preserver of a vanished sociology."

"Singer is an artist and transcendent inventor, not a curator," she went on,
arguing that "the Jewish townlets that truly were" in the Europe of the past
"are only seeds for his febrile conflagrations."

Though often somber, Mr. Singer sometimes took a downright lighthearted view of
life, and of his own mortality. Once, at a dinner party, after he had become
famous, he noticed that other guests stared at him when he dipped hungrily into
his soup the instant it was served.

"In the next life I will be a pig," he said, to general laughter.

"And the other animals will ask me what I was in the previous life," he went on.
"I will tell them I was a writer, and they will say, 'That's what all the pigs
claim.' "

National Book Award And Other Honors

Mr. Singer won a National Book Award in 1970 for one of his children's books, "A
Day of Pleasure," which was a memoir of his boyhood days in Warsaw. He won
another National Book Award in 1974 in the adult-fiction category for "A Crown
of Feathers." Among his other honors was the highest award of the American
Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters, its Gold Medal, in 1989.

Some of his writings were adapted for stage and screen, with mixed results. A
short story was the basis for a play, "Teibele and Her Demon," by Mr. Singer and
Eve Friedman, which opened in 1979 at the Brooks Atkinson Theater and closed
after two dozen performances. Written for the stage, "A Play for the Devil" won
praise when it was performed Off Broadway in 1984.

The 1983 Hollywood musical "Yentl," based on Mr. Singer's story "Yentl, the
Yeshiva Boy," and starring Barbra Streisand, got mixed reviews including a
negative reaction from Mr. Singer himself. "I did not find artistic merit,
neither in the adaptation, nor in the directing," he wrote in 1984. "There was
too much singing, much too much."

A 1972 novel by Mr. Singer, "Enemies, a Love Story," had a happier fate as a
1989 movie with the same title, directed and produced by Paul Mazursky. Janet
Maslin, in The Times, called it a "deeply felt, fiercely evocative adaption" of
the "brilliantly enigmatic novel" about Holocaust survivors in the New York of
1949.

In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son from an earlier marriage,
Israel Zamir, of Gilboa, Israel, a writer and translator, and four
grandchildren.

DEPICTING MEMORIES, DREAMS, ILLUSIONS AND FATE

I wandered over the land, and good people did not neglect me. After many years I
became old and white; I heard a great deal, many lies and falsehoods, but the
longer I lived the more I understood that there were really no lies. Whatever
doesn't really happen is dreamed at night. It happens to one if it doesn't
happen to another, tomorrow if not today, or a century hence if not next year.
What difference can it make? Often I heard tales of which I said, "Now this is a
thing that cannot happen." But before a year had elapsed I heard that it
actually had come to pass somewhere.

Going from place to place, eating at strange tables, it often happens that I
spin yarns -- improbable things that could never have happened -- about devils,
magicians, windmills, and the like. The children run after me, calling,
"Grandfather, tell us a story." Sometimes they ask for particular stories, and I
try to please them. A fat young boy once said to me, "Grandfather, it's the same
story you told us before." The little rogue, he was right. -- "Gimpel the Fool,"
story

                                    .  .  .

"Jacques, yesterday I read your Kafka's 'Castle.' Interesting, very interesting,
but what is he driving at? It's too long for a dream. Allegories should be
short."

Jacques Kohn quickly swallowed the food he was chewing. "Sit down," he said. "A
master does not have to follow the rules."

"There are some rules even a master must follow. No novel should be longer than
'War and Peace.' Even 'War and Peace' is too long. If the Bible consisted of
eighteen volumes, it would long since have been forgotten."

"The Talmud has 36 volumes, and the Jews have not forgotten it."

"Jews remember too much. That is our misfortune. It is two thousand years since
we were driven out of the Holy Land, and now we are trying to get back in.
Insane, isn't it? If our literature would only reflect this insanity, it would
be great. But our literature is uncannily sane." -- "A Friend of Kafka," story

                                    .  .  .

Because I have now lived in this country longer than in Poland, I have developed
roots here too. Just the same, my American stories deal only with
Yiddish-speaking immigrants from Poland so as to ensure that I know well not
only their present way of life but their roots -- their culture, history, ways
of thinking and expressing themselves. In spite of these self-imposed
limitations, I feel that my field is large and my responsibilities even larger.
Some of these people have helped to build Warsaw and New York and are now
helping to build Tel Aviv. They lived in the midst of almost all the social
movements of our time. Their illusions were the illusions of mankind. The
vandals who murdered millions of these people have destroyed a treasure of
individuality that no literature dare try to bring back. -- "A Crown of Feathers
and Other Stories," author's note

                                    .  .  .

This book tells the story of a family and of a rabbinical court that were so
close together it was hard to tell where one ended and the other began. The
rabbinical court, the Beth Din, is an ancient institution among the Jews. It
started when Jethro counseled Moses to "provide out of all the people able men,
such as fear God, men of truth, hating covetousness . . . and let them judge the
people at all seasons." There is a direct line between the Beth Din of today and
the Talmudic annotators, Geonim, Princes, Amoraim, Tannaim, Men of the Great
Synagogue, and Sanhedrin. The Beth Din was a kind of blend of a court of law,
synagogue, house of study, and, if you will, psychoanalyst's office where people
of troubled spirit could come to unburden themselves. That such a mixture was
not only feasible but necessary was proved by the continued existence of the
Beth Din over many generations.

It is my firmest conviction that the court of the future will be based on the
Beth Din, provided the world goes morally forward instead of backward. Though
the Beth Din is rapidly disappearing, I believe it will be reinstated and evolve
into a universal institution. The concept behind it is that there can be no
justice without godliness, and that the best judgment is one accepted by all the
litigants with good will and trust in divine power. The opposite of the Beth Din
are all institutions that employ force, whether of the right or the left.

The Beth Din could exist only among a people with a deep faith and humility, and
it reached its apex among the Jews when they were completely bereft of worldly
power and influence. The weapon of the judge was the handkerchief the litigants
touched to signify their acceptance of the judgment. I have not attempted to
idealize the Beth Din or to endow it with conditions and moods that were not a
part of my direct experience. The Beth Din not only differed in every
generation, but every Rabbi who participated in it colored it with his character
and personality. Only that which is individual can be just and true.

At times I think that the Beth Din is an infinitesimal example of the celestial
council of justice, God's judgment, which the Jews regard as absolute mercy. --
"In My Father's Court," a memoir

                                    .  .  .

It was sweltering outside, but the cafeteria was cool. During the day, between
three and five, it was almost empty. I took a table near the wall, drank coffee,
nibbled a piece of apple cake, and looked into an occult magazine. In the
letters to the editor, a woman wrote that her cat had been run over by a car and
she had buried it but still it came to visit her every night. The woman gave her
name and her address in a Texas village. There was sincerity in the letter;
surely it could not have been made up. But does the astral body really exist? I
wondered. And do animals possess it, too? If so, my whole philosophy must be
revised.

Before I could undertake so large an order, I went to the counter and got
another cup of cofee. "One reality has nothing to do with the other," I said to
myself. -- "The Third One," story

                                    .  .  .

When people come together -- let's say they come to a little party or something
-- you always hear them discuss character. They will say this one has a bad
character, this one has a good character, this one is a fool, this one is a
miser. Gossip makes the conversation. They all analyze character. It seems that
the analysis of character is the highest human entertainment. And literature
does it, unlike gossip, without mentioning real names.

The writers who don't discuss character but problems -- social problems or any
problems -- take away from literature its very essence. They stop being
entertaining. We, for some reason, always love to discuss and discover
character. This is because each character is different, and human character is
the greatest of puzzles. No matter how much I know a human being, I don't know
him enough. Discussing character constitutes a supreme form of entertainment. --
Interview in 1978 with Richard Burgin

NAME: Isaac Bashevis Singer

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Isaac Bashevis Singer, who followed Jewish life from old World
to new. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times, 1984) (pg. A1); I. B. Singer at 22,
at about the beginning of his writing career. (Farrar, Strauss and Giroux);
Isaac Bashevis Singer feeding pigeons on a street of the Upper West Side, the
locale of many of his stories. (Bruce Davidson, 1975) (pg. B9)

TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              316 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 30, 1991, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Lydia Savoyka, 59, Social Worker, Dies; Assisted Immigrants

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 296 words


Lydia Ulana Savoyka, a Ukrainian-born social worker, who served 35 years as
director of immigration counseling services for the United States Catholic
Conference, died on Dec. 20 at St. Vincent's Hospital. She was 59 years old and
lived in Manhattan.

She died of a heart attack after collapsing in her office, her sister, Vera
Savoyka, said.

Ms. Savoyka, whose father was arrested and killed by Russian forces in Cracow,
Poland, came to the United States in 1948, under a program for orphans,
sponsored by the National Catholic Welfare Conference. As soon as she graduated
from high school, Ms. Savoyka began working with immigrants on Ellis Island
under the auspices of the Welfare Conference, now known as the U.S. Catholic
Conference.

Fluent in 11 languages, she proved invaluable in dealing with the wave of
post-World War II immigrants from Eastern Europe and the later influx of
refugees from Central America. While carrying a heavy work load, she earned a
degree in sociology by going to night school at Hunter College.

'Extraordinary Devotion'

Besides her counseling activities, Ms. Savoyka was president of the New York
General Committee for Immigration, grouping 30 private agencies, and was a
member of the National Advisory Council on Immigration and Naturalization. She
was also vice president of the Ukrainian Institute of America and president of
the Self-Reliance Senior Citizens Club.

In conferring on her an honorary doctorate in law in 1982, the College of New
Rochelle cited her "life of extraordinary devotion to America's newest
arrivals." In the last few years she had personally helped hundreds of victims
of the Chernobyl nuclear diaster of April 1986, arranging medical and
immigration services.

She is survived by her sister.

NAME: Lydia Ulana Savoyka

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lydia Ulana Savoyka (The New York Times, 1983)

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              317 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 8, 1991, Monday, Late Edition - Final

In Freeze's Wake, Desperation for Citrus Workers

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1428 words

DATELINE: EXETER, Calif., April 5


Since they were youngsters, Jose and Delia Ayon toiled under the California sun
to pick and pack the fruits and vegetables that fill American supermarkets. Now
they cannot get enough food for their seven children, and they face losing the
small house they built with their own hands.

The Ayons and thousands of other farm workers are part of a human calamity that
is unfolding across the San Joaquin Valley in central California as a result of
the freeze in December that destroyed the orange and lemon crops and put
thousands out of work.

Eviction notices, foreclosures, desperation, shame and hunger are sweeping
through communities like this, overwhelming relief workers.

"I have never seen anything like this before," said Lali Moheno, a community
services aide who has spent 22 years working with migrant farm workers. "This is
the first time I've wanted to quit work. We are physically worn out. None of us
have ever experienced such a disaster."

Unlike earthquakes, floods and other disasters, the freeze has inflicted its
devastation slowly. It is only now, as workers run out of savings and realize
there will be little work for another year or more, that the enormity of their
misfortune has begun to sink in.

Families, almost entirely Mexicans and Mexican-Americans, line up at a food bank
here, one of 50 in Tulare County. They are so hungry that they can often be seen
breaking open the weekly rations as they leave.

Leaders of FoodLink, the not-for-profit agency that supplies the banks, estimate
that they provide only one-third of the food that is needed. They say infants
lack adequate nourishment because mothers are using dried milk instead of
formula, whose cost puts it out of their reach.

Particularly poignant is the plight of the thousands of Mexican families who,
under terms of the amnesty granted under immigration law, are barred from
applying for public assistance, including welfare and food stamps, for five
years. Faced with hungry children, many have risked applying anyway, or have
returned to Mexico.

Cooperation Had Been Rare

The crisis has produced a level of cooperation between employers and workers
that people on both sides say is without parallel in California agriculture in
the last half-century. Within days of the freeze, an Agricultural Workers Freeze
Relief Task Force was formed; it now includes 80 people representing 52
organizations and businesses in Tulare County. Owners of closed packing houses
have solicited food donations throughout the state, and trucking companies have
provided trucks to distribute it.

Help from the Federal Government has been slow, but now appears to be
forthcoming. At the request of Gov. Pete Wilson, President Bush has declared a
state of emergency in 33 counties, and officials here say that on Monday or
Tuesday the President is expected to sign an order authorizing emergency housing
aid for up to a year from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.

Housing has become the most critical issue as families are forced to double and
triple up and landlords face foreclosure on loans.

Graphic reminders of the freeze, which hit from Dec. 21 to 25, are everywhere.
Millions of navel and Valencia oranges lie rotting in the groves throughout
Tulare, Fresno and Kern Counties, the center of the citrus industry. The loss to
the growers was $500 million, and packers and shippers lost $500 million, said
Curtis D. Lynn, Tulare County director for the University of California
Cooperative Extension in Visalia.

Mr. Lynn estimates that the freeze killed 52 million cartons of navel oranges,
46 million cartons of Valencia oranges and 5 million cartons of lemons. He said
there was extensive damage to other crops, including avocados, olives,
pistachios, sugar beets and winter vegetables.

More than 15,000 pickers and packers were laid off almost immediately, and the
ripple effect has been ruinous for groceries, restaurants, clothing stores and
other businesses in Exeter and nearby towns, including Lindsay, Tulare and
Visalia, the county seat.

Unemployment in Tulare Countywas 21.7 percent in February, compared with 12.3
percent a year ago.

That statistic includes Delia and Jose Ayon.

Watching Gains Disappear

After years of deprivation, living in migrant camps and tiny, crammed
apartments, the Ayons found a measure of dignity when they built their own house
three years ago with help from a Government program for low-income people.
Normally, this would be the busiest time of the year for Mr. Ayon, who used to
earn about $300 a week plucking navel oranges from October until May, when the
Valencias start.

But since Mr. Ayon was laid off in January, the family has relied on
unemployment insurance and Aid to Families with Dependent Children, a Government
program for low-income people. They are a month behind on paying the mortgage,
$313 a month including taxes and insurance, and they talk of closing the house,
pulling the children out of school and going to Oregon and Washington to pick
cherries and apples this summer and fall.

"We don't want to lose this house," said Mrs. Ayon, as six of her seven children
listened in their small living room. "Who will rent to seven kids? This place
was like a palace for us."

Saving families like the Ayons from homelessness has become the top priority for
United Way and other social-service agencies. "It has reached the breaking
point," said Cathi Lamp, an economist and nutritionist at the cooperative
extension and president of the FoodLink board. "Rent and utilities are the first
priority; food is a close second. It's cheaper to keep them in their homes than
to get back on their feet if they're homeless."

Carolyn Rose, executive director of Community Services and Employment Training,
a private not-for-profit community action organization that operates in Tulare
County, said that more than 2,700 families had requested help with housing and
utility payments and that the agency could help only 200. She said landlords and
lenders had been extraordinarily lenient but were close to exhausting their
capacity.

In addition, utility companies have been quite generous, she said. The Pacific
Gas and Electric Company, for example, has set up a special $25,000 fund to
forgive the bills of the unemployed.

As for food, Sandy Beals, executive director of FoodLink for Tulare County, said
the agency was stretched to the limit. "The typical family comes in and says it
has no food," she said. "They get a 35-pound food basket for a week. For a
family of eight, that does not last long. Children are going to school hungry."

Worker advocates have been moved at the response to the workers' troubles by
employers like Sunkist Growers, LoBue Brothers and Shropshire Trucking, and by
the Farm Bureau Federation, which represents growers. Relations between the
bureau, as a representative of the employers, and labor representing the workers
have often been bitter in previous years.

There have been other sources of help.

The Farmers Home Administration is offering low-interest loans to family
farmers. The Federal Department of Agriculture's Food and Nutrition Service has
provided nearly half of the food supply to FoodLink, as well as school lunches
in Tulare County. And the Federal Labor Department has provided disaster
unemployment assistance to workers ineligible for state unemployment benefits.

In all this, one group remains in limbo -- the thousands of Mexican families who
claimed amnesty after the 1987 immigration law was enacted. They jeopardize
their status here if they apply for many public assistance programs to cope with
the freeze.

Soledad and Herminio Cruz, from Oaxaca state in southeastern Mexico, for
example, have lived in Exeter for eight years, picking fruit. They took amnesty
and two years ago bought a small house behind a chain-link fence on the edge of
town, where they live with their four children, ages 15 months to 10 years. Mrs.
Cruz is pregnant with a fifth child.

Given their immigration status, the Cruzes hesitated to apply for food stamps.
But with no savings and a family of crying mouths, they risked it. The family is
trying to decide whether to sell the house and return to Mexico for now.

Little relief is in sight.

Given the damage to the citrus trees, 60 percent to 70 percent of the usual crop
is expected to be harvested later this year and next. This means that
unemployment and deprivation will be the norm here long after the sun has warmed
the orange and lemon groves of central California.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thousands of workers are out of work and millions of oranges lie
rotting in central California as a result of a freeze last December.; As a
result of the freeze, Delia Ayon said, she and her husband may have to go out of
state to find work picking cherries and apples. (Photographs by Frederick
Stocker for The New York Times) (pg. A10)

Map of California highlighting Exeter (pg. A10)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              318 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 30, 1991, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Document Fraud Laid To U.S. Senator's Son

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 234 words

DATELINE: BOISE, Idaho, May 29


A Federal grand jury here has indicted the 29-year-old son of United States
Senator Steve Symms on charges that he falsified documents for alien workers
employed by his family's fruit ranch.

The indictment, returned Tuesday, charges that the Senator's son, Daniel Symms,
who is operations manager for the Symms Fruit Ranch, conspired to violate the
Special Agricultural Workers Act. He pleaded not guilty in an appearance later
Tuesday in Federal District Court and was released on his own recognizance.
Trial was scheduled for June 27.

The law that Mr. Symms is accused of breaking allows farm laborers who would
otherwise be considered illegal aliens to continue working at American farm jobs
if they held such jobs for 90 days from May 1, 1985, to May 1, 1986.

According to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, its study of more than
25,000 documents submitted by the ranch indicated that Mr. Symms had signed
false letters verifying the employment of alien farm workers during that period.

The indictment also names as defendants the ranch itself, which is situated near
the town of Caldwell in the southwestern part of the state; a subsidiary, the
Sunny Slope Fruit Company, and Patricia Melchor, a former employee of the ranch.
Senator Symms, a second-term Republican from Idaho who holds a substantial
interest in the ranch and serves on its board, has not been charged.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              319 of 319 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 6, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Lured by Zlotys, Ivan Plays The Model Migrant Worker

BYLINE: By STEPHEN ENGELBERG,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1357 words

DATELINE: PRZEMYSL, Poland, Sept. 29


In the factories and on the construction sites of eastern Poland, there is a new
model employee these days. Trustworthy, tireless, and willing to accept half the
prevailing wages, these highly prized workers speak broken Polish and are likely
to answer to names like Nikolai, Mikhail or Ivan.

They are Russians, Lithuanians and Ukrainians. Like the Poles who have for years
streamed west to work without permits in America and Western Europe, they are
flocking to Poland, eager to earn sums equivalent to eight months Soviet pay in
a month. Some enter legally, while many more come on tourist visas and then melt
into the cities and countryside, wherever there is work.

The result is a paradox of Eastern Europe's uneven transition to capitalism.
While state enterprises in the Soviet Union have earned a reputation for
inefficiency and indolence, Polish employers in this border region speak of
Soviet workers in awe-struck tones -- even as Poles continue to supply the West
with cheap, illegal labor.

"They work for much less money; they don't need vodka, and they work without
supervision," said Michal Rabski, who owns two cosmetic stores and is putting
the final touches on his three-story home. His construction crew consists of two
Nikolais and a Pyotr, all from Sambor, a Ukrainian city about 35 miles from the
border.

"Look at the way they work -- everything is neatly put away," Mr. Rabski said
with evident delight. "If they were Poles, half of the village would be up here
having drinks."

A Yen for Zlotys

To the visiting Soviet workers, the most important feature of Poland's economic
program is the internal convertibility of the Polish currency, the zloty. While
foreigners are officially barred from trading zlotys for American dollars or
other foreign currency, the exchange counters in various Polish cities in fact
serve all comers. Soviet visitors can also use their zlotys to buy goods that
are scarce in the Soviet Union -- from cars to children's clothing -- and resell
them back home at a large profit.

The two Nikolais and Pyotr are typical. They entered the country legally,
sponsored by a Polish construction company, and work in their spare time for Mr.
Rabski, earning 10,000 zlotys an hour, a bit less than $1 and about half of what
Poles make for comparable labor. Their total monthly pay, 1.4 million zloty,
turns into $128, which in turn can be traded for at least 4,000 rubles at the
current black-market exchange rate -- eight months pay for the average Soviet
factory worker, whose monthly salary is about 500 rubles, although workers in
private, cooperative and other enterprises can earn much more.

A year ago, officials throughout Eastern Europe feared the imminent arrival of
hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions, of refugees from a collapsing Soviet
Union. That threat has not materialized, but Polish officials worry that the
loosening of travel restrictions in the Soviet Union presages a flood of migrant
workers who will take jobs from Poles or force local wages lower.

The phenomenon reflects the differing pace of economic change in the two
countries. Poland is in the second year of a far-reaching program that filled
once empty shops with goods; the Soviet Union is still debating the first steps
towards dismantling its command economy. Further, Soviet workers have little or
no incentive to work.

Four Million Soviet Visitors

Local officials say they have no solid estimate on how many Soviet citizens are
working in Poland, but they acknowledge that the number is growing, with most of
them taking jobs primarily in construction and in private factories. More than
four million Soviet citizens have already visited Poland this year, and tens of
thousands are known to be legally in the country now.

"Things in Poland are in good order," said the younger Nikolai at the door of
the workers' hotel where he temporarily lives. "This is the kind of work and
conditions we'd like to have in the future in free Ukraine." He and his
colleagues said they intend to stay in Poland through the rest of this year, but
said they have no plans to settle in the country.

Local employers -- cities or other entities -- may hire the Soviet citizens if
they establish that no Poles are available for the work in question and that the
wages are appropriate in the labor market. In Rzeszow, when the local orchestra
expanded, it chose to hire 14 violinists from the Ukrainian city of Lvov at a
salary of 1.4 million zloty, or $128, a month; an orchestra official said no
Polish musicians were available at this salary.

From the Soviet side, a prospective worker needs only a written invitation from
a Polish citizen -- which must be approved by local police -- and a valid Soviet
passport.

Lodging is a problem for some of the migrant laborers. Local officials say that
visiting Soviets have been seen sleeping in sheds Poles keep on their
state-provided garden plots, leaving behind a bottle of Russian vodka as
payment.

'Longing for Work'

Zdzislaw Besz, a journalist from Przymysl who operates a store and brick
factory, said he hired two Ukrainians earlier this year with the help of a
cousin from Kiev. Mr. Besz said he paid them the same salary as his Polish
employees.

"These are excellent specialists," Mr. Besz said. "They never gave me any
problems. I'd like to hire even more Russians. These people were motivated. I
didn't have to keep my eye on them."

Jacek Pasternak, head of the labor office in Rzeszow, about 60 miles from the
Soviet border, said he has heard reports of labor markets, where Polish
employers can place orders for craftsmen from the Soviet Union. But he said most
appeared to be finding work through informal channels.

The story told by Kazimierz, a 68-year-old retired carpenter in Rzeszow, was
echoed by many employers. Kazimierz, who spoke on condition that he not to be
identified further, said he hired a Soviet citizen who simply walked up to his
construction site and asked for work.

"He was a guy with a university education, and the goal he set himself was to
add some money to the family budget and buy a car," Kazimierz said.  "You could
set your watch by him. He came at 7 A.M. ready for work, in his work clothes. As
far as alcohol, well, he didn't drink."

Taking Jobs Poles Don't Want

Poland's eastern regions have unemployment rates at or above the national
average of 10 percent but local officials insist that the immigrants are taking
jobs Poles have already turned down.

"Generally, Poles do not want to undertake these jobs," said Mieczyslaw
Janowski, the mayor of Rzeszow. "Russians and Ukrainians do this kind of work
for relatively low wages."

The Polish Government's response thus far has been characterized more by slight
nervousness than by panic, and there is no systematic attempt to prevent these
people from working here. If Rzeszow faces a larger influx of Russian or
Ukrainian workers, Mr. Janowski said, the authorities would have no choice but
to vigorously enforce immigration laws.

Still, Mr. Janowski acknowledged, his city has little ability to make the rules
stick because of enforcement difficulties. "The United States hasn't resolved
this problem either," he said."

The Polish tradition of working illegally in the West is particularly strong in
this region. Many of the Poles working illegally in Chicago or New York come
from here, and Mr. Janowski was well aware of the comparisons.

"If we felt upset because the borders of Western Europe were closed to us, so
similarly the Ukrainians and Russians will feel resentment if we try to put up
some very strict, inpenetrable barriers at the border," he said. "Besides, this
would not resolve any of problems."

So, the two Nikolais and Pyotr toil away, saying they plan to take their
earnings back home. One said he would buy a car on the open market, instead of
waiting up to 20 years to order one from the state factory. Another said he
planned to build a house.

And all three acknowledged that they were considerably less industrious back
home. "We work as we are paid," said the younger Nikolai.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michal Rabski, second from left, talking to workers from the
Ukraine who are building his new house in Przemysl, Poland. "They work for much
less money; they don't need vodka, and they work without supervision," he said
of the guest laborers. (Witold Jaroslaw Szulecki for The New York Times) (pg.
14)

Chart: "Working For Real Money"

An ekxample of the difference in earning power a Soviet citizen has at home and
as a guest worker in Poland, because of the convertibility of the Polish
currency, the zloty.

The construction wage is half what Polish citizens are paid for similar work.

Wages are for one month.

Factory worker in the Soviet Union: 500 rubles.

Construction worker in Poland
 1.4 million zlotys
 Converted legally: $128
 Converted on the black market: 4,000 rubles (pg. 14)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company
