
                               1 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 3, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Borders We Deserve

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 821 words


Critics of Arizona's new immigration law have not been shy about impugning the
motives of its supporters. The measure, which requires police to check the
immigration status of people they question or detain, has been denounced as a
''Nazi'' or ''near-fascist'' law, a ''police state'' intervention,  an imitation
of ''apartheid,'' a ''Juan Crow'' regime that only a bigot could possibly
support.

Faced with this kind of hyperbole, the supposed bigots have understandably
returned the favor, dismissing opponents of the Arizona measure as limousine
liberals who don't understand the grim realities of life along an often-lawless
border. And so the debate has become a storm of insults rather than an argument.

On the specifics of the law, Arizona's critics have legitimate concerns. Their
hysteria has been egregious: you would never guess, amid all the heavy breathing
about desert fascism, that federal law already requires legal immigrants to
carry proof of their status at all times. But the measure is problematic
nonetheless. The majority of police officers, already overburdened, will
probably enforce it only intermittently. For an overzealous minority, it opens
obvious opportunities for harassment and abuse.

Just because this is the wrong way to enforce America's immigration laws,
however, doesn't mean they don't need to be enforced. Illegal immigrants are far
more sympathetic than your average lawbreaker: they're risk-takers looking for a
better life in the United States, something they have in common with nearly
every living American's ancestors. But by denouncing almost any crackdown on
them as inherently bigoted and cruel, the ''pro-immigrant'' side of the debate
is ultimately perpetuating a deeply unjust system.

There's a good argument, on moral and self-interested grounds alike, that the
United States should be as welcoming as possible to immigrants. But there's no
compelling reason that we should decide which immigrants to welcome based on
their proximity to our border, and their ability to slip across.

It takes nothing away from Mexico or Mexicans to note that millions upon
millions of people worldwide would give anything for the chance to migrate to
America. Many come from nations that are poorer than our southern neighbor. Many
have endured natural disasters, or suffered political or religious persecution.
And many have spent years navigating our byzantine immigration bureaucracy, only
to watch politicians in both parties dangle the promise of amnesty in front of
people who jumped the border and the line.

As of the mid-2000s, roughly 700,000 migrants were entering the United States
illegally every year. Fifty-seven  percent came from Mexico, and  24 percent
from the rest of Latin America. Only 13 percent came from Africa, the Middle
East, South Asia and the Pacific Rim.

In a better world, the United States would welcome hundreds of thousands more
legal immigrants annually, from a much  wider array of countries.  A more
diverse immigrant population would have fewer opportunities to self-segregate
and stronger incentives to assimilate. Fears of a Spanish-speaking reconquista
would diminish, and so would the likelihood of backlash. And instead of being
heavily skewed toward low-skilled migrants, our system could tilt toward
higher-skilled applicants, making America more competitive and less stratified.

Such a system would also be fairer to the would-be immigrants themselves.
America has always prided itself on attracting people from every culture,
continent and creed. In a globalized world, aspiring Americans in Zimbabwe or
Burma should compete on a level playing field with Mexicans and Salvadorans. The
American dream should seem no more unattainable in China than in Chihuahua.

But this can only happen if America first regains control of its southern
border. There is a widespread pretense that this has been tried and found to be
impossible, when really it's been found difficult and left untried.

Curbing the demand for illegal workers requires stiff workplace enforcement,
stringent penalties for hiring undocumented workers, and shared sacrifice from
Americans accustomed to benefiting from cheap labor. Reducing the supply
requires bigger Border Patrol budgets and enforcement measures that will
inevitably be criticized as draconian: some kind of tamper-proof Social Security
card, most likely, and then more physical walls along our southern border, as
opposed to the ''virtual'' wall that the Obama administration seems to be wisely
abandoning.

You can see why our leaders would rather duck the problem. But when Washington
doesn't act, the people on the front lines end up taking matters into their own
hands.

If you don't like what Arizona just did, the answer isn't to scream ''fascist!''
It's to demand that the federal government do its job, so that we can have the
immigration system that both Americans and immigrants deserve.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 26, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona's New Immigration Law Widens the Chasm Between Sides

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1250 words


MESA, Ariz. -- They stood a few miles from each other, but as far apart as heat
and cold.

Clutching a copy of a Spanish-language article on the tough new law making it a
state crime for illegal immigrants to be in Arizona and requiring those
suspected of being violators to show proof of legal status, Eric Ramirez, 29,
still waited on a corner for work. He nervously kept watch for the police and
wondered what his future held.

''We were already afraid, and I was thinking of leaving for California,'' Mr.
Ramirez said as he waited on the corner in a heavily Latino enclave already
drained of people by the recession and the fear of police harassment. ''We shop
in their stores, we clean their yards, but they want us out and the police will
be on us.''

In a nearby neighborhood, Ron White, 52, said he felt a sense of relief that
something was finally being done about ''the illegals'' -- whom he blames for
ills like congregating on the streets, breaking into homes in his neighborhood,
draining tax dollars and taking jobs from Americans.

''I sure hope it does have an effect,'' Mr. White said of the new law as he
packed his car with groceries. ''I wouldn't want to show proof of citizenship,
but I also don't feel it is racial profiling. You are going to look different if
you are an alien, and cops know.''

Immigration has always polarized residents of Arizona, a major gateway for
illegal immigrants. But the new law signed by Gov. Jan Brewer on Friday has
widened the chasm in a way few here can remember.

The law -- barring expected legal challenges before it takes effect this summer
-- also gives the local police broad powers to check documentation ''when
practicable'' of anyone they reasonably suspect is an illegal immigrant.

It has already shaken up politics in the state, and it sets the stage for a
rematch on a national debate between the punitive and the practical solutions to
the nation's illegal immigration issue.

But the arguments are less abstract in Arizona, home to an estimated 450,000
illegal immigrants and to the busiest stretch of illegal crossings along the
Mexican border.

While demonstrators massed at the Capitol, including a few thousand Sunday
afternoon denouncing the law as unconstitutional and an open invitation for
racial profiling, the undercurrents that gave rise to the bill pushed as strong
as ever.

The sponsor of the bill, a state senator and retired sheriff's deputy whose
passion is to drive out the state's illegal immigrants and deter more from
coming, lives here in Mesa, a Phoenix suburb that is the state's third-largest
city.

It has landed in the cauldron of debate, with a former police chief publicly
warring with the county sheriff over the merits of his ''crime suppression''
sweeps a couple of years ago that focused on illegal immigrants.

Mesa has grown blisteringly fast in the last few decades, to about 450,000
residents from 63,000 in 1970, with Southern California-style walled
subdivisions and gated communities blanketing former farmland.

The economy soared until recently, but the blitz of development proved
unsettling to some.

Illegal immigrants flowed in, too, to tend the yards, fix the roofs and commit
their share of crimes, though police officials have said at no greater rate than
the rest of the population.

About a fifth of the residents are Hispanic. But they live mainly in enclaves
like Reed Park, a stretch of boxy apartment buildings dotted with ''for rent''
signs, bodegas blaring Mexican music and older homes.

This is Rosalia Minon's Mesa, and she fears it. Even before the new law, she and
her fellow illegal immigrant neighbors did not venture out often for fear of
being stopped by the police or immigration agents.

Ms. Minon is struggling to make ends meet, because more employers than ever are
asking for Social Security cards and checking their validity under a heretofore
rarely enforced 2007 state law that provides penalties for employers who do not
check. She prays every morning as she steps out the door, ''because we go out
and we do not know if we are coming back.''

Alfredo Hernandez-Garcia, 22, who is not a legal resident but is married to a
woman who is, already lies low, fearing he will be deported and separated from
his wife, who will soon give birth.

''This is going to tear apart families, and what good does that do?'' he said,
relaxing at an apartment building near a park he rarely ventures into. ''What is
the government here going to do if we all go and it affects the economy?''

Like others, Mr. Hernandez-Garcia said the wait for legal authorization to
immigrate from Mexico runs several years, sometimes even a decade or more.

''And all the jobs are here,'' he said. ''There is nothing in Mexico, and now it
is so violent. Who wants to go back?''

The businesses catering to Latinos are suffering. At Mi Amigos, a bodega, the
manager, Rigoberto Magana, glanced at the emptiness of the store at midday and
said it was typical.

''Our business is way, way down, and so is everybody else's here,'' Mr. Magana
said. ''Nobody comes out.''

Just a short drive away, a subdivision encircles a golf course.

This is Kent Lowis's Mesa, and he fears for it.

''This law might kick some of these immigrants out,'' said Mr. Lowis, 76, a
retiree who has lived here for more than 30 years and does not like all the
change. ''They vandalize the golf course, throwing flags in the ponds.
Burglaries. There are too many immigrants. I get tired of seeing all these
people standing on the corner.''

Such sentiments propelled the bill through the Republican-controlled
Legislature, with supporters listing well-publicized cases in which illegal
immigrants committed rapes and shot and killed police officers.

The sponsor, State Senator Russell K. Pearce, a Republican, said it would give
the police a tool to weed out criminals before they act and help foster a
climate of toughness that would discourage more immigrants from coming.

Governor Brewer, a Republican, said as she signed the bill into law on Friday
that she believed that a majority of Arizonans supported it, though there is no
independent assessment of the assertion. A poll released two days before said
that a majority of likely voters in Arizona supported the bill, but it used an
automated telephone query that some pollsters find questionable and it was
conducted before the heavy onslaught of news media coverage.

No Democrats in the Legislature supported the bill, and only one Republican
voted against it.

While those opposed to the law are making the most noise, the quiet support can
be found here, though some people are uneasy about being cast as anti-Hispanic
and several people interviewed declined to be named out of concern they would be
thought of as prejudiced.

''I don't want people to be afraid to come,'' said Pam Sutherland, who is a
window manufacturer and a fan of the crime sweeps but is also concerned about
the state's image. ''I just want them to do it legally.''

For many, though, support for the law comes down to a way to vent frustration
that, in their view, the federal government has not done enough to control
immigration -- particularly in a state on the border where reports of drug
busts, houses overcrowded with illegal immigrants and people dying in the desert
trying to get here fill the airwaves.

''We can see Washington isn't going to do anything,'' Mr. White said. ''So why
not Arizona? I think Arizona is the one state with the bigger problem with it.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ALFREDO HERNANDEZ-GARCIA: Not a legal resident, but married to
a woman who is and who will soon give birth.
 PAM SUTHERLAND: A supporter of law enforcement sweeps who is also concerned
about the state's image. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Arizona Law and Its Discontents

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 994 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Why Arizona Drew a Line,'' by Kris W. Kobach (Op-Ed, April 29), defending
the Arizona immigration law:

While it is true that federal law requires noncitizens to carry immigration
documents, this is almost never enforced or prosecuted. What's more, it's a far
different story to permit federal officials to punish a noncitizen for failure
to carry immigration documents and for state and local officials to do the same.
Immigration regulation is a federal function.

I find it disingenuous to cite a hypothetical of 12 nervous, shifty-eyed
passengers crammed into a minivan being stopped by the police for speeding as
being the typical case in which the Arizona police will inquire into a person's
immigration status.

What about the case of two young males wearing sombreros speaking in Spanish in
front of a convenience store, or three poorly dressed Spanish-speaking women
sitting together at a cafe? Are we really to believe that Arizona's police
officers are not going to make inquiries in those situations?

This law isn't good immigration enforcement; it's an invitation to flagrant
abuse of the civil rights of anyone caught in its web, including American
citizens, permanent residents and applicants for asylum or another lawful
status.

Theodore Ruthizer  New York, April 29, 2010

The writer, a lawyer who works on business immigration matters and  a lecturer
at Columbia Law School, is a former president of the American Immigration
Lawyers Association.

To the Editor:

The reason the American Civil Liberties Union is calling the Arizona law
unconstitutional (as Kris W. Kobach points out) is that it's true. It's also
discriminatory, unfair and un-American.

It is hard to imagine how this law can be enforced without racial profiling, and
claims to the contrary are disingenuous. On what other basis would a police
officer suspect that someone is not lawfully present in the United States?

Hollow language inserted in the bill supposedly to prevent such profiling is
cosmetic. It won't prevent the police from asking people for their papers based
on race and the way they look.

Racial profiling is already rampant in Arizona, and this law will make it worse.
We have seen the effects of the Maricopa County Sheriff's Office's targeting of
Latinos, including American citizens and lawful permanent residents, in its mass
sweeps and enforcement operations. The A.C.L.U. has sued that office, and the
United States Justice Department has started a civil rights investigation into
its practices.

This extreme law puts Arizona completely out of step with American values of
fairness and equality. The A.C.L.U. will vigorously challenge this law in the
courtroom and elsewhere to make sure that it doesn't take effect.

This law says show us your papers. In response, we'll show the State of Arizona
the Constitution.

Anthony D. Romero  Executive Director, A.C.L.U.  New York, April 29, 2010

To the Editor:

In defense of the Arizona immigration law that he helped draft, Kris W. Kobach
writes that ''the Arizona law hardly creates a police state,'' noting that
''other nations have similar documentation requirements.'' The fact that other
countries have used internal identity papers for the most reprehensible reasons
hardly justifies our adoption of similar restrictions.

Why is it that the far right is eager to look to the worst practices of other
countries to defend restrictions on our civil liberties, but objects when
comparisons are made about other countries' best practices, like health care and
the abolition of the death penalty?

Jay N. Feldman  Port Washington, N.Y., April 29, 2010

The writer is a lawyer.

To the Editor:

Re ''Arizona's New Immigration Law Widens the Chasm Between Sides'' (news
article, April 26):

I sympathize with those Mexicans and other immigrants who live in Arizona
legally and also with those seeking a better life. I would point out, however,
that it has always been the law that legal resident aliens carry their ''green
cards'' with them at all times.

As a naturalized citizen who waited five years to obtain a green card and then
another four years to become a citizen (with all the expense and paperwork
involved), I see no reason to condone illegal immigration.

If we, as American citizens, illegally entered Australia, Canada, Britain or any
other country, we could hardly object to being asked for our papers, nor be
surprised to be deported forthwith if we didn't have them. Has everyone lost
sight of the meaning of the word ''illegal''?

If profiling occurs, then certainly we should revisit the law. In the meantime,
let's withhold indignation and wait and see how the law is administered.

Elizabeth Skelton  San Diego, April 27, 2010

To the Editor:

It's a shame that Gov. Jan Brewer didn't consider the downside to S.B. 1070,
Arizona's new immigration law: It amounts to state-sanctioned racial profiling,
usurps federal authority and feeds into a volatile dialogue on immigration in
Arizona, which correlates with a rise in hate crimes. It does nothing to fix our
immigration system, but will cause hardship, compromise public safety and hurt
the economy, as has happened elsewhere as a result of anti-immigrant policies.

At the least, she might have considered that Arizona has more than two million
Hispanic and Asian residents -- about a third of the state's population -- a
million of whom are registered to vote, and they (and others, too, both
immigrant and native-born) are fighting mad that she has dragged Arizona through
the mud with this law.

In 2008, the popular mayor of Hazleton, Pa., who had raised his profile by
enacting anti-immigrant provisions (his ticket to national office, he thought),
lost his race for Congress, in part because the immigrants he had so maligned
were motivated to vote. Perhaps that is a lesson Governor Brewer will come to
learn.

Chung-Wha Hong  Executive Director  New York Immigration Coalition  New York,
April 27, 2010

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY EDEL RODRIGUEZ)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 2, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona Immigration Law Criticized by Mets' Barajas

BYLINE: By DAVID WALDSTEIN

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 516 words


PHILADELPHIA -- The parents of Mets catcher Rod Barajas came to the United
States from Mexico, and he lives in Arizona. So naturally, the new immigration
law passed in that state has drawn his attention, and his ire.

Barajas, an American-born citizen, said Saturday that the measure, which calls
for police officers to demand proof of legal residency when they have
''reasonable suspicion'' that a person may be in the United States illegally,
was unfair and discriminatory.

''It's disappointing,'' Barajas said. ''I have a lot of family born in Mexico.
You would like to hope there is no stereotyping going on, but it's hard to see
that there would not be. If they happen to pull someone over who looks like they
are of Latin descent, even if they are a U.S. citizen, that is the first
question that is going to be asked. But if a blond-haired, blue-eyed Canadian
gets pulled over, do you think they are going to ask for their papers? No.''

Barajas was born in Ontario, Calif., on Sept. 5, 1975, three years after his
parents moved there from Mexico. His father is from Mexicali and his mother is
from Michoacan, and his older brother was born in Mexico, too.

On Saturday, before the Mets' 10-0 loss to the Phillies, Barajas addressed an
issue that is important to him and his family. As a United States citizen,
Barajas has less to worry about than many other major league players who came
here from other countries to work legally as baseball players. Some have not
been in the United States very long and do not speak English fluently. Barajas
wonders if they, too, could be singled out or harassed along with illegal
immigrants.

''What if you go to Arizona and the starting pitcher that day gets asked for his
papers and he doesn't have them?'' Barajas said. ''What happens then? I don't
like it, and I think pretty much all of Major League Baseball feels the same
way. We are part of the community. You hear there won't be any profiling or
racial stereotyping, but it's hard to believe that. Us as Latin Americans are
going to be put through that process and have to worry about it on a daily
basis.''

Growing up in California, Barajas said, he never experienced harassment about
his ethnicity from law enforcement officials, and neither did his family, as far
as he is aware. But he said that with the new law, he was concerned that he
could be pulled over at a traffic stop and questioned simply because of how he
looks. And as a United States citizen, he would have no reason to carry
documentation of his citizenship.

''Why would I carry that stuff around?'' he said. ''And why would most people
carry it around? People who have been in this country for 30 or 40 years, why
would they carry a passport or a green card around? And now you have to, and if
for some reason you don't have it, what's going to happen then?''

On Friday, the Major League Baseball Players Association issued a statement
criticizing the law. That  made Barajas proud.

''I'm 100 percent behind the union,'' he said. ''There's got to be a better way
than this. It's just not fair. It's not fair to us.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 3, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Queens Church Vigil Protests Arizona Immigration Law

BYLINE: By NATE SCHWEBER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 655 words


It was 3 a.m., and the three young men in devil costumes with faces painted
black and white danced wildly and cackled wickedly in a church basement in
Queens. One of the dancers later said what everyone who watched them seemed to
understand: that they were embodying the tough new immigration law in Arizona.

Marco Peralta, a construction worker and former amateur boxer, clenched his
fists with his Popeye forearms bulging and said he would like to meet Gov. Jan
Brewer of Arizona, who on April 23 signed the law making it a crime in her state
for an immigrant not to carry documents.

Yet Mr. Peralta, 56, like others at the all-night vigil for immigration reform
at the Church of St. Leo on 49th Avenue in Corona, did not have violence in
mind.

''I would like to pray with her, to change her heart,'' said Mr. Peralta, 56, an
undocumented worker who added that he moved to New York from Peru a decade ago
to send his son and daughter to college.

Queens Congregations United for Action, a religious community organization, had
planned the vigil weeks ago. But the passage of the law in Arizona seemed to
heighten the fervor of those who attended.

Rather than demonstrate in a large public space, as many others did across the
nation on Saturday, the group focused on St. Leo's for a marathon of songs,
dances, stories and prayers.

''People of all faiths are invited to participate,'' read a stenciled sign on
white canvas outside the Roman Catholic church, behind a statue of Christ on the
cross.

About 100 people began with a religious service in the main part of the church.
''What is going on in parts of our country is not good,'' the Rev. William M.
Hoppe, the church's pastor, said. ''We must work to change unjust laws.''

Everyone then moved downstairs. A succession of costumed dancers and guitarists
kept the crowd on their feet. Amid pleas for reform, participants ate hot dogs
and pizza and drank coffee and cola to fight yawns. A few lost that battle, and
as the sky turned pale a young woman slept on a table. Another woman dozed in a
chair.

The crowd by that time had dwindled to a fatigued few. Come sunrise, though,
their ranks swelled to several dozen.

What seemed to be absent was the anger that has characterized much of the debate
over the Arizona law. When about 60 people finally did take to the street, for a
sleepy 7:30 a.m. march around the block, the only sound was that of the mariachi
band bringing up the rear of the procession.

Diana Avellanneda, 14, who was born in Queens and is in eighth grade at Louis
Armstrong Middle School in East Elmhurst, said she wanted immigration reform for
the sake of her parents, who are undocumented immigrants from Mexico.

''We live in constant fear that one day we might be separated from each other,''
she told the gathering.

Congregations United wrote down her story and those of many others, and Father
Hoppe said they would be collected in a book to be given to public officials.

''We all want the same dream, the American dream,'' said Eddy Fernandez, 21, an
immigrant from the Dominican Republic, who works at a supermarket. ''We want
everyone to see that we're all the same.''

Through the night, it was delicately acknowledged that nearly all those present
could arouse suspicions if they set foot in Arizona.

''Arizona is the motivation,'' said Rosario Perea, 38, a legal immigrant from
Peru who runs a housecleaning service.

A few expressed more lighthearted motives for attending. Diana Lopez, 9, said
she was excited to be allowed to stay up all night.

''It feels fun,'' Diana said, adding that the dancers were ''really cool.''

Bertha Sarmiento, 44, Diana's mother, said it was important to her to show
solidarity with illegal immigrants, many of whom she counts as friends.

''We're legal, but a lot of people don't have the same opportunity as us,'' she
said. ''We will make a sacrifice by staying up all night praying.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The participants in an interfaith vigil on Saturday night at
the Church of St. Leo in Corona included legal and illegal immigrants.
 Marco Peralta, an undocumented worker from Peru, said at the vigil that he
would like to pray with the governor of Arizona. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID GOLDMAN
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Law Debate Resonates Far From Border

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE , JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. , MONICA DAVEY, WILLIAM
YARDLEY and KIRK JOHNSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1679 words


Across the Country, a Close Vote on a Bill

BOSTON -- The Democratic-controlled House in Massachusetts came unexpectedly
close to passing a measure this week that would have barred illegal immigrants
from receiving state and federal benefits in the state.

In the end, the bill failed 75-82, but that was much tighter than the tally on a
similar measure last year, which lost by a lopsided 40-118.

The difference, both proponents and political analysts say: Arizona.

This year's proposal would have required any resident alien receiving benefits
to be verified first as legal by a federal database.

The measure was championed by State Representative Jeff Perry, a Republican, who
is running for the Congressional seat being vacated by Bill Delahunt, a
Democrat. It had the backing of high-profile political figures, including two
candidates for governor -- Tim Cahill, the state treasurer who is running as an
independent, and Charles Baker, the Republican.

''It suggests the dangerous growth of anti-immigration hysteria from Arizona,''
said Eva Millona, executive director of the Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee
Advocacy Coalition, who said the measure was unnecessary because undocumented
immigrants were not eligible for benefits anyway.

''It was pure political showboating,'' she said.

Hundreds of people in New England are expected to join the nationwide protests
against the Arizona law on Saturday, with rallies planned from Portland, Me., to
Providence, R.I.

About 450,000 immigrants have come to Massachusetts over the last decade.
Between 150,000 and 170,000 are estimated to be here illegally, and state and
city resources across the state are scarce. Mr. Perry said the unexpected
support for the bill was partly because of concern over costs for their
benefits.

Without the Arizona legislation, the Massachusetts measure most likely would not
have come to the floor right now and it certainly would not have done so well.
But the vote shows how immigration is simmering just beneath the surface as a
political issue here. Republicans are trying to use it as a cudgel against
vulnerable Democrats in the state. Democrats want Congress to do something fast
-- to get it off their plates before November.

Demographers say that immigrants to New England have generally moved to the
bigger urban areas rather than more rural regions, although there are pockets of
Somalis in Lewiston, Me., and Brazilians on Cape Cod.

One particular immigrant in South Boston has drawn national attention: President
Obama's aunt, Zeituni Onyango, has been living in public housing and is still
fighting a deportation order from 2006. She appeared in court in February
seeking to have that order overturned; her supporters argue that she would be in
danger if she returned to her native Kenya because of her relationship to Mr.
Obama, who is the son of her half-brother. President Obama has not intervened in
the case. KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

Political Considerations and Practical Ones

HOUSTON -- On most subjects, it's hard to find a politician in the country more
conservative than Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, but when it comes to Arizona's new
immigration law, you find the gun-toting, Obama-bashing, regulation-slashing,
state-rights-touting governor walking a fine line.

''I fully recognize and support a state's right and obligation to protect its
citizens,'' Mr. Perry, a Republican, said in a  statement, ''but I have concerns
with portions of the law passed in Arizona, and believe it would not be the
right direction for Texas.''

One of those concerns, Mr. Perry went on, was that the local police and sheriffs
would end up spending too much time corralling illegal immigrants and would
neglect to catch criminals and keep the public safe. But he also blamed the
federal government for not securing the border and repeated his stance that no
immigration reform should be passed until the border is secured.

That is a common position among Republican officeholders here, including Senator
John Cornyn. They all portray the Arizona bill as a result of the state's
frustration with the failure in Washington to seal the border.

But Mr. Perry's real concern may be as much political as it is practical.
Statewide officials in Texas, especially Republicans, have a hard time getting
elected without Hispanic voters. Yet, Republicans still need to keep white
conservatives, their base, happy.

Mr. Perry has  taken steps to increase the number of state police officers and
cameras along the border. But he also has come out against ending the basing of
citizenship on being born on American soil, opposed the border fence and favors
a guest-worker program. JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

Divided Opinions Around the Midwest

CHICAGO -- In the Midwest's larger cities, protests against the Arizona law have
cropped up, leaders of immigrant rights groups and the Democratic governor of
Illinois have railed against it, and at least one mayor, Chris Coleman of St.
Paul, announced that city workers could no longer travel to Arizona on city
business.

Mr. Coleman said the law will ''create a culture where racial profiling is
acceptable, and will create a dangerous wedge between police officers and the
communities they serve.'' He said he was also writing letters to the Democratic
and Republican national committees to urge them not to choose Phoenix as a site
for national conventions in 2012. And he wondered aloud what his own grandmother
would have felt like, had there been ''a similar anti-Irish law.''

At least one Republican candidate for governor of Minnesota announced support
for the measure (calling it a ''wonderful first step''), and the question was
swiftly becoming a must-answer matter for debates, forums, interviews -- despite
its potential political fallout on either side.

''My peers are going to have to answer this question,'' said Bob Vander Plaats,
a Republican candidate for governor of Iowa, who has already offered his take:
As governor, he would encourage a similar law in Iowa.

''The people in Iowa, the people in Arizona, people around the country are
taking a look at the federal government and thinking that they have been
completely inept with the handling of this issue,'' Mr. Vander Plaats said,
adding that politicians' answers to the Arizona question ''probably say more
about the candidates' stances on other issues, not just illegal immigration.''
MONICA DAVEY

Cheap Labor a Factor in Rural Economies

SEATTLE -- In Idaho, a measure that would require employers to electronically
verify the legal immigration status of people they hire has yet to make headway
in the state's Republican-controlled Legislature.

''It would just seem logical, as conservative as Idaho is supposed to be, that
it would embrace this type of legislation,'' said State Senator Mike Jorgenson,
a Republican who sponsored the bill. ''But the fact of the matter is this is not
a party issue, Republican versus Democrat, as much as it is a cheap labor
issue.''

Mr. Jorgenson, who is from Hayden Lake in northern Idaho, said some of the
state's large agricultural industries, led by dairy farmers, have opposed the
bill. Since 2000, Idaho's Hispanic population has grown by about 50 percent,
according to Census data.

Although Idaho is far more conservative than the states to its west, Washington
and Oregon, all three share some broad characteristics. They are made up of vast
rural and relatively conservative areas and large, more liberal cities.

In Washington, commissioners in King County, which includes Seattle, voted 5 to
4 in November to adopt a ''don't ask'' ordinance that prohibits county agencies
from allowing immigration status to affect the services they provide to people.
The ordinance formalized a policy that had been in practice for years by
agencies including the Office of the Sheriff and the Public Health Department.

Earlier this month, at a large immigration rally in Seattle's Pioneer Square,
the King County executive, Dow Constantine, a Democrat who was elected last
fall, told those present, ''Wherever you began your day, wherever you began your
life, you are welcome here in King County.'' WILLIAM YARDLEY

Outrage in Schools, and Campaign Fodder

DENVER -- The Denver Public Schools' superintendent, Tom Boasberg, announced on
Thursday a ban on travel to Arizona for all district employees on
district-sponsored trips.

''This legislation is an assault on human dignity and our core values,'' Mr.
Boasberg said in a statement on the system's Web site. ''We will not put our
employees at risk of the arbitrary and potentially discriminatory harassment
that can now occur in Arizona as a result of this reprehensible
identity-document legislation.''

In the race for governor of Colorado, immigration is back on the table -- if a
little short on specifics. The leading Republican candidate, Scott McInnis, said
in a radio interview this week that he would support a bill ''very similar'' to
Arizona's if elected, without saying exactly what that might mean. His likely
opponent,  John Hickenlooper, the mayor of Denver and a Democrat, was
circumspect in the other direction.

''Arizona's law is troubling,'' Mr. Hickenlooper said in a statement. ''But I am
not surprised states are trying to address immigration policy, because Congress
hasn't.''

In Utah, the speaker of the State House of Representatives, David Clark, a
Republican, said he expected there would be a very similar bill to Arizona's up
for consideration in the Legislature next year.

The Denver Metro Convention and Visitors Bureau has received two or three
inquiries so far, a spokeswoman said, from groups who might be rethinking
Arizona for their business meetings.

''We're not actively soliciting business that might be lost from Arizona,'' said
the spokeswoman, Carrina Junge. ''Right now, we're just kind of waiting to see
what happens.''

And students from as many as 20 schools in Denver, from middle school to
college, were walking out of class Friday afternoon for a rally at the State
Capitol against the Arizona measure. KIRK JOHNSON

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: State Representative Jeff Perry
Gov. Rick Perry
Mayor Chris Coleman
County Executive Dow Constantine
 Mayor John Hickenlooper GRAPHIC: A New Crop of State Immigration Laws: In the
absence of federal legislation, states have enacted their own immigration laws.
In the first three months of 2010 alone, more than 1,100 bills and resolutions
related to immigrants and refugees were introduced in state legislatures across
the country. (Source: Immigrant Policy Project, National Conference of State
Legislatures)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 14, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Selig Rebuffs Calls To Move All-Star Game

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; BATS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 571 words


Commissioner Bud Selig is ignoring calls to move next year's All-Star Game from
Phoenix because of Arizona's new immigration law.

Asked about such demands at a news conference in New York after an owners
meeting Thursday, Selig responded with a defense of baseball's minority hiring
record.

''Apparently all the people around and in minority communities think we're doing
O.K.,'' he said. ''That's the issue, and that's the answer. I told the clubs
today: 'Be proud of what we've done.' They are. We should. And that's our
answer. We control our own fate, and we've done very well.''

Chicago White Sox Manager Ozzie Guillen said he would not participate in next
year's All-Star Game if it remained in Arizona because of the law, which
empowers the police to stop people and question them about their immigration
status. The Major League Baseball Players Association condemned the law, and
Representative Jose Serrano, a New York Democrat whose district includes Yankee
Stadium, sent Selig a letter asking him to move the game.

Selig cited the sports sociologist Richard Lapchick, whose annual report from
the University of Central Florida's Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sports
last month gave baseball an A for minority hiring and a B for gender hiring.

''We have done everything we should do  --  should do, our responsibility,
privilege to do it,'' he said. ''Don't want any pats on the back, and we'll
continue to do it.''

ROYALS WIN AND FIRE MANAGER The Kansas City Royals fired Manager Trey Hillman
immediately after Zack Greinke (1-4) earned his first win in eight starts, 6-4
over the visiting Cleveland Indians. The Royals had lost seven in a row.

Hillman, 47, had a 152-207 record in three seasons with Kansas City. The former
Brewers manager Ned Yost, who had joined the Royals' front office in January,
took over the 12-23 team.

''There is never a right time for something like this to happen,'' Greinke said.
''No matter what, it's going to be awkward and it is going to feel like it's the
wrong time.''

ORIOLES SCORE FIVE IN EIGHTH  Luke Scott hit a grand slam to cap a five-run
eighth inning, and host Baltimore held on to beat Seattle, 6-5,  when left
fielder Corey Patterson threw out Josh Wilson at home for the final out. Wilson
tried to score from second on Ichiro Suzuki's single. Patterson, promoted from
Class AAA earlier this week, led off the eighth win a home run to start the
comeback from a 5-1 deficit.

RANGERS WIN IN 12 INNINGSVladimir Guerrero drove in a run with a single in the
12th inning and the host Texas Rangers beat Oakland, 2-1.

PADRES' LATOS WINS ONE-HITTER Mat Latos allowed just a single that deflected off
him, and drove in the lone run, leading the San Diego Padres to their second
sweep of the San Francisco Giants. Latos (3-3) retired the first 15 batters and
increased his scoreless innings streak to 18 as the Padres swept the Giants in
San Francisco for the first time since May 27-29, 2005.

ASTROS SWEEP CARDINALS Hunter Pence hit a three-run homer, and visiting Houston
wrapped up a three-game sweep of the Cardinals with a 4-1 victory. The Astros
scored all four runs in the third, perhaps taking advantage of Chris Carpenter's
temper. Carpenter (4-1) and Carlos Lee had a stare-down and then exchanged words
after Lee popped out with two runners on base, leading to both benches and
bullpens streaming on the field, although nothing got overheated.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 11, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Illegal Immigration Patchwork

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 448 words


States and localities have been taking immigration enforcement into their own
hands out of frustration over Washington's failure to enact comprehensive
reform, over misguided and ineffective federal enforcement of existing rules and
over a sense that America has lost control of its borders. Numerous states and
towns have enacted harsh laws seeking to regulate the employment of undocumented
workers, and, in some instances, keep them out of housing.

The troubling result is a growing patchwork of punitive statutes bound to spawn
unfairness to businesses and employees while undermining the federal
government's proper authority over immigration.

The Supreme Court is now weighing whether to consider a challenge to Arizona's
immigration law. Before deciding, the justices have asked the solicitor general,
Elena Kagan, to provide the views of the Obama administration. This is a chance
for the court to weigh in against the improper splintering of national
immigration policy, and Ms. Kagan should urge the court to seize that
opportunity.

At issue is a problematic ruling last year by the United States Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit. The ruling upheld Arizona's state-based employer
sanctions law, which provides for the suspension or revocation of business
licenses when firms are found to have knowingly hired illegal immigrants.

The state's approach may not sound unreasonable. But like the more extreme
Hazleton, Pa., ordinance struck down by a federal judge in 2007, the Arizona
scheme has a crucial legal flaw. It usurps the federal government's right to set
immigration policy.

Arizona has broad authority to regulate companies doing business within the
state. But that authority does not include the right to penalize firms for
immigration violations that have not been determined by the federal government
nor to impose penalties vastly harsher than Congress intended when it created
the current employer sanctions system more than 20 years ago.

When the Hazleton decision was handed down, then-Senator Barack Obama hailed it
as a ''victory for all Americans'' that underscored the need for national
immigration reform. In that same spirit, President Obama should now want the
Supreme Court to grab the Arizona case to vindicate the nation's interest in
having uniform immigration policies, and to stop the spread of local laws that
can make achieving real worthwhile national reform harder.

The Arizona statute was signed into law by Arizona's former governor, Janet
Napolitano, who now leads the Department of Homeland Security. But that awkward
fact should not prevent the administration from taking a principled stance in
favor of Supreme Court review.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Why Arizona Drew a Line

BYLINE: By KRIS W. KOBACH.

Kris W. Kobach, a law professor at the University of Missouri at Kansas City,
was Attorney General John Ashcroft's chief adviser on immigration law and border
security from 2001 to 2003.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 898 words

DATELINE: Kansas City, Kan.


ON Friday, Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona signed a law  -- SB 1070 -- that prohibits
the harboring of illegal aliens and makes it a state crime for an alien to
commit certain federal immigration crimes. It also requires police officers who,
in the course of a traffic stop or other law-enforcement action, come to a
''reasonable suspicion'' that a person is an illegal alien verify the person's
immigration status with the federal government.

Predictably, groups that favor relaxed enforcement  of immigration laws,
including the American Civil Liberties Union and the Mexican American Legal
Defense and Education Fund, insist the law is unconstitutional. Less
predictably, President Obama declared it ''misguided''  and said the Justice
Department would take a look.

Presumably, the government lawyers who do so will actually read the law,
something its critics don't seem to have done. The arguments we've heard against
it either misrepresent its text or are otherwise inaccurate. As someone who
helped draft the statute, I will rebut the major criticisms individually:

It is unfair to demand that aliens carry their documents with them. It is true
that the Arizona law makes it a misdemeanor for an alien to fail to carry
certain documents. ''Now, suddenly, if you don't have your papers ... you're
going to be harassed,'' the president said. ''That's not the right  way to go.''
But since 1940, it has been a federal crime for aliens to fail to keep such
registration documents with them. The Arizona law simply adds a state penalty to
what was already a federal crime. Moreover, as anyone who has traveled abroad
knows, other nations have similar documentation requirements.

''Reasonable suspicion'' is a meaningless term that will permit police
misconduct.  Over the past four decades, federal courts have issued hundreds of
opinions defining those two words. The Arizona law didn't invent the concept:
Precedents list the  factors that can contribute to reasonable suspicion; when
several  are combined, the ''totality of circumstances'' that results may create
reasonable suspicion that a crime has been committed.

For example, the Arizona law is most likely to come into play after a traffic
stop. A police officer pulls a minivan over for speeding. A dozen passengers are
crammed in. None has identification. The highway is a known alien-smuggling
corridor. The driver is acting evasively. Those factors combine to create
reasonable suspicion that the occupants are not in the country legally.

The law will allow police to engage in racial profiling. Actually, Section 2
provides that a law enforcement official ''may not solely consider race, color
or national origin'' in making any stops or determining immigration status. In
addition, all normal Fourth Amendment protections against profiling will
continue to apply. In fact, the Arizona law actually reduces the likelihood of
race-based harassment by compelling police officers to contact the federal
government as soon as is practicable when they suspect a person is an illegal
alien, as opposed to letting them make arrests on their own assessment.

It is unfair to demand that people carry a driver's license. Arizona's law does
not require anyone, alien or otherwise, to carry a driver's license. Rather, it
gives any alien with a license a free pass if his immigration status is in
doubt. Because Arizona allows only lawful residents to obtain licenses, an
officer must presume that someone who produces one is legally in the country.

State governments aren't allowed to get involved in immigration, which is a
federal matter. While it is true that Washington holds primary authority in
immigration, the Supreme Court since  1976 has recognized that states may enact
laws to discourage illegal immigration without being pre-empted by federal law.
As long as Congress hasn't expressly forbidden the state law in question, the
statute doesn't conflict with federal law and Congress has not displaced all
state laws from the field, it is permitted. That's why Arizona's 2007 law making
it illegal to knowingly employ unauthorized aliens was sustained by the United
States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.

In sum, the Arizona law hardly creates a police state. It takes a measured,
reasonable step to give Arizona police officers another tool when they come into
contact with illegal aliens during their normal law enforcement duties.

And it's very necessary: Arizona is the ground zero of illegal immigration.
Phoenix is the hub of human smuggling and the kidnapping capital of America,
with more than 240 incidents reported in 2008. It's no surprise that Arizona's
police associations favored the bill, along with 70 percent of Arizonans.

President Obama and the Beltway crowd feel these problems can be taken care of
with ''comprehensive immigration reform'' -- meaning amnesty and a few other new
laws. But we already have plenty of federal immigration laws on the books, and
the typical illegal alien is guilty of breaking many of them. What we need is
for the executive branch to enforce the laws that we already have.

Unfortunately, the Obama administration has scaled back work-site enforcement
and otherwise shown it does not consider immigration laws to be a high priority.
It is any wonder the Arizona Legislature, at the front line of the immigration
issue, sees things differently?

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPHE VORLET)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 15, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants In Arizona May Face New Curbs

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1078 words


While pressure increases on the Obama administration for a long-anticipated and
much-promised overhaul of the nation's immigration laws, Arizona is moving ahead
with anti-illegal-immigrant legislation widely considered among the most
stringent in the states. It would hand the police in the state broad power under
state law to check the legal status of people they reasonably suspect are
illegal immigrants.

The legislation was approved by Arizona's House of Representatives on Tuesday
and is heading back to the Senate, which is expected to pass it and send it to
Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican facing an election challenge from conservatives.
Although she has not stated her position, people on both sides of the bill
expect her to sign it.

The police would be authorized to arrest immigrants unable to show documents
allowing them to be in the country and the legislation would leave drivers open
to sanctions in some cases for knowingly transporting an illegal immigrant, even
a relative. It expressly forbids cities from adopting ''sanctuary'' policies
that restrict the police and public workers from immigration enforcement, though
it was a matter of debate if any cities had  such policies.

The bill, hotly debated by police, business and faith groups, represents a step
back from an earlier proposal that would have broadened the state's trespassing
law to encompass being in the state illegally. But advocates for immigrants
described it as a recipe for racial and ethnic profiling that is ripe for costly
constitutional challenges and par for the course in a state where debate over
immigration is as heated as the desert sun.

It is ''the most anti-immigrant legislation the country has seen in a
generation,'' said Chris Newman, legal director of the National Day Laborer
Organizing Network. ''Arizona has long been a laboratory for anti-immigrant
experimentation, and its demagogue leaders have become folk heroes for white
supremacists throughout the United States, but this bill ushers in a new chapter
of disgrace for the state,'' he said.

Muzaffar A. Christi, a lawyer and policy analyst at the nonpartisan Migration
Policy Institute in Washington, said Arizona would be the first state to allow
the local police to determine a person's immigration status based solely on
their ''reasonable suspicion'' that they were in the country illegally. No other
state, he added, makes it a state crime not to carry an alien registration card
or other immigration document, though federal law requires legal immigrants to
do so.

He said the Arizona law could face legal challenges. ''How can you 'reasonably
believe' someone is an undocumented immigrant if you are a local cop?'' he said.
''Federal agents have training on that, but local cops don't know that.''
Supporters of the bill, which included a handful of Republicans who doubted its
effectiveness but voted for it anyway, said it reflected frustration with a
federal government that they believed had fallen short on revamping immigration
law and securing the border. More people and drugs cross illegally into the
United States through Arizona than any other state.

The chief sponsor of the legislation, State Senator Russell Pearce, said in an
interview that he hoped that the legislation, and other measures, would send the
message to illegal immigrants that they were not welcome in Arizona. ''That
absolutely is what we are doing here,'' he said.

He brushed aside concerns that immigrants would not cooperate with police
investigations or report crime, noting that the law would allow officers not to
ask about immigration status if it would hinder an investigation.

State Representative John Kavanagh, a Republican, noted that the flow of illegal
immigration might have slowed during the recession. But the problem remained a
top concern of his constituents, he said, and the bill would give the police
additional tools to root out people without authorization to be in the country.
''So when the new tsunami of illegal immigration comes, we will be ready for
them,'' he added.

The bill also serves as a reminder that, for all the back and forth in
Washington, the states continue sewing a patchwork of legislation intended to
answer local demands to confront illegal immigration.

Since an effort to overhaul federal immigration law collapsed in 2007,
immigration-related bills in the states have surged, with more immigration bills
than ever posted last year, including efforts to restrict public services and
encouraging more local police cooperation with federal authorities, according to
the National Conference of State Legislatures.

If the bill was a rebuke to the Obama administration, it was also a tweak to
Janet Napolitano, the former Arizona governor who is now secretary of homeland
security and a key adviser to the administration on immigration. Ms. Napolitano,
a Democrat, had a contentious relationship with the Republican sponsors of the
bill and had vetoed similar legislation as governor.

Matthew Chandler, a spokesman for Ms. Napolitano, declined to comment directly
on the merits of the bill but defended federal enforcement of immigration law
and border security. He said that the government concentrated on ''smart,
effective immigration enforcement'' focused on removing illegal immigrants who
committed crimes, and that it had bolstered border security.

''D.H.S. has replaced old policies that merely looked tough with new policies
that remove convicted criminals and make our streets safer,'' he said.

Immigration remains a potent issue in Arizona; during debate over the bill on
Tuesday, a few legislators invoked the killing of a rancher at the border that
the police theorized was related to smuggling. Governor Brewer's  campaign Web
site features pictures of razor wire on a border fence, and she has sought to
play up her toughness on immigration as she prepares for a challenge to a full
term from candidates considered to be to the right of her.

A spokesman for Ms. Brewer said she would not take a position until the bill
arrived on her desk.

Some Republicans called the bill flawed and promised to fix it later, but they
supported it as a step forward. ''This is not a comprehensive solution,'' Kirk
Adams, a Republican and the speaker of the House, said before casting his vote
for it. ''That's not going to occur until the federal government takes up its
responsibility to protect Arizona. But that doesn't mean we should wait until
then.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ballplayers Join Protest Of New Law

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 266 words


A day after protesters rallied against Arizona's new illegal immigration law
outside Wrigley Field in Chicago, Major League Baseball thrust itself into the
national debate.

The law permits police officers who have ''reasonable suspicion'' that a person
may be in the United States illegally to demand proof of legal residency.

The baseball players' union said it opposed the law and raised concerns about
how foreign-born players, who make up about a quarter of major league rosters,
and their families would be affected.

Half of the league's 30 teams have spring training facilities in Arizona, and
the All-Star Game is scheduled to be played at the Arizona Diamondbacks' stadium
in Phoenix next year.

''We hope that the law is repealed or modified promptly,'' Michael Weiner, head
of the players' union, said in a statement. ''If the current law goes into
effect, the M.L.B.P.A. will consider additional steps necessary to protect the
rights and interests of our members.''

The owner of the Diamondbacks, meanwhile, criticized the federal government as
not addressing the immigration issue.

''We are certainly well aware of the struggles our state has due to federal
inaction on illegal immigration,'' said the owner, Ken Kendrick, who has
expressed opposition to the new law.

Mr. Kendrick said the response to the law had affected businesses in the state.
''Unfortunately,'' he said, ''this whole situation is sad and disappointing for
all of us who are associated with the Arizona Diamondbacks.''

On Thursday, dozens of people protested at Wrigley Field during a
Cubs-Diamondbacks game.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Poll Finds Serious Concern Among Americans About Immigration

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD and MEGAN THEE-BRENAN; Randal C. Archibold
reported from Los Angeles, and Megan Thee-Brennan from New York. Marina Stefan
contributed reporting from New York

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1005 words


LOS ANGELES -- The overwhelming majority of Americans think the country's
immigration policies need to be seriously overhauled. And despite protests
against Arizona's stringent new immigration enforcement law, a majority of
Americans support it, even though they say it may lead to racial profiling.

These are the findings of the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.

With the signing of the Arizona law on April 23 and reports of renewed efforts
in Washington to rethink immigration, there has been an uptick in the number of
Americans who describe illegal immigration as a serious problem.

But the poll -- conducted April 28 through May 2 with 1,079 adults, and with a
margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points -- suggests
that Americans remain deeply divided about what to do.

The public broadly agrees, across party lines, that the United States could be
doing more along its border to keep illegal immigrants out. The view was shared
by 78 percent of the respondents.

That unity, however, fractures on the question of what to do with illegal
immigrants who are already here and the role of states in enforcing immigration
law, normally a federal responsibility.

A majority of the people polled, 57 percent, said the federal government should
determine the laws addressing illegal immigration. But 51 percent said the
Arizona law was ''about right'' in its approach to the problem. Thirty-six
percent said it went too far and 9 percent said it did not go far enough.

The law has recharged the national debate over securing the border and what to
do about the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants already in the country.

The Arizona law gives local police officers broad power to detain people they
suspect are in the country illegally and check their legal status. Lawsuits have
already been filed on several grounds, including the argument that it will lead
to the racial profiling of legal residents and that the state has
unconstitutionally intruded on federal authority.

Under a torrent of criticism, the Arizona Legislature and Gov. Jan Brewer made
changes to the law on Friday that they say explicitly ban the police from racial
profiling and allow officers to inquire about immigration status only of people
they stop, detain or arrest in enforcing existing state law. But the new
immigration law also now includes civil violations of municipal codes as grounds
to check papers, and opponents were not mollified by the changes.

In follow-up interviews, poll respondents who embraced the thrust of the Arizona
law still called for a national solution.

''The Arizona law is fine, but the federal government has to step in and come up
with something -- and they're not doing it,'' said Pat Turkos, 64, a library
worker and Republican from Baltimore.

She said: ''I don't think they should be stopped just walking down the street,
only if they're stopped for speeding, for example. I believe everybody has the
right to come here, but I think they have to be made legal citizens.''

Although the respondents broadly agreed that the Arizona law would result in
racial profiling, overburden local and state law enforcement agencies and
decrease the willingness of illegal immigrants to report crimes for fear of
deportation, large majorities said it would reduce the number of illegal
immigrants in the state, deter illegal border crossings and, to a lesser extent,
reduce crime.

Some attitudes about immigration have remained stable among the public. Most
still say illegal immigrants weaken the nation's economy rather than strengthen
it, and public opinion remains divided over how the United States should handle
illegal immigrants currently in the country.

But American attitudes toward the law and whether illegal immigrants already
here should have a path to citizenship differed markedly across regions and
parties. Westerners and Northeasterners, for example, are significantly more
likely than those in other regions to say the recent law in Arizona goes too
far. And Democrats are much more likely than Republicans or independents to
support a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants now in the country.

Just 8 percent of Americans said the immigration system needed only minor
changes. The vast majority said it needed reworking, including 44 percent who
said it needed to be completely rebuilt and 45 percent who said it needed
fundamental changes.

Three quarters said that, over all, illegal immigrants were a drain on the
economy because they did not all pay taxes but used public services like
hospitals and schools. Nearly 2 in 10 said the immigrants strengthened the
economy by providing low-cost labor and buying goods and services, a chief
argument among many of their advocates.

''I do think the federal government should deal with it, because illegal
immigrants don't pay taxes and don't contribute to our government,'' said
Deborah Adams, 53, a Democrat from Ephrata, Pa., and a paramedic who called the
Arizona law a ''necessary evil.''

''They take jobs from American citizens who need to work and pay into Social
Security,'' Ms. Adams  said.

In fact, many illegal immigrants do pay taxes into the Social Security system,
but never see a return on their contributions.

At immigration rallies in several cities on Saturday, demonstrators pressed the
case for overhauling immigration law.

So far no bill has been introduced in Congress. President Obama, while
supportive of the idea of immigration reform, has  questioned whether lawmakers
have the appetite for a divisive battle over it after a year of other political
fights and in the middle of a  campaign.

A delegation of Arizonans opposed to the law, including Mayor Phil Gordon of
Phoenix, plans to meet with Justice Department officials on Tuesday to urge them
to step into the brewing legal battle over the law.

On Monday, one of the law's staunchest advocates, Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa
County in the Phoenix area, announced that after toying with the idea,  he would
not run for governor.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Opinions on Arizona's new immigration enforcement law (Source:
New York Times/ CBS News Poll)(A15)
 Views on Immigration and Arizona's Law (Based on nationwide telephone
interviews conducted April 28-May 2 with 1,079 adults.)(A18)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 20, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Search for Illegal Workers, Immigration Officials Will Audit More Companies

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 632 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigration enforcement officials said Thursday that they were expanding a
program for auditing companies that might have hired illegal immigrants and had
notified 1,000 companies this week that they would have to undergo such a
review.

John Morton, who heads Immigration and Customs Enforcement, known as ICE,
announced the new initiative, saying it was part of the administration's plan to
deal with companies that hire illegal workers. ''ICE is focused on finding and
penalizing employers who believe they can unfairly get ahead by cultivating
illegal workplaces,'' Mr. Morton said.

He said that because the program was a law enforcement operation, he would not
identify the companies that would undergo an audit except to say that they had
been selected as a result of investigative leads and their connection to public
safety and national security.

The language suggests the audits will affect private companies involved in
infrastructure operations like gas and electric utilities and contractors on
military bases but not retailers and manufacturers of nonessential goods.

The announcement of the action appears to be part of a two-pronged strategy by
Homeland Security officials to crack down on companies that regularly rely on
illegal workers while simultaneously trying to reward  companies that are
diligent in checking the documentation of prospective workers.

At a separate event on Thursday, Janet Napolitano, the secretary of Homeland
Security, urged American consumers to favor companies that make efforts to
ensure that they do not hire illegal immigrants.

To that end, Ms. Napolitano said that her department was permitting companies
that use a new computerized system to check the legal status of employees to
feature a special logo on their products and ads saying ''I E-Verify.''

The E-Verify campaign allows employers to match a prospective candidate's name
against a database that combines several government lists, including Social
Security, passport and border information.

The first audit conducted by ICE covered 654 companies and resulted in the
filing of formal notices to seek a fine from 61. ICE officials said they were
considering seeking fines from an additional 267 companies from that first
audit.

An audit consists of ICE officials checking each worker's Employee Eligibility
Verification Form, known as an I-9, to determine what steps were taken to
confirm the person was eligible to be hired. If irregularities are found, the
companies may then be fined for lax monitoring.

The strategy is part of the Obama administration's effort to reduce illegal
immigration by forcing companies to fire unauthorized workers rather than by
conducting raids at the workplace, actions that are often accompanied by great
personal trauma, including deportation and the dividing of immigrant families.

Representative Lamar Smith of Texas, a leading Republican  on immigration
policy, on Thursday sharply criticized the administration's approach. Mr. Smith
said it was unwise to end ''worksite enforcement'' actions, or raids.

''The most effective means we have of making these jobs available to American
citizens and legal immigrants is U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
worksite enforcement actions,'' he said. ''Each time ICE detains and deports an
illegal immigrant worker, ICE creates a job for an American worker.''

The audits, however, have resulted in large-scale dismissals at the hands of
employers, leaving the government one step removed.

In September, American Apparel, a clothing maker with a large garment factory in
downtown Los Angeles, fired about 1,800 immigrant employees -- more than a
quarter of its work force -- after a federal audit turned up irregularities in
identity documents the workers presented when they were hired.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Law Facing a Tough Road Through the Courts

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ and RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1021 words


Can Arizona's controversial new immigration law -- allowing the police to stop
people and demand proof of citizenship -- pass constitutional muster?

To many scholars, the answer is, simply, no.

''The law is clearly pre-empted by federal law under Supreme Court precedents,''
said Erwin Chemerinsky, an expert in constitutional law and the dean of the
University of California, Irvine, School of Law.

Since the 1800s, the federal government has been in charge of controlling
immigration and enforcing those laws, Professor Chemerinsky noted. And that is
why, he argued, Arizona's effort to enforce its own laws is destined to fail.

But even some experts who say they are troubled by the law said it might survive
challenges.

''My view of the constitutional question is that it is unconstitutional,'' said
Hiroshi Motomura, co-author of leading casebooks on immigration law and a
professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, School of Law. ''But
it's a far cry from predicting empirically what a judge who actually gets this
case will do.''

Whether any challenges to the Arizona law succeed could come down to the
perception of judges about whether it competes with federal law.

To Kris W. Kobach, the law professor at the University of Missouri-Kansas City
School of Law who helped write Senate Bill 1070 and many other immigration
measures around the country, the key issue is ''concurrent enforcement'' -- that
is, whether the state law parallels federal law without conflict.

Because the Arizona statute draws directly on federal statutes concerning
documentation and other issues, ''the Arizona law is perfect concurrent
enforcement,'' Professor Kobach said.

The tests will come soon enough. Civil rights organizations are already planning
their suits, said Lucas Guttentag, director of the immigrants' rights project of
the American Civil Liberties Union. The law, Mr. Guttentag said, ''will increase
racial profiling and discrimination against Latinos and anyone who might appear
to be an immigrant.''

President Obama criticized Arizona's bill last week before it was signed,
calling for a comprehensive immigration overhaul as an alternative to such
''misguided'' efforts. He also asked the Department of Justice to ''examine the
civil rights and other implications of this legislation.''

On Tuesday, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said the department was
considering several options, including a federal court challenge.

The major issue in those challenges will be whether federal law should trump
state action.

''The closer the law comes to the traditional federal role,'' said Juliet P.
Stumpf, an associate professor of law at Lewis & Clark Law School, ''the more
likely it is that the state law will be considered to be trespassing on the
federal government's domain.''

The new law, Professor Stumpf added, ''sits right on that thin line of pure
state criminal law and federally controlled immigration law.''

The courts have rebuffed state efforts through pre-emption in the past.
Californians passed a voter initiative in 1994 that denied social benefits to
illegal immigrants; a federal district court judge struck down the law in 1997
and the state later dropped its appeal.

Arizona has already won one challenge to a different immigration bill: the
United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit has upheld a 2007 law that
penalizes businesses that knowingly hire illegal immigrants. Federal law is not
settled, however, and a similar law in Hazleton, Pa., was struck down by a
federal judge.

An opinion in the appeal of the Hazleton ruling to the United States Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit is pending. Such conflicts, once they work their
way through the appeals courts, often attract the interest of the Supreme Court.

The new law is controversial even within Arizona. Its critics include the
attorney general, Terry Goddard, a Democrat running for governor. Mr. Goddard
called the law a ''tragic mistake'' that ''does nothing to make us safer.''

Mr. Goddard, however, has the obligation to defend it in court as the state's
chief lawyer. He said he would probably recuse himself, and enlist Mr. Kobach
for the defense, as he did in the case involving the 2007 law.

Even if the new law is found constitutional on its face, critics suggest that
when it is applied, it will lead to abuses that will be deemed unconstitutional.
''I think it's an inevitable consequence of the law,'' Mr. Motomura said.

Grant Woods, a former Arizona attorney general who opposed the bill, agreed,
saying, ''People will be profiled because of the color of their skin.''

Mr. Kobach said the courts had long given the police broad authority to stop
people and to make immigration arrests -- and asserted that the bill ''expressly
prohibits racial profiling,'' because it stated that officers ''may not solely
consider race, color or national origin.''

Julie Pace, an Arizona lawyer who brought suit challenging the 2007 law, issued,
with her colleagues, an analysis of the new law arguing that ''the word 'solely'
makes this purported anti-discrimination provision an authorization to allow
racial profiling and discrimination, as long as the government is not 100
percent racially motivated.''

Stewart A. Baker, a former Department of Homeland Security policy official who
worked on immigration overhaul  in the Bush administration, said fears of the
new law were overblown.

''The coverage of this law and the text of the law are a little hard to
square,'' Mr. Baker said. ''There's nothing in the law that requires cities to
stop people without cause, or encourages racial or ethnic profiling by itself.''

Nonetheless, Michael A. Olivas, a professor at the University of Houston Law
Center and a member of the board of the Mexican-American Legal Defense and
Education Fund, predicted that the new law would fall.

''At the end of the day, we will prevail, and will get these things struck down
as the constitutional jokes that they are,'' Professor Olivas said. ''It is
regrettable -- but it's so over the top that it may very well galvanize
people.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Arizona's attorney general, Terry Goddard, sees a ''mistake.''
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Migrants, New Law Is Just Another Hurdle to Overcome

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY; Elisabeth Malkin contributed reporting from Mexico City.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1069 words


NOGALES, Mexico -- Despite its intent to ''discourage and deter'' unlawful entry
to the United States, Arizona's tough new immigration law is not what prevented
Veronica from sneaking into the state without papers. After all, she had already
endured a harrowing train ride, escaped dangerous drug traffickers and eluded
Mexican authorities who were after the money she had stuffed in her underwear.

Veronica did not make it to the United States, she said glumly, simply because
she got nervous. Her palms got sweaty and she slipped off the pole she and
others in her group were shimmying up to get over the border fence and into
Arizona.

It was a long fall and Veronica, a Honduran immigrant who declined to give her
last name out of fear that it might hurt her chances of migrating north in the
future, was bruised and limping when she recounted her failed border crossing.
She was pregnant, too, and worried about how her fetus had handled the trauma.

As strict as Arizona's new immigration legislation may be, prompting the Mexican
government to issue a travel alert warning that ''any Mexican citizen could be
bothered and questioned without cause at any moment,'' it happens to be child's
play compared with what many illegal immigrants regularly endure on their way to
the north.

''If they think the migrants will stop coming, they're wrong,'' Rafael Limon
Corbala, head of the regional migration office for the Mexican state of Sonora,
said of the Arizona legislators who approved the law. ''There's still jobs over
there, and many people will still have their eyes on getting across.''

If a migrant can pay enough, heading north can be as simple as waiting in line
at a border crossing, handing a forged identity document to a border guard and,
if it works, strolling into the United States. But it is more likely to be a
nightmarish trek through the Mexican countryside and then across the Arizona
desert.

Either way, migrants pool significant sums, anywhere from $2,500 to $5,000, to
make the passage. That is enough in many of their hometowns to build a basic
home or start a small business, but it is widely viewed among migrants as a
worthy investment.

Arizona's new law -- which calls for police officers who have ''reasonable
suspicion'' of a person's immigration status to demand proof of legal residency
-- was uniformly disliked by the many migrants interviewed in this border town
on the Mexican side. The criticism seemed the same among those preparing to
cross, those who were deciding what to do next after being deported and those in
the midst of crossing who spoke as they trudged nervously north.

''We work for the people of Arizona and now they don't want us,'' fumed Miguel,
who said he was part a group of several dozen people caught by the Border Patrol
in the desert this week and bused back to the border. He said he would be making
another attempt -- his eighth in recent years -- soon.

Relatively few migrants said the law would keep them from crossing, though they
planned to steer clear of police officers even more than they did before.

While the new law is expected to give local law enforcement officers more power
to detain illegal immigrants, that already occurs, migrants said. Take the case
of Salvador, who like others declined to be fully identified. He said his
deportation last year was prompted by an arrest for jaywalking.

He said that after living in Phoenix for 20 of his 23 years and graduating from
high school there, he was crossing a street last year when a police officer took
him in. Checking his records, it was discovered that he had an unpaid speeding
ticket. His immigration records were then checked, he said, and when it was
determined that he was in the country illegally, he was sent to Mexico, which he
had left when he was a toddler.

''I should have crossed at the light,'' he said.

Claudia, too, said it was a routine traffic stop and an expired vehicle
registration that led to her deportation. She said she was bused back to Mexico
with scores of others on Tuesday with a dazed look on her face and no firm plans
for how she planned to reunite with her husband and two children, who live in
the other Nogales, in Arizona.

Migrants start their treks in numerous countries and employ a dizzying array of
schemes to slip across the border, making no two migrations the same. Mexicans,
though, generally have it easier than Central Americans, who are often preyed
upon by Mexican authorities even before reaching the increasingly fortified
border.

''Riding precariously on the tops of freight trains, many are met with
discrimination and xenophobia, targeted by people smugglers and prey to
kidnapping by criminal gangs,'' Amnesty International said in a report released
this week.

''Every year thousands of migrants are ill treated, abducted or raped,'' the
human rights group said. ''Arbitrary detention and extortion by public officials
are common.''

Amnesty International gave the government of President Felipe Calderon some
credit for improving the plight of migrants crossing its turf. Conditions at
detention centers have improved, the group said, and migrants who are caught
crossing Mexico spend  less time in custody pending their repatriation.

In addition, the state government in Chiapas, where many migrants enter Mexico,
established for the first time a special prosecutor for crimes against migrants.
As a result, five members of an elite local police unit were arrested for
assaults on migrants.

But Mexico has been much more vociferous in criticizing the United States on
immigration than in setting model practices itself, Amnesty International and
other groups have found.

In Mexico, it is supposed to be federal immigration officers and the federal
police who verify the legal status of migrants. But anybody with a badge is
liable to do it, a situation that several migrants said prepared them well for
what they might face in Arizona.

As night fell one evening this week, a nervous smuggler who helps migrants get
to the United States stood on a hilltop just feet from the border, barking out
orders into his handheld radio. He had lookouts tracking the movements of the
Border Patrol on the other side and confederates with a car parked just across
the border waiting to pick up the migrants who had paid extra. He was not
concerned about business drying up.

''They'll keep coming,'' he said confidently.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Two women sat near the border with the United States in Nogales,
Mexico, after being detained and deported by American border officials.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 30, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Activists Take Arizona Protest Out to the Ballgame

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY and MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT; Monica Davey reported from
Chicago, and Michael S. Schmidt from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 598 words


CHICAGO -- The fight over Arizona's  illegal-immigration law came to the
sidewalk outside Wrigley Field on Thursday afternoon, in the shadow of a game
between the Arizona Diamondbacks and the Chicago Cubs.

Dozens of protesters waved signs and chanted ''Boycott Arizona! Boycott
Arizona!'' and, at times, the Friendly Confines, as Wrigley is lovingly known,
seemed anything but.

Some baseball fans quietly accepted leaflets disparaging the Arizona law, which
calls for police officers who have ''reasonable suspicion'' that a person may be
in the United States illegally to demand proof of legal residency. Others
refused the leaflets or said that, in fact, they liked Arizona's new policy, the
strictest illegal-immigration law in the country.

At one point, a fan, carrying his own bullhorn and two large American flags, got
into a screaming match with protesters as he declared that he was ''standing
with America's favorite pastime'' and urged the crowd not to boycott Arizona at
all. The protesters chanted at the man, who was African-American, ''Racist, go
home!''

Far from Arizona, far from any statehouse, the debate over that state's new law
is being carried into an unlikely arena: sports. Protest organizers here called
for like-minded people elsewhere to take the fight to other games -- basketball,
hockey, you name it -- against any Arizona team. Leone Jose Bicchieri, one such
organizer, said his group also was urging baseball teams (including the Cubs) to
move their spring training headquarters out of Arizona.

And at least one member of Congress, Representative Jose E. Serrano, Democrat of
New York, was urging Major League Baseball to change the site of the 2011
All-Star Game, now set for Phoenix; Mr. Serrano likened the circumstances to the
early 1990s, when the National Football League rescinded an agreement to hold
the Super Bowl in Arizona during a period before the state accepted Martin
Luther King's Birthday as a holiday.

Mark Ganis, a consultant here who advises baseball and football teams on
marketing matters, said he doubted that the latest efforts would have much
effect. ''People oftentimes have already purchased their tickets and are not
going to throw them away because in another state they have passed a law they
had no say over,'' Mr. Ganis  said.

An official from the Cubs, who declined to comment on the Arizona law itself,
said attendance at Thursday's game (36,850) had met expectations, and offered no
indications that ticketholders had chosen to skip the game.

Mr. Bicchieri and others here contended that it was reasonable to make the
Diamondbacks a boycott target because the team's ownership had -- through
contributions to political leaders in Arizona -- indirectly supported the
immigration law.

The Diamondbacks principal owner, Ken Kendrick, has donated to Republican
candidates but  opposes the law, a team official said in an e-mail message. The
official, Shaun Rachau, said that Mr. Kendrick was one of nearly 75 owners of
the team and that none of Mr. Kendrick's contributions -- nor those of other
owners -- reflected any views of the organization. The team, he said, never
supported the law and took  no stance on political issues.

Outside Wrigley, Connie Andersen, dressed  in Cubs gear, said of the Arizona
law, ''This is a speedy path to Nazi Germany fascism.''

But Mike Binotto, a fellow fan, pushed past Ms. Andersen as she tried to give
him a leaflet. ''We're here for the Cubs, and they want to talk about this?'' he
said, adding, ''I've been to Arizona, and to a certain extent I agree with this
law.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Leone Jose Bicchieri led a Chicago rally against Arizona's
immigration law. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 12, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Phoenix Counts Big Boycott Cost

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 253 words


Boycotts threatened or carried out over Arizona's new immigration enforcement
law could cost the Phoenix metropolitan area $90 million in hotel and convention
business over five years, Mayor Phil Gordon said Tuesday.

The figure, which does not include incidental spending in restaurants and shops,
was calculated after four organizations canceled conventions or conferences and
a dozen others said they would abandon visits if the law was not repealed, he
said.

The fallout comes as the state, heavily dependent on tourism, struggles to right
its economy. ''I don't think there ever would be a good time not to have $90
million,'' said Mr. Gordon, a Democrat who opposes both the law and the
boycotts.

The law, scheduled to take effect in July, greatly expands the power of the
local police to check the immigration status of people they suspect are in the
country illegally and makes it a state crime, paralleling federal law, to not
carry immigration papers.

Several major civil rights groups have urged people to avoid the state in
protest.

Paul Senseman, a spokesman for Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican, who signed the law
on April 23, called boycotting the state ''thoughtless and harmful'' and said it
was a distraction from the underlying issue of the federal government's failure
to control immigration and the border.

''An economic boycott of Arizona just adds to the massive economic burden
Arizonans have sustained for years due to the federal government's failure to
secure our borders,'' Mr. Senseman said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Phil Gordon

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 13, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

California: Los Angeles Approves a Boycott of Arizona

BYLINE: By REBECCA CATHCART

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WEST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 88 words


The Los Angeles City Council voted Wednesday to ban official travel to Arizona
and block future contracts with companies there in protest of that state's new
immigration law. Some members of the Council have repeatedly spoken against the
law since its enactment, and several marched with immigrants-rights activists
and thousands of protesters on May 1 in downtown Los Angeles to oppose the law.
The Council has asked officials for the city's port, airport and utilities to
review all contracts with companies based in Arizona.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 19, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona: Complaint Filed Under Immigration Law

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 117 words


An Arizona prosecutor says his office has filed the first civil complaint
against a business under a 22-month-old state law that prohibits employers from
knowingly hiring illegal immigrants. The Maricopa County attorney, Andrew
Thomas, said the manager of the Scottsdale Art Factory used a subcontractor who
is an illegal immigrant to avoid the law's requirement that employees be legal
workers. Mr. Thomas said investigators had the manager on tape telling an
informant that she was trying to get around the law. A woman who answered the
phone at the business declined to comment. Under Arizona's law, businesses that
knowingly hire illegal immigrants can have their business licenses suspended or
revoked.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 26, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Detentions At Border Are Down

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 450 words


Detentions of migrants trying to cross the border illegally dropped to 556,000
in the 2009 fiscal year, a decline of 23 percent over 2008 and the lowest number
since the early 1970s, according to official figures released this week.

The number of detentions of illegal border crossers has been falling since 2000,
when it reached a peak of 1.6 million. But the especially sharp decline in the
2009 fiscal year, which ended Sept. 30, was a sign of a steep decrease in the
flow of migrant workers from Mexico and Central America, immigration officials
and researchers said.

Migrants have been discouraged from coming by soaring unemployment among
immigrants in the United States and  tighter enforcement along the Southwest
border, officials and scholars said.

Obama administration officials have pointed to the decreasing flow as evidence
that they have achieved a major improvement in border security. In a speech this
month laying out immigration strategy, Janet Napolitano, the homeland security
secretary, argued that a ''major shift'' in enforcement at the Mexican border
had created conditions for Congress to embark on an overhaul of immigration
policy, including giving legal status to more than 11 million illegal
immigrants.

Ms. Napolitano said that heightened enforcement meant that such a program  would
not unleash a new flood of illegal migrants across the Southwest border.

Republican lawmakers said they were skeptical, because hundreds of miles of the
rugged 2,000-mile-long border are still thinly patrolled and have no fencing. As
a backup to border enforcement, they called for worker verification measures to
block American employers from hiring illegal workers.

''We think it's a combination of increased border patrol and the economy,''
Fritz Chaleff, a spokesman for Representative Brian P. Bilbray, Republican of
California, said of the low numbers. ''But we need measures to make sure that
the jobs that are available go to the workers who are authorized to take them.''

The Border Patrol hired 2,600 agents in the past year, official figures show,
bringing the total to more than 20,000.

But the main factor in the slowing movement of immigrants is the country's deep
recession, which has hit immigrants particularly hard -- especially illegal
ones, researchers say. By the first months of this year, unemployment among
immigrant workers was significantly greater than that of native-born American
workers, reversing a trend during the boom years, according to a study by the
Migration Policy Institute, a research group in Washington.

Some researchers cautioned that border enforcement would not prevent Latino
immigrants from returning if the economy picked up.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 27, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants, Criminalized

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 507 words


A bedrock premise of smart immigration reform is the sharp distinction it draws
between criminal aliens and Americans-in-waiting. While it acknowledges that
illegal immigrants need to get right with the law, it treats illegal status as a
civil matter to be resolved by the machinery of naturalization, not by the
police and prisons.

To hard-line opponents of legalization, illegal immigrants are irredeemable
lawbreakers by definition, and the only thing they should be waiting for is
deportation.

The administration's job, as it works on a long-overdue reform bill next year,
is to resist that view. So it was disheartening to hear Janet Napolitano, the
homeland security secretary,  boast recently about identifying ''more than
111,000 criminal aliens'' through a jailhouse fingerprinting program called
Secure Communities.

That was misleading. The program, now in 95 cities or counties in 11 states,
will ultimately require all local police agencies to check federal immigration
databases for anyone after an arrest. It has so far identified a few thousand
serious criminals, rapists and burglars, the kinds of people whose removal from
the country must be part of any sane immigration strategy. But it also uncovered
minor traffic infractions and visa violations.

It is easy to understand that the administration wants to sound as tough as
possible as it gets ready to battle deep-seated resistance to real immigration
reform. It is encouraging that Ms. Napolitano recently repeated the president's
insistence that a clear legalization path must be a pillar of reform. That makes
it all the more important for the administration to avoid conflating illegal
immigration and serious crime.

Laws must be enforced, but doing it this way hurts the innocent, creating a
short line from Hispanic to immigrant to illegal to criminal. Having brown skin,
speaking Spanish, seeming nervous in the presence of flashing police lights --
none of those things say anything about whether you are here illegally or not,
are deportable or not. But any one of them can be enough to get you pulled over
in jurisdictions across the country.

In Arizona, it can get you jailed. We know of citizens whose homes were
mistakenly raided by reckless federal agents on Long Island, day laborers who
were targets of indiscriminate sweeps in California,  and others who were
singled out at roadblocks in upstate New York.

This hurts public safety. If you want to know the consequences of turning the
police and jails into instruments of deportation, ask the law-enforcement
officials who have complained about programs that muddy the line between local
crime-fighting and federal enforcement, and make immigrants fear and shun the
police.

President Obama has repeatedly assured 12 million illegal immigrants that he
will fight to give them the chance to earn the right to stay. His administration
should not undermine that noble effort by carelessly lending credibility to the
view that the future citizens living and working among us are a class of
criminals.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 8, 2009 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Immigration Reform

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 254 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Immigrants, Criminalized'' (editorial, Nov. 27):

The Secure Communities program, which targets dangerous criminals in our jails
and prisons, enables the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement to
begin removal proceedings against serious criminals and to prevent removable
criminals from returning to the streets, saving states and localities valuable
resources and keeping communities safer.

In its first year alone, Secure Communities led to the identification of more
than 11,000 illegal immigrants charged with or convicted of the most serious
crimes like rape and murder. ICE has already removed 1,900 of them from the
country.

ICE has also identified and removed 7,200 illegal immigrants charged with or
convicted of other serious offenses, including burglary, larceny, fraud and
money laundering. Tens of thousands of additional criminals have been identified
and are awaiting removal upon completion of their criminal sentences.

This administration believes that comprehensive immigration reform should
provide the opportunity for law-abiding illegal immigrants to earn legal status,
but not without also providing smart and effective enforcement tools.

By focusing our enforcement efforts on those who are both removable and commit
crimes, ICE is directing limited resources to where they're needed most --
protecting the security of our nation and our communities.

John Morton  Assistant Secretary  United States Immigration  and Customs
Enforcement  Washington, Nov. 30, 2009

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 12, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Officials Arrest 300 In California

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 608 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Nearly 300 illegal immigrants who had committed serious  crimes were deported or
detained this week by federal agents in a demonstration of what immigration
officials pledged was a new resolve to zero in on the most egregious
lawbreakers.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials called the three-day sweep in
California their largest operation ever aimed at illegal immigrants with
criminal records.

More than 80 percent had convictions for serious or violent crimes and at least
100 have been removed from the country, with the others awaiting deportation
proceedings.

John Morton, an assistant secretary in the Department of Homeland Security who
is in charge of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said Friday that focusing
on serious criminals helped improve public safety.

''These are not people who we want walking our streets,'' Mr. Morton said at a
news conference here, a day after Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano
made much the same point at a Congressional hearing.

The Department of Homeland Security has been criticized by immigrant advocates
and civil libertarians in recent years for rounding up hundreds of people whose
only offense was being in the country without proper documents, sometimes at the
cost of breaking up families.

President Obama had campaigned on a promise of a more compassionate approach to
immigration enforcement that would focus on ridding the country of felons and
cracking down on employers who deliberately hire illegal workers.

Mr. Morton, citing limited resources, said, ''We are going to focus on those
people who choose to pursue a life of crime in the United States rather than
pursue the American dream of education, hard work and success.''

Last year, 136,126 illegal immigrants with criminal records were deported, a
record number, officials said. While department officials trumpeted the mass
arrests this week, they could not say how many serious criminal offenders who
are in the country illegally remain on the streets.

The Immigrants' Rights Project of the American Civil Liberties Union reacted
skeptically to the announcement, noting that despite assurances that serious
criminals were the target, previous sweeps have turned out to capture large
numbers of people with no such records.

''We would welcome more effective targeting than in the past but it is not yet
clear that is the case here,'' said Caroline Cincotta, a fellow at the project,
who also questioned whether the swift deportations had allowed people to have
full due process.

ICE officials said just six of those arrested had no record at all, and they
sought to play up the serious nature of the offenses of those who were
apprehended.

Those arrested included a Guatemalan man with ties to a Los Angeles gang who had
committed first-degree robbery, a Mexican man convicted of lewd acts with a
child and a Mexican man with a rape conviction.

Of the 286 people arrested, 63 had previously been deported. At least 17 face
prosecution for re-entering the country without proper documents.

The agents and officers tracked down most of those arrested through tips and a
review of immigration files, court and public records. Many people arrested this
week were never deported after serving prison time for their offenses because
they fell through the cracks.

Mr. Morton said the immigration agency was improving cooperation with local and
state jailers, and is rolling out a ''Secure Communities'' program that by 2012
is expected to permit all local jails nationwide to check the immigration status
of inmates.

The deportees represented 31 countries, though the majority, 207, were from
Mexico.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 15, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Court Bars Tactic in Immigration Cases

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 153 words

DATELINE: DENVER


The Colorado Supreme Court ruled Monday that the authorities violated the
constitutional and privacy rights of people suspected of being illegal
immigrants when they used tax returns to try to build hundreds of identity-theft
cases against them.

The 4-to-3 ruling affirmed a decision by a Weld County district judge who had
suppressed evidence against one of the defendants. In that case, investigators
had raided a tax business that catered to Latinos in Greeley, an agricultural
city on the northern plains of Colorado with a heavily Hispanic population.

The investigation was the first and only time that the authorities used tax
returns, which are confidential under federal law, to prosecute people suspected
of being illegal immigrants.

A favorable ruling for Weld County could have given prosecutors a new tool to
find and prosecute illegal immigrants, who are required to pay taxes despite
their illegal status.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 2, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

To Overhaul Immigration, Advocates Alter Tactics

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 800 words


Lacing up new pairs of walking shoes with a flourish, four immigrant students
set out on foot from downtown Miami on Friday, starting a four-month walk to
Washington to protest what they called the Obama administration's lack of action
on legislation granting legal status to illegal immigrants.

Three of the four protesters, who are current or former students at Miami Dade
College, do not have legal-resident status and risk detention by immigration
authorities during the 1,500-mile walk.

The students' trek showed the resolve and also some limitations of groups
supporting an immigration overhaul that would include measures to legalize
illegal immigrants. Those groups said this week that they would start a national
campaign in January to pressure President Obama to push for the overhaul before
midterm elections in November.

But as immigration enforcement has continued at a steady pace during the first
year of the Obama administration, many illegal immigrants are clinging to jobs
and families in this country and may be afraid to participate in public
demonstrations. With unemployment holding at 10 percent, immigrant advocates
acknowledge that their campaign could awaken passionate opposition in Congress
and around the country.

The students in Miami said in a statement that they decided to begin their walk
because they had a ''deep desire and need for complete citizenship'' after they
reached dead-ends in school or work because of their lack of legal immigration
status. The protesters include Carlos Roa, 22, who was 2 years old when his
parents brought him here from Venezuela, and Felipe Matos, 23, sent from Brazil
by his mother when he was 14. They say they support proposals in overhaul bills
that would open a path to citizenship for students who came to this country
illegally when they were young.

Mr. Matos, a former student government president at Miami Dade, said he had been
accepted by Duke University but had not been able to attend because his lack of
legal status prevented him from getting financial aid. Trained as a teacher, he
has not been able to take a job without a valid Social Security number.

Starting with a small but noisy send-off at noon by about 100 people on the
steps of a landmark building in Miami known as the Freedom Tower, the students
said they would walk about 16 miles a day, stopping to sleep at churches and
immigration centers. They hope to reach Washington in May.

They said they had concluded that the exposure to immigration agents on the walk
was not much greater than what they faced in their daily lives.

''We are aware of the risk,'' Mr. Matos said by telephone. ''We are risking our
future because our present is unbearable.''

The case of a third student marcher, Gaby Pacheco, 24, an Ecuadorean, and her
family is on appeal in immigration court. The fourth student, Juan Rodriguez, a
Colombian who is 20, said he was not at risk because he became a legal resident
in 2008, after 13 years in this country.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials did not respond to requests by
telephone and e-mail for comment on Friday.

Elsewhere, immigrant groups have been trying other tactics to push for reform,
after an overhaul bill they supported was defeated in the Senate in 2007 by a
huge surge of voter opposition. In November the groups organized a mass
conference call on which, they said, more than 60,000 participants on mobile
phones spoke with Representative Luis V. Gutierrez, Democrat of Illinois, to
discuss an overhaul proposal. Mr. Gutierrez introduced the bill in the House
last month.

In California, where hundreds of thousands of immigrants joined demonstrations
in 2006, advocacy groups have shifted their focus, said Angelica Salas,
executive director of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles.
Now the groups are working to send immigrants who are voters to pay frequent
visits to federal lawmakers who have not supported an overhaul.

The Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, a group in Chicago, is
preparing rallies for mid-January with labor unions and African-American
churches, hoping to persuade American workers that immigrants would be less
likely to undercut wages if they had legal status and could participate openly
in unions.

Republican lawmakers said they remained confident that they could defeat any
overhaul proposal. They said it would be political folly for the Obama
administration to propose a huge legalization program for illegal immigrants
when so many Americans are out of work.

''Allowing millions of illegal immigrants to stay and take jobs away from
citizens and legal immigrants is like giving a burglar a key to the house,''
said Representative Lamar Smith of Texas, the senior Republican on the House
Judiciary Committee.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Four students, including three who risk detention as illegal
immigrants, began a walk to Washington from Miami on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
OSCAR HIDALGO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 3, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Whither the Dream

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 352 words


NO federal law prohibits illegal immigrants from attending college in the United
States, or requires them to disclose their situation. Most colleges don't even
check immigration status when students apply for financial aid -- only 31
percent, according to a survey last year by the American Association of
Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers.

Still, illegal students face numerous barriers to higher education. About 65,000
graduated from American high schools last year, but only 5 percent went on to
college, according to Roberto G. Gonzales, a professor at the University of
Washington and author of a College Board report last year on the plight of
minors brought in illegally by their parents and raised here.

Many fear that applying to college will expose them and their families to
deportation. But, too, higher education is expensive, and far less aid is
available. Illegal immigrants are not eligible for federal financial aid, and
only 10 states extend cheaper in-state tuition rates to illegal students who
attended their high schools. The issue is emotional and politically volatile.
South Carolina has recently barred such students from enrolling in any of its
state colleges and universities; in spring Alabama will bar them from community
colleges, and North Carolina has yo-yoed on the issue.

Proposed legislation to grant legal status to minors has been debated in
Congress for eight years. A new bill, the so-called Dream Act, was introduced
last year to provide those who entered the country under age 16 with a
conditional path to citizenship in exchange for two years of college or military
service. And on Dec. 15, Representative Luis V. Gutierrez, an Illinois Democrat,
introduced a comprehensive immigration bill that folds in some of the Dream Act.

But even advocates acknowledge that with unemployment so high among citizens and
health care preoccupying Congress, such legislation might have to wait for a
more auspicious moment. Another Democrat, Senator Charles E. Schumer of New
York, is working on his own immigration overhaul, expected to be introduced in
the spring.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 24, 2010 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

ARIZONA ENACTS STRINGENT LAW ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD; Helene Cooper and Carl Hulse contributed
reporting from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1243 words


PHOENIX -- Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona signed the nation's toughest bill on
illegal immigration into law on Friday. Its aim is to identify, prosecute and
deport illegal immigrants.

The  move unleashed immediate protests and reignited the divisive battle over
immigration reform nationally.

Even before she signed the bill at an afternoon news conference here, President
Obama strongly criticized it.

Speaking at a naturalization ceremony for 24 active-duty service members in the
Rose Garden, he called for a federal overhaul of immigration laws, which
Congressional leaders signaled they were preparing to take up soon, to avoid
''irresponsibility by others.''

The Arizona law, he added, threatened ''to undermine basic notions of fairness
that we cherish as Americans, as well as the trust between police and our
communities that is so crucial to keeping us safe.''

The law, which proponents and critics alike said was the broadest and strictest
immigration measure  in generations, would make the failure to carry immigration
documents a crime and give the police broad power to detain anyone suspected of
being in the country illegally. Opponents have called it an open invitation for
harassment and discrimination against Hispanics regardless of their citizenship
status.

The political debate leading up to Ms. Brewer's decision, and Mr. Obama's
criticism of the law -- presidents very rarely weigh in on state legislation --
underscored the power of the immigration debate in states along the Mexican
border. It presaged the polarizing arguments that await the president and
Congress as they take up the issue nationally.

Mexico's Foreign Ministry said in a statement that it was worried about the
rights of its citizens and relations with Arizona. Cardinal Roger M. Mahony of
Los Angeles said  the authorities' ability to demand documents was like
''Nazism.''

As hundreds of demonstrators massed, mostly peacefully, at the capitol plaza,
the governor, speaking at a state building a few miles away, said the law
''represents another tool for our state to use as we work to solve a crisis we
did not create and the federal government has refused to fix.''

The law was to take effect 90 days after the legislative session ends, meaning
by August. Court challenges were expected immediately.

Hispanics, in particular, who were not long ago courted by the Republican Party
as a swing voting bloc, railed against the law as a recipe for racial and ethnic
profiling. ''Governor Brewer caved to the radical fringe,'' a statement by the
Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund said, predicting that the
law would create ''a spiral of pervasive fear, community distrust, increased
crime and costly litigation, with nationwide repercussions.''

While police demands of documents are common on subways, highways and in public
places in some countries, including France, Arizona is the first state to demand
that immigrants meet federal requirements to carry identity documents
legitimizing their presence on American soil.

Ms. Brewer acknowledged critics' concerns, saying she would work to ensure that
the police have proper training to carry out the law. But she  sided with
arguments by the law's sponsors that it provides an indispensable tool for the
police in a border state that is a leading magnet of illegal immigration. She
said  racial profiling would not be tolerated, adding, ''We have to trust our
law enforcement.''

Ms. Brewer and other elected leaders have come under intense political pressure
here, made worse by the killing of a rancher in southern Arizona by a suspected
smuggler a couple of weeks before the State Legislature voted on the bill. His
death was invoked Thursday by  Ms. Brewer herself, as she announced a plan
urging the federal government to post National Guard troops at the border.

President George W. Bush had attempted comprehensive reform but failed when his
own party split over the issue. Once again, Republicans facing primary
challenges from the right, including Ms. Brewer and Senator John McCain, have
come under tremendous pressure to support the Arizona law, known as SB 1070.

Mr. McCain, locked in a  primary with a challenger campaigning on immigration,
only came out in support of the law hours before the State Senate passed it
Monday afternoon.

Governor Brewer, even after the Senate passed the bill, had been silent on
whether she would sign it. Though she was widely expected to, given her primary
challenge, she refused to state her position even at a dinner on Thursday for a
Hispanic social service organization, Chicanos Por La Causa, where several
audience members called out ''Veto!''

Among other things, the Arizona measure is an extraordinary rebuke to former
Gov. Janet Napolitano, who had vetoed similar legislation repeatedly as a
Democratic governor of the state before being appointed Homeland Security
secretary by Mr. Obama.

The law opens a deep fissure in Arizona, with a majority of the thousands of
callers to the governor's office urging her to reject it.

In the days leading up to Ms. Brewer's decision, Representative Raul M.
Grijalva, a Democrat, called for a convention boycott of his state.

The bill, sponsored by Russell Pearce, a state senator and a firebrand on
immigration issues, has several provisions.

It requires police officers, ''when practicable,'' to detain people they
reasonably suspect are in the country without authorization and to verify their
status with federal officials, unless doing so would hinder an investigation or
emergency medical treatment.

It also makes it a state crime -- a misdemeanor -- to not carry immigration
papers. In addition, it allows people to sue local government or agencies if
they believe federal or state immigration law is not being enforced.

States across the country have proposed or enacted hundreds of bills addressing
immigration since 2007, the last time a federal effort to reform immigration law
collapsed. Last year, there were a record number of laws enacted (222) and
resolutions (131) in 48 states, according to the National Conference of State
Legislatures.

The prospect of plunging into a national immigration debate  is being
increasingly talked about on Capitol Hill, spurred in part by recent statements
by Senator Harry Reid, Democrat  of Nevada, the majority leader, that he intends
to bring legislation to the Senate floor after Memorial Day.

But while an immigration debate could help energize Hispanic voters and provide
political benefits to embattled Democrats seeking re-election in November --
like Mr. Reid -- it could also energize conservative voters.

It could also take time from other Democratic priorities, including an energy
measure that Speaker Nancy Pelosi has described as her flagship issue.

Mr. Reid declined Thursday to say that immigration would take precedence over an
energy measure. But he called it an imperative: ''The system is broken,'' he
said.

Ms. Pelosi and Representative Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland and the
majority leader, have said that the House would be willing to take up
immigration policy only if the Senate produces a bill first.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 23, 2010



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A
earlier version of this article misspelled the last name of the Arizona state
senator who sponsored several provisions of the bill. He is Russell Pearce, not
Pierce.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Immigrants and advocates for illegal immigrants gathered Friday
at the State Capitol in Phoenix.
 Gov. Jan Brewer signed the bill, SB 1070, on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA
ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A9)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 12, 2010 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Side by Side, but Divided Over Immigration

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1448 words


ALBUQUERQUE -- As the Arizona Legislature steamed ahead with the most stringent
immigration enforcement bill in the country this year, this state's House of
Representatives was unanimously passing a resolution recognizing the economic
benefits of illegal immigrants.

While the Arizona police will check driver's licenses and other documents to
root out illegal immigrants, New Mexico allows illegal residents to obtain
driver's licenses as a public safety measure.

And if Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona, a Republican, has become, for now, the public
face of tough immigration enforcement, Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, a
Democrat, has told any interviewer who will listen about his effort to ''to
integrate immigrants that are here and make them part of society and protect the
values of our Hispanic and multiethnic communities.''

They may sit side by side on the border, they may share historical ties to
Mexico; they may have once even been part of the same territory, but Arizona and
New Mexico have grown up like distant siblings.

People on all sides of the immigration debate have taken notice.

''If a burglar breaks into your home, do you serve him dinner? That is pretty
much what they do there with illegals,'' said State Representative John Kavanagh
of Arizona, a Republican. Mr. Kavanagh is one of the staunchest supporters of
the new law there, which will give the local police broad power to check the
legal status of people they stop and suspect are in the country illegally.

But Frank Sharry, executive director of America's Voice, a liberal group in
Washington that advocates reworking immigration law, offered New Mexico as a
model of balancing a push for border security -- Mr. Richardson once declared a
state of emergency there -- with coping with the illegal immigrants already in
this country.

''Richardson has got it,'' Mr. Sharry said.

Even supporters of Arizona's law here -- and there are some -- agree that such a
measure would never pass in New Mexico, given the outcry among legislators and
immigrant advocates that the police in Arizona might detain and question Latinos
who are legal residents and citizens but are mistaken for illegal immigrants.

Why the difference?

First, New Mexico (population two million) has the highest percentage of
Hispanics of any state -- 45 percent, compared with 30 percent in Arizona
(population 6.5 million), and they historically have commanded far more
political power than their neighbors do. The New Mexico Legislature is 44
percent Hispanic, a contrast to the 16 percent in Arizona, according to the
National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials.

Both were once part of Mexico and, later, the same United States territory. But
since they became states in 1912, New Mexico has had five Hispanic governors
(including Mr. Richardson, whose mother is Mexican), and Arizona has had one,
according to the group.

New Mexico's legislators embrace the civil rights protections in the state's
Constitution -- including so-called unamendable provisions akin to a Bill of
Rights that historically protected Spanish-speaking citizens of the former
Mexican territory -- and often mount a ''protective stance'' toward immigrants
regardless of legal status, said Christine M. Sierra, a political science
professor at the University of New Mexico.

''When the community at large feels threatened, folks close ranks and join in
solidarity to protect the group,'' Professor Sierra said, noting that Arizona
Latinos have struggled to assume the same kind of a power in a state where a
greater influx of Anglos (the general term for non-Hispanic whites) over the
decades has diluted their strength.

The flow of drugs and illegal immigrants over the sparsely populated, remote
border here, moreover, pales compared with that in Arizona, whose border, dotted
with towns and roads facilitating trafficking, registers the highest number of
drug seizures and arrests of illegal crossers of any state.

The estimated 460,000 illegal immigrants in Arizona, whose population explosion
of the past few decades has been a magnet for low-wage work, is more than eight
times that of the estimated 55,000 here in Albuquerque, where the economy turns
more on government, military and high-skill jobs.

Though concerns about immigration and the border arise, particularly in the
southern ''boot heel'' of New Mexico, the burner setting is low.

''It's not that there isn't social tension between Hispanics and
non-Hispanics,'' said Jose Z. Garcia, a political scientist at New Mexico State
University. ''We just have learned to tolerate each other and get along.''

Illegal immigrants here agree. Where fear and anxiety pervade their communities
in Arizona to the point that some do not venture outside or have left the state,
here they live more openly and are less guarded.

''People give us food, a place to sleep,'' said Samuel Duran, 35, a day laborer
looking for work in a Santa Fe park. ''The police bother us when they have a
reason, like a fight, but in general they leave us alone.''

Marta Nebarez, who manages a grocery store in a heavily immigrant neighborhood
in Albuquerque, said that newly arriving illegal immigrants had an easier time
here and that word was spreading. Some customers have told her that a few
families from Arizona have moved here.

''This government helps people a lot more than over there,'' she said, noting
several measures, including a state law enacted in 2005 that allows illegal
immigrants to pay the same tuition rate as legal, in-state residents.

In an interview, Mr. Richardson promoted that measure as only fair to children
who had no choice in being raised here, and said that other measures improved
public health, like the Department of Health's cooperation in a health referral
service run by the Mexican Consulate for Mexican citizens.

But New Mexico's patience could be tested, and some fear that the Arizona law
will push more illegal immigrants into the state, though they typically go where
the most jobs are found.

Steve Wilmeth, a cattle rancher near Las Cruces, 30 miles north of the border,
said he had grown frustrated with finding illegal immigrants crossing his
property and recalled a harrowing confrontation a couple of years ago with a
group of 20 near a watering tank. ''SB 1070,'' Mr. Wilmeth said, referring to
the Arizona law, which he supports, ''is a desperate attempt by the people of
Arizona to do something about the onslaught they face.''

Violence on the Mexican side of the border -- one of the bloodiest cities,
Ciudad Juarez, is an hour's drive from Las Cruces -- has heightened anxiety. So,
too, has the shooting death of a rancher in southern Arizona near the New Mexico
border by someone the police theorize may have been connected to smuggling.

Mr. Richardson responded by sending 35 National Guard troops to the boot-heel
area and repeating a call for more help from the federal government.

Border and immigration issues have spilled into political campaigns, but the
issue has not topped residents' concerns, said Brian Sanderoff, a veteran
pollster here.

One Republican running in her party's primary for governor this year, Susana
Martinez, a southern New Mexico prosecutor, has filmed a commercial promoting
border security and a promise to revoke the law granting driver's licenses to
illegal immigrants and deny taxpayer-supported scholarships to illegal
immigrants.

Last year, the mayor of Albuquerque, Richard J. Berry, won office after a
campaign that included a vow to give the city police more discretion to check
the immigration status of offenders. Five months into office, Mr. Berry has said
he is still reviewing the policy.

Mr. Richardson, who believes that illegal immigrants should pay back taxes,
learn English and take other steps as a condition of getting legal status, makes
no apologies for seeking to integrate them, calling them a net plus for the
state.

''I just have always felt that this is part of my heritage,'' he said, noting
his early years spent in Mexico City. ''There is a decided positive in
encouraging biculturalism and people working and living together instead of
inciting tension. The worry I have about Arizona is it is going to spread. It
arouses the nativist instinct in people.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 15, 2010, Saturday



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A
map on Wednesday with an article about contrasting immigration policies in New
Mexico and Arizona misidentified the capital of New Mexico. As a listing of
state facts with the map correctly noted, the capital is Santa Fe -- not
Albuquerque, which is about 60 miles southwest of Santa Fe.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ON THE BORDER: Officials on patrol near Columbus, N.M. Migrant
workers and immigration authorities say New Mexico has fewer problems with the
flow of drugs and illegal immigrants at the border than neighboring Arizona
does. Although the two states have much in common, their laws and their
residents show different attitudes on immigration. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA
ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
PHOENIX: A new law in Arizona gives the police broad authority to check the
legal status of people they stop. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICK OZA/ARIZONA REPUBLIC, VIA
ASSOCIATED PRESS)
SANTA FE: Immigrants in New Mexico say they live relatively openly, with little
attention from local police officers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK
TIMES) GRAPHICS: ARIZONA: Year became a state: 1912 Capital: Phoenix Notable
recent legislation: The most stringent immigration enforcement law in the
country Governor: Jan Brewer, Republican Population: 6,500,180 (2008 Census
Bureau estimate) Percentage of Hispanic residents: 30 percent Percentage of
state legislators who are Hispanic: 16 percent Illegal residents' rights: Under
the new law, the police will check driver's licenses and other documents to root
out illegal immigrants. Under federal law, all illegal immigrants must be given
emergency medical care. Length of international border: 372.5 miles, including
19.1 miles along the Colorado River State insect: Two-tailed swallowtail
butterfly (according to stateanimals.com)
 NEW MEXICO: Year became a state: 1912 Capital: Santa Fe Notable recent
legislation: A resolution recognizing the economic benefits of undocumented
immigrants Governor: Bill Richardson, Democrat. Fifth governor with Hispanic
origins. Population: 1,984,356 (2008 Census Bureau estimate) Percentage of
Hispanic residents: 45 percent Percentage of state legislators that are
Hispanic: 44 percent Illegal residents' rights: Allows illegal immigrants to
have driver's licenses and to attend public colleges and universities on
in-state tuition Length of international border: 179.5 miles State insect:
Tarantula hawk wasp (according to stateanimals.com)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 19, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

2 Senators Offer Immigration Overhaul

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 635 words


Two senators, a Democrat and a Republican, unveiled the outlines on Thursday of
a proposal to overhaul the immigration system, which would require illegal
immigrants to admit they broke the law before they could gain legal status and
require all workers in the United States to carry a biometric identity card to
prove that they are eligible to work.

In carefully choreographed moves, the senators, Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of
New York, and Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, described their
proposal in an editorial posted at midafternoon on the Web site of The
Washington Post.

President Obama immediately responded with a statement saying it ''should be the
basis for moving forward,'' and he pledged ''to do everything in my power to
forge a bipartisan consensus this year'' around the bill.

Those moves followed like clockwork plans that White House officials had laid
out in recent days to the leaders of immigrant advocacy groups that have
summoned many thousands of supporters to a march on Sunday in Washington. The
White House is struggling to keep prospects for the immigration overhaul alive
through a difficult political passage. Marchers will demand that Mr. Obama make
good on his repeated promises to push forward with an overhaul, which would
grant legal status to an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the country.

Republican lawmakers, including Mr. Graham, have warned that if Democrats pass
health care legislation using a parliamentary maneuver that sidesteps their
votes, they will not work with the White House on thorny issues like immigration
this year.

Mr. Schumer said the blueprint included more and tougher enforcement at the
border and in workplaces, a shift intended to overcome opposition that
overwhelmed an overhaul proposal in 2007. It minimizes access for future
blue-collar foreign workers and favors visas for highly educated immigrants.

''It's based on the theory that Americans are equally strong on support for
legal immigration and opposition to illegal immigration,'' Mr. Schumer said in
an interview. ''Previous bills did not get that balance right, and they
failed.''

The plan calls for a big increase in immigration agents patrolling workplaces,
and would require all workers, including legal immigrants and American citizens,
to present a tamper-proof Social Security card when they apply for jobs.
Biometric identity information would be stored on the card and not in any
government database, according to an explanatory document from the senators.

The plan's emphasis is on making it easier for highly skilled and educated
immigrants to come to the United States, including awarding residence documents
known as green cards to those who receive advanced degrees in science and
technology from American universities. It proposes a limited program for
temporary lower-skilled guest workers, tightly keyed to changes in the American
labor market.

To gain legal status, illegal immigrants would have to admit their legal
violation, pay fines and back taxes and perform community service.

To advance the legislation, Mr. Schumer and Mr. Graham have said they need help
from Mr. Obama to round up at least one more Republican sponsor, a prospect that
seems unlikely while bitterness over the health care battle prevails on Capitol
Hill.

Still, immigrant advocates and some Democratic lawmakers were heartened Thursday
when Representative Luis V. Gutierrez, a Democrat from Illinois in charge of
immigration issues for the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, said he had decided to
support the Democrats' health care legislation after assurances from Mr. Obama
that the White House would continue to press for the immigration overhaul.

''I have high expectations that his part of the agreement will get done,'' Mr.
Gutierrez said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senators Charles E. Schumer, left, and Lindsey Graham, who
outlined a bipartisan immigration plan on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN
SMIALOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES FOR ''MEET THE PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 18, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona Goes Over the Edge

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 407 words


The Arizona Legislature has just stepped off the deep end of the immigration
debate, passing a harsh and mean-spirited bill that would do little to stop
illegal immigration. What it would do is lead to more racial profiling, hobble
local law enforcement, and open government agencies to frivolous, politically
driven lawsuits.

The bill is a grab bag of measures to enlist law enforcement and government at
every level to expose and expel the undocumented. Opponents say it verges on a
police state, which sounds overblown until you read it.

It would make not having immigration documents a new state misdemeanor, and
allow officers to arrest anyone who could not immediately prove they were here
legally. That means if you are brown-skinned and leave home without a wallet,
you are in trouble.

Police agencies that believe overly tough enforcement tactics are undercutting
their ability to fight crime would have to crack down anyway. The bill would
require police officers who have ''reasonable suspicion'' about someone's
immigration status to demand to see documents. And it would empower anyone to
sue any state agency or official or any county, city or town that he or she
believes is not fully enforcing immigration law.

The bill, passed by Arizona's Republican-controlled House on a party-line vote,
has already passed the state Senate and will soon be before Gov. Jan Brewer, a
Republican. She has not said whether she will sign it.

Immigrant advocates and civil-rights lawyers are appalled, and so are police
chiefs and sheriffs who say the bill is an assault on public safety, since it
would force  newly criminalized immigrants to fear and shun the police. It would
divert law enforcement resources away from chasing violent offenders, and toward
an all-out assault on the mostly harmless undocumented, with the innocent as
collateral damage.

It is now up to Governor Brewer to do what is best for her state: she should
refuse to sign. If this dangerous experiment becomes law, Washington can still
end it by refusing to cooperate, cutting off access to immigration records.
Either way, it should cancel  programs that enlist state and local law
enforcement in the indiscriminate hunt for the undocumented.

The Arizona bill is another reminder why the administration needs to push for
real immigration reform. The failure to address it nationally has left the field
wide open for this outrage, and we fear more to come.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 20, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Bill Reflects A Firebrand's Impact

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1094 words


PHOENIX -- The Arizona Senate passed one of the most stringent immigration laws
in the country on Monday, marking a new level of influence for a Republican
state senator who not long ago was seen by many as an eccentric firebrand.

Passage of the law, which would, among other things, allow the authorities to
demand proof of legal entry into the United States from anyone suspected of
being in the country illegally, testified to the relative lack of political
power of Arizona Latinos, and to the hardened views toward illegal immigration
among Republican politicians both here and nationally.

As if to underscore how the political landscape will be changed by the law,
Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, who had refused to back the most
extreme anti-immigration measures, came out in support of it just hours before
its passage.

''I think it is a good tool,'' said Mr. McCain, who is being challenged in a
primary by  a conservative former congressman who is thumping him on
immigration. Mr. McCain added that he believed the bill reflected frustration
that the federal government had not done enough to secure the border and enforce
immigration law.

The state senator who wrote the law, Russell Pearce, had long been considered a
politically incorrect embarrassment by more moderate members of his party --
often to the delight of his supporters. There was the time in 2007 when he
appeared in a widely circulated photograph with a man who was a featured speaker
at a neo-Nazi conference. (Mr. Pearce said later he did not know of the man's
affiliation with the group.)

In 2006, he came under fire for speaking admirably of a 1950s federal
deportation program called Operation Wetback, and for sending an e-mail message
to supporters that included an attachment -- inadvertently, he said -- from a
white supremacist group.

But Mr. Pearce, 62, cannot be dismissed as just the party's  right-wing fringe.
As chairman of the Senate's appropriation committee, he controls whose bills are
financed, and he has shown an uncanny knack to capitalize on this border state's
immigration anxiety.

While surveys show immigration is less of a hot-button issue than it was a few
years ago, Republican conservatives still care about the issue. In a New York
Times/CBS News poll released last week, 82 percent of self-identified Tea Party
supporters said illegal immigration was a ''very serious'' problem.

The nightly news here is filled with stories of raids on drop houses filled with
immigrants and drug-related shootouts and home invasions. Mexico's drug violence
has bloodied Nogales, Sonora, across the border from Nogales, Ariz. And just a
couple of weeks ago, a southern Arizona rancher was killed on his property by
someone the police suspect was involved in smuggling.

''Senator Pearce is the one to articulate things and take bullets and arrows,''
said Stan Barnes, a former Republican legislator and political consultant who
has supported Mr. Pearce. The issue, he said, ''has electrified and energized a
great many Arizonans.''

More than a few Democrats took notice that Mr. Pearce, whose district is in
Mesa, a Phoenix suburb, managed to win unanimous support for the bill from House
Republicans, even from some moderates who had voiced misgivings about it.

One of those moderates, State Representative Bill Konopnicki, Republican of
Yuma, said planned amendments to address legal and other concerns never
materialized. In the end, he said, ''everybody was afraid to vote no on
immigration.''

''We are going to look like Alabama in the '60s,'' said Mr. Konopnicki, who is
facing a tough election and did not believe voting no would change the outcome..

In the Senate, only one Republican, Carolyn S. Allen, voted against the bill,
and she is one of the few leaving office because of term limits and not seeking
another post. She did not respond to a message left at her office.

The bill makes it a state crime for immigrants not to carry authorization
papers, requires the police ''when practicable'' to check the immigration status
of people they reasonably suspect are in the country illegally and allows people
to sue cities and counties if the law is not being enforced.

Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican who, like Mr. McCain, is facing primary
challengers from the right, is widely expected to sign the bill, though her
spokesman said she would not comment.

That the bill has gotten this far has angered advocates for immigrants, who have
staged protests and sent a stream of postcards to the governor urging her to
veto it.

But analysts said its legislative success may be another sign that, while the
Latino population is growing here, a large number of Latinos are under age or
are not citizens and so are less powerful than those in California, New Mexico
or Texas.

''Right now, there are supporters of the bill who are thinking, We don't need
that vote,'' said Rodolfo Espino, a political science professor at Arizona State
University who studies ethnic voting trends. ''With a low Hispanic voter
turnout, they are not going to be made to pay a price for this.''

State Representative Ben Miranda, a Democrat and co-chairman of the
legislature's Latino caucus, agreed. In other border states, Mr. Miranda said,
''there is much more political clout in the Latino community.'' And Arizona
feels the effects of immigration more acutely, as the state with the most
arrests for illegal crossing and drug trafficking across the border.

''Arizona is the funnel to the United States,'' he said. ''It's not California.
It's not Texas. It's not New Mexico. People are in hysteria here. It is totally
different.''

People on both sides of the debate see the bill as a result of the failure of
Congress to overhaul the immigration system, and predict that other states, as
they have in the past, will be inspired by Arizona to consider similar
legislation.

Mr. Pearce, who did not return a telephone call, has said he is on a mission to
rid the state of illegal immigrants and discourage others from coming.

Mr. Miranda and others wonder whether Mr. Pearce's personal experience motivates
him: his son, a Maricopa County sheriff's deputy, was shot and wounded in 2004
by an illegal immigrant and Mr. Pearce, a former sheriff's deputy, was shot and
wounded while arresting gang members 20 years ago, he has said.

But on the floor of the Senate, which approved the bill 17 to 11, Mr. Pearce
said he pushed the bill because the federal government had not done enough.

''This law is not about race,'' he said. ''It's about what is illegal.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Immigration advocates want the governor to block the bill.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A strict immigration bill drew protests Monday in Phoenix. The bill's author,
State Senator Russell Pearce, in foreground at left, says it is necessary
because the federal government has failed to act. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ROSS D. FRANKLIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Storm Over Arizona and Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 755 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Arizona Enacts Stringent Law on Immigration'' (front page, April 24):

Arizona's new law giving local law enforcement the power to stop and arrest
anybody suspected of being in the country illegally is a direct, frustrated
response to a broken system.

The State Legislature has effectively changed the political debate on
immigration, making it nastier and meaner. Now it is personal.

''Arrest them all and send them home'' seems to be the law's mantra.

The law will encourage national discourse on illegal immigration, which on the
surface seems to be a positive outcome, forcing the federal government to listen
and take action.

But it is naive to believe that specific groups will not be targeted in the
enforcement of the new law. What constitutes probable cause to detain and
question someone about his or her legal status? Would speaking Chicano English
or having an accent render someone a ''suspected illegal alien''? If so, our
country's commitment to diversity is at stake.

Mauricio Pantoja Claremont, Calif., April 24, 2010

To the Editor:

It is difficult for me to understand how the same political party that considers
it to be anti-American meddling when the government gets involved in providing a
badly needed service like health care has now pressured the governor of Arizona
into signing a law that requires people (or some people) to carry identity
papers.

Whenever I am abroad, I find the idea that the police can stop me at any time
and demand identity papers to be very oppressive, and I am reminded to be
grateful for our own freedom from such laws. I can't believe we could let this
freedom slip away so lightly.

Andrea Gara Mount Kisco, N.Y., April 24, 2010

To the Editor:

As a 20-year resident of Arizona, I am appalled and embarrassed by the new
anti-immigrant law. It is the latest in a series of Arizona laws that have
historical parallels with measures enacted by other societies to make life as
difficult as possible for despised minorities.

As I looked at my Arizona license plate today, it occurred to me that ''Arizona:
The Grand Canyon State'' no longer communicates what the state is about.
''Arizona: The Hate State'' says it better.

Len Borucki Mesa, Ariz., April 24, 2010

To the Editor:

''Come Back, John McCain'' (editorial, April 23) says that Arizona's new
immigration enforcement law plays ''the rancid, dangerous game of portraying
Latinos as criminals.'' Actually, the bill is colorblind, applying to all
illegal aliens.

And, as Title 8, Section 1325(a) of the United States Code tells us, entry
without inspection is a misdemeanor the first time (six months maximum
incarceration) and a felony if repeated (two years). In short, illegal
immigration is a crime.

Paul Nachman Bozeman, Mont., April 24, 2010

To the Editor:

Of course Arizona's governor, Jan Brewer, signed the state's anti-immigrant bill
(front page, April 24). Why? The majority of Arizona residents wanted her to.
Immigrants, undocumented and legal, are blamed for crime, unemployment, crowded
emergency rooms, pet overpopulation and every other social ill that comes to
mind.

It reminds me of Germany in the 1930s and how Jews were held culpable for
Europe's problems. Arizona's Legislature shamelessly panders to the radical
fringe in our state and snickers at those of us who seek common ground.

For the first time since moving here from New York City in 1997, I am ashamed to
call myself an Arizonan.

Debra J. White Tempe, Ariz., April 24, 2010

To the Editor:

When my husband and I adopted our Colombian-born daughter as a newborn in 1989
(naturalized as an American citizen in 1991), we never imagined that on the eve
of her turning 21 we would ever caution her against travel to any American
state. How could we now not warn her off Arizona?

Absent foresight to carry her American passport at all times, she might be
detained and arrested on the basis of her appearance alone, despite Gov. Jan
Brewer's disingenuous assurances to the contrary. I am ashamed that any state
governor has threatened the safety and well-being of our daughter, however
indirectly, and hope that national immigration reform assumes the immediate
priority it deserves.

Susan R. Bryan-Brown New York, April 24, 2010

To the Editor:

The simple question is, Will the law be equally applied? Brewer, hmm, sounds
Canadian, maybe British. Would you please produce proof of citizenship, ma'am?
(said in the most courteous law-enforcement tone of voice).

Paul Turpin Stockton, Calif., April 25, 2010

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEIF PARSONS)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 30, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

First Legal Challenges to New Arizona Law

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD and ANA FACIO CONTRERAS; Randal C. Archibold
reported from Los Angeles, and Ana Facio Contreras from Phoenix.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 519 words


The first legal challenges to Arizona's stringent new anti-illegal-immigration
law were filed  Thursday in federal court in Phoenix and Tucson, heralding a
legal battle that could take months, if not years, to resolve.

Major civil rights and legal groups announced separately that they would soon be
taking legal action to block the law, part of a flurry of maneuvers intended to
prevent it from taking effect.

In one of the suits filed Thursday, a Tucson police officer, Martin Escobar, 45,
a 15-year veteran, claims the law, which requires officers ''when practicable''
to stop and check the legal status of people they reasonably suspect may be
illegal immigrants, would compel him to racially profile.

Mr. Escobar argues that the law does not specify what criteria to use in
deciding who might be in the country illegally, and that Tucson's heavily
Hispanic population and proximity to the Mexican border would force him to
question people based on their ethnicity, exposing him  to civil suits.

A group of clergy members, concerned that church vans and other vehicles
transporting people in  Hispanic neighborhoods would become a target of police
suspicion and detention, filed a petition in federal court in Phoenix, asking a
judge to rule on the constitutionality of the law before it  takes effect this
summer.

Among other things, the group asserts that while the state law might closely
mirror federal regulations, it improperly infringes on federal authority by
making it a crime to not carry immigration papers, while under federal law it is
a civil offense, akin to a traffic ticket.

State Senator Russell Pearce, a Republican and chief sponsor of the law,
dismissed the challenges as the carping of ''loud-mouth, open borders folk'' who
''have no respect for the law.''

Claims attacking the Arizona law could end up being consolidated into a single
case, as occurred with challenges to a 1994 anti-immigration law in California.

The Justice Department is reviewing the Arizona law, and Attorney General Eric
H. Holder Jr. has  said the department would consider whether to challenge it.

Three major civil rights groups -- the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Education Fund or Maldef, the American Civil Liberties Union and the National
Immigration Law Center -- welcomed the litigation and said they would soon file
a claim.

''There will probably be a half dozen or more lawsuits against this Arizona
bill,'' said Thomas A. Saenz, the general counsel for Maldef, ''because the
constitutional violations are so evident and the impact will be so horrific. I
think what we announced today is the three strongest, most well-established
legal and civil rights groups are working together.''

Opponents of the law sought to keep public attention on it, with two Latina pop
stars, Linda Ronstadt and Shakira, appearing in Phoenix at a news conference.

Also on Thursday, Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County, who has made tough
enforcement of immigration law his signature, conducted another in his series of
crime sweeps that immigration advocates have complained amount to racial
profiling.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County, Ariz., spoke out
Thursday in favor of the state's new immigration law. Sheriff Arpaio has long
conducted his own immigration sweeps. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MOORE/GETTY IMAGES)
 The singer Linda Ronstadt  spoke out against the law Thursday at a Phoenix
rally. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM TINGLE/ARIZONA REPUBLIC)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Revision to Arizona Law Sets Conditions for Questions by the Police

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 402 words


PHOENIX (AP) -- Gov. Jan Brewer on Friday signed a follow-on bill approved by
Arizona legislators that makes revisions to the state's sweeping law against
illegal immigration. She said the changes should quell concerns that the measure
will  lead to racial profiling.

The law requires local and state law enforcement officers to question people
about their immigration status if there is reason to suspect they are in the
country illegally, and it makes it a state crime to be in the United States
illegally.

Governor Brewer said the changes should lay to rest concerns of opponents.

''These new statements make it crystal clear and undeniable that racial
profiling is illegal, and will not be tolerated in Arizona,'' she said in a
statement.

The changes include one strengthening restrictions against using race or
ethnicity as the basis for questioning by the police and inserting those same
restrictions in other parts of the law. Another change states that questions of
immigration status would follow a law enforcement officer's stopping, detaining
or arresting a person while enforcing another law. The earlier law had referred
to a ''contact'' with police.

Another change specifies that possible violations of local civil ordinances can
trigger questioning on immigration status.

Stephen Montoya, a Phoenix lawyer representing a police officer whose lawsuit
was one of three filed Thursday to challenge the law, said the changes would not
derail the lawsuit because the state is still unconstitutionally trying to
regulate immigration, a federal responsibility.

He said that the strengthened restriction on factoring race and ethnicity makes
enforcement ''potentially less discriminatory,'' but that the local-law
provision is troubling because it broadens when the law could be used.

Lawmakers approved the follow-on bill several hours before ending their 2010
session.

The sponsor, State Senator Russell Pearce, unveiled the changes at a
House-Senate conference committee on Thursday. He later said the revisions would
not change how the law is implemented but provide clarifications on intent and
make the bill more defensible in court.

''There will be no profiling,'' Mr. Pearce, a Republican from Mesa, said in an
interview.

Mr. Pearce said the change from the ''contact'' wording does not require a
formal arrest before questioning but helps make it clear that racial profiling
is not allowed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROSS D.
FRANKLIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Latino Groups Urge Boycott Of Arizona Over New Law

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 437 words


Several large Latino and civil rights organizations on Thursday announced a
business boycott of Arizona, saying that a tough anti-illegal immigration law
there would lead to racial profiling and wrongful arrests.

The boycott call was led by the National Council of La Raza, or N.C.L.R., one of
the nation's biggest Latino groups, and was joined by the League of United Latin
American Citizens and the National Puerto Rican Coalition. The groups said they
would ask members and supporters to refrain from planning conventions or
conferences in Arizona and from buying goods produced in the state.

''The law is so extreme, and its proponents appear so immune to an appeal to
reason, nothing short of these extraordinary measures is required,'' Janet
Murguia, the president of N.C.L.R., said Thursday at a news conference in
Washington.

The  organizations said they would collect signatures on a pledge committing
supporters to pressure corporations to stop doing business with Arizona. Also
participating were the Service Employees International Union, the United Food
and Commercial Workers union, and the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human
Rights, a coalition of about 200 groups including African-American and Jewish
organizations.

The Arizona law would require the state and local police to question people
about their immigration status based on a ''reasonable suspicion'' that they
might be illegal immigrants. Adopted on April 23, the law has not yet taken
effect and is facing legal challenges.

Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, sent a letter on Thursday to
Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona, asking her to call on the Legislature to delay the
new law for one year, to give Congress time to enact an immigration overhaul. He
also asked Ms. Brewer, a Republican, to help raise support among Congressional
Republicans for the overhaul.

Ms. Brewer has said the state was forced to act because the federal government
failed to control illegal immigration. Mr. Schumer is the main author of a
proposal offered last week by Democrats, which would increase spending for
border security and open a path to legal status for millions of illegal
immigrants.

In Los Angeles, the police said they arrested more than a dozen protesters who
chained themselves together on Thursday and blocked traffic in front of a
federal immigration detention center downtown to protest the Arizona law.

In Phoenix, Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County said officers arrested 24
immigrants in a raid Thursday morning on a local company, Lasermasters, accusing
them of felony identity theft for working with false documents.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County, Ariz., after 24
immigrants were arrested Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL SCHENNUM/ARIZONA
REPUBLIC)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Suit Points to Guest Worker Program Flaws

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 837 words


Immigration authorities worked closely with a marine oil-rig company in
Mississippi to discourage protests by temporary guest workers from India over
their job conditions, including advising managers to send some workers back to
India, according to new testimony in a federal lawsuit against the company,
Signal International.

The cooperation between the company and federal immigration agents  is recounted
in sworn depositions by Signal managers who were involved when tensions in its
shipyard in Pascagoula, Miss., erupted into a public clash in March 2007.

Since then, hundreds of the Indian workers have brought a civil rights lawsuit
against the company, claiming they were victims of human trafficking and labor
abuse. Signal International is fighting the suit and has sued American and
Indian recruiters who contracted with the workers in India. The company claims
the recruiters misled it -- and the workers -- about the terms of the work visas
that brought them to this country.

The Departments of Justice and Homeland Security have opened separate
investigations. The federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission determined
in September that there was ''reasonable cause'' to believe the Indian guest
workers at Signal had faced discrimination and a work environment ''laced with
ridicule and harassment.''

The Signal case has come to represent some of the flaws and pitfalls, for
immigrants and for employers, in the H-2B temporary guest worker program. As
Congressional lawmakers weigh moving forward this year on an overhaul of the
immigration system, they are debating whether to include an expansion of guest
worker programs.

A lawyer for Signal, Erin C. Hangartner, said the company could not comment on
the suit.

As it rushed to repair offshore oil rigs after Hurricane Katrina, Signal
International hired about 500 skilled metalworkers from India in 2006. Numerous
workers have said that they paid as much as $20,000 to Signal's recruiters, many
going into debt or selling their homes. They said recruiters had promised that
their  visas would soon be converted to green cards, allowing them to remain as
permanent residents.

Once the workers realized they would not receive green cards, many complained of
fraud and banded together to seek help from American lawyers.

In a deposition in the lawsuit, filed in Federal District Court in New Orleans,
Signal's chief operating officer, Ronald Schnoor, said he grew frustrated with
Indian workers who were ''chronic whiners.'' In early 2007 he decided to fire
several who were encouraging protests.

Those workers ''were making impossible demands'' for the company to secure green
cards for them or to repay the high fees, Mr. Schnoor said. They were ''taking
workers away from their work and actually trying to get them to join some effort
they were organizing,'' he said.

Mr. Schnoor and Darrell Snyder, a manager in the shipyard, where the Indians
were living in a labor camp, said they had consulted with agents from
Immigration and Customs Enforcement for ''guidance'' on how to fire the workers,
following the rules of the H-2B program.

Mr. Schnoor said the ''direction'' he received from an immigration enforcement
agent was this: ''Don't give them any advance notice. Take them all out of the
line on the way to work; get their personal belongings; get them in a van, and
get their tickets, and get them to the airport, and send them back to India.''

Signal managers said they tried to carry out those instructions on March 9,
2007, putting several Indian workers into vans to take them to the airport. They
were prevented from leaving the shipyard by immigrant advocates gathered at the
gates.

In an internal e-mail message 10 days later, Mr. Snyder reported that another
immigration official had assured him in a meeting that day that the agency would
pursue any Indian workers who left their jobs, ''if for no other reason than to
send a message to the remaining workers that it is not in their best interests
to try and 'push' the system.''

Carl Falstrom, an immigration lawyer in New Orleans who is not associated with
the Signal case, said there were rules for employers who fired guest workers.
They are required to provide return airfare to the workers' home countries, and
they are supposed to notify the visa agency, Citizenship and Immigration
Services, when workers are no longer employed. But, Mr. Falstrom said, private
companies cannot carry out deportations.

Saket Soni, director of the New Orleans Workers' Center for Racial Justice,
which represents some workers in the lawsuit, said the managers' testimony
showed that immigration enforcement agents had ''advised the corporation on how
to retaliate against workers who were organizing.''

An ICE  spokesman, Brian Hale, said he could not comment on a continuing
investigation. But Mr. Hale said ICE agents were generally aware that  a company
that fires workers  in the H-2B program ''is prohibited from compelling
individuals to get on the plane.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A plaintiff in a federal lawsuit at a 2008 protest, holding a
sign he says shows what he paid to get work in the United States.(PHOTOGRAPH BY
BRENDAN HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 3, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Two Groups Find Faults In Immigrant Detentions

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1143 words


Growing numbers of noncitizens, including legal immigrants, are held
unnecessarily and transferred heedlessly in an expensive immigration detention
system that denies many of them basic fairness, a bipartisan study group and a
human rights organization concluded in reports released jointly on Wednesday.

Confirmation of some of their critical conclusions came separately from the
Homeland Security Department's inspector general, in an investigation that found
detainee transfers by Immigration and Customs Enforcement were so haphazard that
some detainees arrived at a new detention center without having been served a
notice of why they were being held, or despite a high probability of being
granted bond, or with pending criminal prosecutions or arrest warrants in the
previous jurisdiction.

The bipartisan group, the Constitution Project, whose members include Asa
Hutchinson, a former under secretary of homeland security, called for sweeping
changes in agency policies and amendments to immigration law, including new
access to government-appointed counsel for many of those facing deportation.

In its report, the human rights organization, Human Rights Watch, revealed
government data showing 1.4 million detainee transfers from 1999 to 2008, most
of them since 2006. The transfers are accelerating, the report found, with tens
of thousands of longtime residents of cities like Philadelphia and Los Angeles
being sent to remote immigration jails in Texas and Louisiana, far from legal
counsel and the evidence that might help them win release.

''ICE is increasingly subjecting detainees to a chaotic game of musical chairs,
and it's a game with dire consequences,'' said Alison Parker, deputy director in
the United States for the human rights group, and author of its report. The data
underlying the report was obtained under the Freedom of Information Act,  and
analyzed by the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse (TRAC) of Syracuse
University, which issued its own report.

The inspector general's investigation found that the consequences of haphazard
transfers include a loss of access to legal counsel and relevant evidence;
additional time in detention; and ''errors, delays and confusion for detainees,
their families, legal representatives'' and the immigration courts.

Some detainees were transferred with files lacking a photo and a security
classification, field inspectors found in work conducted from October 2008 to
February.

Officials at Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which is part of Homeland
Security, said the agency would issue advisories reminding field offices of
10-year-old national detention standards that require a review of a detainee's
''alien file'' before any transfer, and reinforcing the need to coordinate with
immigration courts.

In August, the Obama administration announced ambitious plans to overhaul
immigration detention, a disjointed network that relies heavily on private
prisons and county jails. But taken together, the three reports underscore the
gap between the plans and the problems on the ground in a system that, according
to the inspector general, is estimated to be detaining more than 442,000 people
a year -- more than double the number in 2003, ICE's first year of operation.

John T. Morton, director of the immigration agency, envisions a ''truly civil
detention system'' shaped by more centralized agency control. In contrast, the
Constitution Project recommends shrinking the use of detention, in part by
adding more constitutional safeguards required in the criminal justice system.

''None of the recommendations being made should in any way compromise national
security,'' Mr. Hutchinson said Wednesday in an interview before he presented
the report at the National Press Club in Washington. ''It simply allows for a
more humane and more efficient system.''

Immigration law is complex, and the deprivation of liberty is quite similar to
the situation in other settings that require court-appointed counsel for the
indigent. But 60 percent of noncitizens face deportation without a lawyer, and
transfers compound the problem, the reports said.

The immigration agency has said it uses transfers to deal with an imbalance in
the number of detention beds at various locations. But the TRAC analysis shows
that the number of transfers has grown much more rapidly than the detention
population. It found that in the first six months of the 2008 fiscal year, 53
percent of detainees were transferred at least once, and that one in four were
transferred multiple times, a fivefold increase since 1999.

Though transfers occur in almost every state, the data show that the
jurisdiction receiving the most transferred detainees is the Federal Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, covering Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas --
which is widely known for decisions hostile to the rights of noncitizens and has
the worst ratio of immigration lawyers to detainees, the human rights report
said.

A strong case against deportation sometimes simply evaporates in such a
transfer, the report said. It cited a Jamaican New Yorker transferred to Texas
after three months in detention in New York and New Jersey.

Immigration authorities contended that he should be deported based on two prior
convictions for drug possession.

In New York, his drug misdemeanors were not considered an ''aggravated felony,''
and based on the man's 22 years of legal residency and strong family
relationships in the United States, he would have been eligible for
''cancellation of removal,'' a form of relief from deportation. In Texas, he was
barred from relief based on Fifth Circuit rulings, and deported.

The bipartisan group said the agency makes it too hard for people to avoid
detention while challenging deportation. It recommended a significant easing in
the burden of proof, and a hardship waiver from mandatory detention for lawful
permanent residents.

In what it called ''an aspirational goal,'' it recommended that where free
counsel is not available, all indigent noncitizens in standard deportation
proceedings have access to a government-paid lawyer. It also urged Congress to
give immigration judges discretion to appoint counsel, and to require a lawyer
in certain cases, including those involving unaccompanied children and the
mentally ill.

Mr. Hutchinson said that the immigration agency could make many other changes
immediately, including some that would ''correct some potential unfairness in
the system'' unintentionally left by his own efforts when he was in office.

According to the Human Rights Watch report, a memorandum Mr. Hutchinson issued
in 2004 is now used as a loophole to hold detainees for weeks without giving
them notice of why the government is seeking to deport them. ''This can
certainly be tightened up and narrowed,'' Mr. Hutchinson said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 1, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Officials End Immigration Inquiry

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 255 words


Federal authorities have agreed not to prosecute the Pilgrim's Pride
Corporation, a major chicken processor, for hiring illegal immigrant workers,
and the company has agreed to pay the federal government $4.5 million over three
years, said federal prosecutors for the Eastern District of Texas.

John M. Bales, the United States attorney for the district, said late Wednesday
that he would end a two-year investigation of immigration violations at
Pilgrim's Pride, which also emerged from bankruptcy this week. The payment was
not described as a fine, and the company, which is based in Pittsburg, Tex.,
admitted no criminal or civil misconduct.

As part of the agreement, the company agreed to adopt more stringent hiring
practices.

In December 2007, immigration agents arrested 25 illegal immigrants working at a
Pilgrim's Pride plant in Mount Pleasant, Tex., and charged them with identity
theft for using false Social Security numbers.

In April 2008, 338 illegal immigrants were arrested at five Pilgrim's Pride
plants in five states, with the company cooperating with immigration agents to
identify the workers. In the Eastern District alone, 38 immigrants were
convicted of misuse of a Social Security number, Mr. Bales said.

Most immigrants arrested in the raids have served any prison sentences they
faced and have been deported.

''This case demonstrates that the government and business, working together, can
go a long way to resolving the issue of employment of illegal aliens,'' Mr.
Bales said in a statement.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 21, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hospital Falters as Refuge for Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK; Yolanne Almanzar contributed reporting from Miami.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE BREAKING POINT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2310 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


Each had crossed the border years before, smuggled across the desert by a
coyote, never imagining the journey would lead to a drab and dusty clinic on the
ninth floor of Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta.

Some knew before the crossing that they had diabetes or lupus or high blood
pressure, but it was only after they arrived that their kidneys began to fail.
To survive, they needed dialysis at a cost of about $50,000 a year, which their
sporadic work as housekeepers, painters and laborers could not begin to cover.

And so they turned to Grady, a taxpayer-supported safety-net hospital that would
provide dialysis to anyone in need, even illegal immigrants with no insurance or
ability to pay. Every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday morning, the 15 or so
patients would settle into their recliners, four to a room, and while away the
monotonous three-hour treatments by chitchatting in Spanish.

That all changed on Oct. 4, when the strapped public hospital closed its
outpatient dialysis clinic, leaving 51 patients -- almost all illegal immigrants
-- in a life-or-death limbo.

For Grady, which has served Atlanta's poor for 117 years, it was an excruciating
choice, a stark reflection of what happens when the country's inadequate health
care system confronts its defective immigration policy.

Like other hospitals, particularly public hospitals, Grady has been left to
provide costly treatments to nonpaying illegal residents who most likely could
not have obtained such care in their home countries. American taxpayers and
health care consumers have borne the expense.

Over time, the mounting losses have compromised Grady's charitable mission,
forcing layoffs, increases in fees and the elimination of services.

''Years and years of providing this free care has led Grady to the breaking
point,'' said Matt Gove, one of the hospital's senior vice presidents. ''If we
don't make the gut-wrenching decisions now, there won't be a Grady later. Then,
everyone loses.''

But for the dialysis patients, the sudden end to their reassuring routine has
prompted a panic.

''We didn't know what to do,'' said Ignacio G. Lopez, 23, who had been sustained
by the clinic for more than three years. ''We can pass away if we stay like two
weeks without dialysis. They were just sending us out to die.''

The chairman of Grady's recently reconstituted board, A. D. Correll, has said
the hospital would not let that happen. ''We made a commitment right up front
that people are not going to die on the street because of these actions,'' said
Mr. Correll, a former chairman of the Georgia-Pacific Corporation and a
prominent civic leader here.

Soccer and Telenovelas

In fact, the future for many of the patients remains uncertain. Like most of the
country's estimated 11 million illegal immigrants, they have little access to
continuing health care, a reality not addressed by the legislation now under
discussion in Washington.

Across the years, the Grady dialysis patients had forged a community, a family,
really, of people who share a history and language, as well as a
life-threatening condition. As the machines cleansed the toxins from their
blood, they would talk about the scarcity of work, the ruthlessness of their
disease and their hopes for a transplant. Some would sleep, while others crooned
folksongs to drown out the snores.

Any given morning might find Mr. Lopez bickering with Fidelia G. Perez about
whether to watch their soap operas, or telenovelas, in English or Spanish. From
another chair, Rosa Lira, a frail grandmother, would look up from her prayer
book to boast of the previous night's exploits by Club America, her favorite
Mexican soccer team. Rosa Palma de Gamez, from El Salvador, would grin when
Ismael Sagrero arrived with his trademark greeting -- ''Hola-hola!'' -- which
had become his nickname.

Now the patients are trying desperately to figure out their next steps.

With limited exceptions, illegal immigrants are ineligible for public insurance
programs like Medicaid and Medicare and often cannot afford private coverage.
When major illness strikes, they have few options but to go to emergency rooms,
which are required by federal law to treat anyone whose health is deemed in
serious jeopardy.

Officials at Grady, which will provide more than $300 million in uncompensated
care this year, estimate that as many as a fifth of its uninsured patients are
illegal immigrants. Although the numbers are elusive, a national study by the
RAND Corporation concluded that illegal immigrants account for about 1.3 percent
of public health spending.

The recession has prompted some state and local governments to pare programs
that benefit illegal immigrants. And although illegal immigrants may account for
about seven million of the country's 46 million uninsured, the health care bills
being negotiated by Congress exclude them from expansions of subsidized public
insurance. (The House bill that passed on Nov. 7 would allow illegal immigrants
to buy policies at full cost on government-run exchanges, while legislation
being considered in the Senate would forbid it.)

Calling it ''a horrible situation,'' Mr. Correll said that governments at all
levels had decided that immigrants were not their problem. ''But somehow,'' he
said, ''they've become Grady's problem, which seems totally unfair.''

Some of the Grady dialysis patients have chosen to return to their countries,
encouraged by the hospital's offer of free airfare, cash payments, three months
of paid dialysis and assistance in seeking insurance or other long-term
remedies. Others are trying their luck in states where Medicaid policies may be
less restrictive.

But most remain in Atlanta, taking full advantage of a last-minute offer by the
hospital, in response to a lawsuit, to pay for three months of dialysis at
commercial clinics. They are hopeful that the reprieve will buy time for the
lawsuit to progress or for private dialysis providers to take them as charity
cases.

What they fear, however, is that their already fragile lives will soon be
reduced to a frenzied search for their next dialysis, most likely in an
emergency room after a descent into crisis.

Looking for a Better Life

They need only look to Ms. Perez to see what the future may hold.

After hearing that the clinic would close, Ms. Perez, 32, set out for Alabama on
Sept. 6 because cousins told her they might be able to procure dialysis there.
Grady was not yet offering its deal for three months of treatment, and instead
gave her $1,300, enough to cover dialysis for a week or two.

Ms. Perez said the money was quickly spent on rent, food and transportation.
After going without dialysis for 16 days, she walked into an emergency room near
Birmingham, which found that the potassium levels in her blood were high enough
to require immediate filtration. Eight days later, she did the same at another
Birmingham hospital.

''They said this was the first and last time they would help me,'' she said.
''They told me I didn't have any right to be there.''

She went back to the first hospital, where she was dialyzed again, and then
found a third hospital that was willing to provide three treatments. A doctor
there tried to find a private dialysis clinic that would accept her but came up
empty, she said.

So she returned to Atlanta on Oct. 11, and underwent one more emergency
treatment before agreeing to fly home to Mexico with assistance from Grady and a
California company, MexCare, that the hospital has hired to helprepatriate
interested patients.

Ms. Perez's parents live in Mexico and can care for her, but in many cases the
patients' families and sources of support are in the United States. Some do not
want to uproot their American-born children, or abandon their spouses or jobs.
Often they do not trust the quality or availability of dialysis in Latin
America.

Like other patients, Adolfo D. Sanchez, 31, said he was astonished to learn when
his kidneys failed in 2004 that Grady would provide him ongoing dialysis without
charge. A subsistence farmer in Mexico, he said he had paid a coyote $1,500 in
2001 to lead him on an eight-day trek across the Arizona border to Phoenix and
then to Atlanta, where his sister had settled.

Three years later, while working in construction, he found he could not keep
down the small tacos he ate for lunch. A local clinic referred him to Grady,
which diagnosed his kidney failure and placed him on dialysis.

''No place in Mexico would have offered dialysis for free,'' he said, sitting in
the spare apartment he shares with his girlfriend and their 13-year-old son.
''It was better to be here. I am really grateful that this is possible in this
country, because if I were in my country I would already have died''

Bertha A. Montelongo, a 59-year-old widow who said she entered the United States
illegally in 2005, started having seizures and shortness of breath about a month
after arriving in Atlanta.

''I came to look for a better life,'' she said, ''but then I became sick, and
that was it.''

A diabetic, Ms. Montelongo has survived for four years on dialysis, but lost her
vision last December. That has made her dependent on her daughter, who baby-sits
and sells homemade tamales; her son-in-law, an out-of-work landscaper; and her
granddaughters. They live in a rented house in the suburbs where the mantel is
lit with votives.

For a blind woman, returning to Mexico, where few family members remain, is not
an option, Ms. Montelongo and her family said.

''All the people here on dialysis think the same thing,'' said her daughter,
Letecia. ''They all think that if they go back to Mexico, they will die sooner.
In Mexico, it's different. There, you have to pay.''

Creating a Crisis on Purpose

It has been different for the 25 or so United States citizens who were patients
at the dialysis clinic. They were either already on Medicare or about to become
eligible, and are thus being readily treated by private dialysis clinics. After
a three-month waiting period, the federal insurance program covers anyone with
end-stage renal disease, regardless of age, and pays 80 percent of the cost of
dialysis.

But illegal immigrants are not eligible for Medicare, and legal immigrants must
wait five years to qualify. A few states use emergency Medicaid programs to
cover ongoing dialysis for certain illegal immigrants, but Georgia discontinued
the practice in 2006.

That sent waves of uninsured dialysis patients from across the region to Grady,
which is supported by direct appropriations from Fulton and DeKalb Counties,
ostensibly to care for their own residents. The hospital lost $3.5 million on
the dialysis clinic last year, said Mr. Gove, the Grady spokesman. Its 88
dialysis patients accounted for a 10th of total losses at a hospital with more
than 800,000 patient visits a year, he said.

The board acted, Mr. Correll said, because Grady's dialysis equipment had become
obsolete, requiring heavy investment. It was evident, given that so many
patients were undocumented and uninsured, that the losses would never stop.

''It was just financially hopeless,'' Mr. Correll said. ''For every vacancy that
opened up, another nonpaying patient would walk in the door, so it was going to
last forever.''

Mr. Correll said the hospital ''had to precipitate a crisis'' in the hope that
other hospitals, dialysis centers and governments might pitch in.

Each of the remaining patients has signed an agreement stipulating that Grady
will pay for private dialysis provided by Fresenius Medical Services for no more
than three months, Mr. Gove said. The patients agreed to work with the hospital
during that period to devise long-range plans for their care, possibly including
repatriation.

What Grady has not told the patients is that its contract with Fresenius, which
sets a price of $280 per treatment, covers their care for up to one year. Mr.
Gove said the contract gave Grady the flexibility to continue paying for
patients who fail to make other arrangements by Jan. 3. But he said the
hospital's offer to arrange repatriation would end at that point.

''As patients, they are ultimately responsible for their care,'' Mr. Gove said.

The hospital's agreement with MexCare, obtained through a state open records
request, calls for Grady to pay $18,000 for every patient relocated -- $6,750 in
travel expenses and escort fees, a $750 administrative fee, and payment for 30
dialysis treatments at $350 each.

Two years ago, the Grady board, then dominated by political appointees, undercut
its chief executive's plan to close the dialysis clinic. The new board, now led
by business leaders, hopes to save the hospital by convincing corporations and
other potential donors that its fiscal discipline is worthy of support.

Mr. Correll said closing the dialysis clinic was ''important to the future
financial and operational success of Grady, because people have confidence now
that the board will make a tough decision if it has to, and do it in the most
humane way possible.''

When Mr. Lopez first showed up at Grady in 2006, five years after he had crossed
into Arizona at age 15, his disease had turned his skin a pallid gray. The
doctors told him he was lucky he had not waited another day.

The charge for the initial hospital stay ran to $40,000; he said his stack of
bills now totaled more than $100,000. ''I try to pay little by little,'' he
said, ''but I'm never going to finish.''

He said he had never expected such generosity from American health care, calling
it ''very humane.'' After each dialysis treatment at Grady, he said, he would
thank the nurses.

''You saved my life,'' he would tell them. ''One more time, you saved my life.''

THE BREAKING POINT: This is the first in a series of articles about closing the
dialysis unit at Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN THE BALANCE: From left, Rosa Palma de Gamez, Rosa Lira and
Fidelia G. Perez were among the 51 patients whose lives were thrown into chaos
last month when Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta closed its dialysis clinic.
With the hospital's help, Ms. Perez has since returned to her native Mexico.
 Bertha A. Montelongo, 59, a longtime diabetic, went blind last year and relies
on her daughter's family. She has few relatives in Mexico. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID
WALTER BANKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 16, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Border Wars: 47 Arrested in Raid On Smuggling Rings

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 978 words


PHOENIX -- With sweeps on both sides of the border Thursday, American and
Mexican authorities delivered what they called their most serious blow toward
dismantling human smuggling organizations that have brought thousands of illegal
immigrants to the United States.

The investigation, which used 800 law enforcement officers, the largest
deployment in a human smuggling investigation, focused on what the authorities
said were suspicious companies running shuttle vans that provide a crucial link
in the transportation chain that moves illegal immigrants from the border to
cities across the United States.

But the sweep was also the biggest example of what immigration agency officials
said was a heightened effort to curb illegal immigration by focusing more on
breaking up the criminal organizations that transport people and the businesses
that facilitate these networks than on simply making large-scale arrests of
illegal immigrants and deporting them.

''What we are trying to do is rip this thing out by the roots,'' John Morton,
the director of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, said in an
interview here. ''We are taking out the whole industry and giving such a shock
to individuals that they won't recover as they have in the past.''

While some 47 people were arrested Thursday, including some in Mexico in what
officials called exceptional cooperation with officers there, only about 17 were
illegal immigrants being smuggled, and some of them will be granted permission
to remain in the United States to serve as witnesses in the case, Mr. Morton
said. A similar raid in Houston in February included the arrest of 80 illegal
immigrants found when the businesses were raided.

Mr. Morton acknowledged that the arrests would not end smuggling. That would be
an ambitious goal: more people are ferried across the border here than in any
other state. But Mr. Morton predicted the raid would disrupt a pipeline that has
accounted for a ''significant amount'' of the illegal immigrants traveling
deeper into the United States.

The announcement of the arrests, which focused on four shuttle van businesses in
Tucson and one in Phoenix, comes at a time when the federal government has been
under fire over its role and performance in immigration enforcement.

Two weeks ago, a rancher near the border was killed, and the police suspect he
encountered a smuggler.  An outcry has risen over whether the federal government
is doing enough to secure the border. This week, the Arizona Legislature moved
closer to adopting what is widely believed to be the most stringent immigration
enforcement bill among the states, giving local police agencies broad powers to
check people's legal status.

Immigrant advocacy groups on Thursday denounced what they called a climate of
fear and criticized the ICE operation for coming at the same time as the
legislation. A handful of protesters outside the United States attorney's office
here chanted, ''We are going to beat back John Morton's attack.''

In response to their concerns, Mr. Morton said the agency's activity often
generated ''rumors and wild conjecture'' but that no intimidation was intended.

Mr. Morton said the crackdown on the shuttle-service industry stretched back
more than a year and was not related to the legislation or the anger over the
rancher's killing.

But he reiterated the Obama administration promise to take up an overhaul of
immigration law and said the arrests represented an effort to  attack smuggling
organizations by going after the leaders.

''That is what this is all about, border security,'' Mr. Morton said.

For nearly a decade, federal immigration authorities have been stymied by a
fleet of shuttle vans, similar to those that carry people to airports and the
like, that they say have operated under a veil of legitimacy.

When stopped, even if the passengers were found to be illegal immigrants,
drivers would profess not to know the legal status of their passengers, and
prosecutors doubted a charge would succeed.

''That has been a very hard defense to overcome,'' said Matthew Allen, who
directs immigration and customs in Arizona. ''Now, we have been able to get past
that and show they do know.''

Smugglers would guide people, typically on foot, across the border. A car or
sport utility vehicle would pick them up and take them to Tucson, where in
''very quick handoffs,'' an immigration official said, the immigrants would
board the shuttle vans to Phoenix. From there, after having paid fees of several
thousand dollars -- $75,000 in the case of some Chinese immigrants -- to be
taken into the United States, they would transfer to private cars and head to
destinations across the United States.

Mr. Allen said that agents had made extensive use of surveillance, technology
and leads from people in the United States and Mexico to build the case, which
began about a year ago.

He said agents had recovered extensive records, including fake tickets the
passengers would show law enforcement officers in case the van was stopped for
an immigration check. In those situations, it has been difficult to prosecute
the drivers because it was nearly impossible to prove they were aware their
passengers were in the country illegally.

Agents on Thursday morning searched the offices of Sergio's Shuttle on a busy
street lined with mechanic shops, bodegas and small businesses. Two vans, with a
tiger emblem on the side, sat in front of an office that advertised a schedule
to several cities on both sides of the border.

No one answered the phone number listed on the side of the van or the office.

Alfonso Quintero, who owns a muffler repair shop nearby, said he often saw
people coming and going from the vans at all hours but nothing raised his
suspicions.

''I didn't see anything illegal,'' Mr. Quintero said. ''Looked like they just
wanted a ride.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Immigration authorities on Thursday at a shuttle van business
in Tucson that they said smuggles illegal immigrants into the United States.
(A15)
 Immigration officials made an arrest Thursday at a shuttle business in Tucson
believed to be a part of a smuggling ring. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (A18)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 11, 2009 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Potential San Francisco Showdown Over Immigration

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 400 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Setting up a potential showdown with the mayor, the San Francisco Board of
Supervisors reinstated an ordinance on Tuesday requiring that juvenile offenders
who are illegal immigrants be convicted of a crime before they are turned over
to the federal immigration authorities.

The ordinance had been passed by the board in October but was quickly vetoed by
Mayor Gavin Newsom, who said that it very likely conflicted with federal
immigration law. On Tuesday, the board overrode that veto on an 8-to-3 vote.

But the mayor says that he has no intention of abiding by the board's action and
that the current policy of turning over juveniles at the time of their arrest
would stay in place.

''This ship cannot sail,'' said Nathan Ballard, a spokesman for Mr. Newsom, who
called the board's ordinance unenforceable. ''We can't put our law enforcement
officials in the precarious position of having to follow this new law.''

After the veto override, the city attorney, Dennis Herrera, asked the United
States attorney's office in San Francisco for assurances that city law
enforcement authorities would not be prosecuted for violating federal law when
the new law takes effect in early December.

Mr. Newsom instituted his policy of alerting federal authorities at the time of
arrest last year after a series of embarrassing incidents in which city
officials went to great lengths to shield juvenile offenders -- including flying
them out of the country with taxpayer money -- as part of the city's so-called
sanctuary policy, which forbids city money from being used in immigration
efforts.

Mr. Newsom says he still strongly supports the sanctuary policy, which he says
helps law enforcement by making immigrants comfortable approaching police
officers about crimes. But immigration advocates complain that turning over
juveniles at the time of arrest, rather than conviction, resulted in some youths
being deported on unfounded charges.

''There are so many examples where kids have been incorrectly taken by our
police department and because of what they look like, because of their surname,
turned over to I.C.E.,'' said Supervisor David Campos, who sponsored the new
ordinance, referring to Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

On Tuesday, Mr. Campos urged the mayor ''to follow the democratic process,'' and
implement the ordinance. ''We urge Mayor Newsom to do the right thing,'' he
said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 13, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Are Matched To Crimes

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 609 words


Federal authorities have identified more than 111,000 immigrants with criminal
records being held in local jails, during the first year of a program that seeks
to deport immigrants who have committed serious crimes.

Among the immigrants identified through the program, known as Secure
Communities, more than 11,000 had been charged with or convicted of the most
serious crimes, including murder and rape, domestic security officials said
Thursday. About 1,900 of those have been deported.

At a news conference in Washington, John Morton, the top official at Immigration
and Customs Enforcement, called the program ''the future of immigration
enforcement,'' because, he said, it ''focuses our resources on identifying and
removing the most serious criminal offenders first and foremost.''

About 100,000 of the detained immigrants identified through the system had been
convicted of  less serious crimes, ranging from burglary to traffic offenses,
the officials said. Of those, more than 14,000 have been deported.

Obama administration officials have worked to distinguish their immigration
enforcement strategy from the Bush administration's, which centered on
high-profile factory raids and searches in communities for immigration
fugitives.

The Bush operations drew an outcry from immigrant advocates, who said they led
to racial profiling, especially of Latinos, and ensnared many immigrants who
lacked legal status but had not committed crimes.

Obama administration officials said Secure Communities, which was started under
President George W. Bush but rapidly expanded under President Obama, is a
relatively low-cost way for the authorities to concentrate resources on
deporting the most dangerous immigrants.

Immigration lawyers remain skeptical, saying the program lumps together
relatively minor offenses with serious felonies. They said the program
encouraged the local police to arrest anyone they suspect of being an illegal
immigrant.

''All you have to do is get them in jail and their immigration status can be
checked,'' said Joan Friedland, immigration policy director at the National
Immigration Law Center, an immigrant advocacy group.  Under the program, which
started in October 2008 in Houston, the fingerprints of every person booked into
jail by the local authorities -- including legal and illegal immigrants and
United States citizens -- are checked against  federal immigration databases as
well as criminal databases.

When the check produces a match showing both an immigration record and a
criminal one, ICE agents can place a hold to ensure the immigrant will remain in
custody.

Under an agreement with agencies in the program, ICE agents must take action
within 48 hours to detain or initiate deportation proceedings against the most
serious offenders. Legal immigrants are subject to deportation if they are
convicted of certain crimes, while illegal immigrants can be deported even if
they have committed no crime.

In the first year, 95 cities or counties in 11 states have joined the program.
The police department of Washington, D.C., announced on Thursday that it would
join. Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said at the news conference
that she hoped the program would expand to the whole country by 2013.

Most immigrants identified in the program remain in this country because the
immigration authorities generally allow criminal prosecutions and sentences to
run their course before they carry out deportations.

The database checks still have flaws, lawyers said. According to ICE figures,
about 5,880 people identified through the program turned out to be United States
citizens.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 23, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bill Would Aid Relatives of 9/11 Immigrant Dead

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 865 words


Fourteen immigrants who were in the country illegally when their relatives were
killed in the World Trade Center attacks are still waiting to gain permanent
residency, and their lawyer said their tenuous immigration status could be
imperiled if Congress does not act.

But Representative Carolyn Maloney, the sponsor of a bill that would grant green
cards to the  immigrants, said she had been building bipartisan support for the
legislation and hoped it would pass Congress's current session.

''It's a gradual process, we're picking up support, we're trying to move it,''
said Ms. Maloney, who sponsored two earlier versions of the bill, both of which
died in the House. ''I've been talking with my Republican colleagues, answering
questions, making sure they're comfortable with the bill and understand that it
affects only this very small group of people.''

The 14  are the spouses or children of workers who were killed when the twin
towers fell on Sept. 11, 2001, many of them while on the job at the Windows on
the World restaurant. All received payments from the September 11 Victim
Compensation Fund ranging from $875,000 to $4.1 million, but because they are in
the country illegally, they have lived in fear of being deported. And because
they do not have proper identification, it can be difficult to get a driver's
license, a job or a place at school.

Partial relief came in August 2008, when the Department of Homeland Security
granted temporary humanitarian parole to all but one member of the group, after
determining that none of them had criminal records or terrorist ties or were
facing orders of deportation. (The last member of the group was granted
humanitarian parole after he paid overdue taxes.) The parole measure, similar to
a tourist visa, made it legal for them to stay in the country, but it expired
after one year.

''The members of this small group share with all Americans a moment of loss and
pain and pride that is now a defining part of our national history,'' Stewart
Baker, then the department's assistant secretary for policy, wrote in a letter
to Debra Steinberg, the immigrants' lead lawyer. ''We feel a powerful connection
-- and a deep sense of obligation -- to those who died in the attacks and to the
loved ones who survived them.''

The parole allowances were renewed this summer, again for a year, but the
immigrants' lives are still circumscribed: Ms. Steinberg said none of them want
to travel to their home countries because they are not guaranteed re-entry to
the United States. She said she also feared that future administrations might
not extend the immigrants' parole, and that the measure to grant them legal
status might again founder in Congress, where it was first introduced in 2005.

''It's purely discretionary and never intended to be a permanent status,'' Ms.
Steinberg said about the parole allowances. ''There will probably come a time
when 9/11 isn't as immediate as it is now, when they kind of get lost in the
system.''

Ms. Maloney said she now had more support for the bill, buttressed by the
Department of Homeland Security's decision to grant humanitarian parole after
thoroughly vetting the group. In September, the bill passed the House Judiciary
Committee with bipartisan support -- a crucial victory, Ms. Maloney said.
Republicans like Representatives Peter T. King of Long Island and Lamar Smith of
Texas are in favor of its passage, added Ms. Maloney, who said she hoped to
bring it to a vote by the end of the year.

''You want it to go to the Senate with as much support as possible,'' she said.

To move the bill forward, it will be crucial to allay fears that it could set a
precedent for other illegal immigrants, a concern expressed by Representative
Steve King, Republican of Iowa, a longtime opponent of the measure. ''Why should
these families be treated any different than the families of illegal immigrants
who die in accidents or by natural causes while in the United States?'' he wrote
in a statement after the bill was approved by a House judiciary subcommittee in
July.

Ms. Maloney and Ms. Steinberg said the bill was painstakingly worded to apply
only to the 14 family members whose undocumented relatives died in the Sept. 11
attacks. Originally, 16 people were in the group, but two were granted visas for
providing prosecutors assistance in the sentencing trial of convicted Sept. 11
conspirator Zacarias Moussaoui.

''This is extending a one-time helping hand to a very small group of people
whose lives were completely shattered in the 9/11 attacks,'' Ms. Maloney said.
''They were attacked as Americans.''

Eight of the immigrants are children, Ms. Steinberg said, and all 14 in the
group are determined to stay in a country that they consider to be home. One
widow is studying to become a pastry chef, and her son is excelling in college,
Ms. Steinberg said, and several of the other children have said they would like
to enter public service, one as an F.B.I. agent, another as a soldier.

''These are all children that have grown up in the shadow of 9/11, having
understood what America has done for them and their families,'' Ms. Steinberg
said, ''and they want to give back.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 27, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Monmouth, Local Immigration Deputies

BYLINE: By CHARANNA ALEXANDER

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 273 words


Early next year, corrections officers in Monmouth County will begin to learn to
enforce the nation's immigration laws. But they are not leaving their jobs to
work for the federal government.

The county has elected to take part in a federal law, familiarly known as
287(g), that authorizes local law enforcement officers to aid the Department of
Homeland Security on immigration matters.

Monmouth County will be the second jurisdiction in New Jersey, after Hudson
County, to take part in the new federal plan. Nationwide, the 287(g) program has
been adopted by 66 counties in more than 25 states.

''The program will serve as a safeguard that an inmate is not released into the
community prematurely,'' Kim Guadagno, the sheriff of Monmouth County, said in a
statement. ''We simply ensure that if you are arrested and put behind bars, and
you are an undocumented alien, you will be processed by federal authorities
before being released.'' The county opted to have only its corrections officers,
not its police, take part in the program.

But Charles Goldstein, executive director of the New Jersey Immigration Policy
Network, an immigrant rights coalition, objects to the plan. ''There is
objection throughout the entire state of New Jersey,'' he said. ''We have sent
letters to everyone.'' For one thing, he said, such a dual role -- police
officer and immigration agent -- puts a divide between the police and the
residents whom they protect.

Over all, Mr. Goldstein said, deputizing local officers to enforce federal law
''is bad for law enforcement, immigrants and their families, and communities in
general.''

CHARANNA ALEXANDER

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 14, 2010 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

In Quake Aftermath, U.S. Suspends Deportations to Haiti

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 367 words


Responding to the devastation from the Haiti earthquake, Obama administration
officials on Wednesday temporarily suspended deportations of illegal immigrants
from that country.

Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said Haitian deportations would be
halted ''for the time being,'' without specifying a time period. Immigration
officials said it was clear they could be putting Haitians' safety at risk by
sending them back to a country staggering from the vast destruction of the
quake. About 30,000 Haitians in the United States are facing deportation orders,
immigration officials said.

Lawmakers and immigrant advocacy groups renewed calls for the administration to
grant Haiti a special status that would shield Haitian immigrants in this
country from deportation for an extended period and allow them to work legally.
The Haitian government and advocates here have been asking Washington to grant
the status, known as temporary protected status, since late 2008.

Haiti has sought the status after a punishing series of natural disasters,
starting with floods in 2004 that left more than 5,000 people dead or missing.
In 2008, four big storms killed at least 800 people and destroyed most of
Haiti's food crops.

The Bush administration decided against granting Haitians the temporary status
in December 2008, and the Obama administration decided last March to continue
deporting Haitians.

Among those calling on Wednesday for the Obama administration to reconsider were
Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, both Democrats, and
Representatives Lincoln and Mario Diaz-Balart of south Florida, both
Republicans, as well as the Roman Catholic Bishops.

''If this is not a slam-dunk case for temporary protected status, I don't know
what is,'' said Kevin Appleby, a spokesman for the bishops. He said the status
would allow Haitian immigrants here to work here and send money back to
relatives in Haiti trying to recover from the quake.

The homeland security secretary can grant temporary protected status for a
designated period for immigrants from countries facing natural disasters.
Currently El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Somalia and Sudan have the status.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 2, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Reform, on Ice

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 414 words


President Obama gave immigration reform only one vague sentence in his State of
the Union address. Despite that, and the poisonous stalemate on Capitol Hill,
the White House and Democratic Congressional leaders insist that they are still
committed to presenting a comprehensive reform bill this year -- one that would
clamp down on the border and workplace, streamline legal immigration and bring
12 million illegal immigrants out of the shadows.

The country needs to confront the issue, to lift the fear that pervades
immigrant communities, to better harness the energy of immigrant workers, to
protect American workers from off-the-books competition. What's been happening
as the endless wait for reform drags on has been ugly.

The administration has doubled down on the Bush-era enforcement strategy,
unleashing the Border Patrol, Immigration and Customs Enforcement and local law
enforcement agencies and setting loose an epidemic of misery, racial profiling
and needless arrests. The intense campaign of raids and deportations has so
clogged the immigration courts that the American Bar Association has proposed
creating an independent court system that presumably would be better able to
command adequate resources.

Tensions and anger in immigrant communities are rising. Religious and business
groups are urging change -- for moral reasons and because they believe that
bringing immigrants out from the shadows would help the economy. Young students
who have patiently waited for the Dream Act -- a bill to legalize immigrant
children who bear no blame for their status -- are frustrated. Groups across the
country are planning to march on Washington this month, demanding action on
reform.

At least one advocacy group, the Irish Lobby for Immigration Reform, has
declared the dream of comprehensive reform dead. It is urging incremental
change, with modest reforms like the Dream Act. Other groups may follow. It is
too soon to give up.

Representative Luis Gutierrez has submitted legislation in the House that
contains the right elements of comprehensive reform. Senators Charles Schumer
and Lindsey Graham are working on a Senate version. Let's hope Congress and Mr.
Obama are paying attention and will find the spine to fashion a fair,
comprehensive bill and then fight for it.

Mr. Obama should remember the promise he made often during the campaign but left
out of his State of the Union: that the undocumented deserve a chance to make
Americans of themselves.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 31, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wishing Doesn't Make It Law

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 486 words


When noncitizens are convicted of aggravated felonies, federal law makes it
relatively easy to remove them from the country -- and it should. But the law is
not a weapon for overzealous immigration officials who want to deny immigrants
fair deportation hearings.

The Supreme Court hears arguments on Wednesday about the removal of one such
immigrant, who committed a couple of minor drug offenses but was treated as if
he had committed an aggravated drug felony. The court should use the case of
Carachuri-Rosendo v. Holder to put an end to this unfair practice.

Jose Angel Carachuri-Rosendo, a native of Mexico, was a lawful permanent
resident of the United States living in Texas. He was engaged to an American
citizen, and had four children who are American citizens. In 2004, he pleaded
guilty to misdemeanor marijuana possession and was sentenced to 20 days in jail.
A year later, he pleaded no contest to misdemeanor possession of a single Xanax
anti-anxiety pill without a prescription, and was sentenced to 10 days in
prison.

The government notified Mr. Carachuri-Rosendo in 2006 that he was removable from
the United States because of his Xanax plea. The Immigration and Nationality Act
allows a noncitizen facing removal to seek discretionary cancellation, which
lets an immigration judge consider all of the circumstances of the applicant's
life, but this option is not available to noncitizens who have been convicted of
an ''aggravated felony.''

In Mr. Carachuri-Rosendo's case, the judge decided that his two misdemeanors
taken together constituted an aggravated felony -- because he could have been
prosecuted for recidivist possession, which is a felony. That made it possible
to deny Mr. Carachuri-Rosendo a hearing, even though he was never charged with
recidivism or any other felony.

Immigration officials across the country have used this twisted logic to
fast-track the deportation of many noncitizens who should be given a shot at
discretionary cancellation. Most appeals courts that have considered the
question ruled that immigration officials cannot do this, but Mr.
Carachuri-Rosendo's appeal was heard by the United States Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit, in New Orleans, one of two federal appeals courts that
approve of the practice.

This should not be a hard case. Federal law makes noncitizens eligible to seek
discretionary cancellation of their removal as long as they have not been
convicted of an aggravated felony. Mr. Carachuri-Rosendo was not convicted of a
felony, and no amount of conjecture about what might have happened changes that.

If the government believes noncitizens should lose their right to seek
discretionary cancellation after being convicted of multiple misdemeanors, it
should try to persuade Congress to change the law. The justice system is
diminished when the government tries to enforce the law it wishes for, instead
of the law that exists.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 6, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

When a Lawyer Is Wrong

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 393 words


Immigration laws have changed over the years to make it easier to deport
noncitizens convicted of crimes, even nonviolent crimes. But that does not mean
they should be treated unfairly in court -- a point the Supreme Court drove home
last week by ruling that lawyers for noncitizens must advise their clients if a
guilty plea would put them at risk of being deported.

Jose Padilla, a commercial truck driver, Vietnam veteran and native of Honduras,
has lived legally in the United States for 40 years. He was arrested in Kentucky
after he was found with a large amount of marijuana in his tractor-trailer. He
was charged with drug offenses that would make his deportation virtually
mandatory.

When Mr. Padilla asked his lawyer about the consequences of pleading guilty, he
said he was told that he did not need to worry about his immigration status
since he had been in the country so long. When he faced deportation, Mr. Padilla
argued that he pleaded guilty only because of that erroneous advice. The Supreme
Court of Kentucky rejected his claim. It said his right to effective assistance
of counsel did not apply because deportation was merely a ''collateral''
consequence of his conviction.

The Supreme Court voted 7-to-2 to reverse. Justice John Paul Stevens, writing
for a 5-member majority, said judges used to have considerable discretion about
whether a noncitizen should be deported after being convicted of a crime.
Because much of that discretion has been taken away, correct legal advice is
more important than before for immigrants. Justice Stevens said it was wrong to
dismiss deportation as a ''collateral'' issue because deportation is nearly
automatic in many cases.

The court went on to rule that if Mr. Padilla's account was correct, his lawyer
had not met the constitutional standard. The court noted that the ability to
remain in the country can be more important to a client than the possibility of
a jail sentence. And it would not have been difficult for Mr. Padilla's lawyer
to ascertain that a guilty plea would put him at considerable risk of
deportation.

To get relief, Mr. Padilla still needs to show that he was actually prejudiced
by the bad advice. No matter how this case is resolved, it has already
established a constitutional principle that will help ensure that the Sixth
Amendment rights of immigrants are protected.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 9, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Too Broken to Fix

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 389 words


The Department of Homeland Security's inspector general has affirmed what
sheriffs, police chiefs, civil-rights lawyers and immigrant advocates have said
for years: Outsourcing immigration enforcement to an ill-trained and poorly
supervised assortment of state and local law enforcement agencies creates a lot
of problems.

The program, commonly known as 287(g), deputizes local authorities as federal
immigration agents so they can help Immigration and Customs Enforcement capture
illegal immigrants who threaten the community or national security. A new report
by the inspector general instead paints a portrait of 287(g) agencies as a
motley posse of deputies who don't know Spanish, who don't know or care about
the dangers of racial profiling and who operate well beyond the control of the
federal agency that they are supposed to be working for.

It found the program lacks basic safeguards like data collection and reporting
requirements to ensure that deputies don't violate civil rights. The report also
found that fewer than 10 percent of its sample of captured offenders had
committed serious ''Level 1'' crimes, and almost half had no connection at all
to violence, drugs or property crimes.

The report reinforces what a leading police association and police chiefs,
including William Bratton of Los Angeles, have argued strenuously -- that 287(g)
undermines public safety. Police officers can't fight crimes when communities
they serve fear and avoid them.

The program was barely used until anti-immigrant fervor became white-hot over
the last decade. And while many police departments shun 287(g) as bad news,
other jurisdictions signed on to satisfy the urge to get tough on illegal
immigration. The inspector general listed 33 ways to improve the program, mainly
by patching up oversight deficiencies and bolstering training. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement mostly concurred, but rejected one critical recommendation:
It doesn't want to collect data on encounters between 287(g) agencies and the
public, to gauge the effect on civil liberties.

We are skeptical that the 287(g) program can ever be fixed. And we are sure that
the returns are too low and the costs -- in abuses and undermining law
enforcement -- are too high to make it worth trying. The Homeland Security
Department should pull the plug on 287(g).

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Dangerous Squabble

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 467 words


Among the Senate's most important tasks this year are fashioning a rational,
humane immigration policy and a rational, comprehensive energy policy to address
climate change and oil dependency. Unless Lindsey Graham and Harry Reid can
patch up a needless feud, the Senate could end up doing neither. That would be a
terrible outcome, since nobody knows what the appetite for either task will be
after the November elections.

A rapprochement may require White House intervention. Late last week, Mr. Reid,
the Senate majority leader, hinted that he might bring up immigration reform
before an energy bill. Mr. Graham went ballistic.

The South Carolina Republican has been working on a bipartisan energy bill for
months, and had been led to believe by the White House that it had priority. He
also supports immigration reform, but angrily charged that putting it first was
nothing more than a ''cynical political ploy'' to help Mr. Reid win Hispanic
votes in his home state of Nevada.

Mr. Reid fired back, insinuating that Mr. Graham was abandoning the energy bill
under pressure from the Republican leadership. (He's gotten heat in his home
state for supporting both bills and having them sidetracked would, by the way,
lower the temperature.)

Trading insults gets the country nowhere. The energy bill is vital. But Congress
must respond to Arizona's xenophobic new law, which threatens to turn legal
immigrants, even citizens, into targets of the police for merely looking
Hispanic.

Mr. Reid knows that Washington's failure to enact national immigration reform
has left the country open to that kind of mischief. So he must deal with that as
well as other complex issues like energy, financial reform and a new Supreme
Court vacancy.

Mr. Graham is feeling a bit fragile. Virtually alone among Republicans, he has
worked not only for climate change legislation but for immigration reform, and
has helped the White House on other issues as well; he was also the only
Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee to support Sonia Sotomayor for the
Supreme Court. For his pains, he has suffered a steady hammering from the
Republican leadership and conservative voters.

Truth is, Mr. Reid and Mr. Graham need each other. And there is no reason this
has to be a zero-sum game.

The energy bill so laboriously drafted by Mr. Graham and Senators John Kerry and
Joseph Lieberman is ready to be presented to the relevant committees. Indeed, it
was to have been unveiled on Monday until Mr. Graham pulled out. Immigration
reform is not that far along, but aides to Mr. Graham and Senator Charles
Schumer, a New York Democrat, are said to be toiling away on a draft.

What's important now is to get both back on track. The time left until people
run back home to campaign for re-election is dwindling fast.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Governor Paterson's Decision on Legal Immigrants

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 153 words


To the Editor:

Re ''New Paterson Policy May Reduce Deportations'' (front page, May 4):

As co-chairwomen of the New York State Interfaith Network for Immigration
Reform, we commend Gov. David A. Paterson for his bold decision to appoint a
state panel with the power to pardon legal immigrants for old or minor criminal
convictions, thus preventing their deportation.

Too often, our current immigration laws wreak havoc on the lives of immigrants
who are making a contribution to our society. We need comprehensive reform
legislation to fix our broken system, but in the meantime, we are grateful to
state officials like our governor who seize the opportunity to make our country
more just and humane.

Annie Rawlings  Diane Steinman  New York, May 4, 2010

The writers are, respectively, associate executive presbyter for social witness,
Presbytery of New York City; and director,  American Jewish Committee, New York.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Learning Network)

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday

Learning About U.S. Immigration With The New York Times

BYLINE: SARAH KAVANAGH, KATHERINE SCHULTEN and MICHAEL GONCHAR

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1947 words



HIGHLIGHT: A comprehensive collection of resources including five ways to teach
about current immigration issues; 40 related lesson plans and crosswords; links
to Times multimedia on the topic; and links to useful materials around the Web.



  Update: May 21, 2013

In this post, we present six quick ways to teach about current issues in
immigration as well as a list of nearly 40 immigration-related lesson plans,
useful Topics pages and multimedia from The Times and rich resources from around
the Web.

Teachers: Tell us how you teach immigration.

1. Immigration reform: Students can research the issues related to immigration
reform, including border security, the economic impact of foreign-born workers,
and paths to citizenship for those who have entered illegally.  Then, if you
want to take the idea further, they can draft an immigration bill, debate
provisions and take a vote.

2. Immigration's impact on public schools: Use these interactive graphics to
examine the impact of immigration on diversity in America's classrooms and study
the growth in the number ofEnglish-language learners in American public schools.

Inspect the statistics in your own school district and consider different
perspectives about how young immigrants should be taught in public schools.
Read an article and watch a video about the case of a Virginia school that
teaches English-language learners in separate classrooms from native English
speaking students.

To explore the topic further, teachers can use this lesson with secondary
students or this lesson for elementary students.

3. Who are today's immigrants? Listen to the personal stories of immigrants in
the United States who work white collar jobs and read about how immigrants today
are evenly distributed across the economic spectrum.  Analyze a chart that
illustrates the relationship between immigration and economic growth and another
that shows which cities have the highest percentage of immigrants working in
white collar jobs.  Compare what you have learned about immigrants in the United
States today to stereotypes about immigrants to the United States.

Teachers may want to wrap up this examination of the lives of immigrants in the
United States today using this lesson, which has students interview an immigrant
in their community.

4. Immigration past and present: Surf the Times's Immigration Explorer, read
about who's coming to America today, and examine charts and graphs that
illustrate contemporary immigration statistics.  Students can also use a Times
interactive map in which they can browse local data from the Census Bureau's
American Community Survey, based on samples from 2005 to 2009.

Record what you find using the Coming to America handout (PDF).  Teachers can
have students explore these resources further using the "Coming to America"
lesson plan. They might also do activities in this lesson plan about the
American Dream, or in this lesson in which students write letters from imaginary
immigrants to relatives in their countries of origin.

5. Immigration and your community:  Explore the Times series Remade in America,
which examines immigration through seven different lenses: schools, workplaces,
hospitals, politics, businesses, social services and .

Pick one of the lenses as a focus and examine the multimedia feature that
accompany the article. Then use the Times' Immigration Explorer to find
immigration data about your own community and add information about your own
community to your findings.  Or, split students into seven groups to investigate
immigration from all seven lenses.

6. Arizona's immigration law:  In April 2010 Arizona passed a law aimed at
identifying, prosecuting and deporting illegal immigrants. The law was hotly
debated because critics charged that it promoted racial profiling and
discrimination against all Hispanics regardless of their citizenship status.
Since then five other states adopted similar legislation patterned after
Arizona's law.  In June 2012 the Supreme Court issued a split decision upholding
part of Arizona's law while blocking other parts.

Investigate different perspectives on the law here,here and here. You might also
examine President Obama's and Senator McCain's opinions of the law.  And read
what the Supreme Court had to say about Arizona's law, including dissenting
opinions.

Then, tell us what you think about Arizona's legislation and the Supreme Court's
ruling.

Lessons on Immigrant Rights and Immigration Law in the U.S.


     ·    Pathways to America: Teaching About Immigration Changes
          Researching issues related to immigration reform and then drafting a
          bill in Congressional committees
     ·    To Think, Perchance to ... Debating the Dream Act
          Holding a roundtable debate on the Dream Act and then writing a letter
          to a United States senator
     ·    American Express or Visas?
          Reading and Thinking Critically About Immigration Legislation
     ·    On the Fence
          Role-Playing Different Perspectives on the United States-Mexico
          Barrier
     ·    Over the Borderline?
          Examining and Discussing Different Perspectives on Immigration
          Legislation
     ·    What's Your Angle?
          Exploring Different Journalistic Angles in News Coverage of
          Immigrants' Rights
     ·    Calling Names
          Investigating How Names Frame Debate
     ·    Immigration Across the Nation
          Understanding the Immigrants' Rights Demonstrations of April 10, 2006
     ·    Rushing the Border
          Discussing the Complex Issues of Immigrants Who Overstay Their Legal
          Welcome
     ·    In the Melting Pot
          Understanding the Immigration Process: A Social Studies Lesson
     ·    Work Forced
          Exploring Issues Facing Young Farm Workers


Lessons on The Immigrant Experience


     ·    Express Yourself
          Crafting Social Location Maps and Identity Monologues
     ·    Coming to America
          Examining Past and Present American Immigration Trends
     ·    Assimilate or Segregate?
          Exploring the Debate Over Education and Integration for ESOL Students
     ·    Family Matters
          Discussing What Diversity Within America's First Family Means for
          America
     ·    It's Your Move
          Exploring Culture and Immigration
     ·    Huddled Masses Still Yearning to Breathe Free
          Examining the Modern 'Immigrant Experience'
     ·    Living the Dream?
          Expressing an Immigrant's Story Through Art
     ·    Cultural Capital
          Examining How Immigrant Groups Adjust to American Society
     ·    Deportation in Narration
          Describing the Process of Deportation from Multiple Points of View
     ·    The Home Stretch
          Teaching Cross-Cultural Awareness for International Newcomers to Your
          Community
     ·    News From Home
          Interviewing Immigrants on Current Events in Their Countries of Origin
     ·    Connecting Immigrants in Black and White
          Exploring the Role of Ethnic Newspapers in Keeping Immigrant
          Populations Connected to Their Home Countries and Each Other
     ·    Hmong Among Us
          Creating Portraits of United States Refugee Communities
     ·    Home Bound
          Examining I.N.S. Custody of Immigrant Children
     ·
          Understanding Somali Culture
     ·
          Investigating Differences Among the Experiences of Immigrants


Lessons on Immigration History


     ·    Making Sense of the Census
          Ideas for Classes Across the Curriculum
     ·    Coming to America
          Examining Past and Present American Immigration Trends
     ·    The People, They Are a Changin'
          Exploring Demographic Shifts in the American Population
     ·    From America, With Love
          Writing Letters from Imaginary Immigrants to Relatives Back Home
     ·    Crossing Borders, Crossing Time
          Exploring How Trends in American Immigration have Impacted American
          Politics Throughout History
     ·    Home Away from Home
          Investigating Your City's Immigration History
     ·    Prisoner in One's Own Home
          An Examination of the Internment of Japanese-Americans During World
          War II
     ·    Life in the Time of Cholera
          Examining Urban Life During the Industrial Revolution


Lessons on Migration Around the World


     ·    Letters From the Diaspora
          Writing Letters From the Perspective of a Historic Migrant
     ·    The Origins of Man
          Using Old and New Methods to Learn About Human Evolution and Migration
     ·    Minorities Ruled
          Learning About Anti-Immigration Political Parties in Europe
     ·
          Debating Secularism in France's Public Schools


Student Crossword Puzzles


     ·    Immigration
     ·    Hispanic Heritage
     ·    Holidays Around the World


Times Curriculum Specials


     ·    A Nation of Immigrants
          A Collaboration Between The City University of New York and The New
          York Times
     ·    Human Rights in History and Today
          Use the lessons in this Newspaper in Education guide with any day's
          New York Times


Related Times Topics


     ·    Citizenship
     ·    Illegal Immigrants
     ·    Immigration and Customs Enforcement (U.S.)
     ·    Immigration and Emigration
     ·    Immigration Detention
     ·    Migrant and Foreign Workers
     ·    Statue of Liberty
     ·    Border Patrol


Selected Times Specials and Multimedia


     ·    Arizona Desert Swallows Migrants on Riskier Paths
          Article, slide show and map reporting on migrant deaths along the
          Arizona border
     ·    Remade in America
          A series about the newest immigrants and their impact on American
          institutions
     ·    Interactive Map: Immigration Explorer
          Select a foreign-born group to see how they settled across the United
          States from 1880 to 2000.
     ·    Mapping America: Every City, Every Block
          A Times interactive map in which you can browse local data from the
          Census Bureau's American Community Survey, based on samples from 2005
          to 2009.
     ·    New to English
          Interactive map showing the number of English language learning
          school-age children in each school district
     ·    Diversity in the Classroom
          Graphics documenting the impact of immigration on American classrooms
     ·    Immigration and Jobs: Where U.S. Workers Come From
          Interactive map showing where workers in the U.S. come from
     ·    From Darfur to Brooklyn
          Slide show documenting the life of immigrants from Darfur living in
          Brooklyn
     ·    After their Arrival
          Interactive feature telling the personal stories of immigrants to the
          United States
     ·    Global Migration
          Interactive Graphic showing the flow of the nearly 190 million people
          who lived outside their country of birth in 2005.
     ·    Presidential Candidates on Immigration: Election Guide 2008
          Guide to positions and actions by presidential candidates.
     ·    Immigrant Families: Across the Border
          Interactive feature on an immigrant family from Mexico.
     ·    Borders, Open and Closed
          Interactive feature with historical photos.
     ·    Americans Support Immigration Change
          Video report on nationwide polling.
     ·    Border Agents, Lured by the Other Side
          Article with graphics and video, on border control corruption.
     ·    Moving Pictures
          Interactive feature with commentary on films about the immigrant
          experience.
     ·    Bloggingheads: Immigration Crackdown
          Video debate on the deportation of illegal immigrants.
     ·    A Local Immigration Crackdown
          Video on a Florida sheriff.
     ·    The Death of Boubacar Bah
          Video on the death of a detainee in the custody of U.S. immigration.
     ·    Hiding in Waukegan
          Interactive feature on immigrants retreating from public life in the
          face of raids.
     ·    Corridos North of the Border
          Interactive feature on Mexican ballads inspired by current events like
          the immigration debate.


For more related multimedia resources, visit the Multimedia/Photos page and
search "immigration."

Resources from Around the Web


     ·    The Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation
          Includes timelines, a passenger search engine, photos and more.
     ·    Fordham University's Modern History Sourcebook
          Offers primary resources on U.S. immigration throughout history.
     ·    The National Immigration Forum
          An immigrants' rights organization that tracks the latest news and
          legislation regarding immigration in the U.S.
     ·    U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS)
          Provides information on U.S. citizenship, asylum and refugee status
          and immigration-related law, as well as educational materials on
          civics and citizenship.
     ·    Scholastic's "Immigration: Stories of Yesterday and Today"
          Offers charts, graphs and tables related to immigration in the U.S.,
          as well as an oral history scrapbook.
     ·    Polling Report: Immigration
          Polling data on immigration archived by Polling Report, an
          independent, nonpartisan resource on American public opinion trends.
     ·    U.S. Census Bureau: Immigration Data
          Immigration data from the U.S. Census Bureau.



     ·    Pathways to America: Teaching About Immigration Changes
     ·    Have You Ever Changed a Family Member's Mind?
     ·    A New Policy for Illegal Immigrants
     ·    What Are Your Family Stories of Sacrifice?
     ·    In Legal Limbo


LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 16, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Immigration Bill Is Introduced in House

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 686 words


The on-again, off-again drive to overhaul the nation's immigration laws moved
back to Congress on Tuesday with the introduction of legislation that would open
a path to legal status for millions of illegal immigrants.

The bill, introduced by Representative Luis V. Gutierrez, Democrat of Illinois,
was seen as the opening volley in what Democrats and Republicans expect to be a
hard-fought battle. President Obama has pledged to take up the issue early next
year; efforts to overhaul the laws  during George W. Bush's presidency failed
despite the backing of Mr. Bush and some Republicans.

Mr. Gutierrez, one of Mr.  Obama's earliest Latino supporters in Congress, said
in an interview that the bill reflected a growing impatience with the pace of
immigration change among a coalition of Democratic lawmakers, immigrant
advocates and labor and religious groups.

''This says, 'Here, this is what we want; our proposal is out of the box,' ''
Mr. Gutierrez said.

The pressing desire for ''comprehensive immigration reform'' -- as it  is known
by supporters -- was made clear in the acronym of Mr. Gutierrez's bill: ''C.I.R.
A.S.A.P.''

Matthew Chandler, a spokesman for Janet Napolitano, the homeland security
secretary, said she was pleased that ''Congress is taking steps forward on
immigration reform'' but withheld comment on the details of the bill.

On Capitol Hill, the bill was declared dead on arrival by some Republicans --
and, privately, by some Democrats -- and denounced as impractical and amounting
to amnesty for people who had entered the country illegally. Two previous
Congressional efforts to revamp immigration laws in the Bush years failed
largely because of similar objections.

Representative Brian Bilbray, a California Republican who heads the House
Immigration Reform Caucus, said the bill would only generate a new wave of
migrants to compete with Americans for jobs at a time of 10 percent
unemployment.

Democrats in the Senate who would steer an immigration overhaul through that
chamber generally welcomed Mr. Gutierrez's bill, though aides said it was too
liberal to win passage as written.

Still, the legislation hewed closely to some recent statements by Obama
administration officials, mainly in its call for improved border security, a
crackdown on employers who hire unauthorized workers and some way to open the
door to citizenship for illegal immigrants.

Under the bill, to gain legal status and possibly citizenship, illegal
immigrants already here would have to demonstrate they had been working, pay a
$500 fine, learn English and undergo a criminal background check, among other
provisions. Unlike previous proposals in Congress, they would not have to return
to their homeland first, something known as ''touchback.''

The measure also calls for additional training and equipment for border guards,
though not the hiring of new ones, and would require the Homeland Security
Department to improve immigration jails and eliminate a program that deputizes
local and state officers as immigration agents.

The bill lacks a broad program championed by many Republicans, as well as
Democrats including Mr. Obama, to address future labor demands and to better
control the flow of immigration. To do that, they have advocated a program under
which people could work only temporarily in the United States and then return
home. Instead, the bill calls for a federal commission to study the best
approach for the ''future flows of workers.''

''In order for immigration reform to be effective, it needs to be
comprehensive,'' said Representative Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican who
collaborated with Mr. Gutierrez on previous immigration bills but not this one.
''Any bill without a temporary worker program is simply not comprehensive.''

Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, is working with some
Republicans on a separate bill that he has said could be ready whenever Mr.
Obama asked for it. Administration officials, juggling the economic crisis, wars
in Afghanistan and Iraq and a divisive fight over health care, have resisted
promising a specific timetable.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Luis V. Gutierrez, at a meeting in April,
introduced an immigration bill Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 22, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Enforcement Fuels Spike In U.S. Cases

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 561 words


Federal prosecutions reached a record high in the 2009 fiscal year, with the
surge driven by a sharp increase in cases filed against immigration violators.

The 169,612 federal prosecutions were  a jump of nearly 9 percent from the
previous year, according to Department of Justice data analyzed by a research
center at Syracuse University in a new report. Immigration prosecutions were up
nearly 16 percent, and made up more than half of all criminal cases brought by
the federal government, the report said.

Much of the spike, immigration experts say, arises from Bush administration
efforts to increase immigration enforcement and to speed prosecutions. The
administration greatly increased the number of Border Patrol agents and
prosecutors, and also introduced a program known as Operation Streamline that
relied on large-scale processing of plea deals in immigrant cases in some parts
of the country.

The relatively simple cases have become the low-hanging fruit of the federal
legal system: Immigration prosecutions, from inception to court disposal, are
lightning quick, according to the report. While white-collar prosecutions take
an average of 460 days and narcotics cases take 333, the immigration cases are
typically disposed of in 2 days.

And while federal prosecutors decline to prosecute about half of the
white-collar cases that are referred to them by law enforcement agencies, they
prosecute 97 percent of the immigration cases, according to the Syracuse group.

The speed-up in federal immigration prosecutions, however, has run afoul of the
federal courts presiding over Arizona, which processed more than 22,000
immigration cases in the fiscal year,  nearly a quarter of those cited in the
report. This month, a panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit ruled that the process of mass pleadings violates the federal rule that
protects the accused from being forced into a guilty plea.

Michael A. Olivas, an immigration expert at the University of Houston Law
Center, said he was not surprised to find immigration prosecutions ''No. 1 with
a bullet'' on the Syracuse list. ''I would have been astounded if it wasn't one
or two,'' Mr. Olivas  said. ''We're simply pushing the cattle through the
chutes.''

The fact that immigration prosecutions remained high ''shows that this
administration is serious about enforcement to some degree,'' said Mark
Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a policy
group in Washington that favors restricting immigration. ''This administration
understands that it needs to appear tough on enforcement if it's going to make a
credible case for legalization,'' or amnesty programs, he said.

David Burnham,  who is co-director of the Syracuse research group, known as the
Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, said that for whatever reason, ''the
policy of Bush appears, from the data, to have continued and maybe
accelerated.''

The rise in federal immigration enforcement figures has occurred as crime has
dropped over all. According to new statistics from the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, also released Monday, violent crimes reported to the bureau's
Uniform Crime Program dropped 4.4 percent over the previous year, the third
straight decline. Murder was down 10 percent, and property crimes dropped by 6.1
percent, according to the report.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 5, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Aunt in Court

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; DEPORTATION HEARING; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 295 words


President Obama's aunt, who has been fighting a deportation order for years,
testified for more than two hours Thursday at a closed-door immigration hearing
in Boston, which ended without a resolution.

The aunt, Zeituni Onyango, did not speak as she left the hearing, walking with a
cane. She had entered the courtroom in the John F. Kennedy Federal Building in a
wheelchair, the cane across her lap.

Ms. Onyango, 57, was thought to have argued that she should be granted asylum
for medical and other reasons. Her lawyer, Margaret Wong, would not reveal what
Ms. Onyango said at the hearing, other than that it had gone ''well.''

Ms. Onyango, the half-sister of Mr. Obama's father, came to the United States in
2000 on a valid visa. Her request for asylum was denied in 2003, and she was
ordered deported in 2004. She has since been living in a South Boston housing
project. Her apartment is handicapped accessible, and she had volunteered as a
health advocate for the Boston Housing Authority.

Ms. Wong said last year that Ms. Onyango applied for asylum because of violence
in Kenya, but she would not comment on whether that factored into Thursday's
hearing.

Lawyers have 30 days to submit written closing briefs. Judge Leonard I. Shapiro
scheduled a May 25 hearing if no decision is reached before then.

His aunt's immigration status came to light days before Mr. Obama was elected in
November 2008. The White House press secretary, Robert Gibbs, said Thursday that
the president had had no contact with his aunt since then or any involvement in
the case. Mr. Obama did not submit a statement on her behalf to Judge Shapiro.
''This is a legal issue,'' Mr. Gibbs said, ''and the president strongly believes
the law should be followed by everyone.'' KATIE ZEZIMA

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 9, 2010 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Lawyers Back Creating New Immigration Courts

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 805 words


Responding to pleas from immigration judges and lawyers who say the nation's
immigration courts are faltering under a crushing caseload, the American Bar
Association called Monday for Congress to scrap the current system and create a
new, independent court for immigration cases.

In a vote at its semiannual meeting in Orlando, Fla., the lawyers' organization
endorsed a recommendation for a separate immigration court system that would be
similar to federal courts that decide tax cases.

Behind the seemingly arcane proposal was a portrait of the nation's immigration
courts besieged with new cases arising from an intensified federal crackdown on
illegal immigration, and challenged by critics who doubt the courts'
impartiality. The lawyers described the courts' condition in a report of more
than 1,500 pages released last week.

The immigration courts are not courts at all in the way Americans generally
think of them. They are part of the Department of Justice, not the federal
judiciary, and the judges, although they wear robes and sit in formal
courtrooms, are employees of the attorney general.

While Congress has debated since 2006 an overhaul of the immigration system that
would include measures to give legal status to millions of illegal immigrants,
proposals for fixing the courts have been largely ignored.

But the courts have become ''an overwhelmed system choked by an exploding
caseload,'' said Lawrence Schneider, an immigration lawyer at Arnold & Porter in
Washington and a main author of the bar association report. The report was
ordered 18 months ago by the association's immigration commission, a nonpartisan
panel of lawyers who monitor immigration laws and recommend changes.

In 2008, the report found, Homeland Security agents detained 378,582 immigrants
and deported more than 358,000. Last year, the report found, with enforcement
continuing at a similar pace, 231 immigration judges heard more than 300,000
cases, an average of more than 1,200 for each judge, or about three times the
load of federal district judges.

Judges are ''overworked, frustrated, and feel like they are on a treadmill,''
Mr. Schneider said.

Immigration cases have become more complex, especially asylum cases, where
immigrants are asking to remain in the United States because they claim to fear
life-threatening violence if they return home. With the pace of their work
accelerating, immigration judges often feel asylum hearings are ''like holding
death penalty cases in traffic court,'' said Dana L. Marks, an immigration judge
in San Francisco and the president of the National Association of Immigration
Judges.

Despite their relatively fast performance, immigration judges' backlogs are
growing, the report found, leaving more immigrants stranded in costly detention
while they await hearings. As a result of the pressure for speedy decisions, the
number of decisions that were appealed to the federal circuit courts has
swelled, from 9 percent of decisions in 2002 to 26 percent in 2008, the report
found.

In appeals courts in New York and California, states with large numbers of
immigrants, cases from the immigration courts made up more than one-third of the
dockets over the past five years, the report found. The increase in cases also
brought more complaints from lawyers and advocates that judges working for the
Justice Department were inclined to favor the government.

''There have been increasing concerns about the propriety of housing a neutral
court in the law enforcement arm of the government,'' Judge Marks said.

In the proposal adopted Monday, the bar association argued that immigration
courts should be removed from the Department of Justice and set up as
independent courts, still within the executive branch, under terms in Article I
of the Constitution. The highest judges would be appointed by the president and
approved by the Senate. The courts' decisions would still be appealed to the
federal appeals courts.

Judges and lawyers said the independent courts would have greater credibility
and more power to seek funds from Congress, leading to more resources for
judges, shorter terms of detention for immigrants and fewer appeals to federal
circuit courts, which are highly costly.

In 2006, Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales, acknowledging the demands on the
immigration courts, announced a plan to add 40 new judges. But as of late last
year, only 9 had been named. Last week, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr.
sought to financing to add 21 more judges.

The American Immigration Lawyers' Association, the immigration bar, said on
Monday that it would review the American Bar Association's proposal. Laura L.
Lichter, a vice president of the association, said the courts needed more
resources immediately, while creating a new court might take a long time.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 12, 2010



CORRECTION: An article on Tuesday about the American Bar Association's
recommendation to Congress for the creation of a new  independent immigration
court misstated the length of a report by the association's immigration
commission on the state of existing immigration courts. The report is 510 pages,
not 1,500 pages.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Judge Dana L. Marks of San Francisco said judges often felt
overwhelmed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 12, 2010 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

A Fatal Ending for a Family Forced Apart by Immigration Law

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1418 words


WEST BABYLON, N.Y. -- Elizabeth Drummond was a single mother from a hardscrabble
family whose roots go back to the Mayflower and an American Indian tribe. The
man she married, Segundo Encalada, was a relative newcomer to the United States,
sent illegally by his parents from Ecuador when he was 17.

He soon became ''Daddy Segundo'' to her little boy, coached her through the
Caesarean births of two daughters, and worked construction and landscaping jobs
here on Long Island to support them all.

In an earlier era of America's immigration history, they could have stayed
together, and Mr. Encalada might still be alive. But in July 2006, when Mrs.
Encalada was pregnant with their third daughter and immigration crackdowns were
sweeping the country, her husband was ordered by immigration authorities to take
''voluntary departure'' back to Ecuador.

They thought of hiding, she says, but chose to follow the rules, accepting the
wrenching separation that has become the only path to a legal family life for
hundreds of thousands of such couples. Under laws affecting those who married
after April 2001, foreign spouses who entered without a visa must leave and seek
one from a United States Consulate in their native land.

Their lawyer said that would take two months to a year. Instead, one year turned
into three; Mrs. Encalada lost their apartment, and her son was hospitalized for
depression at age 8. In July, after she flew to Ecuador for a joint interview at
the United States Consulate in Guyaquil, officials there rejected the couple's
application with a form letter saying they had ''a marriage of convenience.''

Mrs. Encalada, 32, wrote the White House, the State Department and Congressional
offices to plead for help. When most did not respond, she found a new lawyer and
started over. But her husband, 28, apparently lost hope. On Dec. 15, facing
another Christmas far from his family, he drank poison.

Over the years, many couples who had to separate have managed to reunite; others
split up for good. Some lawmakers see the hurdle as necessary to deter illegal
immigration and marriage fraud, while others say it needlessly tears families
apart.

But no one really keeps track of the results. The visa ordeal that left Mrs.
Encalada a widow with four young children hints at a hidden toll.

Public attention has focused on the visa a United States Consulate in Nigeria
granted to the man accused in the Christmas bombing attempt. But under tougher
immigration laws enacted in 1996, the system also gives distant consulates vast
power to delay or deny visas to would-be immigrants trying to return to their
American families.

''The State Department should be ashamed of itself in this case,'' said
Representative Steve Israel, a Long Island Democrat whose staff found American
consular officials unresponsive to several e-mail messages sent on Mrs.
Encalada's behalf from August to November. ''Immigration policy in the United
States is dysfunctional no matter which side of the issue, or the border, you
stand on.''

Adriana Gallegos, a spokeswoman for the State Department, would not comment on
the case. ''It's against the law to talk about visa records,'' she said. ''We
can't explain why it was denied or what was the process.'' She added that her
own efforts to learn more from consular officials in Guyaquil had been
unsuccessful.

Aspects of the case are mystifying. Although Mrs. Encalada said she showed the
consular interviewer copious evidence of her Feb. 3, 2005, marriage, including
family photo albums and apartment leases, the consulate later informed Mr.
Israel's office that it had no record of her being there.

Mrs. Encalada protested that assertion in an urgent e-mail message to the
consulate on Oct. 22: ''How can there be no proof at all that we were there for
our interview on July 20th 2009 with an interview time of 2:00? Please let me
know what our next step is in this process, I need my husband home and my
children need their father back!!!''

There was no reply until Christmas Eve, the week after Mr. Encalada's suicide,
when the consulate suddenly apologized for the delay and professed great concern
about her case. Its e-mail message asked for her airline boarding pass, a
description of the person who interviewed her and other information.

Mrs. Encalada has not replied. ''Now he's gone, it doesn't matter anymore,'' she
said.

She still seemed stunned on a recent afternoon, surrounded by clamoring children
in a battered house they share with her divorced father, a 58-year-old Marine
Corps veteran recently laid off from his construction job, and her sister, a
receptionist with two children.

Mrs. Encalada and her parents said the family's troubles started with a
gathering at her mother's house one Friday night in July 2004, when a drunken
guest meddled in a family dispute, then summoned the police, claiming Mr.
Encalada had threatened her. Mr. Encalada eventually pleaded guilty to
harassment in the case, a misdemeanor, and served 30 days in jail in 2006.

Legally, the offense was too minor to affect the couple's pending petition for
his green card, but in practice it resulted in his transfer to immigration
custody. Released on $7,500 bond, he agreed to leave for Ecuador and seek a
visa.

As Mrs. Encalada sifted through photos of their vanished life and their week's
reunion in Ecuador, her children crowded around. Selena, 5, back from
kindergarten, waved a picture she had found.

''Daddy's holding me; he's changing me when I was a baby,'' she crowed.

Hailey, 4, grabbed another photo and ripped it. Alanna, 3, born five months
after her father left, was tired of being told she was not the baby photographed
in his arms. ''I want to be there, too!'' she cried, throwing herself on the
floor.

Only Griffin, 9, was silent, lying face down on a couch.

''He did take it very hard,'' Mrs. Encalada said later, recalling how the boy
cried himself to sleep in his stepfather's arms the night before they parted,
then began to misbehave at school or refused to go.

She had no car, she said, and as Griffin's absences mounted, she took him on
foot, an hour's walk. Twice the school called Child Protective Services to
investigate possible neglect, and twice the caseworker determined the allegation
was unfounded, she said, only to have the school make a new referral.

''It got to the point I had to put him in a mental institution or C.P.S. would
take him away,'' she said.

Griffin, a third grader, spent a week on a psychiatric ward with a diagnosis of
''mood disorder,'' and given Risperdal, an antipsychotic drug. He returned to a
home where he and his mother sleep on recliners in the living room and the girls
share two couches.

''The C.P.S. worker said they need beds,'' Mrs. Encalada said, after patiently
doling out noodle soup. ''I have no money to buy beds.''

Thousands of dollars went to legal expenses and filing fees, much of it
borrowed, she said. Mrs. Encalada, who formerly worked as a cashier and for an
insurance company, was warned by lawyers not to apply for public aid because it
would jeopardize the immigration case.

''Thank God for my dad,'' she said. ''If it were not for him, I wouldn't have a
roof over my head for me and the children.''

Recent research on children separated from parents through immigration
enforcement has found that psychological distress and family hardship are
typical. A bill sponsored by Representative Jose E. Serrano, a New York
Democrat, would give immigration judges discretion to take family situations
into account in deportation proceedings -- leeway largely eliminated by the
tougher laws of 1996.

But opponents see such measures as a back door to amnesty and a reward to
illegal immigrants for having children.

Such policy conflicts mean little to Mr. Encalada's in-laws, who reproach him
only for ending his life. ''He was a wonderful father and a wonderful husband, a
very hard worker,'' said Mrs. Encalada's mother, Liz Volz. ''If he was here
right now, I would yell and scream at him. But I have a lot of sympathy for what
he was going through.''

Only after the consulate denied the validity of their marriage, when Mrs.
Encalada consulted a new lawyer, did the couple learn about a separate hurdle.
The law imposes a 10-year ban on re-entry for having stayed a year or more in
the United States without permission; it can be waived only through a show of
extreme hardship.

The second lawyer had started that process when Mr. Encalada gave up.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 15, 2010



CORRECTION: An article on Friday about a family forced apart by immigration law
misspelled the name of the city in Ecuador where the United States consulate
denied the man a visa, saying the couple, Elizabeth and Segundo Encalada, had
''a marriage of convenience.'' It is Guayaquil, not Guyaquil.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Elizabeth Encalada, Segundo Encalada's widow, on Long Island
with her children, from left, Griffin, Alanna, Selena and Hailey.
 Segundo Encalada in family photos. He killed himself after his visa to return
home was denied. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Spouses
From Elsewhere: More than 3.2 million noncitizens are married to United States
citizens, double the number in 1980. About 40 percent were wed since 2001, when
such marriages came under tougher immigration laws. Foreign spouses who married
after April 2001 and entered the United States without a visa  a group estimated
to include hundreds of thousands  must return to their native land to apply for
a green card, and face a 3- to 10-year ban on returning. (Source: Analysis of
Census data by Jeffrey Passel, Pew Hispanic Center.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 12, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 51 words


An article on Tuesday about the American Bar Association's recommendation to
Congress for the creation of a new  independent immigration court misstated the
length of a report by the association's immigration commission on the state of
existing immigration courts. The report is 510 pages, not 1,500 pages.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 12, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Links Immigration Overhaul in 2010 to G.O.P. Backing

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 858 words


President Obama said Thursday that he would proceed with an overhaul of the
immigration system this year if he could attract substantial Republican support.
But a leading Republican who supports an overhaul said an immigration bill could
not go forward if the president used a legislative shortcut sidestepping
Republicans to pass his health care bill.

Mr. Obama spent most of the afternoon in meetings on immigration, including one
with Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, and Senator Lindsey
Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who have been holding closed-door sessions
over the last six months to draw up a bill to revamp the immigration system.

The White House called the meetings to show its continued interest in an
immigration overhaul, an issue that has languished since last year, in advance
of a rally that immigrant groups have called for March 21 in Washington. The
groups, who want to see immigration legislation passed this year, have pitched
the rally as a maximum show of force with a turnout, they say, of 100,000
people.

The two senators said they gave Mr. Obama a three-page outline of the huge bill
they are preparing, and they asked for his help to find additional Republican
sponsors in the Senate.

But Mr. Graham, in a statement, said he had told Mr. Obama ''in no uncertain
terms'' that the immigration debate ''could come to a halt for the year'' if the
president moved to pass health care legislation by a method known as
reconciliation, which requires a majority of 51 senators instead of 60 and would
in practice require no Republican votes.

The White House has been laying the groundwork for a possible reconciliation
vote since losing its supermajority in January after the Massachusetts Senate
election and finding no Republican support. There was no indication Thursday
that Mr. Obama would reconsider that in light of Mr. Graham's warning.

In a separate meeting, the president sat down for more than an hour with
immigrant advocates, labor leaders and Roman Catholic and evangelical Christian
leaders who support an overhaul that would give legal status to millions of
illegal immigrants. At a press conference in Washington on Monday,
representatives of some of those groups publicly denounced Mr. Obama's
immigration policies for the first time.

Most of the advocates emerged heartened from the meeting with Mr. Obama, if only
because he gave them so much time. They said the president offered a sober
account of the political difficulties of an immigration bill this year, coming
after the protracted battle over health care. Apparently chastened by that
fight, he said that an immigration overhaul could not move forward without
support from Republican lawmakers lined up ahead of time, participants said.

Mr. Obama pledged to begin rallying support from Republicans, but he also called
on Mr. Graham and the immigrant advocacy and business groups to focus their
efforts on building bipartisan support.

Joshua Hoyt, executive director of the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and
Refugee Rights, said of the president after the meeting: ''He remains fully
committed to pass immigration reform. We had a very frank discussion about the
difficulties.''

In addition to opening a path to legal status for an estimated 11 million
illegal immigrants, the bill Mr. Schumer and Mr. Graham are shaping would
tighten enforcement against hiring illegal immigrant workers by creating a
national biometric identification card for all workers, including American
citizens and legal immigrants.

The bill would also further strengthen border enforcement and create a new
temporary-worker program to allow immigrants to come to work in the United
States in the future.

How to manage future immigration has been one of the most contentious issues for
the senators, and they asked Mr. Obama for his help in breaking the logjam.

The labor movement has remained united behind a proposal for an autonomous
commission to monitor the labor markets and determine how many visas for foreign
workers would be needed in a given year. Unions oppose any expanded program to
allow in temporary immigrant guest workers, arguing that those programs leave
immigrants vulnerable to abuse and undercut American workers.

Business groups oppose labor's proposal, favoring an approach that would allow
the markets, rather than a government agency, to determine labor demand. They
also want a greatly expanded program for temporary guest workers.

While top leaders from the Service Employees International Union, the United
Food and Commercial Workers, and the Unite Here unions were in the meeting with
Mr. Obama, officials from the A.F.L.-C.I.O. said they were surprised and
disappointed that they had not been invited.

In advance of the March 21 rally, young immigrants in several cities have been
holding ''coming out parties'' where they disclose publicly that they do not
have legal immigration status. In downtown Chicago on Wednesday, eight
immigrants made such declarations. Among them was Tania Unzeuta, a 26-year-old
student from Mexico, who stood by a sign that read ''Undocumented and
Unafraid.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hundreds of young people rallied Wednesday in downtown Chicago
for immigration overhaul, and a handful of them publicly declared their illegal
status.
 Leroy Watson was among those supporting the immigrant young people on Wednesday
at their rally in Chicago. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY M. SPENCER GREEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 13, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Editorial: Republicans Wanted

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 385 words


On Thursday, President Obama held meetings on immigration reform with immigrant
advocates and labor and religious leaders, with Senators Charles Schumer and
Lindsey Graham, and with the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He came out
reiterating his ''unwavering'' commitment to comprehensive immigration reform.

We've heard that before; what we'd rather know is when the bill is coming, what
it will look like and what he is going to do to get it passed. Enough with the
talk.

People who met with Mr. Obama asked the same thing. His response: Get some
Republicans on board, then we'll discuss it. The fate of immigration reform,
then, hangs on its ability to win Republican votes. In today's Washington,
that's enough to make anyone want to reach for the plug and pull it.

Fixing immigration was supposed to be different from all the other dead-end
Congressional trench battles, because of one thing: bipartisan support. There
was always a lot for Republicans to like: conservative arguments that reform is
good for business, reunites families, bolsters national security -- and pleases
Latino voters.

Only a couple of years ago, negotiations over a huge reform bill brought in
Republican senators like John McCain, Mel Martinez, Sam Brownback, Jon Kyl and
Mr. Graham. That list has withered away. Some are gone from the Senate; others
are just gone.

Only Mr. Graham remains. He and Mr. Schumer are working on a grand bill that may
or may not emerge this year from the hypothetical realm. But with midterm
elections looming, and the Obama administration just sitting there -- except
with deportations, which are rushing along -- the odds for an immigration bill
look grim.

Unless Republicans come around, Mr. Obama pulls some political capital from his
depleted account, or Mr. Schumer and Mr. Graham pull off some legislative magic,
we may be headed for another stalemate. That's the worst ending: each side
blaming the other, trying to extract political gain from an abject legislative
failure.

There is one possible game changer: an immigration march in Washington planned
for March 21, designed as a last-ditch try to put reform on the agenda. Nothing
like 100,000 angry, frustrated, impatient marchers, representing millions of
voters, to focus the Congressional and presidential mind, if it's not too late.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 22, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

At Rally, Call for Urgency on Immigration Reform

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Theo Emery contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1016 words


WASHINGTON -- Tens of thousands of immigrants and activists rallied here on
Sunday, calling for legislation this year to give legal status to millions of
illegal immigrants and seeking to pressure President Obama to keep working on
the contentious issue once the health care debate is behind him.

Demonstrators filled five lengthy blocks of the Washington Mall, down the hill
from the Capitol where last-minute negotiations were under way on the health
care bill. The immigrant activists, chanting Mr. Obama's campaign slogan of
''Yes we can'' in Spanish and English, tried to compete with their numbers for
public and media attention which were mainly focused on the climactic health
care events in the House of Representatives.

The rally brought the return to major street action by immigration activists,
who turned out hundreds of thousands of protesters in marches and rallies in
2006. After an immigration overhaul measure was defeated in Congress in 2007,
the pace of enforcement raids picked up and many immigrants, especially those
without legal status, preferred to lay low.

But immigrant advocates decided to gamble by calling the march, to give a show
of force that might impress Mr. Obama and also to vent the frustration of many
immigrants who have taken to heart his repeated promises that he would move an
immigration bill in Congress by early this year.

Mr. Obama addressed the crowd via a videotaped message displayed on huge
screens, promising to keep working on the issue but avoiding a specific time
frame.

''I have always pledged to be your partner as we work to fix our broken
immigration system, and that's a commitment that I reaffirm today,'' Mr. Obama
said.

He expressed his support for the outline of an immigration bill presented last
week by Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, and Senator
Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. While pledging to help build
bipartisan support, Mr. Obama warned, ''You know as well as I do that this won't
be easy, and it won't happen overnight.''

But speaker after speaker rose to demand immigration legislation sooner rather
than later, leaving aside any mention of the acrid political environment in
Washington in the aftermath of the health care battle.

''Every day without reform is a day when 12 million hard-working immigrants must
live in the shadow of fear,'' said Representative Nydia M. Velazquez, a Democrat
from New York who is the chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.

''Don't forget that in the last presidential election 10 million Hispanics came
out to vote,'' she said. She told the crowd to tell lawmakers ''that you will
not forget which side of this debate they stood on.''

Representative Luis V. Gutierrez of Illinois, a Democrat who has been a leader
of the immigrants' movement, said he was optimistic that Mr. Obama would try to
get an immigration bill this year.

''I see a new focus on the part of this president,'' Mr. Gutierrez said.
''That's why we are here to say we are not invisible.''

The urgency was echoed by church leaders who spoke, including Roman Catholic
Cardinal Roger M. Mahony of Los Angeles, and Reverend Samuel Rodriguez, the
leader of the National Hispanic Christian Leadership Conference, the largest
organization of Latino evangelical churches.

''The angst and trepidation in our communities is unprecedented,'' Mr. Rodriguez
said. He compared the mood among Latinos to the hard days of the civil rights
movement. ''This is our Selma,'' he said.

Echoing that thought were an array of African-American leaders who turned out
for the event. Speakers included the Rev. Jesse Jackson; Benjamin T. Jealous,
president of the N.A.A.C.P; Cornel West, a Princeton scholar, and Marc H.
Morial, a former mayor of New Orleans and the president of the National Urban
League.

Ali Noorani, executive director of the National Immigration Forum and a leading
organizer of the event, said that rallies were planned in several cities on
April 10, the last day of the Congressional recess. On May 1, Mr. Noorani said,
immigrant groups would release a report card of every lawmaker and where they
stand on the immigration overhaul.

Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, said he thought an immigration
bill could pass at the end of the year, after the storm of the November
elections had passed.

The crowd, overwhelmingly Latino immigrants, arrived on buses from California,
Ohio, Texas, Michigan, Colorado and many other places. Unions brought thousands
of members, including dozens of workers from a meat-packing plant in Tar Heel,
N.C.

While a few demonstrators waved flags from other countries, most flew American
flags overhead, recalling the negative reaction from American voters to earlier
protests where Mexican flags dominated. Farm workers from Florida held one
billowing flag overhead and propped it with sticks, forming a tent.

In the crowd, frustration with Mr. Obama was strong. Rudy Romero, 19, and Andrea
Rentaria, 23, said they boarded buses early Friday in Colorado with 54 other
people, and 36 hours later, arrived in Washington. They said they were
disappointed with the pace of progress on immigration.

''We've been waiting for so long,'' Mr. Romero said. ''I know it takes time, but
a promise is a promise. We are demanding it today.''

Ms. Rentaria added, ''We want to step up and say, 'Hey, wake up. We're here.
We're still waiting. We've given you time to settle in. When is this going
happen?' ''

''I understand you have to take care of health care,'' Ms. Rentaria said. ''As
soon as we're done with that,'' she said, immigration should be next.

Although there were a few jeers for Mr. Obama during a morning rally, the crowd
roared when he appeared on video.

Adrian Vasquez, 32, held up a sign reading ''Support Our President, Immigration
Reform Now!'' Mr. Vasquez, who has been in the United States for 20 years and is
now an illegal immigrant, admitted that the push for an overhaul ''could not
come at a worse time'' for Mr. Obama.

But he said, ''I'm eager for change. I think we can get it done.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Protesters waved signs from a flatbed truck on Sunday during
the March for America immigration rally in Washington. (A12)
 Tens of thousands of immigrants and activists attended the March for America
immigration rally on the Washington Mall. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 24, 2010 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

A Grand Pact Goes Wrong

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'THE
SENATORS' BARGAIN'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 893 words


As House members made their way to the Capitol to cast their votes on health
care legislation on Sunday, tens of thousands of immigrants and advocates
crowded onto the National Mall in Washington to demand immigration reform, many
of them shouting the Obama campaign slogan, ''Yes, we can.''

''The Senators' Bargain,'' a documentary on HBO2 on Wednesday that chronicles
how liberals lost the 2007 battle to fix the immigration system, is a study in
''No, we can't.''

The film is part of a series,  ''How Democracy Works Now,'' which, given the
current partisan rancor in Congress, sounds downright sarcastic. But the film,
which took years to make, is not a satire. It is timely. Last week the White
House and central members of Congress took the first steps toward resurrecting
immigration reform, and this documentary provides scary insight into the ways of
Washington and the expediencies that trump reason and goodwill. But mostly it's
a bruised, elegiac look back at a Democratic defeat. The tone is not so much
indignant as wistful, attuned to the lyricism of lost causes and
the-dream-shall-never-die romance of failure.

Partly, of course, that's because a crucial figure in the battle for immigration
reform was Senator Edward M. Kennedy, who died of brain cancer in 2009. In 2007
he brokered a bipartisan agreement, known as the grand bargain, that unraveled
even after concessions that went against Senator Kennedy's long-held
convictions. Senator Kennedy is shown making brief, amiable appearances at
meetings, where he is treated with gentle reverence, less the lion of the Senate
than a lionized symbol of a greater, more gracious era.

After a particularly resounding legislative setback, Senator Kennedy, a
Massachusetts Democrat, bucks up his staff by citing the Red Sox  --  not the
2004 World Series victory, but ''The Impossible Dream'' season of 1967.  He
laughs when a staff member points out that the Red Sox didn't actually win the
World Series that year, then drifts into a sotto voce reverie: ''Actually, the,
uh, the last I remember going up there with my brothers-in-law, it was a great,
great time, great series.''

In more mean-spirited hands, the film could paint Senator Kennedy as one of the
unwitting culprits in the failure of the grand bargain, because he favored
old-school Senate floor tactics that ultimately served the bill's conservative
opponents. But the filmmakers, Michael Camerini and Shari Robertson, are too
sympathetic to the cause and to those who fought quixotically to keep it alive
for parenthetical sniping.

The real hero is Frank Sharry, a leading advocate of immigration reform who in
2007 worked the back channels, advising Senator Kennedy's team as well as the
Bush White House, which wanted to leave office with a victory on immigration
reform.

The camera follows Mr. Sharry and his allies as they toil for long hours in
shabby offices, negotiating, coaxing, pleading and, most of all, waiting. Mr.
Sharry is one of the more effective lobbyists, as fluent in Karl Rove-ese when
cajoling West Wing advisers as he is in Spanish, addressing pro-immigration
groups.

The deal he tried to preserve, a compromise that would allow 12 million illegal
immigrants to legalize their status, was hailed as ''the last, best chance'' for
reform by Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina. The Republican
primary campaign quashed that cooperative spirit; any talk of legalization for
illegal immigrants was branded with a scarlet letter, A, for Amnesty (fueled, in
part, by the former CNN commentator Lou Dobbs). Even Senator John McCain,
Republican of Arizona, who had co-sponsored a similar piece of legislation in
2006, steered clear of the issue unless asked.

Reform proponents on the Hill had to tap the other Arizona senator, Republican
Jon Kyl, who sought ever more restrictive measures to appease the right wing of
his party. And Senator Kennedy in turn lost critical support from liberal
colleagues when he agreed to new criteria for granting legal status, a points
system that favored higher education over family ties, or as Mr. Sharry puts it,
a French Ph.D candidate with no family ties in the United States over a home
health worker with relatives and a job here.

Even that concession didn't do the trick. And at the moment, at least, the
revised points system is no longer part of a new blueprint for immigration
reform recently floated by Senator Graham and Senator Charles E. Schumer,
Democrat of New York. President Obama has embraced their proposal, but has
backed away from earlier promises to propose legislation in 2010, saying he
would first seek to forge ''bipartisan consensus.''

It may yet turn out that the grand bargain wasn't the last hope for immigration
reform, or even the best, but ''The Senators' Bargain'' is a cautionary tale for
those who plan to wage the next battle.

The Senators' Bargain

HBO2, Wednesday night at 8, Eastern and Pacific times; 7, Central time.

Directed and produced by Shari Robertson and Michael Camerini; Jane Rizzo,
editor; Mark Suozzo, composer; Mr. Camerini, camera; Ms. Robertson, sound;
Rachel Solomon, series coordinating producer; JeniMorrison, senior associate
producer; Mark Juergens, senior series editor; Martin Czembor, mixer; Eliza
Paley and Michael Fevser, sound editors; Savvas Paritis, colorist/online editor.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 25, 2010



CORRECTION: A listing of credits on Wednesday with a television review of the
documentary ''The Senators' Bargain,'' using information provided by HBO2,
included three misspelled surnames. The film is part of the series ''How
Democracy Works Now'' and the series coordinating producer is Rachel Salmon, not
Solomon. One of the sound editors is Michael Feuser, not Fevser. And the
colorist/online editor is Savvas Paritsis, not Paritis.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The film tracks Senator Edward M. Kennedy's efforts. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY HBO)(C5)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 31, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

How One Marijuana Cigarette May Lead to Deportation

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1523 words


ELMONT, N.Y. -- When a police officer in this Long Island suburb found a
marijuana cigarette in Jerry Lemaine's pocket one night in January 2007, a Legal
Aid lawyer counseled him to plead guilty. Under state statutes, the penalty was
only a $100 fine, and though Mr. Lemaine had been caught with a small amount of
marijuana years earlier as a teenager, that case had been dismissed.

But Mr. Lemaine, a legal permanent resident, soon discovered that his quick
guilty plea had dire consequences. Immigration authorities flew him in shackles
to Texas, where he spent three years behind bars, including 10 months in
solitary confinement, as he fought deportation to Haiti, the country he had left
at age 3.

Under federal rulings that prevailed in Texas, Mr. Lemaine had lost the legal
opportunity that rulings in New York would have allowed: to have an immigration
judge weigh his offenses, including earlier misdemeanors resolved without jail
time, against other aspects of his life, like his nursing studies at Hunter
Business School; his care for his little sister, a United States citizen with a
brain disorder; and the help he gave his divorced mother, who had worked double
shifts to move the family out of a dangerous Brooklyn neighborhood.

Now Mr. Lemaine, 28, is among thousands of noncitizens whose fate may hinge on a
case to be argued on Wednesday before the United States Supreme Court, in a
challenge to the way the government interprets immigration laws about
drug-related convictions. The government maintains that for deportation
purposes, two convictions for drug possession add up to the equivalent of drug
trafficking, an ''aggravated felony'' that requires expulsion and prohibits
immigration courts from granting exceptions based on individual life
circumstances.

That interpretation of laws passed in 1996 has been rejected by four judicial
circuits, including New York's. But two circuits have upheld it, most notably
the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, which covers Louisiana
and Texas -- states where the government routinely transfers tens of thousands
of immigration detainees each year, mainly from the Northeast.

The case before the Supreme Court, Carachuri-Rosendo v. Holder, involves a
longtime legal resident of Texas who was deported to Mexico based on convictions
for possession of marijuana and a tablet of Xanax, an anti-anxiety drug. His
fiancee and four children, all United States citizens, were left behind.

But Mr. Lemaine's case, cited in amicus briefs by several defense lawyers'
associations, illustrates the chaotic effect of the split among the circuits,
coupled with the increased use of transfers in the nation's network of detention
centers.

Unlike the criminal justice system, which must deal with defendants in the
jurisdiction where their offenses occurred, immigration authorities can send
detainees anywhere in the country, without notice or legal counsel, and start
deportation proceedings wherever they choose. And the Obama administration has
stepped up detention and deportation of so-called criminal aliens, including
many legal immigrants with low-level drug convictions.

Mr. Lemaine, whose father is a United States citizen, faced an immigration judge
in Harlingen, Tex., almost 2,000 miles from this blue-collar community just east
of the Queens border. The judge decided that under Fifth Circuit rulings, two
marijuana violations made Mr. Lemaine a ''recidivist felon'' ineligible for bond
or for any relief from deportation, even though his first marijuana offense had
been dismissed.

The government's own Board of Immigration Appeals rejects that interpretation of
the law, but says it is bound by it when deciding cases from circuits where it
prevails, including the Seventh, covering Illinois, Indiana and Wisconsin.
Proponents argue that their view reflects Congressional intent to be tougher on
all drug offenses, and to sharply narrow judicial discretion.

In a sense, Mr. Lemaine was lucky. Unlike 86 percent of immigration detainees
who face deportation in Texas, he had a lawyer. And though his mother, a nurse's
aide, could not pay an additional $10,000 for a federal appeal, someone referred
the case to Gibson Dunn & Crutcher in New York, one of the few corporate law
firms willing to fight a criminal deportation without a fee. Lawyers there filed
a federal appeal.

Aaron D. Simowitz, 31, who shouldered part of the legal work, said the case
often seemed surreal. For example, the New York criminal court refused to
vacate, or erase, Mr. Lemaine's first marijuana conviction, reasoning that there
was nothing to vacate because the conviction did not exist; the case had been
dismissed, as planned, after a six-month adjournment. But in Texas, the federal
government still counted that as a conviction.

Such twists are part of a system that requires immigration authorities to match
the elements of a variety of state criminal statutes with federal criminal laws,
and proceed as though the noncitizen had been convicted of the federal crime.

Three times Mr. Simowitz sought Mr. Lemaine's release on an order of supervision
while the appeal was pending. Three times, Immigration and Customs Enforcement
officials refused, moving Mr. Lemaine from the government-run Port Isabel
Detention Center near Los Fresnos, to private prisons run by the GEO Group in
Pearsall and Karnes City, Tex.

Then, early on Jan. 11 -- hours before an earthquake devastated Haiti -- a new
deportation officer suddenly decided that Mr. Lemaine was a good candidate for
supervised release, and let him make his way back to New York on a Greyhound
bus.

After a three-day journey, he said, he emerged in Times Square, found Mr.
Simowitz in an office on the 48th floor of the MetLife building, hugged him,
then stood gazing down at New York, marveling, ''This is my home.''

At his mother's dining room table on a recent afternoon, he tried to convey the
shock of his Texas experience, starting with his first night in a holding tank
in Harlingen: ''Fifty people, nowhere to sleep, huddled up with a few
blankets.''

At the Port Isabel detention center, where he shrank to 145 pounds from 190
while waiting for his deportation case to be decided, he said, ''they barely
feed you.'' But after a year, he found that leaving was worse.

As he recalled being awakened by guards and ordered to pack, Mr. Lemaine, a
sunny, open-faced man, choked up, grabbed a paper napkin and pressed his eyes to
stop his tears. ''You try not to think about it anymore,'' he said
apologetically. ''Two, three in the morning, pack your things, you've got to go
-- it basically means you're being deported.''

He left a goodbye on his mother's answering machine, only to learn at the last
minute that he was not being dispatched to Haiti, but transferred to the South
Texas Detention Center in Pearsall. When his mother, Marie Admettre, 57, finally
reached him there, he urged her not even to try to pay for another appeal.

''She worked hard to get us to Long Island to provide a better life, and I
screwed it up,'' he explained, referring to youthful scrapes that did not make
him deportable, like a bar fight, as well as the winter night he crashed into a
parked car on his way home from a party with a joint in his pocket.  ''But my
mom told me, 'Don't give up.' ''

His lowest point, he said, came in the private Karnes County Correctional
Center, which houses a mix of immigration detainees and federal prisoners. As he
tells it, guards there let inmate gangs impose their own pecking order, and as
the only black detainee in his dormitory, he seemed especially vulnerable. In
the first days, the guards refused him utensils at mealtime, he said, leaving
him alone eating stew and cereal with his hands. Later, half a dozen inmates
beat him up in a racially motivated attack, he and his lawyers said.

Early on, after he wrote the medical staff that he was depressed, he was placed
on a 10-day suicide watch in a filthy segregation unit where he did not see a
psychiatrist for a week, he said.

''They just break you down so much,'' Mr. Lemaine said. ''They just forget about
you. Basically, you fend for yourself.''

He was returned to isolation for his own protection after being beaten up, and
chose to stay there, he said, locked in a tiny cell 23 hours a day, rather than
go back to the same dorm.

What helped him survive, Mr. Lemaine said, was a gift from Mr. Simowitz:
''Gideon's Trumpet,'' the 1964 account of how a penciled petition to the Supreme
Court by a poor prisoner led to a landmark decision: that criminal defendants,
even when they cannot pay, have the right to counsel.

''I love that book,'' he said. ''I love Aaron. How do you not give people
lawyers in immigration court?''

In his case, the Fifth Circuit recently said it would wait for the Supreme Court
decision in Carachuri before ruling. Even if those decisions go in his favor,
however, he is likely to return to the same immigration judge, who could still
order him deported.

With deportations to Haiti suspended since the earthquake, that is likely to
mean more detention in Texas.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jerry Lemaine was put on track for deportation after a drug
charge. (A17)
Jerry Lemaine, a legal resident from Haiti, with his mother, Marie Lemaine, far
right
his sister, Jane
 and nephew Amarion. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 3, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Report Faults Training of Local Officers in Immigration Enforcement Program

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 621 words


State and local police officers who enforce federal immigration laws are not
adequately screened, trained or supervised, and the civil rights of the
immigrants they deal with are not consistently protected, according to a report
released Friday by the Department of Homeland Security inspector general.

The report by the department's internal watchdog was a sweeping review of a
program run by Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Through agreements signed
with about 60 county and state police forces, the program allows local officers
to question immigrants about their legal status and detain them for deportation.

The inspector general's report describes the program as haphazardly
administered, with local agencies detaining and prosecuting immigrants with
little oversight from federal agents and significant inconsistencies from place
to place.

''In the absence of consistent supervision over immigration enforcement
activities,'' the report said, ''there is no assurance that the program is
achieving its goals.''

Top officials at Immigration and Customs Enforcement have said the program's
priority is to deport immigrants with serious criminal records. But the
inspector general found that the program lacked measures to determine whether
immigrants detained by local officers were serious offenders.

Without those measures, the report says, ICE cannot be assured ''that resources
are being appropriately targeted'' toward immigrants ''who pose the greatest
risk to public safety and community.''

The report is based on field inspections in the first six months of last year.
In July, ICE officials acknowledged widespread criticism of the program, and
asked all participating law enforcement agencies to sign new agreements that
clarified its goals. In addition, ICE officials said Friday that they had been
aware of the inspector general's findings since last year and had taken an array
of steps to address them.

''Since the audit was conducted, ICE has fundamentally reformed the program,''
said an agency spokesman, Richard Rocha, ''strengthening public safety and
ensuring consistency in immigration enforcement across the country by
prioritizing the arrest and detention of criminal aliens, fulfilling many of the
report's recommendations.''

The inspector general acknowledged many of the program's improvements. But, the
report said, many of the most serious problems remained unresolved.

Based on the report, several immigrant advocate groups on Friday called for the
termination of the program, which is commonly known as 287(g), after the clause
in immigration law that established it.

The report found that the performance records of local officers were not
thoroughly examined before they were allowed to join the program. Without
adequate background checks, the report says, the program exposes Department of
Homeland Security intelligence systems to ''inappropriate or unauthorized
access.''

Some officers received only cursory training in immigration law, the report
found.

''One officer commented that after basic training, he came away with zero
knowledge of how to process a case,'' the report says. Inspectors found that
local officers in the program were ''not knowledgeable about the asylum
process'' and other basic tenets of immigration codes.

The report cites the case of an immigrant who had committed no offense but was
the victim of a traffic accident. The immigrant was detained by the local police
in a county jail until federal agents arrived to check the person's  legal
status.

The protection of immigrants' civil rights was ''not formally included'' in the
training of local officers, the report found, nor was it taken into account in
their performance reviews.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 11, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

From Senate Majority Leader, a Promise to Take Up Immigration Overhaul

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Steve Friess contributed reporting from Las Vegas and
William Yardley from Seattle.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1022 words


The Senate majority leader,  Harry Reid, told an exuberant crowd at an
immigration rally Saturday in Las Vegas that Congress would start work on an
immigration overhaul as soon as lawmakers return this week from a recess.

''We're going to come back, we're going to have comprehensive immigration reform
now,'' he said in a speech to more than 6,000 people, mostly immigrants,
gathered downtown.

''We need to do this this year,'' Mr. Reid said, drawing cheers from the crowd,
which included many Latinos. ''We cannot wait.''

Mr. Reid surprised immigrants and advocates with his direct commitment to moving
forward with legislation on the volatile issue, with the Senate already divided
by the passage of a health care overhaul. Also, as a result of Justice John Paul
Stevens's announcement last week that he would retire, the Obama administration
and the Senate will have to focus this summer on winning confirmation of a
Supreme Court nominee.

The Democratic leader was nearing the end of a week of hard campaigning in his
bid for re-election in Nevada, which is facing record unemployment and the
nation's highest foreclosure rate. After seeing small turnouts at several
campaign stops, he appeared elated by the boisterous gathering in Las Vegas.

''We're going to pass immigration reform, just as we passed health care
reform,'' Mr. Reid said in a five-minute speech. Latino voters, who strongly
support an overhaul, were crucial to President Obama's upset victory in the
state in 2008.

The rally was the largest among demonstrations Saturday in seven cities
nationwide, with immigrants pressing Congress and the administration to pass an
overhaul bill this year.

Organizers said they planned the rallies, on the last weekend before lawmakers
return to Washington after the Congressional recess, to follow up a big rally on
March 21 on the Washington Mall. They are battling to keep  immigration overhaul
on Congress's agenda, even as the political odds have appeared to worsen almost
daily.

The demonstrations were tinged by growing criticism of the administration from
immigrant groups and labor unions that support the overhaul. They say it  has
continued to pursue tough enforcement leading to thousands of deportations, but
has made no progress on legislation to open a path to legal status to millions
of illegal immigrants.

''I'm very unhappy with President Obama because he said this would be the first
thing he did when he was elected,'' said Rafael Lopez, 21, an immigrant living
in Las Vegas. ''I'm worried because the Republicans are anti-immigrant,'' he
said, adding that he feared that Republicans could make important gains in the
elections in November.

Mr. Reid told the crowd that he believes he has 56 votes in the Senate in
support of  the immigration legislation. ''We need a handful of Republicans,''
he said, calling on immigrant groups to help mobilize support among them  for
the overhaul.

He outlined legislation that would include border security measures and a
temporary guest worker program for future immigrants. To gain legal status,
illegal immigrants would face ''a penalty and a fine, people will have to work,
stay out of trouble, pay taxes, learn English,'' he said. ''It's not so bad, is
it?'' he asked the crowd.

Opponents of such legislation said yesterday that they thought the chances for
passage of an overhaul remained slim while the country is facing high
unemployment.

''It just doesn't look very feasible as the next big thing,'' said Roy Beck,
executive director of NumbersUSA, an organization that favors reduced
immigration. ''I don't think even Nancy Pelosi and the Democrats are radical
enough to go back to their districts and say American workers don't have
priority when it comes to American jobs.'' Ms. Pelosi, Democrat of  California,
is the speaker of the House.

In Chicago, at a rally that drew more than 1,000 people, Senator Richard J.
Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, the No. 2 leader in the Senate, echoed Mr. Reid's
promise to try to enact  the overhaul this year. Speaking of President Obama's
role in pressing for health care legislation, Mr. Durbin said, ''We need that
same determination and that same commitment to pass comprehensive immigration
reform this year.''

He said he would work to bring Republicans to support the legislation.

Senators Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, and Charles E. Schumer,
Democrat of New York, have been working on an immigration bill. Mr. Graham said
recently that he did not believe there was sufficient support among Republicans
to move forward.

''That is our challenge,'' Mr. Durbin told the rally in Chicago, ''to bring
together the Democratic voices as well as good-thinking Republicans to make this
a reality of immigration reform. We can do this.''

More than one thousand people also turned out for a rally in Seattle, and there
were smaller events in El Paso, New York City, Philadelphia, and Providence,
R.I.

In the past week, some immigrant advocates had become openly angry with the
Obama administration, saying its enforcement policies had led to thousands of
deportations.

The advocates said they were reacting to news reports that agents were working
to meet deportation quotas, even after senior immigration officials had said
they were no longer guided by such numerical goals.

In several California cities, members of the Service Employees International
Union, one of the largest labor organizations supporting immigration overhaul,
protested Thursday and Friday in front of immigration agency offices.

Eliseo Medina, an executive vice president of the union, said the group had been
expecting Mr. Obama to shift enforcement policy after the high-profile workplace
raids of the Bush administration. But Mr. Medina said that thousands of
immigrants in the union who do not have work authorization had been fired from
jobs in recent months while deportations continued.

''It's pretty clear that our optimism about a change of policy was misplaced,''
Mr. Medina said in an interview. ''What they are doing makes no sense, so we are
just basically mobilizing to fight back.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, above, spoke Saturday
in Las Vegas, one of seven cities where crowds demonstrated for lawmakers to
grant legal status to millions of immigrants. Marybele Hernandez, right, showed
her allegiance at the rally. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 15, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Officer Pleads Guilty to Coercing Sex From a Green Card Applicant

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 424 words


A federal immigration officer who was caught on tape demanding sex in exchange
for a green card pleaded guilty to all the charges against him in Supreme Court
in Queens on Wednesday in expectation of a prison sentence of one and a half to
four and a half  years.

The officer, Isaac R. Baichu, 48, faced up to seven years in prison in the case,
in which he coerced oral sex from the 22-year-old Colombian wife of an American
citizen in December 2007.  After hinting that he had the power to deny her a
marriage-based green card and have her relatives deported, he summoned the woman
to a private meeting in a parked car on Queens Boulevard. She put a digital
camera in her pocket and made an audio recording.

''I want sex,'' he said on the 16-minute recording, which the woman took to The
New York Times and then to the Queens district attorney. ''One or two times.
That's all. You get your green card. You won't have to see me anymore.''

When she reluctantly agreed to a future meeting but tried to leave his car, he
demanded oral sex ''now,'' to ''know that you're serious.'' Despite her
protests, he got his way.

After the victim went to the district attorney, investigators recorded another
meeting, at a Queens diner. In that conversation, in March 2008, Mr. Baichu told
the woman he expected her to do ''just like the last time'' and offered to take
her elsewhere so she would be ''more comfortable doing it.''

Mr. Baichu, who handled about 8,000 green card applications during his three
years as an adjudicator in the Garden City, N.Y., office of the United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services, was arrested as he left the diner. Though
the agency said two years ago that its inspector general was reviewing Mr.
Baichu's cases, a spokeswoman said on Wednesday that the review would begin now
that he was convicted.

Prosecutors said the trial was repeatedly delayed because Mr. Baichu was hit by
a city bus last April. According to court records, he is suing the Metropolitan
Transportation Authority for $10 million in the accident, in which the bus
crushed his legs, requiring multiple surgeries.

Carmencita Gutierrez, the assistant district attorney who prosecuted the case,
said Mr. Baichu was in a wheelchair when he pleaded guilty to felony charges of
receiving a bribe and receiving a reward for official misconduct, and to
misdemeanor charges of sexual misconduct, coercion and official misconduct. He
is to be sentenced on July 22.

The woman  is still in the process of obtaining status as a permanent legal
resident.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 22, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona's Effort to Bolster Local Immigration Authority Divides Law Enforcement

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD; Julia Preston contributed reporting from New
York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 647 words


PHOENIX -- A bill the Arizona Legislature passed this week that would hand the
state and local police broad powers to enforce immigration law has split police
groups and sown confusion over how the law would be applied.

While Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican, has yet to say whether she will sign the
bill into law, on Wednesday a national police group condemned it as likely to
lead to racial and ethnic profiling and to threaten public safety if immigrants
did not report crime or did not cooperate with the authorities out of fear of
being deported.

The police group joined a growing list of organizations and religious and
political leaders far from the state's borders urging Ms. Brewer to veto the
bill. Her spokesman said that of the 15,011 calls and letters her office had
received on the bill, more than 85 percent opposed it.

The law would require the police ''when practicable'' to detain people they
reasonably suspected were in the country without authorization. It would also
allow the police to charge immigrants with a state crime for not carrying
immigration documents. And it allows residents to sue cities if they believe the
law is not being enforced.

Members of the Law Enforcement Engagement Initiative, a group of police leaders
pressing for a federal overhaul of immigration law, said they worried that other
states would copy Arizona, despite the likelihood that the law will be
challenged in federal court.

''Just because it is in Arizona doesn't mean it's likely to remain there,'' said
George Gascon, the chief of the San Francisco Police Department and a former
chief in Mesa, a Phoenix suburb. ''We are very concerned about what could happen
to public safety.''

The Arizona Association of Chiefs of Police and several sheriffs have also come
out against the bill, calling it burdensome and an intrusion into a federal
matter.

Most police agencies or jails here already check the immigration status of
people charged with a crime, in consultation with Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, but the new law would expand that power and allows the police to
stop people on the suspicion of being in the country without documents.

The Mexican Embassy released a statement expressing concern that the law would
lead to racial profiling and damage cross-border relations.

But some of the largest rank-and-file police groups have come out strongly in
favor of the bill.

The Phoenix Law Enforcement Association, the city police department's largest
union, has promoted the bill as a ''common sense proactive step in the right
direction in the continuing battle on illegal immigration.''

The Fraternal Order of Police, which represents 6,500 officers statewide,
endorsed the bill but said it had reservations over the potential costs to
departments and the lack of training for local officers to identify who might be
in the country illegally.

Bryan Soller, the president of the Fraternal Order of Police, said if officers
ended up arresting large numbers of illegal immigrants, that could add to
already crowded jails and costs. Mr. Soller also said departments were worried
about the expense of defending any lawsuits by people contending that the law
was not being enforced.

But he said he thought many concerns were overblown. His group initially opposed
the bill but endorsed it after language was included that he and sponsors
believe give officers discretion to use it, in part to ward off federal civil
rights claims.

''Some will go out and use it a lot,'' Mr. Soller said. ''But you are not going
to see them doing things much different from what they do now.''

All sides agree that a federal overhaul to better control immigration would
help, and advocacy groups, pointing to the Arizona bill, are pushing lawmakers
to act soon. But several people involved in the negotiations in Washington said
a federal bill was not close to being ready.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Wake of Immigration Law, Calls for an Economic Boycott of Arizona

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 517 words


A spreading call for an economic boycott of Arizona after its adoption of a
tough immigration law that opponents consider racially discriminatory worried
business leaders on Monday and angered the governor.

Several immigrant advocates and civil rights groups, joined by members of the
San Francisco government, said the state should pay economic consequences for
the new law, which gives the police broad power to detain people they reasonably
suspect are illegal immigrants and arrest them on state charges if they do not
have legal status.

Critics say the law will lead to widespread ethnic and racial profiling and will
be used to harass legal residents and Latino citizens.

La Opinion, the nation's largest Spanish-language newspaper, urged a boycott in
an editorial Monday, as did the Rev. Al Sharpton, and calls for such action
spread to social media sites. The San Francisco city attorney and members of the
Board of Supervisors said they would propose that the city not do business with
the state.

They followed the lead of Representative Raul M. Grijalva, Democrat of Arizona,
who had urged conventions to skip the state, though other Democrats who oppose
the law, including Mayor Phil Gordon of Phoenix, pleaded for people not to
punish the entire state.

Tourism and convention managers, struggling to rebound from the recession, said
it was too soon to tell if the effort would have an impact, but some businesses
said people were turning away from the state.

At the Arizona Inn in Tucson, the manager, Will Conroy, said that over the
weekend 12 customers canceled reservations or said they would not return to the
state because of the law.

''This is a very scary situation that the police can now just come up to you for
no reason and ask for papers,'' Joy Mann, a prospective guest who had previously
stayed at the inn, wrote him in an e-mail message. ''My son is a construction
worker and is very suntanned. I cannot ask him to join us there now, as I would
fear for him.''

Tourism officials said such accounts were not widespread, but they were
concerned that the rancor was tarnishing the state's image and were mindful of
the boycott in the 1980s that led to Arizona's officially observing Martin
Luther King's Birthday after initially rejecting it as a holiday.

''Arizona tourism is currently in a very fragile state of recovery, and the
negative perceptions surrounding this legislation are tarnishing Arizona's image
and could easily have a devastating effect on visitation to our state,'' the
Valley Hotel and Resort Association in Phoenix said in a statement.

Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican, signed the bill on Friday, calling it an
important step toward public safety that would help control immigration and give
the police a tool to root out criminals.

She criticized opponents for not offering more solutions to problems related to
illegal immigration and called the idea of a boycott ''disappointing and
unfortunate'' at a time when the state is reeling from the recession and
suffering from border-related crime that ''continues to harm our economy and
stifle trade.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Vows to Push Immigration Overhaul

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER; Jackie Calmes contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 486 words


WASHINGTON -- President Obama conceded Wednesday that Congress may not have the
appetite to deal with the hot-button immigration issue this year, but he vowed
to continue to press lawmakers to at least begin work soon on a comprehensive
bill to overhaul the country's immigration system.

In a rare interview with reporters aboard Air Force One, Mr. Obama said it was
vital that Congress address the immigration issue, lest more state measures like
the tough new law in Arizona sprout up.

But he acknowledged that the road to a comprehensive immigration bill was an
uphill one. ''It's a matter of political will,'' he said, adding that Congress
might not have the stomach for another tough battle after the bruising fight
over health care and the prospect of another battle over a climate change bill.

''We've gone through a very tough year, and I've been driving Congress pretty
hard,'' Mr. Obama said.

But the president said that ''we need to start a process, at least,'' adding
that he wanted to come up with a proposal that could win broad public support.

To succeed, Mr. Obama said, he will need some backing from Republicans, a tough
task in an election year.

''I've made calls to Republicans,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I think I can get a
majority of Democrats, but I need some help from Republicans.''

The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, a Democrat who is locked in a bruising
re-election campaign in Nevada, has promised Hispanic voters in his state that
he will take up immigration legislation this year, addressing both border
security and citizenship.

But on Wednesday, he told reporters that the climate change bill would probably
come before immigration because that legislation had already been drafted.

He added, however, that Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, had an
outline of an immigration bill that could soon be completed.

The immigration issue has become a lightning rod for both Republicans and
Democrats, who are embroiled in a fight over a new Arizona law giving the police
the authority to detain people they suspect are illegal immigrants.

Asked whether the White House, which has strongly criticized the Arizona bill as
a possible infringement of civil rights, planned to challenge the measure, Mr.
Obama said Wednesday, ''We're examining it now.''

He added, ''I understand the frustrations of the border states,'' but said that
is why the country needed a comprehensive immigration overhaul.

Meanwhile, former President Bill Clinton waded into the debate on Wednesday with
the bravado of someone never facing election again.

''I don't think there's any alternative but for us to increase immigration,'' he
said, both to help the economy grow and to fix the long-term finances of
Medicare and Social Security.

''I just don't see a way out of this unless that's part of the strategy,'' he
added in his remarks at a meeting on fiscal policy in Washington.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 30, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Democrats Detail Immigration Plan In Plea to G.O.P.

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 761 words


WASHINGTON -- A coalition of top Senate Democrats laid out the contours of a
proposed overhaul of immigration laws on Thursday -- and appealed to Republicans
to join them in pursuing it -- even as doubts mounted about the prospects of
winning approval of legislation this year.

Under the outline of immigration changes drawn up by Senator Charles E. Schumer
of New York, the No. 3 Senate Democrat, the federal government would enhance
border security and create a new fraud-resistant Social Security card.

Illegal immigrants who wish to remain in this country would have to admit they
had broken the law, pay back taxes and fees, and pass a criminal background
check to qualify for legal residency after eight years.

''Our immigration system is broken,'' the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of
Nevada, said late Thursday afternoon at a packed news conference. ''We're
offering this framework as an invitation, an invitation to our Republican
colleagues to work with us to solve this problem that has plagued our country
for too long.''

Even as the Democratic senators were still speaking, President Obama issued a
statement praising the proposal as ''an important step,'' and he warned that
lack of federal action would ''leave the door open to a patchwork of actions at
the state and local level that are inconsistent and, as we have seen recently,
often misguided.''

Mr. Obama's statement was a reference to the tough new law recently enacted in
Arizona that many Democrats view as draconian and that helped prompt Democrats
to take on the immigration issue sooner than some had planned.

''What has become increasingly clear,'' Mr. Obama said, ''is that we can no
longer wait to fix our broken immigration system, which Democrats and
Republicans alike agree doesn't work.''

The statement contrasted with comments he made to reporters a day earlier on Air
Force One, in which he suggested that Congress might not have the appetite for
an immigration overhaul.

At the news conference, Democratic leaders said they were presenting the
legislative framework in hopes of persuading Republicans to collaborate on the
issue. They are also looking to sound out skeptical Democrats to gauge the
prospects for support.

House Democrats have said they will not act unless the Senate moves first.

Mr. Reid, who is facing a difficult re-election fight back home, first put the
issue back on the Congressional agenda a few weeks ago when he told a
pro-immigration rally in Las Vegas that he intended to pursue legislation, a
stance that caught many in Washington off guard.

Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, the chief Republican negotiating with
Democrats on the issue, dropped out of the talks, saying he was angry that Mr.
Reid seemed to be giving immigration priority over a climate bill.

At the news conference Mr. Reid said it was ''not logical to use immigration as
an excuse to not help on energy.'' But he also said Democrats were not directing
their message at Mr. Graham.

''There are 40 other Republicans,'' he said.

On Thursday, the House Republican leader, Representative John A. Boehner of
Ohio, flatly predicted that Congress would not send an immigration measure to
the president this year. Mr. Boehner accused Democrats of engaging in a
''cynical ploy to try to engage voters, some segment of voters, to show up in
this November's elections.''

''There is not a chance that immigration is going to move through the
Congress,'' he said.

But Mr. Schumer, who is now chairman of a subcommittee on immigration long
headed by the late Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, said he believed
there was a possibility of success.

Mr. Schumer hailed his approach as a way to combine border security and
improvements in the American work force while providing a chance for millions of
people living illegally in the United States to gain legal status and pay taxes.

And Mr. Schumer, who is known for his ambition in both the political and policy
arenas, drew loud laughter when he said that he would not have accepted the
subcommittee gavel if he had thought otherwise.

''If I did not believe we could accomplish immigration reform, I never would
have chosen to accept the immigration subcommittee chairmanship,'' he said.
''Committees of inaction and legislative backwaters are not places in which I
thrive.''

Democrats acknowledge, however, facing a difficult task considering that
President George W. Bush, was unable to persuade enough of his fellow
Republicans to back immigration changes in 2007, and the effort collapsed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Democrats Reframe the Debate on Immigration

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 977 words


The outline for an immigration overhaul unveiled by Democratic senators this
week lays down a new starting point for any national debate: tough immigration
enforcement. But perhaps more significantly it reveals how politics have shifted
on the contentious issue.

The enforcement would be more far-reaching than anything in place now -- or
anything proposed by the administration of President George W. Bush.

It begins with ''zero tolerance'' for immigrants trying to enter the country
illegally, by tightening border enforcement and by barring them from taking jobs
in the United States.

''It shows how far the Democrats have moved in terms of tougher and tougher
enforcement,'' said Edward Alden, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign
Relations who studies immigration. ''Across the board you see language that
would be very comfortable in a proposal written by Republicans.''

The move to a more security-minded consensus comes as the Democrats and their
leader in the Senate, Harry Reid of Nevada, face a challenging midterm election
season.

Democrats have joined Republicans in seeking to avoid the mistakes of 1986, when
the last major overhaul gave amnesty to more than three million illegal
immigrants, but enforcement provisions were largely left out of the final
legislation.

The proposal's prospects of coming up in the Senate this year appear dim, after
a tough  immigration law in Arizona further polarized the national debate and
President Obama said this week that the time might not be right.

Yet the outline, with many game-changing measures that would broadly redesign
the system bringing immigrants to this country, is likely to be the centerpiece
of the immigration discussion this year, lawmakers and advocates said, whether
or not it comes to the floor of the Senate.

The ''conceptual proposal,'' as the senators called it, is an outline, not a
draft of legislation. No Republican signed on to it, not even Senator Lindsey
Graham of South Carolina, who worked for months with Senator Charles E. Schumer,
Democrat of New York, shaping sections of a potential bill.

Mr. Graham, in a statement with Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona,
dismissed the blueprint, saying it ''promises everything to everyone.''

Senator John Cornyn of Texas, another border state Republican, said the timing
of the outline ''suggests that politics rather than policy is driving the
train,'' since it comes just before nationwide rallies on Saturday by advocate
groups demanding progress from Mr. Obama on the immigration overhaul.

The blueprint, written primarily by Mr. Schumer, includes a proposal for a
Social Security card containing a biometric chip that all workers, including
American citizens, would have to present to an employer when being hired.

The proposal was presented by Mr. Schumer, Mr. Reid, Senator Robert Menendez of
New Jersey, Dianne Feinstein of California and Richard J. Durbin of Illinois.
Employers would be responsible for monitoring the immigration status of
potential hires much more closely than they do now. Every employer would be
required to use a new verification system, including a scanner at every business
to confirm the validity of the Social Security cards of job applicants.

Conservatives, while supporting stronger enforcement, have long opposed national
identity cards, or making the Social Security card a de facto one.

Mr. Cornyn said the ''emphasis on border enforcement was certainly
encouraging,'' but, he said, Congress should not wait for the whole package to
pass before financing new border security measures.

As part of the enforcement system, the outline calls for a national system to
register births and deaths, to eliminate the fraudulent use by immigrants of
documents of people who have died.

It would establish a system to monitor the departure of all immigrants as well
as their entry into the country.  If immigrants failed to leave when their visas
expired, the immigration authorities would be required to deport them quickly.

Immigration officials have said that creating an exit system would be a vast
task that could take many years to complete.

The proposal opens the door wider than ever before to high-skilled immigrants.
It would offer permanent-resident status, with a document known as a green card,
to every foreigner with an advanced degree in science or technology from an
American university. It would make it much easier for foreign students in the
sciences to stay in the United States after they graduate, and eliminate
numerical restrictions that have kept highly educated immigrants from India and
China waiting for many years before becoming residents.

The outline would make it possible for the spouses and other close relatives of
legal green-card holders to come immediately to the United States, reuniting
many thousands of families and eliminating a wait that now stretches to eight
years. It would create a commission to monitor labor markets and determine when
the supply of foreign workers should be raised or lowered.

Mr. Schumer ''made an effort to fix every piece of the system that doesn't work
right,'' said Paul Donnelly, an advocate for legal immigrants.

Also for the first time, the Democrats' proposal would recognize same-sex
relationships in allowing immigration.

In exchange for more enforcement, the proposal offers a relatively simple path
to legal status for an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants. They would
register, admit their legal violation and pay penalties and back taxes up front.
Then they would remain on provisional status for eight years.

On Friday, different sides were weighing in. Roman Catholic bishops embraced the
framework but strongly opposed the benefits for same-sex couples. The Illinois
Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights said the proposal was ''heavily
framed around enforcement.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: People with ''Youth United for Justice'' prepared Friday to
march to City Hall in Oakland, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY
IMAGES) (A9)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 2, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fueled by Anger Over Arizona Law, Immigration Advocates Rally for Change

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Lilly Fowler contributed reporting from Los Angeles,
Ana Facio Contreras from Phoenix, Emma Graves Fitzsimmons from Chicago and James
C. McKinley Jr. from Houston.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1317 words


WASHINGTON -- In protests fueled by anger over a tough anti-illegal immigrant
law in Arizona, tens of thousands of demonstrators joined marches and rallies
Saturday in cities across the country, calling on Congress to pass an
immigration overhaul.

In Los Angeles, the police said the crowd had peaked at 50,000. Protesters
numbered 25,000 in Dallas, more than 10,000 in Chicago and Milwaukee, in the
thousands in San Francisco and here in Washington, D.C., according to the police
and independent estimates. Organizers said rallies and vigils were held in more
than 70 places around the country.

In Washington, Representative Luis V. Gutierrez, Democrat of Illinois, was
arrested after staging a sit-in on the sidewalk in front of the White House with
about three dozen other people, in front of a crowd of thousands.

At a rally before he was arrested, Mr. Gutierrez, speaking in English and in
Spanish, evoked memories of the civil rights movement of the 1960s.

''There are moments in which you say, 'We will escalate this struggle,' '' he
said. ''Today they will put handcuffs on us. But one day we will be free at last
in the country we love.''

In all, 35 people were arrested in the sit-in, the United States Park Police
said.

At rally after rally across the nation, protesters chanted ''shame, shame,
Arizona,'' and carried signs saying, ''Todos Somos Arizona,'' or ''We are All
Arizona.''

The bigger demonstrations were far larger than planners had anticipated in
March, when the events were first announced. The protests were originally called
by immigrant advocates who had set May 1 as the deadline for Congress to
introduce overhaul legislation that would include measures to give legal status
to millions of illegal immigrants.

But organizers said the Arizona legislation, which was signed into law April 23,
had been a watershed event for disparate advocate organizations, transforming
them into something akin to a civil rights movement with a national profile.

The Arizona law made it a crime to be present in the state without legal
immigration status and authorized the police to question people about their
status based on a suspicion that they might be illegal immigrants.

Supporters of the law, including Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona, a Republican, said
the state had to act because the federal government had failed to enforce the
immigration laws. Critics across the country said the law would lead to racial
profiling and spread fear in immigrant communities.

In Los Angeles, protesters marched through the streets and held a crowded rally
downtown, just down the street from the Cathedral of Our Lady of the Angels.

Demonstrators waved American flags and signs, including one that said: ''We
Latinos are the Jews of the 21st century.'' Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa told
the crowd that a federal immigration overhaul was long overdue.

''Let me be clear about those laws that make suspects out of people based on the
color of their skin,'' Mr. Villaraigosa said. ''They have no place in our great
country.''

Cardinal Roger M. Mahony of Los Angeles drew cheers when he said, ''Everyone in
God's eyes is legal.''

''Every time we have an economic downturn, there is a new attack on
immigrants,'' Cardinal Mahony said.

One Los Angeles protester, Dorien Grunbaum, 67, a teacher at a community college
in the city, said she was there ''primarily to support the immigrants in
Arizona. I'm disgusted by what's happening there,'' Ms. Grunbaum said.

No overhaul legislation has been introduced in Congress, and President Obama
said last week that lawmakers ''may not have the appetite'' for a volatile
debate on immigration this year. A group of Democratic senators on Thursday
presented an outline for an overhaul bill, written primarily by Senator Charles
E. Schumer, Democrat of New York.

In Washington, Mr. Gutierrez sat crossed-legged on the sidewalk in front of the
White House at about 3 p.m., holding a small American flag and wearing a white
T-shirt with red letters that read, ''Arrest me not my friends.'' The protesters
each held letters that spelled out the message, ''Obama, stop deporting our
families.''

Mr. Gutierrez was handcuffed behind his back with plastic cuffs by the Park
Police, and he walked in silence when an officer led him away along the black
wrought-iron fence in front of the White House.  Among others arrested with him
were Jaime Contreras, director for Washington, D.C., of the Service Employees
International Union; Joshua Hoyt, Ali Noorani, Deepak Bhargava, and Gustavo
Torres, leaders of immigrant advocate organizations; and Gregory Cendana,
president of the United States Student Association.

The protesters were arrested for violations of a regulation requiring people to
keep moving when they pass in front of the White House, said Sergeant David
Schlosser, a spokesman for the Park Police.

In Chicago, Mr. Obama's hometown, thousands of people marched through downtown
with signs that said, ''Being brown is not a crime'' and ''Hey Obama! Don't
deport my mama.''

Many of the Chicago protesters expressed frustration at what they saw as the
president's lack of action on immigration.

Dulce Blanco, 48, was at the rally with a church group. She said she voted for
Mr. Obama after attending a meeting where he said he would pass immigration
reform. ''If they don't pass reform, we won't vote for Obama again,'' she said
in Spanish.

Guadalupe Concepcion, a 22-year-old student in Chicago, began to cry during one
of the speeches. She said she had been an illegal immigrant until she married
her husband and that her parents faced discrimination because they are not here
legally.

''The Arizona law is just plain racist,'' she said. ''It happened with
African-Americans in the past, and now they want to do the same thing with us.''

Addressing the Chicago crowd, the Rev. Jesse Jackson encouraged a boycott of
Arizona, saying the law would encourage racial profiling. ''Arizona has become
the Selma,'' he said. ''It is a showdown.''

In downtown Dallas, demonstrators gathered at the Cathedral Shrine of the Virgin
of Guadalupe, named for the patroness of Mexico, and marched to City Hall. Many
carried American flags, or draped them over their shoulders.

Among the widening reverberations from the Arizona law, the Alpha Phi Alpha
Fraternity, a historically black organization whose members included Rev. Martin
Luther King, Jr. and Justice Thurgood Marshall, announced that it was moving its
annual convention in July to Las Vegas from Phoenix. The fraternity said it had
been expecting as many as 10,000 people, including members and their families,
to come to the meeting.

The fraternity's board decided that it could not host a meeting in a state with
''a law that could put the civil rights and the very dignity of our members at
risk during their stay in Phoenix,'' said Herman Mason, the general president.

In Phoenix on Saturday, a far smaller and more subdued crowd of about 1,000
people gathered by 3 p.m. on the lawn at the State Capitol.

Most had handmade signs, including one with Governor Brewer wearing a black
witch hat and reading ''Jan Brewer: Arizona's wicked witch of the West.''

The rally was primarily peaceful with the mostly Latino crowd marching around
the Capitol, but a few arguments broke out with people who supported the law.

One demonstrator, Martina Paz, 42, of Phoenix, held a photograph of her
23-year-old son, Adan Buelna, who she said was in the Army stationed in Texas
and was waiting to be deployed to the Middle East.

''My son will be protecting the rights and liberty of people on the other side
of the world, but who is going to protect our rights here in Arizona,'' Ms. Paz
said.

She said that she feared that even though she and her husband have submitted
applications to become legal residents, they will be stopped by the police and
possibly be deported.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Protesters gathered around the country on Saturday, including
thousands in Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANN JOHANSSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Above left, hundreds of protesters in Phoenix rallied in front of the State
Capitol. Above right, Kirana Bammarito, an American University student, joined
those who protested in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK
TIMES
 LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Paterson Policy May Reduce Deportations

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM and NINA BERNSTEIN; Danny Hakim reported from Albany, and
Nina Bernstein from New York. Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting from
Albany.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1085 words


ALBANY -- Gov. David A. Paterson announced on Monday that the state would
accelerate consideration and granting of pardons to legal immigrants for old or
minor criminal convictions, in an effort to prevent them from being deported.

The move sets up a confrontation between the governor and federal immigration
officials, who have taken more aggressive action to increase deportations in
recent years. Immigration lawyers on both sides called the step extraordinary
and said it could ultimately affect thousands of people in New York.

''Some of our immigration laws, particularly with respect to deportation, are
embarrassingly and wrongly inflexible,'' Mr. Paterson said in a speech on Monday
at an annual gathering of the state's top judges. ''In New York we believe in
renewal,'' he added. ''In New York, we believe in rehabilitation.''

Mr. Paterson is establishing a special five-member state panel to review the
cases; while few such cases are currently pending, the administration expects an
influx of hundreds of new pardon applications by the end of the year.

The move thrusts the governor into the middle of the country's immigration
debate and could give new hope to legal immigrants facing deportation.

Mr. Paterson said the new policy was in the works weeks before Arizona enacted a
law late last month to give the police there broad authority to question people
about their immigration status. It was spurred in part by his pardon in March of
Qing Hong Wu, a 29-year-old information technology executive who The New York
Times reported had been threatened with deportation because he participated in a
series of muggings as a 15-year-old. He had not lived in his native China since
he was 5.

''We just feel that some of these charges are very minor in nature and some of
these conversations go back beyond a decade for people who've demonstrated that
they've lived productive lives in the interim,'' Mr. Paterson said. ''We're
separating these cases from ones where there are egregious crimes.''

The White House referred calls to the Department of Homeland Security, which
would not comment directly on the governor's plan.

''D.H.S. continues to focus on smart, effective immigration enforcement that
prioritizes criminal aliens who present the greatest risk to the security of our
communities,'' Matt Chandler, a spokesman for the agency, said. ''At the same
time, we are applying common sense and using discretion on a case-by-case basis
to ensure that our enforcement is meeting our priorities.''

Mr. Paterson does not need legislative approval to undertake the new policy.
Federal immigration laws enacted in 1996 greatly expanded the categories of
legal immigrants subject to mandatory deportation as ''aggravated felons,''
including people who had pleaded guilty to misdemeanor drug possession.

For years after the laws' passage, immigration authorities had neither the
resources nor the political will to track down or detain legal permanent
residents with relatively minor convictions. Because of that, many people years
ago pleaded guilty to criminal charges in exchange for probation or no jail
time, without having been advised by their lawyers that the plea made them
subject to deportation.

Now, however, stepped-up enforcement, huge new criminal databases and expanded
use of detention are resulting in deportation proceedings against more people
with old convictions, while immigration judges have no discretion to consider
their individual cases.

Only a governor's pardon can prevent deportation in such cases, even when the
legal immigrant is married to a United States citizen and has citizen children.

''This is huge,'' said Bryan Lonegan, a veteran immigration lawyer who is an
expert on the immigration consequences of criminal convictions. ''So many legal
permanent residents are being arrested and detained based on trivial convictions
-- the guy being deported for swiping a MetroCard when he fell on hard times,
people with minor marijuana convictions, people who shoplifted in a moment of
weakness,'' he added.

Nationally, more than 97,000 noncitizens are deported annually based on criminal
convictions, rather than lack of lawful immigration status, and the great
majority are believed to be legal permanent residents, said Nancy Morawetz, who
teaches law at New York University and directs the N.Y.U. Immigrant Rights
Clinic. She estimates that about 10 percent are from New York.

Thousands of other New Yorkers with green cards -- like other legal immigrants
elsewhere -- are now afraid to travel or apply for citizenship for fear that
they will be detained and deported based on an old conviction, she said.

But while immigrant advocates were quick to embrace Mr. Paterson's initiative,
supporters of tougher immigration enforcement sounded a different note.

''There are people out there, maybe the governor included, who don't want to
deport anybody, even people who have committed crimes,'' said Jan Ting, a
professor at Temple University Law School, and a former assistant immigration
commissioner. ''I understand the impulse, but it's an impulse that leads to open
borders.''

Nationally, much of the debate about immigration has focused on those who are
here illegally. But the governor's proposal underscores the degree to which
lawful permanent residents also have been greatly affected by toughened
enforcement measures.

There is scant precedent for the policy Mr. Paterson is enacting. Among the
unanswered questions, people on both sides said, is how Congress and the Board
of Immigration Appeals will react to the governor's effort.

In a more limited step, in the 15 months after the 1996 law was enacted, the
Georgia Board of Pardons and Parole granted 138 pardons to permanent residents
who had suddenly faced deportation retroactively.

But much has changed since then; most significantly, the federal government has
become more aggressive, in practice, in seeking deportations.

And Mr. Paterson is essentially issuing a broad invitation for members of a
large class of people with criminal convictions to come forward and seek
pardons.

The governor is drawing on existing state employees to serve on the five-member
Special Immigration Board of Pardons. Review of individual cases is expected to
take weeks.

The governor said he hoped his new policy could ''set an example for how other
states might consider softening the blow that people who get caught up in this
web of the national immigration laws are experiencing.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson outside the New York State Court of
Appeals on Monday. ''In New York we believe in renewal,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Baseball Can Help Arizona By Example

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN.

E-mail: wcr@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 776 words


In 18 years as the head of Major League Baseball, Bud Selig has been fed a
steady stream of fastballs. There have been labor fastballs and steroid
fastballs, pitches he has learned how to hit. Lately, he has been taking his
hacks at human growth hormone fastballs.

But just as he was getting a bead on that pitch, just as he was moving toward
H.G.H. testing in the minor leagues, fate has thrown Selig a nasty changeup. Now
comes the Arizona immigration law, an issue that has so handcuffed Selig that he
has been unable to react.

And if this legacy-conscious commissioner is not careful, or perhaps if he is
too careful, he will whiff on this issue without ever taking the bat off his
shoulder.

Last week, Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona signed the nation's toughest law against
illegal immigration. The law makes the failure to carry immigration documents a
crime and directs the police to question people about their immigration status
and demand to see their documents if there is reason to suspect they are
illegal.

The outcry has been immediate, and baseball has been dragged into the fray. The
major leagues, after all, have a substantial number of Hispanic players, have a
team in Phoenix, and  half of the teams conduct spring training in Arizona.

At least one New York Congressman has urged baseball to move the 2011 All-Star
Game out of Phoenix. Other groups have called on people not to fly Tempe-based
US Airways or rent trucks from Phoenix-based U-Haul or go to Arizona
Diamondbacks games.

The American Immigration Lawyers Association canceled a fall conference to be
held at a resort in Scottsdale. The nation's oldest black fraternity, Alpha Phi
Alpha, announced Friday that it would move its July convention to Las Vegas from
Phoenix.

Baseball's players union has also weighed in, saying it opposed the new law and
expressing concern about the way in which foreign-born players and their
families would be affected.

Major League Baseball and Selig have remained silent, presumably in hopes that
the issue will go away. Except that it isn't going away, at least not anytime
soon.

Selig needs to recognize this, to acknowledge that people are looking to Major
League Baseball to make a statement. The question, of course, is what he should
say. What message should he send to the various constituencies nipping and
tugging at baseball to become involved, to the many Hispanic players in the
sport who may feel threatened by the new law and to the numerous fans who no
doubt are uneasy, and angry, about illegal immigration.

Maybe the answer is that Selig should address fans the way a Little League coach
talks to a wayward team that has forgotten -- as Arizona apparently has -- about
teamwork. In baseball, the essence of teamwork is sacrifice.

That is, after all, why we have the sacrifice fly and the sacrifice bunt. It is
what still makes baseball the great American game.

And consider the scene at any given home game at Chase Field in Phoenix, with
Diamondbacks fans sitting side by side. Presumably, some heartily agree with
their state's new immigration legislation, and others disagree.

But if a Diamondbacks player born outside the United States hits a home run,
everyone stands and cheers; if the moment is large enough, they hug. That is the
power and glory of sports -- and also part of the hypocrisy.

Some of the same fans who root for their team's foreign-born players are the
same ones who clamor for a tough approach on immigration. They are one reason
Major League Baseball has already received hundreds of phone calls urging it not
to become involved in the debate over the Arizona law, and not to threaten any
boycott as other groups have.

So Selig should keep his message simple. Basic. The truth is that Major League
Baseball makes a strong statement about inclusion 162 times a season. Selig
could note that baseball takes everybody -- the tired, the poor, the masses
yearning to make a good living at a sport they love. If you can play, baseball
takes you.

The first question from a politician is often not ''What's right?'' but rather,
''Are the politics right?'' The first thing a major league manager asks is,
''Can he play?

Selig can remind his fans, those who support the Arizona legislation and those
who oppose it, that close to 30 percent of major league players were born
elsewhere. That these international players help provide the strength of the
game. That it is unthinkable that they should feel in any way unwelcome.

This is the message Selig should convey. With his legacy on the line, it's the
swing he eventually has to take. He can't stand there forever with the bat on
his shoulder.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Reminder About American Values

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 443 words

DATELINE: Gov. David Paterson of New York made a brave


-- and startling -- move on Monday to create a board to consider pardons for
immigrant New Yorkers who are on a fast-track to deportation because of old or
minor criminal convictions. He said he wanted to inject fairness into an
''embarrassingly and wrongly inflexible'' system that expels immigrants without
discretion, without considering the circumstances of a person's life or family,
or even holding hearings to consider the possibility that deportation might be
unwise or unjust.

Mr. Paterson's decision is a response to the government's aggressive enforcement
of immigration laws that have greatly broadened the definition of ''aggravated
felonies'' for which noncitizens are subject to mandatory deportation.

The category used to apply just to serious crimes like murder and drug
trafficking, but it has come to include a vast array of nonviolent, even trivial
misdemeanors. Under the law, minor drug offenses or even shoplifting can count
as ''aggravated felonies,'' and this stringent view can be applied
retroactively. Immigrants can be deported for decades-old convictions of crimes
that were not ''aggravated felonies'' back then.

The harsh laws have been coupled with harsh enforcement; the Obama
administration has arrested and deported tens of thousands of legal immigrants
with a zeal that has gone to extremes.

In one case, now before the United States Supreme Court, the government
maintains that a Texas man's two misdemeanor convictions -- one for less than
two ounces of marijuana and one for a single Xanax pill without a prescription
-- make him a ''drug trafficker'' subject to mandatory deportation with no right
to a hearing in which a judge could consider the absurdity of the case.

Mr. Paterson has shown courage and common sense at a time when the national
debate about immigration shows little of either. His move was unconnected to the
radicalism in Arizona, which just passed a law making criminals of every
undocumented person within its borders, and greatly empowering the police to
arrest people they suspect are here illegally.

But it inevitably calls to mind the bad example of Arizona. ''In New York, we
believe in rehabilitation,'' Mr. Paterson said, adding that his five-member
board would consider pardons judiciously, distinguishing minor offenders from
dangerous criminals. His action repudiates the growing belief that only tougher
and more rigid enforcement should be applied to all immigrants who run afoul of
the law, with expulsion as the first and last goal.

This is not how the United States, in its best moments, deals with newcomers.
We're grateful for the reminder from the governor of New York.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Status Of a Soldier's Wife Leaves Family Afraid

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1447 words


Lt. Kenneth Tenebro enlisted in the armed forces after the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks, signing up even before he became an American citizen.

He served one tour of duty in Iraq, dodging roadside bombs, and he would like to
do another. But throughout that first mission, he harbored a fear he did not
share with anyone in the military. Lieutenant Tenebro worried that his wife,
Wilma, back home in New York with their infant daughter, would be deported.

Wilma, who like her husband was born in the Philippines, is an illegal
immigrant.

''That was our fear all the time,'' Lieutenant Tenebro said. When he called
home, ''She often cried about it,'' he said. ''Like, hey, what's going to
happen? Where will I leave our daughter?''

Immigration lawyers and Department of Homeland Security officials say that many
thousands of people in the military have spouses or close relatives who are
illegal immigrants. Many of those service members have fought to gain legal
status for their family members -- only to hit a legal dead end created in 1996,
when Congress last made major revisions to the immigration laws.

Today the issue is not only personal. ''It is an issue of readiness for the
American armed forces,'' says Representative Zoe Lofgren, the Democrat from
California who leads the House subcommittee on immigration. ''We have many
Americans who are afraid to deploy.''

Lieutenant Tenebro would like to make a career in the military, including new
missions to Iraq or Afghanistan, but for now he is not stepping forward for an
overseas deployment. ''Our situation has kept me at bay because of the constant
worry that something might happen to my family while I am away,'' he said.

With the debate over illegal immigration sharpening after a tough law passed in
Arizona, immigration lawyers said the Tenebros' case illustrates legal obstacles
that have stopped immigrants from becoming legal even when they could qualify.

''We have made it impossible for many illegal immigrants to become legal,'' said
Charles Kuck, an immigration lawyer in Atlanta who was 2009 president of the
American Immigration Lawyers Association, the national bar.

Many lawmakers say that existing penalties have helped curb illegal immigration
and, if anything, should be increased.

Like Lieutenant Tenebro, many soldiers, anticipating rebuke and possibly damage
to their careers, do not reveal to others in the military their family ties to
immigrants here illegally.

''You will always hear the jokes about those who crossed the border,''
Lieutenant Tenebro said. ''Even though we think we did everything legally
possible, it's just not knowing what other people will think. Maybe they will
find ways to hit you, without knowing the whole facts.''

Lieutenant Tenebro, 35, an Army officer now stationed at Fort Dix, N.J., said he
decided to tell his story publicly for the first time after lawyers advised Mrs.
Tenebro that she had little hope of being approved to remain here as a legal
resident without a change in immigration law. He risks drawing the attention of
his commanders and the immigration authorities to his wife's illegal status.

Mrs. Tenebro is snagged on a statute, notorious among immigration lawyers, that
makes it virtually impossible for her to become a legal resident without first
leaving the United States and staying away for 10 years.

Because of the Catch-22, the severe penalty applies to Mrs. Tenebro even though
she is the wife of an American citizen who is also an active duty serviceman.
Lieutenant Tenebro, who was never in the United States illegally, was
naturalized in 2003.

The legal boomerang that snared her and many others was created in 1996, when
Congress imposed automatic restrictions on illegal immigrants, barring them from
returning for periods of 3 to 10 years after they leave the country, regardless
of whether they were deported or left voluntarily. However, in many cases the
law also requires immigrants who are approved for legal documents to complete
their paperwork at American consulates in their home countries.

The Tenebros' immigration troubles began with a moonstruck romance. They met one
weekend five years ago while Wilma was on vacation in New York at the end of a
job as a housekeeper on a cruise ship. She did not return to the Philippines,
and eventually she overstayed her visa.

Love led to marriage, and their daughter, who is now 3, and an expensive battle
to gain legal status for Mrs. Tenebro, 37.

In 2008, Citizenship and Immigration Services, the federal agency, gave Mrs.
Tenebro approval to become a legal permanent resident, as the spouse of an
American citizen. In general, immigration law is intended to make it easy for
foreigners who marry citizens to become legal residents.

But because of the particular visa she overstayed -- known as a crewman's visa
-- she is required to finish the paperwork for her green card in the
Philippines. Every one of a string of lawyers the couple consulted -- $7,000 in
fees so far -- gave them the same bad news: Even though Mrs. Tenebro has
qualified for a green card, if she leaves the United States to get it, she will
automatically trigger the legal bar that will block her from returning for 10
years.

In rare circumstances of severe hardship, consular officials have the authority
to grant waivers allowing spouses to return here more quickly. But officials in
Manila are known among lawyers for being especially reluctant to give waivers.

For his wife, Lieutenant Tenebro said, the visa offered in Manila is ''like the
cheese in a mousetrap. It's like, hey, come and get it! And then, swat! They'll
get you.''

One lawyer after another suggested the same option, he said: ''Wait until there
is a change in the language of the law.''

Susan Timmons, who runs the military assistance program for the immigration
lawyers association, said there was little lawyers could do in such cases.

''If you do try to follow the law, you run into a serious problem and you won't
be able to fix your situation,'' Ms. Timmons said. Her program has received
hundreds of similar cases from American soldiers, she said.

Lieutenant Tenebro said he and his wife believed they were following the rules
by prolonging their courtship and waiting for several months after their
marriage in February 2007 to file for her immigration papers, so it would be
clear that their marriage was not fake.

They remember the first time a lawyer explained the decade-long separation they
could be facing. ''I didn't want to show emotion, but it was like shock,'' Mrs.
Tenebro said. ''I was thinking, to be away from my family is hard.''

Representative Lofgren and Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, have
proposed bills that would make it easier for spouses and close relatives of
Americans in the military to become legal residents. Those bills are included in
immigration overhaul legislation, including measures to grant legal status to
millions of currently illegal immigrants, that Democratic Congressional leaders
are preparing.

But after the furor over the Arizona law, President Obama said Wednesday that he
wanted to ''begin work'' on the overhaul -- but not try to pass a bill -- this
year. Republicans argue that the administration should concentrate on
enforcement, not on easing the law.

''Millions of individuals come to the U.S. on visas every year and don't
overstay them,'' said Representative Lamar Smith of Texas, the senior Republican
on the House Judiciary Committee. ''Congress has already provided for remedies
in appropriate cases, so there should be no need to change the rules.''

Homeland Security officials said that in the absence of Congressional action,
they had been working quietly to fix immigration problems for American soldiers
on a case-by-case basis, using limited authorities that already exist in law.
After a preliminary review of the Tenebros' case in response to a reporter's
questions, Citizenship and Immigration Services officials said they were working
to identify legal alternatives for them.

''Keeping U.S. military families together is a vital priority,'' said Matt
Chandler, a Homeland Security Department spokesman.

Now, instead of a foreign mission, Lieutenant Tenebro is running a marathon
every month or so, raising money for veterans coming back with injuries. At home
on Long Island, Mrs. Tenebro, who cannot work legally, feels a chill every time
immigration news comes on the radio.

''We just have our bags packed all the time in case immigration will come
knocking on the door,'' Lieutenant Tenebro said ''We talk about what school to
pick and what apartment to get. But it's in the Philippines.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: While serving in Iraq, Lt. Kenneth Tenebro feared that his
wife, Wilma, shown with their 3-year-old daughter, would be deported.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Lieutenant Tenebro during his tour of duty in Iraq in 2008.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Times Sq. Bombing Suspect's Route to Citizenship Reveals Limits of the Process

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN; Steven Greenhouse and Scott Shane contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1117 words


When Faisal Shahzad took his oath of citizenship a year ago, swearing to
''support and defend the Constitution and laws of the United States of America
against all enemies,'' he seemed the model of a legal immigrant success story.
Moving from one coveted visa to the next over a decade, he had acquired an
M.B.A., a decent job, a wife and two children and a fine suburban home.

Now that he has admitted driving a car bomb into Times Square, every step of his
path to citizenship is under fresh scrutiny. One key question is when Mr.
Shahzad turned against his adopted country. The answer could determine whether
the unraveling of his immigrant success story ends with the revocation of his
American citizenship.

The typical grounds for denaturalization, immigration officials say, are fraud
or misrepresentation in the reams of immigration forms that Mr. Shahzad filled
out over the years, including accounting for every trip he made outside the
country. But even if he never lied in his applications, an obscure
anti-Communist statute enacted half a century ago could be used to revoke his
citizenship, said Donald Kerwin, a vice president at the nonpartisan Migration
Policy Institute, a research organization in Washington.

The law states that within five years of naturalization, any affiliation that
would have precluded citizenship -- like membership in a terrorist organization
-- is prima facie evidence that the person ''was not attached to the principles
of the Constitution of the United States and was not well disposed to the good
order and happiness of the United States at the time of naturalization.'' In the
absence of countervailing evidence, the statute says, that affiliation is enough
to authorize revocation.

''It doesn't happen very often, but you're obviously not attached to the
principles of the Constitution if you're being trained in bomb-making in
Waziristan when you take the oath,'' Mr. Kerwin said.

The narrative that has emerged suggests that after signs of financial stress and
a turn to religion within the past year or two, Mr. Shahzad quit his job and
flew to Pakistan. Law enforcement officials say he has admitted to training with
terrorists there in December or January.

Mr. Kerwin said that such a sequence provides the prima facie evidence described
in the statute, but that it is unclear whether the federal government would
bother with revocation if Mr. Shahzad was headed for a long prison sentence
anyway.

The Department of Justice declined to discuss the matter.

In Washington, the more pressing question seems to be how he became a citizen in
the first place. Senator Charles E. Grassley, an Iowa Republican, has demanded
to see Mr. Shahzad's full immigration file.

Experts on both sides of the nation's immigration debate said the case points to
the limitations of a screening apparatus increasingly burdened with national
security expectations.

Immigration lawyers in Connecticut said Mr. Shahzad followed a typical
trajectory, though his path seemed more smooth than many others, especially men
from Muslim countries, who can be stuck in security checks for years.

Mr. Shahzad's name had long been listed in the Treasury Enforcement
Communication System, known as TECS, which helps the federal government track
potential law violators entering the country, an administration official said.

He probably landed on the huge list because he entered the country on several
occasions carrying large amounts of cash, declaring the totals on his customs
entry forms as required. But for a Pakistani-American who traveled frequently
between the two countries, that was neither unusual nor necessarily an
indication of any illicit activity, added the official, who would discuss the
confidential records only on condition of anonymity.

He arrived at the University of Bridgeport in Connecticut in January 1999 on a
foreign student visa approved  by the State Department in Pakistan. It allowed
for a year of job training after graduation, and a temp agency placed him at
Elizabeth Arden, the cosmetics company. Because he performed well as an account
analyst there, a former manager said, the company applied to the Labor
Department for one of the limited number of three-year H-1B visas available for
foreigners with special skills. Critics of the H-1B visa system, like Mark
Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, say it is a
source of cheap, captive labor, fed by mediocre schools.

''All we're hearing is that these visas are for the best and brightest,'' said
Mr. Krikorian, whose Washington-based group advocates sharp reductions in
immigration. ''This guy, both from his grades and his incompetent bomb-making
skills, wasn't the best and brightest of anything.''

But lawyers who handle such cases said Mr. Shahzad probably had skills that were
in short supply at the time, because the H-1B visa process is expensive and
difficult for employers to pursue. ''You can't expect people to dump thousands
of dollars in the schooling system and then not have a chance to work here,''
noted one lawyer, Nandita Ruchandani.

In July 2003, Elizabeth Arden petitioned for an employment-based green card on
Mr. Shahzad's behalf, a Labor Department official said. By the next year, he did
not need it: he had married Huma Mian, who was born in Colorado. Based on her
February 2005 petition, he was granted a green card in January 2006.

To get it, he had to open his life to the government, supply his fingerprints
for an F.B.I. background check and submit to an interview about whether his
marriage was bona fide.

As a citizen's husband, he was entitled to petition for naturalization two years
and nine months later. He did so in October 2008, and underwent another full
security check and interview and a citizenship test, covering American civics,
history and spoken English.

''You can do all the checks in the world; there's no way to know what's in their
heart or head,'' said Crystal Williams, executive director of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association. ''People rarely go to their interview and say
they think it would be a great idea to plant a bomb in Times Square.''

Even Mr. Krikorian did not blame the immigration system, noting that Mr. Shahzad
did not enter the country illegally and seems to have had a genuine marriage.
''Maybe there was nothing for them to find,'' he said. ''He may have been
radicalized after he went through all this.''

Or maybe not. ''Was it his plan all along? I don't know,'' said Christopher
Bentley, a spokesman for United States Citizenship and Immigration Services.

''It's important to realize that all the background checks are just a snapshot
in time.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 15, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Student's Arrest Tests Immigration Policy

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 865 words


ATLANTA -- Jessica Colotl, a 21-year-old college student and illegal Mexican
immigrant at the center of a contentious immigration case, surrendered  to a
Georgia sheriff on Friday but continued to deny wrongdoing.

Ms. Colotl was arrested in March for driving without a license and could face
deportation next year. On Wednesday the sheriff filed a felony charge against
her for providing a false address to the police.

The case has become a flash point in the national debate over whether federal
immigration laws should be enforced by local and state officials. And like
Arizona's tough new immigration law, it has highlighted a rift between the
federal government and local politicians over how illegal immigrants should be
detected and prosecuted.

''I never thought that I'd be caught up in this messed-up system,'' Ms. Colotl
said Friday at a news conference after being released on $2,500 bail. ''I was
treated like a criminal, like a threat to the nation.''

Civil rights groups say Ms. Colotl should be spared deportation because she was
brought to the United States without legal documents by her parents at age 11.
They also note that she  has excelled academically and was discovered to be here
illegally only after a routine traffic violation.

Supporters of immigration laws and the sheriff's office in Cobb County say she
violated state law,  misled the police about her address and should not receive
special treatment for her age or education.

Ms. Colotl was pulled over  March 29 by a campus officer at Kennesaw State
University in suburban Atlanta, where she is two semesters from graduation, for
''impeding the flow of traffic.'' After she presented the officer an expired
Mexican passport instead of a valid driver's license, she was arrested and taken
to a county jail, where she acknowledged being an illegal immigrant.

On May 5, she was transferred to the Etowah Detention Center in Alabama to await
deportation to Mexico.

But after protests by Latino groups, demonstrations at the Georgia Capitol by
her sorority sisters and a letter of support from the university's president,
the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency granted a one-year deferral on
her deportation so she could finish college. The ''deferred action'' means she
could still be deported, but will be allowed to apply for an extension next
year.

Her ultimate goal, Ms. Colotl said at the news conference, is that proposed
legislation called the Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors Act --
known as the Dream Act -- will become law, providing students without legal
immigration status a path to become legal.

She and her lawyer declined to discuss the immigration status of her parents.

In Georgia, the case has become intensely political. Ms. Colotl received
in-state tuition, substantially reducing her cost of attending Kennesaw State.
The university will charge her out-of-state rates in the future, but Republican
politicians are calling for new legislation to make attendance more expensive,
or impossible, for illegal immigrants.

One Republican candidate for governor, Eric Johnson, has said that if elected he
will mandate that all college applicants demonstrate their citizenship. The
chancellor of the state university system says that would be prohibitively
expensive, costing $1.5 million, for roughly 300,000 students.

Under a program by the Department of Homeland Security, known as 287(g), local
sheriffs are permitted to handle federal immigration law enforcement. The Cobb
County sheriff's office was the first in Georgia and one of the first in the
United States to apply for the program. Immigration is a hot topic in the
largely conservative county, where Hispanics make up 11 percent of the
population, census figures show.

Mary Bauer, the legal director for the Southern Poverty Law Center, which is
assisting in Ms. Colotl's defense, said Cobb County had a history of using
federal laws designed to detect dangerous criminals for arresting illegal
immigrants for minor offenses. A review by The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
found that from 2007 to 2009, the main crime for which immigration detainees
were arrested in the county was traffic offenses.

''This is a civil rights disaster,'' said Ms. Bauer, who called the county's
application of the law ''mean-spirited and very probably illegal.''

''We call on the Obama administration to end 287(g),'' she said.

Supporters of strict immigration legislation say Ms. Colotl's case was handled
legally.

The sheriff, Neil Warren, said Ms. Colotl provided a false address to the
police, a felony charge. Her lawyers say that she provided the address of the
residence where she used to live and to where her car insurance is registered,
and that she also provided her current address.

No exception should be made, however admirable the offender, said Phil Kent, a
spokesman for Americans for Immigration Control, a national group opposed to
illegal immigration.

''Ironically, she says she wants to go on to law school, but she's undermining
the law,'' Mr. Kent said. ''What's the point of educating an illegal immigrant
in a system where she can't hold a job legally or get a driver's license?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jessica Colotl speaking Friday at a news conference in Atlanta
after being released on bail. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATE BRUMBACK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 14, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

White House Plan on Immigration Includes Legal Status

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 835 words


The Obama administration will insist on measures to give legal status to an
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants as it pushes early next year for
legislation to overhaul the immigration system, Homeland Security Secretary
Janet Napolitano said on Friday.

In her first major speech on the overhaul, Ms. Napolitano dispelled any
suggestion that the administration -- with health care, energy and other major
issues crowding its agenda -- would postpone the most contentious piece of
immigration legislation until after midterm elections next November.

Laying out the administration's bottom line, Ms. Napolitano said officials would
argue for a ''three-legged stool'' that includes tougher enforcement laws
against illegal immigrants and employers who hire them and a streamlined system
for legal immigration, as well as a ''tough and fair pathway to earned legal
status.''

With unemployment surging over 10 percent and Congress still wrangling over
health care, advocates on all sides of the immigration debate had begun to doubt
that President Obama would keep his pledge to tackle the divisive illegal
immigration issue in the first months of 2010.

Speaking at the Center for American Progress, a liberal policy group in
Washington, Ms. Napolitano unveiled a double-barrel argument for a legalization
program, saying it would enhance national security and, as the economy climbs
out of recession, protect American workers from unfair competition from
lower-paid, easily exploited illegal immigrants.

''Let me emphasize this: we will never have fully effective law enforcement or
national security as long as so many millions remain in the shadows,'' she said,
adding that the recovering economy would be strengthened ''as these immigrants
become full-paying taxpayers.''

Under the administration's plan, illegal immigrants who hope to gain legal
status would have to register, pay fines and all taxes they owe, pass a criminal
background check and learn English.

Drawing a contrast with 2007, when a bill with legalization provisions offered
by President George W. Bush failed in Congress, Ms. Napolitano said the Obama
administration had achieved a ''fundamental change'' in border security and
enforcement against employers hiring illegal immigrants. She said a sharp
reduction in the flow of illegal immigrants into the country created an
opportunity to move ahead with a legalization program.

Some Republicans were quick to challenge Ms. Napolitano's claims that border
security had significantly improved or that American workers would be helped by
bringing illegal immigrants into the system.

''How can they claim that enforcement is done when there are more than 400 open
miles of border with Mexico?'' asked Representative Lamar Smith of Texas, the
senior Republican on the House Judiciary Committee. He said the administration
should ''deport illegal immigrant workers so they don't remain here to compete
with citizen and legal immigrant job seekers.''

But Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the top Republican on the Judiciary
subcommittee on immigration, agreed that it was time to open the immigration
debate. ''My commitment to immigration reform has not changed,'' he said in a
statement Friday. ''I am interested in seeing a proposal sooner rather than
later from President Obama.''

Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York and the chairman of that
subcommittee, has been writing an overhaul bill and consulting with Republicans,
particularly Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina. Mr. Schumer said that the
administration's agenda was ''ambitious,'' but that he was ''confident we can
have a bipartisan immigration bill ready to go under whatever timeline the
president thinks is best.''

Ms. Napolitano has been leading the administration's efforts to gather ideas and
support for the immigration overhaul, meeting in recent weeks with business
leaders, religious groups, law enforcement officials and others to gauge their
willingness to go forward with a debate in Congress.

Framing the administration's proposals in stark law and order terms, she said
immigration legislation should include tougher laws against migrant smugglers
and more severe sanctions for employers who hire unauthorized workers.

Ms. Napolitano said that the Border Patrol had grown by 20,000 officers and that
more than 600 miles of border fence had been finished, meeting security
benchmarks set by Congress in 2007. She was echoing an argument adopted by Mr.
Bush after the bill collapsed in 2007, and by Senator John McCain, Republican of
Arizona, in his race against Mr. Obama. They said Americans wanted to see
effective enforcement before they would agree to legal status for millions of
illegal immigrants.

Some immigrant advocates were dismayed by Ms. Napolitano's approach. Benjamin E.
Johnson, executive director of the American Immigration Council, praised her
package of proposals, but said some enforcement policies she outlined ''have
proven to do more harm than good.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Janet Napolitano laid out the administration's plans
Friday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MANUEL BALCE CENETA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 17, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Criticism of U.S. Attorney Nominee Arises Late in Process

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 687 words


Eleventh-hour criticism is arising over President Obama's nomination for United
States attorney in northern Iowa of a prosecutor who had a leading role in the
criminal cases against hundreds of illegal immigrants arrested in a May 2008
raid at a meatpacking plant in Postville, Iowa.

Those cases, the broadest use to date of tough criminal charges against
immigrants caught working without authorization, were emblems of a crackdown on
illegal immigration by the Bush administration.

In supporting the prosecutor, Stephanie Rose, Mr. Obama is following the
recommendation of Senator Tom Harkin, the Democrat from Iowa who is an important
ally -- especially in the health care debate because he is chairman of the
Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee.

Ms. Rose, a senior assistant United States attorney in the office she has been
chosen to run, has also garnered support from criminal defense lawyers in Iowa,
including at least 11 lawyers who defended immigrants from Postville. In those
proceedings, ''she exhibited a level of competence and ability that would be
hard to overstate,'' the lawyers wrote in a letter in April.

But some defense and immigration lawyers have said that felony identity-theft
charges against the immigrants were excessively harsh, that immigration lawyers
were not given adequate access to their clients, and that improper contact took
place between prosecutors and one judge. They contend that possible civil rights
and ethical violations by prosecutors should have been investigated.

''Does she stand by those tactics?'' asked David Leopold, the president-elect of
the American Immigration Lawyers Association, the national immigration bar.
''Would she engage again in this type of prosecution of scores of undocumented
workers guilty of nothing more than civil immigration violations?''

The immigration lawyers' association has not taken an official position on the
nomination.

In May, the Supreme Court ruled unanimously that the identity-theft law could
not be applied to prosecute immigrants only because they used false Social
Security or visa numbers, as it was in many Postville cases.

Ms. Rose's nomination was unanimously approved by the Judiciary Committee on
Nov. 5 and is awaiting a vote by the full Senate.

Ms. Rose declined through a spokesman to comment at this point in the nomination
process.

Katherine Bedingfield, a spokeswoman for the White House, said: ''As U.S.
attorney, Stephanie Rose will be a great advocate for the people of Iowa. The
president strongly supports her nomination.''

During 12 years in the northern district, Ms. Rose was the lead prosecutor in
more than 200 criminal cases and argued 34 appeals, according to a fact sheet
provided by Mr. Harkin.

After the raid at the Agriprocessors kosher meatpacking plant in Postville, 270
immigrants entered guilty pleas and were sentenced in four days of fast-track
hearings, in temporary courtrooms in a cattle fairground. According to lawyers
who participated, Ms. Rose distributed prepackaged plea agreements and was the
principal case manager for the prosecutors.

In an interview, Mr. Harkin vigorously defended Ms. Rose, saying she is
''extremely bright and well versed with the law, has a lot of self assurance and
a good demeanor for a U.S. attorney.''

In the Postville cases, Mr. Harkin said, officials in Washington made the
strategic decisions about what charges to bring and what pleas to offer.
''Within the powers she had, she bent over backwards to make sure justice was
done,'' he said.

But at a hearing before the House Judiciary immigration subcommittee in July
2008, Deborah J. Rhodes, then senior associate deputy attorney general,
testified that ''all of the charging decisions were made by career prosecutors
in the local office.''

James Benzoni, an immigration lawyer in Des Moines whose office has secured
visas for two dozen Postville immigrants as victims of exploitation, said,
''There was a general failure of due process and common decency.''

''You can't go forward, you have to clean it up, and she's not going to do
that,'' Mr. Benzoni said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stephanie Rose's nomination for United States attorney in
northern Iowa awaits a full vote in the Senate.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIZ MARTI/THE
GAZETTE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 8, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Coverage Without Borders

BYLINE: By ROGER MAHONY.

Roger Mahony is the cardinal archbishop of Los Angeles.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 744 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


AS the leaders of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops noted last
month, the current  health care reform bills in Congress are fundamentally
flawed because they fall short in three critical areas: the prohibition of
federal financing for abortions and the protection of current conscience laws;
the inclusion of meaningful provisions to ensure affordability; and the  defense
of immigrants' rights to  health care.

Although all three areas are critical for this proposed legislation to be
acceptable to the Catholic Church in our country, I would like to focus on the
lack of adequate health care  for immigrants who live in our midst but who do
not yet have legal standing.

The two bills are quite different. The Senate bill bars undocumented immigrants
from using even their own money to buy health insurance in the
government-sponsored marketplace, or exchange, being proposed. The House bill
allows undocumented immigrants to purchase health insurance from the exchange,
if they use their own money and receive no federal subsidy.

Most studies estimate that  more than 10 million undocumented immigrants  live
in our country.  Many have been here for decades. The majority of these
immigrants live in ''mixed families'' -- some members of the family were born
here, while other relatives are here without documents. It is unrealistic to
think that these millions of people with roots deep in their communities are
somehow going to pack up and move back to their country of origin -- whether
that is Korea, the Philippines, Russia, England, France or Mexico. Most have
their children in local schools, the vast majority of them have jobs here, and
all are contributing to the betterment of our nation.

It makes no sense to deny this large population necessary health care services.
It certainly does not help Americans as a whole to remain healthy when millions
of people, including schoolchildren, cannot get basic preventive care like
immunizations and medications.

When undocumented immigrants are intentionally excluded from  health care
coverage, they  are forced to go to the only place where they will be accepted
for care: trauma centers and emergency rooms -- the most expensive health care
delivery systems in the country. What a foolish waste of money, particularly in
a time of economic stress for everyone.

Using their own money, undocumented immigrants could receive basic health
services through less expensive community clinics and doctors' offices.  Studies
have shown that immigrants are generally younger and healthier than citizens,
and use health care facilities and resources less frequently. Giving them access
to less costly preventive care would help keep them that way.  And by paying
into the system, immigrants would make health care less pricey for all by
spreading the risks and costs among a larger pool of participants.

At least the House bill allows undocumented immigrants to purchase health
insurance from the proposed exchange. It's difficult to understand
anti-immigrant groups' objections to this provision. No one would be rewarded
for lacking proper documentation, since  undocumented immigrants wouldn't be
eligible for subsidies.

The Senate bill takes us in the opposite direction and needs to be changed. How
is the health of the entire country helped when the Senate will not even allow
immigrants to use their own money to purchase their health insurance?

In many conversations with people around the country, I have found that the
dreadful anti-immigrant rhetoric that dominates  talk shows does not represent
the views of a majority of Americans, who  do not reject immigrants out of hand
as a burden. Instead, they  want to find a way for these people to emerge from
the shadows and to begin down a path to legal status.

To deny our immigrant brothers and sisters basic health care coverage is
immoral. To allow people's basic health needs to be trumped by divisive politics
violates American standards of decency and compassion. We should pass health
care reform that provides access to all, in the interests of the common good. We
must also enact comprehensive immigration reform that better balances our
country's need for a stable work force with the orderly flow of immigrants to
help bring greater prosperity to all Americans.

Otherwise, in our country there will remain a permanent underclass left standing
in the waiting room, asking for a doctor's visit that will never come.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEANNE VERDOUX)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 11, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrant Students Publicly Take Up a Cause

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1073 words


It has not been easy for the Obama administration to deport Rigoberto Padilla, a
Mexican-born college student in Chicago who has been an illegal immigrant in
this country since he was 6.

On Thursday, Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials said they would delay
Mr. Padilla's deportation for one year.

Mr. Padilla's case had seemed straightforward to immigration agents who detained
him for deportation in January after he was arrested by the Chicago police for
running a stop sign and  charged with driving under the influence.

But since then, students held two street rallies on his behalf and sent
thousands of e-mail messages and faxes to Congress. The Chicago City Council
passed a resolution calling for a stay of his deportation and five members of
Congress from Illinois came out in support of his cause. One of them was
Representative Jan Schakowsky, a Democrat, who offered a private bill to cancel
his removal.

Obama administration officials said they would review cases like Mr. Padilla's
as they arose. They said the situation of Mr. Padilla, 21, pointed to the need
for an immigration overhaul that would include a path to legal status for people
in the United States illegally.

''We are committed to confronting these problems in practical, effective ways,
using the current tools at our disposal while we work with Congress to enact
comprehensive reform,'' said Matthew Chandler, a spokesman for the Department of
Homeland Security.

Behind Mr. Padilla's case -- and others in Florida of students who fought off
deportation -- is activism by young immigrants, many of them illegal, which has
become increasingly public and coordinated across the country, linked by Web
sites, text messages and a network of advocacy groups. Spurred by President
Obama's promises  of legislation to grant them legal status, and frustration
that their lives have stalled without it, young illegal immigrants are joining
street protests despite the risk of being identified by immigration agents.

With many illegal immigrants lying low to avoid a continuing crackdown,
immigrant students have become the most visible supporters of a legislative
overhaul, which Mr. Obama has pledged to take up early next year. In the
meantime, their protests are awkward for the administration, with young, often
high-achieving illegal immigrants asking defiantly why the authorities continue
to detain and deport them.

''Maybe our parents feel like immigrants, but we feel like Americans because we
have been raised here on American values,'' said Carlos Saavedra, national
coordinator of a network of current and former students called United We Dream.

''Then we go to college and we find out we are rejected by the American system.
But we are not willing to accept that answer,'' said Mr. Saavedra, 23, a
Peruvian who lived here illegally until he gained legal status two years ago.

Young people who were brought to the United States by illegal immigrant parents
draw a certain degree of sympathy even from some opponents of broader
legalization programs. Roy Beck, the executive director of NumbersUSA, a group
that has staunchly opposed a legal path for the estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants, said in an interview that he could support legal status for some
young immigrant students. Mr. Beck said he would do so, however, only if
Congress eliminated the current immigration system based on family ties and
imposed mandatory electronic verification of immigration status for all workers
-- conditions that Democrats in Congress are not likely to accept.

The students' goal is to gain passage of legislation that would give permanent
resident status to illegal immigrants who had been brought to the United States
before they were 15, if they have been here for at least five years, have
graduated from high school and attend college or serve in the military for two
years.

Known to its supporters as the Dream Act, it has been offered in the Senate by
Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, and Richard G. Lugar, Republican of
Indiana. An effort to bring it to the Senate floor was defeated in 2007, and
proponents now consider it part of a package that includes a path to legal
status for illegal immigrants in general, an estimated 12 million people. Mr.
Beck said he continued to oppose that proposal.

Many illegal immigrant students who were brought to the United States as
children receive a shock when they get ready to go to college. They are
generally not eligible for lower in-state tuition rates or government financial
aid. In most states they cannot get drivers' licenses.

In recent years, student groups joined battles in several states for in-state
tuition for illegal immigrants, some successful and some not. This year, student
organizers said, they worked to tie  those state efforts into a national
network, hoping to match the mobilization networks of opponents of the
immigration overhaul, which proved far superior in the past.

The troubles for Mr. Padilla began when he drove home after watching a football
game and drinking beer with friends. He ran the stop sign, and the traffic
police arrested him because he did not have a driver's license and had been
drinking. Eventually, he pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor. Immigration agents
found him in the county jail.

Mr. Padilla, now enrolled at the University of Illinois at Chicago, had no prior
record and had been an honors student and president of the Latino student
organization at Harold Washington College, which he attended for two years.
Friends from both schools mobilized after his arrest.

Similar rallies took place in November in Miami, when immigration agents
detained two brothers from Venezuela who were illegal immigrants -- Jesus Reyes
Mendoza, 21, a former student government president at Miami Dade College, and
his brother Guillermo, 25. Students from the college held a protest  in front of
the immigrant detention center where the brothers were  held.

''The undocumented youth are losing our fear of being undocumented,'' said
Carlos Roa, an illegal immigrant student from Venezuela who joined that rally.
''I'm public with this. I'm not hiding anymore.''

Miami Dade College, with 170,000 students, has become a center for immigrant
activism. After the protests, and letters from Eduardo Padron, the college
president, the immigration authorities on Nov. 8 deferred the deportation of the
Reyes brothers for one year.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rigoberto Padilla, a University of Illinois-Chicago student,
received a reprieve from deportation.  (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 14, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Illegal Immigrant, Deportation After Political Appointment

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1038 words


In 13 years in and around New York, Augusto Noguera built an impressive life.
From humble beginnings in Paraguay, he became a mainstay of his nation's
expatriate population, running a division of a construction company, working for
charitable and political causes, and entertaining visiting dignitaries at his
house in Flushing, Queens.

The crowning moment came in September, when President Fernando Lugo of Paraguay
appointed him to an administrative post in the government's New York consulate.
It was a job Mr. Noguera had eagerly sought, friends said, as payback for
supporting Mr. Lugo and other candidates in last year's elections.

There was just one problem: Mr. Noguera was an illegal immigrant.

Today, he is locked in an immigration detention center in Arizona, awaiting
deportation. His botched appointment has deeply embarrassed the Paraguayan
government. And it has stirred a mix of shame, anger and dismay among his
countrymen in New York, who have been agitating for a more robust consulate to
help them build organizations and raise their community's profile.

''We want qualified people with sensitivity to the needs of Paraguayans abroad,
not political appointments,'' said Miguel Acosta of Yonkers, the publisher of El
Mirador Paraguayo, a monthly newspaper. ''It's more than embarrassing. We're
sad. Coming from one of the most corrupt countries in the world, we've lost the
capacity to be embarrassed.''

Mr. Noguera's troubles began quietly enough. When he traveled to Asuncion, the
Paraguayan capital, to receive his diplomatic portfolio, the United States
Embassy there denied his request for a visa to return to New York. The Lugo
administration rescinded the appointment, saying it had not known Mr. Noguera's
legal status in the United States.

There was apparently no news coverage of the decision, and Mr. Noguera told few
people about it, friends said.

But then he compounded his problem. Two weeks ago, he tried to re-enter the
United States at the Mexican border near Tijuana using someone else's passport,
and was detained by American immigration agents, Paraguayan diplomats said. The
news made headlines in Paraguay.

Neither Mr. Noguera nor his family -- a wife and three young American-born
children who are still in New York -- responded to requests for comment relayed
through intermediaries.

Paraguayans in New York have been shaking their heads at the strange turn of
events. ''There's surprise on one hand, and on the other there's a kind of anger
that he made such a big error that jeopardized his family and himself,'' said
Dionisio Recalde, a friend and political ally of Mr. Noguera's.

The Paraguayan population in the New York region is scattered but sizable --
about 20,000 people, according to consular estimates -- and some remain deeply
involved in the politics of their homeland.

According to friends, Mr. Noguera was very active in the regional chapter of the
Authentic Radical Liberal Party, a Paraguayan faction that backed the
presidential bid of Mr. Lugo, a left-leaning former Roman Catholic bishop. Mr.
Noguera was instrumental in rallying support among Paraguayans in the United
States, and even held a party for Mr. Lugo at his home when the candidate
visited New York, friends said.

In return, Mr. Noguera was told by Mr. Lugo's allies in Paraguay that he would
be rewarded with a consular post, said Miguel Benitez, the president of the
party's New York chapter.

''He didn't have any diplomatic training,'' Mr. Benitez said. ''But he was
pressuring them for the job. He was asking them for it.''

Several months ago, Mr. Noguera flew to Asuncion to continue lobbying for the
appointment, said Mr. Benitez and Mr. Recalde. Only Mr. Noguera's closest
friends knew he was in the United States illegally, the men said. Representative
Elvis Balbuena, a Paraguayan legislator who was a major supporter of his bid for
the job, said Mr. Noguera had sneaked into the United States in the mid-1990s.

Mr. Noguera got his wish on Sept. 21, when President Lugo signed a decree naming
him an attache in the New York consulate. It was a low-level position in support
of the consul general and his deputies, involving administrative work and
serving as a liaison between the office and the Paraguayan population, officials
said. The job was reserved for political appointees rather than career
diplomats, said Manuel Maria Caceres, a vice minister in Paraguay's foreign
ministry.

Within days of the appointment, Mr. Noguera applied for a visa at the American
Embassy in Asuncion, friends said. The embassy signaled to the Paraguayan
government that it intended to reject the application, Mr. Caceres said, and
President Lugo signed a decree canceling the appointment on Nov. 5.

Mr. Recalde said that he spoke with Mr. Noguera by phone in November, but his
friend never mentioned the cancellation. ''He said he was waiting for his
visa,'' Mr. Recalde recalled.

Shortly after dawn on Nov. 26, Mr. Noguera was detained by American immigration
officials at the border crossing in San Ysidro, Calif., said Ruben Benitez
Palma, Paraguay's consul general in Los Angeles. Mr. Noguera was carrying
someone else's passport, Mr. Benitez said.

''It was legal,'' he added. ''But it wasn't his.''

The New York consulate has tried to distance itself from the case, referring
inquiries to the Paraguayan Embassy in Washington and the foreign ministry in
Asuncion. The consul general, Armando Fernandez Galte, said that he did not know
Mr. Noguera and that he was not consulted on his appointment.

Asked what sort of responsibilities Mr. Noguera would have had, Mr. Fernandez
paused, then replied, ''Opening the door.''

Last weekend, Paraguayan civic leaders in New York held two fund-raising events
to help Mr. Noguera's wife and children move to Paraguay.

Mr. Noguera has been in mostly low spirits since his detention, said Mr.
Benitez, the Los Angeles consul general, who has been in frequent telephone
contact with him and his family.

In recent days, the diplomat said, Mr. Noguera learned that he would be deported
on Dec. 23. But the news had a silver lining that lifted his mood.

''He realized he could spend Christmas with his family,'' Mr. Benitez said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Augusto Noguera was given a post at Paraguay's
consulate.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MIGUEL ACOSTA/EL MIRADOR PARAGUAYO)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 23, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Latino Leaders Use Churches In Census Bid

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1174 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Fearing that millions of illegal immigrants may not be counted in the 2010
census, Latino leaders are mobilizing a nationwide drive to urge Hispanics  to
participate in the survey, including an intense push this week in evangelical
Christian churches.

Latino groups contend that there was an undercount of nearly one million Latinos
in the 2000 census, affecting the drawing of Congressional districts and the
distribution of federal money. Hispanic organizations are far better organized
for next year's census, but they say that if illegal immigrants -- an estimated
eight million of whom are Latino -- are not included, the undercount could be
much greater.

One study suggests that Congressional delegations in eight states with large
Hispanic  populations could grow if all Latinos -- the nation's largest minority
at some 47 million -- are counted.

But the obstacles to an accurate count are significant. Many illegal immigrants
are likely to be reluctant to fill out a government form that asks for their
names, birthdates and telephone numbers. And the count comes three years into an
immigration crackdown that was initiated by President George W. Bush but has
continued apace, though less visibly, under President Obama.

Several of the nation's largest associations of Hispanic evangelical churches
have agreed to join the census campaign. But it has caused dissension among
others, with one evangelical pastor leading a call for a boycott of the census,
saying it would put pressure on the Obama administration and on Congress to
grant legal status to illegal immigrants.

Some Roman Catholic leaders, moreover, have said they are reluctant to urge
Latino parishioners to participate without greater assurances from the
administration that illegal immigrants will not be identified or detained
through the census.

The Constitution calls for all residents to be counted, and last month the
Senate rejected a measure by Senator David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, that
would have included only United States citizens in the official tally.

In October, census officials said they would not ask the Department of Homeland
Security to suspend immigration raids during the census period, reversing a
policy from 2000, when an immigration moratorium was observed. But census
officials say there is no change in a longstanding policy that they do not share
identity data with the Department of Homeland Security or any other agency.

Latino political leaders see full participation in the census as the culmination
of heightened activism that began in the spring of 2006, when hundreds of
thousands of Latinos marched in the streets to protest legislation then in
Congress that would have toughened laws against illegal immigration. In 2007
they held a nationwide campaign to have Latino immigrants become United States
citizens. That was followed last year with a huge voter registration drive.

''We want to tap into that same spirit,'' said Arturo Vargas, executive director
of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials
Educational Fund, known as Naleo, a bipartisan group that is a main organizer of
the census drive. ''We have to go back to everybody and say, 'Just as you
marched, just as you naturalized, just as you voted, now you have to be
counted.' ''

One strategy is to encourage Latino immigrants to return the census forms by
mail, rather than waiting for a census taker's knock on the door, which could
frighten illegal immigrants wary of immigration agents.

To that end, groups like Naleo, the National Council of La Razaand others are
moving to tap the expanding social networks and the power of persuasion of
evangelical churches, which have seen huge growth among Latinos in the last
decade. At a recent meeting with religious  leaders in Miami, Naleo unveiled a
poster for churches to use during the Christmas season to talk up the census. It
depicts Mary and Joseph, recalling that they went to Bethlehem to participate in
a census.

''Asi nacio Jesus,'' the poster says. ''That's how Jesus was born.''

Evangelical leaders said last Wednesday that the poster would be displayed in
more than 7,000 evangelical churches this week.

Among the evangelicals to embrace the effort is the Rev. Samuel Rodriguez Jr., a
pastor from California who is president of the National Hispanic Christian
Leadership Conference, which includes more than 25,000 evangelical churches.

''I believe we pastors have a moral responsibility to educate our flock in an
action that will help our communities move forward on the path of political
empowerment,'' Mr. Rodriguez said.

A new ally in Miami is Pastor Jose Victor Dugand, who can be found most days in
his church in the southwest part of the city singing Christian rock music with a
Latin lilt and expounding bilingually on the Bible.

Even on hectic weeknights, worshipers come by the hundreds to pray at his
Ekklesia Global Church, bringing worries about lost jobs in South Florida's
battered economy as well as fears of immigration authorities. Lately, Mr. Dugand
tells his followers they can increase their political influence and draw federal
money to the community by participating in the census.

''I think we need to come to the light -- we need to be counted,'' he said.
''Right now, I believe the government is totally off in the figures. We need to
have a number that is closer to reality, so we can have better representation
politically.''

When illegal immigrants in his church express worries, Mr. Dugand advises them
that they should trust the census. ''I tell them, 'Don't flee, don't just
escape,' '' he said. ''Help us build something here for our children.''

But the Rev. Miguel Angel Rivera, a New Jersey pastor who heads a smaller
coalition of evangelical clergy, has called for a boycott of the census.

''We need to empower the undocumented immigrants by asking them not to
participate,'' Mr. Rivera said, ''as a way to protest the lack of commitment
from this Congress to do what is right and moral, which is comprehensive
immigration reform.''

He is touring the country with his boycott call, and he has gained the support
of some community leaders, including Nativo Lopez, a  Mexican-American activist
in Los Angeles.

Nearly 12 million Latinos voted in November 2008, an increase of two million
votes over 2004, according to an analysis by Andres Ramirez, a researcher at
NDN, a Democratic advocacy organization. Now, in the first census since
Hispanics passed blacks to become the second-largest population group in the
United States, Hispanics want to extend that voting power with a census count
that would support more elected representatives for their communities.

An analysis by NDN and America's Voice, an immigrant advocacy group, projected
that a full count of Hispanics would lead to a significant redrawing of the
Congressional map, with six states picking up one Congressional seat (Florida,
Georgia, Nevada, Oregon, South Carolina and Utah), while Arizona would add two
and Texas as many as four.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Pastor Jose Victor Dugand, of the Ekklesia Global Church in
Miami, urging his congregation to participate in the 2010 census. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
OSCAR HIDALGO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
Wuanda Medina, left, pastor of Iglesia el Faro, prayed with other Hispanic
religious leaders on Nov. 20 at a census meeting.
 Arturo Vargas is among the Hispanic leaders urging participation in the 2010
census. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON HENRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 27, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sanctuary for Victims of Abuse in New York

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 285 words


Immigrants accounted for about 80 percent of the 8,100 clients whom Sanctuary
for Families provided with legal assistance or shelter last year, said Julie
Dinnerstein, one of the nonprofit group's 23 full-time lawyers. Those lawyers
are collectively fluent in 28 languages.

Many of Sanctuary's immigrant clients are fleeing abusive relationships and,
since they are here illegally, are terrified of deportation. But through
Sanctuary, which was founded in 1984 and now has facilities throughout the city,
they learn that victims of domestic violence can apply for nonimmigrant status
or asylum on their own, and cannot be turned over to immigration authorities by
vengeful spouses. Nor, they learn, can the New York Police Department report an
illegal-immigrant victim of domestic violence to those authorities.

Ms. Dinnerstein added that despite their clients' fears of deportation, the
danger is small. ''We've never had a deportation order upheld at the federal
level,'' she said.

That record could comfort some of her new clients. One is a Mexican illegal
immigrant in Corona, Queens; Ms. Dinnerstein said her client's abusive
boyfriend, who has a green card, told the woman  that she could not tell the
police about the beatings because they would deport her. Another new client is a
Colombian illegal immigrant; she told Ms. Dinnerstein that her husband beat her
and called immigration authorities to their Ozone Park apartment when she tried
to leave him.

But Ms. Dinnerstein cautioned any immigrants who plan to move out of New York.
''Don't do it until you have your immigration papers,'' she said. ''Outside the
city, the rules seem to change with whatever jurisdiction you're in.''  ROBIN
FINN

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 23, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Come Back, John McCain

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 351 words


There goes Senator John McCain, battling mightily for re-election in Arizona,
buzzing off into the desert heat to another rally, another news conference,
another television sound bite. Wait, you forgot your principles!

He's telling the world he'll never support immigration reform until the border
is sealed. Now he's praising Arizona's Legislature for passing a bill that makes
every Latino -- citizen or not -- a potential criminal defendant. It obligates
the police to stop people who look like illegal immigrants and arrest them if
they don't have papers on them. And here he is warning Fox News's Bill O'Reilly
that drivers of cars full of ''illegals'' are ''intentionally causing accidents
on the freeway.''

During the 2008 presidential campaign, Mr. McCain did his share of contortions
to win over a right-wing base that never trusted him. Now he is fighting for
survival against a radio host endorsed by border vigilantes.

But this pandering is tragic for a man who was one of the architects of the
humane, comprehensive approach to immigration he has now disowned -- threatening
a filibuster to prevent its even coming to a vote.

Mr. McCain has long said border control must be a prelude to larger reforms. But
he always insisted on realistic solutions, on respecting immigrants' humanity
and giving them the chance to become legal. He never played the rancid,
dangerous game of portraying Latinos as criminals, as Arizona's new immigration
bill does.

Mr. McCain used to be the anti-demagogue. Here he is defending his bill in the
Senate on May 25, 2007, one of many times he said the same thing:

''We need to come up with a humane, moral way to deal with those people who are
here, most of whom are not going anywhere. No matter how much we improve border
security, no matter the penalties we impose on their employers, no matter how
seriously they are threatened with punishment, we will not find most of them,
and we will not find most of their employers.''

That was true then. It is true now. It is also true that no election is worth
winning if you have to abandon what you believe.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration: Complex Test For 2 Parties

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting from Ottumwa, Iowa,
and Carl Hulse and Ashley Southall from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1105 words


WASHINGTON -- Senator John McCain of Arizona took to the Senate floor the other
day to embrace a tough new Arizona law giving the police the authority to detain
people they suspect are illegal immigrants. Mr. McCain, long an outspoken
champion of giving illegal immigrants a path to citizenship, is facing a primary
challenge this summer from a conservative who backs tough immigration measures.

This week, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic majority leader,
abruptly announced that the Senate would take up an immigration bill to address
both enhanced border security and citizenship, even in the face of daunting
odds. Mr. Reid also faces a tough re-election battle, and his advisers believe
that Hispanic voters in Nevada could prove key to his re-election.

The immigration flare-up that has engulfed Washington has emerged as a political
challenge for Republicans and Democrats alike as they struggle to deal with the
complexities and emotions of an issue that is scrambling party and geographic
lines.

On Tuesday, two prominent Republicans in Florida, another state with a big
immigrant population -- Jeb Bush, the former governor, and Marco Rubio, a
candidate for the Senate -- expressed reservations about the Arizona law, even
as other Republican lawmakers supported it.

In the short term, Mr. Reid's vow to tackle immigration legislation this year
could hurt some Democrats in the fall  elections, causing problems with voters
who view immigrants as competition for tough-to-find jobs and illegal
immigration as a drain on social services, analysts from both parties said. That
could especially be a problem for first- and second-term Democrats representing
blue-collar states particularly hard hit by the recession.

But the Republican Party could face long-term risks if it is identified with
legislation cracking down on illegal immigration at a time when Hispanic voters
are emerging as an increasingly large and engaged part of the American
electorate. The Arizona law has enraged many Hispanic groups, who see it as a
form of racial profiling.

''Immigration is the most explosive issue I've seen in my political career,''
said Mark McKinnon, who was a senior adviser both to Mr. McCain and to
President George W. Bush, who also supported giving illegal immigrants a path to
citizenship.

''This is an issue on which Republicans salivate over short-term gains without
much thought to the longer-term damage it will do the party,'' Mr. McKinnon
said.

But, he said: ''Arizona may force the Democrats' hand to push for immigration
reform. Unfortunately, an election year is the worst time to move good public
policy on this issue.''

Both parties agree on the need for better border security. But each also has to
balance how to deal with illegal immigrants already in the United States against
the desires of powerful constituencies. These include Hispanics who would like
to see many illegal immigrants given a chance to become legal, employers who
rely on the cheap labor they provide and working-class voters who see
undocumented workers as threats to their jobs and wage levels.

For all the recent talk about moving ahead on an immigration bill, it appears
unlikely that Congress will act this year, especially since no Senate Republican
now seems willing to work with the White House on the issue. Mr. Reid said he
would bring up energy and climate change legislation first, leaving it unclear
whether the Senate would have time  to tackle immigration this year.

And there is no evidence that Democrats  have the votes to get anything through.
Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, who has been the leading Republican
advocate for changing immigration laws -- filling a gap left by Mr. McCain --
announced the other day that he would not support acting on immigration this
year. He said Mr. Reid was making a mistake in trying to push something through.

The Arizona law has brought the issue to the fore more than any other factor.
President Obama has denounced it, as have many civil liberties groups and a
smattering of Republicans. In an interview with Politico on Tuesday, Jeb Bush
said: ''It's difficult for me to imagine how you're going to enforce this law.
It places a significant burden on local law enforcement and you have civil
liberties issues that are significant as well.''

To a certain extent, the White House has reason to be glad Mr. Reid is pushing
an issue of such concern to Hispanics, a critical part of Mr. Obama's base in
states like Nevada in 2008 and a group  Democrats hope to energize in the fall.
Even if no bill gets through the Senate, the Democrats can highlight their
support for dealing with the issue.

''It's easy for Democrats to demagogue and try to use this as a wedge issue,''
said Senator John Cornyn, the Texas Republican who is chairman of the National
Republican Senatorial Committee. ''It's a very sensitive subject. A third of my
constituents in Texas are Hispanic.''

''But what I've found is that my relationship with them is not based on a single
issue,'' Mr. Cornyn added.

Mr. Obama, traveling through Iowa on Tuesday, said that the Arizona law amounted
to harassment and that it raised the urgency for a new national immigration
policy. But he said any plan needed to have bipartisan support. ''The only way
it's going to happen is if Democrats and Republicans come together and do
this,'' Mr. Obama said.

But the obstacles to passing legislation are substantial, particularly at a time
of high unemployment and violence on the Mexican border involving drug dealers.

''I think it's going to be extremely difficult for an immigration bill to pass
this year,'' said Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana.

Some Democrats said the prospects for a legislative deal might be better in
2011, particularly if the jobless rate drops and Hispanics continue to mobilize
and grow as an electoral force.

''We're going to work very hard to get comprehensive immigration reform as soon
as possible,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the No. 3 leader of
the Senate.

Mexico Warns Citizens

MEXICO CITY (Reuters) -- Mexico warned its citizens living in or traveling to
Arizona that they could be ''harassed'' there because of its new immigration
law.

The foreign ministry issued a statement saying that Mexicans there should
contact their consular representatives if they are unlawfully detained. ''Until
it is clearly defined under what criteria, when, where and who the authorities
will check, you should assume that every Mexican citizen could be harassed and
questioned without cause at any moment,'' the statement said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Harry Reid, above, the Senate majority leader, and John McCain,
who has embraced his state's tough new immigration law. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN
SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A17)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 9, 2010 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                                National Edition

Deportation's Brief Adios and Prolonged Anguish

BYLINE: By MERIBAH KNIGHT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 1681 words


When Sheena Perez walked into the federal detention center in Broadview just
after dawn Tuesday, she carried $200 in cash and a backpack filled with two
T-shirts, two pairs of jeans and underwear, all freshly ironed. Slung over her
right arm was her boyfriend's favorite leather jacket; in her left hand was a
bottle of 212 cologne.

It was everything he had asked her to bring.

Inside, her boyfriend, Daniel Vega-Garcia, who is the father of her 18-month-old
son, awaited deportation to Mexico. Sometime between 8 a.m. and 11 a.m., a bus
would take him and dozens of other illegal immigrants to O'Hare International
Airport for the trip back to their native countries. Their wrists and legs
shackled and chained to their waists, Mr. Vega-Garcia and other deportees bound
for Mexico would board a chartered plane to Harlingen, Tex., and then walk
across the border to the country Mr. Vega-Garcia, 38, had left 15 years ago.

The hotly debated immigration issue has been reignited by a new Arizona law that
gives the police broad new powers to identify and expel illegal immigrants.
Washington has yet to find a way to control the United States' borders and to
deal with the politically explosive question of whether to allow a path to
citizenship for the illegal immigrants already here. The humanitarian dimension
of the issue comes into focus two mornings each week -- Tuesdays and Fridays --
at the detention center as families seek fleeting farewell glimpses of their
departing loved ones.

When Ms. Perez called Immigration and Customs Enforcement on Monday for
assistance, her questions were simple: Could she visit Mr. Vega-Garcia on
Tuesday morning? What time? What did she need to bring? She got no help, she
said, so she called the Mexican Consulate, where her questions were answered.

''If it wasn't for the Mexican Consulate, I would have never known what time to
be here or what I could and could not bring, or that I had to have an ID, or
anything,'' Ms. Perez said, her voice quivering.

On Tuesday morning, she handed off the backpack to guards who inspected the
contents and passed it along. They refused to allow the cologne, a Christmas
present from her to Mr. Vega-Garcia, because liquids were not allowed on the
plane.

Ms. Perez, a round-faced 25-year-old with radiant blue eyes, recalled their
goodbye, a quick    ''Adios,''   moments later.

''I could see him, but all they did was take the bag from me, give it to him,
and he had to walk away,'' she said, wiping away tears.

The entire visit took only seconds, she said. It was not the farewell she had
envisioned.

Despite an encircling tangle of barbed wire, Broadview Detention Center is not
obvious. An unmarked brick structure on a forgettable street, it is flanked by
anonymous office buildings.

The federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement office in Chicago, which is
responsible for six states --Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Missouri and
Wisconsin -- deported nearly 10,000 immigrants from October 2008 to September
2009. Many of them came through the Broadview center, which bookends the
deportation process for the Midwest. First, newly detained immigrants are
processed and transferred to county jails in Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky and
Wisconsin. Later, they are processed at the center for deportation to their
countries of origin.

Every Tuesday and Friday, buses filled with deportees travel from the center to
O'Hare. From 5 a.m. to 7 a.m. families and friends trickle into the building to
say goodbye and bring clothes, other belongings and money. After their visit,
many wait for hours just to see the bus -- its windows covered with a gray
opaque coating, as if the passengers' faces were rubbed out with an eraser --
leave.

Mr. Vega-Garcia's departure Tuesday was accompanied by only a handful of other
deportees' family members, immigration officers wearing bulletproof vests and a
chain-smoking employee who refused to comment. But on Fridays over the past
three years, interfaith workers and advocates for an immigration overhaul have
held a vigil outside the center. During a torrential rain on Friday, a core
group of 25 of them -- nuns, a Hindi woman with Hare Krishna beads and an
immigration lawyer, among others -- gathered and said the rosary. They prayed
with families outside the center and, after being allowed on the bus, then with
deportees themselves.

On April 27, after Arizona's immigration measure was enacted into law,
protesters at the center tried to block vans carrying deportees. A week later,
the buses were running as scheduled, and Ms. Perez was preparing for life as a
single parent. She said she knew that her son would miss riding with Mr.
Vega-Garcia in his red Chevrolet Monte Carlo, but she did not know how to tell
him that his father was gone.

''I believe it is absolutely immoral to destroy 1,100 families a day to
deportation because political leaders don't have the courage to come together on
a solution,'' said Joshua Hoyt, the executive director of the Illinois Coalition
for Immigrant and Refugee Rights.

Americans, Mr. Hoyt said, ''understand that the overwhelming majority of
immigrants here illegally work hard, have U.S. citizen family members, and
trying to round them up for deportation would be hugely expensive and turn our
nation into a police state.''

Gail Montenegro, a spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said the
agency did not track how many deportees were parents or spouses, but an
investigation by the Department of Homeland Security in 2007 found that more
than 100,000 parents whose children are American citizens were deported from
1997 to 2007.

For advocates of stricter enforcement of immigration laws, the rules are cut and
dried.

''When you violate the law, it is you who are responsible for the consequences
to your family,'' said Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, which is based in Washington and advocates for stricter
enforcement and the tightening of immigration laws. ''Children are not a
get-out-of-jail-free card.''

According to the federal immigration agency, in 2009 35 percent of deportees had
criminal convictions, which included identity theft, driving without a license
and other nonviolent offenses, as well as felony convictions.

But Fred Tsao, policy director of the refugee rights coalition, noted that even
illegal immigrants accused of crimes were entitled to an assumption of
innocence.

''It's far from being the case that individuals flagged through the criminal
justice system are in fact criminals,'' Mr. Tsao said. ''They could have had
their charges dropped, or found not guilty. But even when that happens,
immigration could be waiting for them at the other end of the process.''

At a diner around the corner from the detention center, killing time before the
bus left with Mr. Vega-Garcia, Ms. Perez picked at French toast. ''I don't have
much of an appetite,'' she said.

''I didn't think something so little would turn into something so big,'' she
added, referring to events that led to his deportation.

The relationship between them had waxed and waned, Ms. Perez said. They broke up
soon after their son, Jaeden Daniel Vega, was born. Ms. Perez said she had been
abused in a previous relationship, so when Mr. Vega-Garcia began following her
after one of their periodic breakups, she pre-emptively filed a protective order
against him. The relationship was rekindled, however, and the protective order
forgotten.

But on a rainy night six weeks ago, everything changed. The couple were under a
lot of stress, Ms. Perez said. Jaeden was having his third bout of pneumonia,
and both parents had come off long shifts at work -- Ms. Perez at Provena St.
Charles Hospital, where she works as a phlebotomist, and Mr. Vega-Garcia at a
plastics molding factory where he had worked for 15 years as a machine operator.

They quarreled, she said, and Mr. Vega-Garcia shoved her.

Ms. Perez called the police, and Mr. Vega-Garcia was picked up for violating the
order of protection. That set off an expedited deportation process. Ms. Perez
says that the guilt she now feels is almost unbearable.

At the center on Tuesday, Ms. Perez watched as the bus, before the boarding
began, disappeared into a narrow garage. Save for official vehicles entering and
exiting, everything that goes on at the center is out of sight.

''It has become a secret or parallel penal system,'' said Mr. Hoyt, the
immigration rights advocate.

When the bus emerged from the garage an hour later, it stopped in the middle of
the street. Ms. Perez leaned against a car, sobbing.

''I don't know what side he's on,'' she exclaimed.

She followed her gut, she said, and walked to the left side of the idling
vehicle. ''I am sorry,'' she mouthed at a rubbed-out window.

She paced until she heard handcuffs banging against a window. She stopped.
''That's him; that's Daniel!'' she cried, her body doubling over in sobs. ''He
is shackled in there. That's immoral.''

''I'm sorry,'' she repeated, waving as the bus began to drive off, only to stop
30 feet later. She let out a wail, and began walking toward the bus, still
weeping.

Ms. Perez stopped a few feet from the bus and leaned against a telephone pole.
An officer came up behind her. ''You've got to go,'' he said curtly. ''You've
got to go.''

He began escorting her away.

Exhausted and drained, Ms. Perez got into her car. She waited for the bus to go
by, then followed it for a mile before making a right turn toward home.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 16, 2010, Sunday



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
An article last Sunday about deportation of illegal immigrants quoted
incorrectly from comments by Fred Tsao, policy director of the Illinois
Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights. Mr. Tsao said, ''It's far from being
the case that individuals flagged through the criminal justice system are in
fact criminals.'' He did not say, ''It's far from being the case that criminals
flagged through the criminal justice system are in fact criminals.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sheena Perez watched as the deportation bus carrying the father
of her son left Broadview Detention Center for O'Hare Airport.
 Ms. Perez keeps a photo of her son and his father, a Mexican deportee, on her
cellphone. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 9, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Big Picture Beyond Arizona's Law

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1060 words


To the Editor:

We agree with Ross Douthat's column (''The Borders We Deserve,'' May 3) about
the need to move past polarization on the immigration debate and enact national
reforms to create an immigration system that welcomes legal immigrants and
discourages illegal ones. So it was discouraging to see him write about how the
United States needs to regain control of its southern border.

First, such calls to ''regain'' control of the border suffer from historical
amnesia, perpetuating a common myth that it was ever actually under control. It
is only in the last several decades that the United States government has made a
serious effort to discourage illegal crossings on what was historically a
largely unmonitored border.

Second, he claims that the federal government has not tried to control the
border. In fact, since 1990 the number of Border Patrol agents has grown from
fewer than 4,000 to more than 20,000, doubling in the last five years alone.

Add in the new technology and fencing, and the border with Mexico is now one of
the most heavily policed borders in the world. And indeed it is precisely this
border buildup that has blocked the easy routes through California and Texas and
led to the enormous growth of smuggling of illegal migrants through the harsh
Arizona deserts.

Mr. Douthat is right, however, that the real measures for controlling
unauthorized immigration will be found away from the border. These include tough
and smart workplace enforcement and employer sanctions to shut off the jobs
pipeline that attracts unauthorized migrants, secure identification for everyone
and policies that would welcome more legal immigrants from a wider array of
countries. And for that Congress finally needs to move on immigration reform
legislation.

Edward Alden  Peter Andreas  Washington, May 3, 2010

Mr. Alden is a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and project
director of the Independent Task Force on U.S. Immigration Policy. Mr. Andreas
is associate professor of political science at Brown University.

To the Editor:

Ross Douthat lists some ways to regain control of our southern border, including
curbing demand for illegal workers with stiff workplace enforcement and
stringent penalties for hiring undocumented workers.

The fact is that American businesses, and therefore the local, state and federal
governments, do not want to stop the flow of cheap, exploitable labor to
America. Instead, politicians want to reap the economic benefit of illegal
immigrants and, at the same time, assume a tough and patriotic posture for the
angry American citizens who want to blame someone or something for the
mismanagement of their beloved homeland.

Eliminate the jobs that the illegal immigrants find here all too easily and you
will reduce the problem significantly. But businesses large and small and our
politicians will never do that. They would rather write laws that undermine the
Constitution.

Anthony Esposito  Hurley, N.Y., May 3, 2010

To the Editor:

The myth that Arizona was forced to crack down on illegal immigrants because the
federal government has abdicated its responsibility to enforce the immigration
laws bears no more relation to reality than does the myth that only racists on
the far right are against immigration.

The truth is that under the administration of a left-centrist president -- who,
as a candidate, promised to fight against making immigrants scapegoats for all
of America's problems and to promote racial tolerance -- deportations,
investigations of employers who hire immigrants and arbitrary denials of
applications for legal visas, especially by educated professional workers, are
higher than they have been for many years.

The Arizona law is part of a wider populist movement to roll back the gains in
racial tolerance that America's immigration system has made since 1965, when an
immigration law based on restrictive national origin quotas favoring Northern
Europe and dating from the 1920s was abolished. A century ago, there were the
Chinese exclusion laws.

Today, many immigration opponents in both parties would like to go back to the
bigoted spirit of those times. It is meaningless to focus only on the Arizona
law. There is a much broader issue at stake.

Roger Algase  New York, May 3, 2010

The writer is an immigration lawyer.

To the Editor:

In ''If Only Arizona Were the Real Problem'' (column, May 2), Frank Rich
suggests that opposition to illegal immigration is often racially motivated.
Don't the American people have a right to their own country and their own
culture, just as other nations do? The very least we can expect our government
to do is enforce our laws and our borders.

But the Democrats seem perfectly willing to allow a flood of illegal immigrants
into our country because they see Hispanic immigrants as providing more votes
for them. The Republicans turn a blind eye to illegal immigration as well
because illegals mean cheap labor for their big business buddies.

And the American people are left feeling helpless, abandoned and frustrated. If
we dare to speak out and say, ''Hey, this is our country; don't we have a right
to determine our own destiny as a nation?'' the media label us as racists.

Donald Lyman Jr.  Wilmington, Mass., May 5, 2010

To the Editor:

The incendiary rage behind Arizona's new immigration law has already spread to
other issues and other states. Think of the wave of bills and laws further
limiting women's reproductive choices. Think of the enraged campaigns against
same-sex marriage. Think of the laws striking down affirmative action.

Think of the recent statement by the governor of Virginia calling for the study
of the Confederacy and neglecting to mention slavery. Think of the Texas
textbook debates and the efforts to rewrite American history as the story of a
Christian state.

These are all campaigns to dehumanize certain sectors of the population: racial
or ethnic minorities, women, nonheterosexuals, those practicing ''other''
religions, agnostics and atheists. They mark an increasing tendency to divide
society into ''us'' and ''them.'' We need to call for a stop to this now, while
also seriously addressing the fears behind this anger so we can defuse it.

Lynn E. Palermo  St.-Quentin-les-Troo, France, May 2, 2010

The writer is a professor of French at Susquehanna University.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JON HAN)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 17, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Trenton, Issuing IDs for Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1555 words


TRENTON, N.J. -- Since moving to this city from her native  Guatemala a decade
ago, Herlinda, an illegal immigrant, has supported her family with restaurant
work, but has had no way of proving that she lives here. Without
government-issued photo identification, like a driver's license or a passport,
she said, she could not get treatment at most medical clinics, borrow a book
from the library, pick up a package from a mail center or cash a check.

But this month she discovered a solution: a community identification card issued
by a coalition of civic groups and endorsed by Trenton and Mercer County
officials.

''When you don't have a proper ID, they can humiliate you,'' said Herlinda, 43,
as she waited in the offices of a church where the cards were being issued. ''I
feel I belong in Trenton.''

As a new law in Arizona makes the failure to carry immigration documents a crime
and spurs similar proposals in other states, Trenton is one of a small but
growing number of municipalities that have moved in the opposite direction --
making sure that illegal immigrants have documents to make their lives easier.

At least six city governments, including San Francisco and New Haven, now
endorse or issue photo identification cards to residents. The latest is
Princeton, N.J., where advocates for immigrants, with the consent of both the
borough and the township, will begin issuing cards on May 22; other New Jersey
communities have also expressed interest. Oakland, Calif., has approved a
program but has not yet started issuing cards.

In one sense, these liberal cities and Arizona's conservative lawmakers are
working toward the same thing, said Maria Juega, treasurer  of the Latin
American Legal Defense and Education Fund, an advocacy group that spearheaded
the ID programs in Trenton and Princeton. Both camps, she said, are trying to
fill the void created by Congress's failure to fix a flawed immigration system.

''These are reactions,'' Ms. Juega said. ''We've had these gaping holes that
everybody's been talking about for two decades and done nothing about.
Everybody's scrambling.''

Calls for a nationally mandated identification card have been made for decades,
particularly after 9/11, but they received a push late last month when a group
of Democratic senators unveiled a blueprint for comprehensive immigration
reform. The plan includes a proposal to require all workers, including citizens,
to show potential employers a card with biometric data, like fingerprints -- a
measure meant to prevent illegal immigrants from working.

The local identity cards do not grant legal residency or the right to work. They
are intended to fold illegal immigrants into the fabric of the community by
giving them entree to services and places that require some sort of recognized
identification. In Trenton, immigrants can use their cards to access libraries,
medical centers and doctors' offices; seek help from charitable organizations
and private social service agencies; and use the city's public recreation
centers and pools.

In addition, law enforcement officials say, the cards give illegal immigrants
who fear  detection and deportation more confidence about reporting crimes, and
allow officials to help immigrants who are crime victims.

''I believe that people who are here in America must be safe and must be
healthy,'' said Eve Sanchez Silver, the community and Latino liaison for Asbury
Park, N.J., where a city-endorsed identity card program for illegal immigrants
began in 2008. ''If they're not safe, we're not going to be safe. If they're not
going to be healthy, we're not going to be healthy.''

While the programs in Trenton, Princeton and Asbury Park are endorsed by local
law enforcement officials but administered by community organizations, New Haven
and San Francisco themselves issue identity cards. The cards allow access to
even more services, including opening bank accounts. This allows immigrants to
deposit their pay checks, rather than carrying large amounts of cash that make
them prey for thieves.

To keep the cards from becoming ''scarlet letters'' that mark illegal
immigrants, they are offered to all residents, though they are mainly used by
immigrants and the homeless.

A few states, including New Mexico and Washington, allow illegal immigrants to
obtain driver's licenses, but the number has fallen  as more states require
proof of lawful presence in the country.

Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which
opposes illegal immigrants and proposals to give them legal status, described
the local ID card programs as ''attempts by the leadership of those communities
to thwart enforcement of U.S. immigration laws.''

He added, ''It encourages people to stay in those communities, when in fact the
policies ought to be discouraging those people.''

But Ms. Juega said she and her fellow advocates in Trenton were motivated by a
desire to ''allow this population that is increasingly marginalized to have some
semblance of a normal life.''

About 23 percent of Trenton's 83,000 residents are immigrants, mostly Latinos,
according to the 2008 American Community Survey. Many do not have legal
immigration documents, advocates say.

Trenton's ID program, which began in May 2009, met with minimal resistance among
city officials, said Detective Bob Russo of the Office of Community Affairs in
the Trenton Police Department, who has been a major proponent. ''I've had a few
colleagues who were against it,'' he said. ''But we stressed that you're not
giving this person any pass or anything like that, you're just accepting that
person as a member of the community.'' City and police officials are under
orders not to ask residents about their immigration status, unless it is in
connection with a felony.

Still, only about 1,300 people in Trenton have stepped forward to get the cards.
Some immigrants have been wary, despite promises that the information they
provided would remain confidential.

Two days after New Haven lawmakers approved the nation's first plan to offer
cards in 2007, federal agents from Immigration and Customs Enforcement began a
series of arrests in the area that sent 32 immigrants to detention centers
around New England -- a move that the mayor, John DeStefano Jr., described as
retaliation. By the time city officials issued the first IDs, called Elm City
Resident Cards, many residents were afraid to come forward.

Some other communities waited to see if there were legal challenges to the New
Haven program, but none surfaced. Opponents of the program filed an open records
request seeking the participants' names and addresses. The city's refusal was
upheld by the Connecticut  Freedom of Information Commission, said Michael J.
Wishnie, a Yale law professor who helped develop the program and was retained by
the city to help defend it in the event of lawsuits.

Like most community identification cards, the cards in Trenton have no currency
outside the city. Detective Russo said that some police departments in
neighboring communities had confiscated them, thinking they were fake.

Yet organizers say their program has been a success, drawing interest from other
municipalities and praise from charitable agencies around the city. The Rev.
Jarrett Kerbel, director of the Crisis Ministry of Princeton and Trenton, which
runs a food pantry, said a growing number of clients were using the cards to
receive services.

Mario, 26, an illegal immigrant from Guatemala, said he used the card to collect
his paychecks at the commercial cleaning company where he works, and to enter
the guarded buildings he cleans. Last week, he accompanied his friend Augustin,
19, to St. Stanislaus Roman Catholic Church in Trenton, where advocates issue
the documents one evening each week. Augustin, a baby-faced immigrant from
Mexico, said finding an employer prepared to hire him had not been a problem --
the trouble was proving he was not under age.

As Augustin registered for a card, Mario revealed that his had been useful in
some unexpected ways.

Early one recent morning as he was driving to work, he was pulled over by a
Trenton police officer for driving with a broken tail light. The officer, he
said, asked for his insurance card and registration as well as his driver's
license. While Mario had the car documents, he had no license; instead, he
offered his local identity card.

The police officer, Mario said, let him go with a warning about the tail light.
There was no mention of the lack of a driver's license, a punishable offense.

Mario, an observant Catholic, smiled as he recalled his stroke of good fortune.
''La obra de Dios,'' he said. ''The work of God.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (A17)
 An undocumented immigrant filling out an application for an identification card
in Trenton. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A19)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 22, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona Plans Prisoner Transfer

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 319 words


Desperate to save money, Arizona will transfer illegal immigrants who have been
convicted of nonviolent crimes to federal custody for the last three months of
their sentences, saving the state the cost of housing them.

Currently, prisoners who are not illegal immigrants are eligible to leave prison
90 days before their sentences end and begin community service. Under the new
plan, which begins Jan. 1, the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency will
take custody of the illegal immigrants pending deportation. The Arizona
Department of Corrections said that a total of more than 1,200 prisoners would
be moved this fiscal year and next, saving about $5.7 million.

Gov. Jan Brewer called for the move in an address to senior members of her
administration after the Legislature hammered out a plan over the weekend to cut
nearly $200 million from the current budget to help close a $1.5 billion
shortfall. Like many other Western states, Arizona has been hit
disproportionately by the foreclosure crisis, halting the state's economic
growth.

Arizona also has some of the toughest sentencing laws in the country, and its
prison costs are about $1 billion a year.

''The cost of incarcerating these criminals is not Arizona's responsibility,''
Ms. Brewer said in prepared remarks. ''By federal law, the cost of their
incarceration is the responsibility of the federal government. However, the
federal government is refusing to adequately fund this program.''

Arizona, like many other states, already releases some jailed illegal immigrants
to the immigration authorities, but the new plan would expand the pool.
Currently, it releases about 200 prisoners a month to immigration before their
sentences are finished, according to the federal agency.

''Identifying and removing deportable criminal aliens is a top priority for
I.C.E.,'' Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for the agency, said in a prepared
statement.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 23, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Arizona, a Stream of Illegal Immigrants From China

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CEASAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 807 words

DATELINE: TUCSON


The unforgiving terrain of the Sonoran Desert,  south of here, whose searing
summers and frigid winters claim hundreds of lives each year, has long been a
favored avenue of entry for illegal immigrants from Mexico and other Latin
American countries. But in the last year, the authorities say, smugglers have
increasingly capitalized on a much more lucrative business -- trafficking
Chinese citizens into the United States.

The number of Chinese immigrants arrested while illegally crossing the border
into Arizona through the busiest smuggling corridor in the United States
increased tenfold in the last fiscal year, according to the United States
Border Patrol in Tucson.

In fiscal 2009, 332 Chinese immigrants were caught in the Border Patrol's Tucson
sector, up from 30 the previous year, Border Patrol figures showed. And in what
could be a sign of a record-breaking pace for this year, agents in the Border
Patrol's Tucson sector arrested 281 Chinese immigrants from Oct. 1 to Dec. 31,
the first quarter  of the current fiscal year.

The reason is simple: dollars and cents.

As  record quantities of illegal drugs are being intercepted in Arizona, those
involved in taking people and drugs across the border are increasingly
concentrating  on the more rewarding smuggling of Chinese immigrants, said David
Jimarez, a spokesman for the Border Patrol.

Chinese immigrants commonly pay smugglers upward of $40,000 each to lead them
from their homeland to the United States, Mr. Jimarez said. In comparison, he
said, illegal immigrants from Mexico commonly pay $1,500 to $3,000.

''The price far exceeds other nationalities, mainly due to the elaborate nature
of the trip from China to Mexico,'' said Vincent Picard, a spokesman for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Peter Chan, a Tucson businessman who works as an interpreter at the federal
courthouse in Tucson, said some immigrants had told him that they had paid a
deposit of $5,000 to $10,000 to Chinese smugglers before leaving China.

If the immigrants make it to America, Mr. Chan said, they begin paying the
smugglers the remainder of the cost. He said some immigrants had said they had
been  promised a refund if they were sent back to China.

Border officials said they suspected that the smuggling of non-Mexicans into the
United States was a transcontinental operation because it is so intricate.

''We believe that there is coordination between Chinese organized crime groups
and Mexican smuggling organizations,'' Mr. Picard said.

Chinese smugglers have traditionally used shipping containers to take immigrants
through American ports, but that has subsided as container inspections have
increased, Mr. Picard said.

He said that several new tactics had emerged.

In the most common one, immigrants fly from Beijing to Rome, board a plane to
Caracas, Venezuela,  fly to Mexico City and work their way up to the northern
border and into the United States. In another, they travel to Cuba, fly to the
Yucatan Peninsula in Mexico and travel north into the United States.

''Smuggling activity shifts with enforcement,'' Mr. Picard said. ''It's like a
chess game, with criminal organizations on one end and us on the other.''

Once immigrants are in Mexico, crossing into the Tucson area is the route of
choice because the smuggling infrastructure is already in place, he said.

The Border Patrol's Tucson sector does not normally track arrests of illegal
immigrants by country because of the disparity of the figures between Mexico and
other nations. Typically, Mr. Jimarez said, immigrants from other countries
account for 2 percent to 5 percent of the total.

In 2009, 11,628 of the Tucson sector's 241,673 arrests were non-Mexican --
nearly 5 percent, Mr. Jimarez said. Only when the sector noticed the influx did
it tally the number of Chinese entering in recent years.

Like others who entered the country illegally, most of the Chinese were  fleeing
dire situations in their homeland, said Mr. Chan, the federal court interpreter.

He said most of those immigrants he spoke with  were from Fujian Province, in
southeast China, and had traveled across the globe to enter the United States
because of a lack of education and employment opportunities back home.

''They left even though they were very scared of leading a totally different
life in a very different country,'' he said.

Patsy Lee, president of the Tucson Chinese Association, said that young Chinese
want to reach ''gold mountain,'' a phrase coined for California by those who
came to work during the gold rush in the 1800s.

While the circumstances have changed, she said, the motivation for the new wave
of Chinese entering the country illegally is rooted in the same ideal.

''The Chinese youth love the freedom Americans have,'' Ms. Lee said. ''They
still see America as the land of promise.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 30, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Haitians In the U.S. Illegally, Some Help

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 691 words


Two years ago, at age 17, Stephanie Germain arrived in New York from Haiti,
overstayed her tourist visa and slipped into the parallel universe of the
illegal immigrant. While she managed to learn English, graduate from high school
and enroll in Queensborough Community College, her immigration status ensured
that she would have to live largely out of the government's view.

On Thursday, however, she took her first tentative steps out of the shadows,
attending a free legal clinic concerning the special immigration status the
Obama administration has offered to Haitians living illegally in the United
States.

The new designation, called temporary protected status and announced on Jan. 15,
three days after the earthquake in Haiti, protects recipients from deportation
for 18 months and allows them to work. The status is offered from time to time
to immigrants who are unable to return safely to their home countries because of
armed conflict or natural disasters.

Ms. Germain, who has been living with her godfather in Richmond Hill, Queens,
and receiving financial support from her parents back in Port-au-Prince, viewed
the opportunity as nothing less than a release, albeit temporary, from a kind of
imprisonment. ''This allows me to live!'' she exclaimed happily. ''I can work, I
can take care of myself, I can go to school.''

The government has estimated that the designation could cover at least 100,000
Haitians believed to be living in the United States illegally, in addition to
about 30,000 Haitians who have already been ordered deported.

Legal organizations are organizing free, confidential clinics around the country
to help Haitians understand the details of the designation and how to qualify
for it. On Friday, Gov. David A. Paterson and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg
announced the creation of the New York Haitian Earthquake Family Resource
Center, which will provide support services. And the city will hold a clinic on
applying for the special status on Saturday at Medgar Evers College in Brooklyn.

The legal clinic on Thursday, sponsored by the City Bar Justice Center and the
New York chapter of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, was the
largest in the city since the earthquake.

For three hours, dozens of Haitian immigrants filed through the grand foyer of
the New York City Bar building in Midtown Manhattan, and up to two large
conference rooms. There, more than 180 volunteer lawyers, paralegals and
interpreters explained the new designation -- in English, French and Creole --
and helped fill out applications.

In all, 83 people came seeking help, a lower turnout than expected. Participants
wondered whether some immigrants stayed away out of fear that the promise of
confidentiality was not airtight; because of the cost of applying (as much as
$470), or because of the location, a long commute from the densest
concentrations of Haitians in Brooklyn and Queens.

''That was a big, open question for us, whether people would come to this
site,'' said Lynn Kelly, executive director of the Justice Center. But
organizers decided that the Midtown location was most convenient to the greatest
number of volunteer lawyers, she said.

Still, many clients who came seemed relieved, even exhilarated, to begin the
process. Some said the new status would allow them to find legal work and help
support relatives in Haiti. Others said they hoped to apply for government
financial aid for college.

Nadia Exantus, 34, said she had been in the United States illegally since 2006,
when she had to leave Port-au-Prince because she could not support her family.
She left her two children with an  aunt, flew to Mexico, and sneaked across the
United States border on foot. Detained, then released, by immigration officials,
she made her way to New York.

She has since worked as a baby sitter and a hair braider, and received financial
help from a brother in New York. Meanwhile, the aunt caring for her children
died in the earthquake.

Ms. Exantus said she hoped the new status would give her legal footing to bring
the children, now 4 and 6, to the United States. ''I'm living on hope,'' she
said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stecy Antoine, left, and Reina Boaz, center, worked with a
Haitian woman at a free legal clinic in New York on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JB
REED FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 5, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Houston Bus Companies Were Links in Illegal Immigrant Network, Officials Say

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 536 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


Raids on 14 illegal bus companies here have shed light on a seedy underground
system that transported illegal immigrants all over the country and that
sometimes held them captive until their relatives paid exorbitant fares, federal
law enforcement officials said Thursday.

Using minivans, the companies were carrying hundreds of illegal immigrants from
Mexico to cities across the United States, taking back roads and traveling
primarily at night to avoid the authorities, according to criminal complaints
filed in Federal District Court. Twenty-two people were arrested earlier this
week on charges of using their businesses to transport illegal immigrants.

The bus companies worked exclusively with smuggling operations, officials said.
The owners paid commissions of up to $300 for each passenger to smugglers who
had brought the immigrants across the Mexican border. Then they held the
immigrants in safe houses for days, often under guard, until they loaded them
onto vans, according to court documents.

Agents said that at one of the bus companies raided this week, Super Express Van
Tours, they found the operators had used pit bulls and armed guards to keep the
immigrants from leaving a safe house next door to the office.

''These were not legitimate transportation companies like Greyhound,'' said John
Connolly, the deputy special agent in charge in Houston for Immigration and
Customs Enforcement.

The companies also charged  far more than legitimate carriers would for the
trips, asking them to pay as much as $650 for a ride to cities like Los Angeles,
Atlanta and Miami. The fee was usually paid at the end of the journey by
relatives of the immigrants, officials said. In some cases the drivers refused
to release the passenger if the family could not pay, the complaints said.

''These companies did not treat their passengers as persons, but rather as
commodities to be bought and sold,'' said John T. Morton, an assistant secretary
of homeland security, at a news conference Wednesday.

The raids in Houston signified a shift in strategy, officials said. In the past,
immigration agents have intercepted individual drivers and arrested the illegal
immigrants they carried, but this time the government went after the owners and
operators of the bus companies, a critical link in the smuggling network.

Some of the companies had been operating for years. Super Express Van Tours
vehicles had been stopped by the police and the Border Patrol seven times from
2004 to 2009, in several states, and each time the driver was arrested for
transporting illegal immigrants, according to a criminal complaint.

The owner, Fermin A. Tovar, who was arrested Tuesday, charged riders $200 to
$600, depending on their destination, but disguised the true fares on passenger
manifests using a code, the complaint said.

The money for the fares was either wired to Mr. Tovar at Western Union offices
or deposited by his drivers into his bank accounts at branches across the
country, always in amounts small enough to escape the notice of regulators,
officials said.

In one two-and-a-half year period, Mr. Tovar  took in $900,000 in cash deposits
to two bank accounts he controlled, the complaint said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 10, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrant Population Drops

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WASHINGTON; Pg.
18

LENGTH: 125 words


The number of illegal immigrants in the United States declined to 10.8 million
in January 2009, a drop of one million since a peak in 2007, according to an
estimate Tuesday by the Department of Homeland Security. Demographers said the
figures, based on census data and the most recent estimate by the department,
showed the largest two-year drop in the population of illegal immigrants since
1990, after which it began a period of rapid growth. Homeland Security
Department researchers noted that the decline coincided with the recession,
while Steven Camarota, a demographer at the Center for Immigration Studies in
Washington, said that stepped-up enforcement was also a factor. About 62 percent
of illegal immigrants are from Mexico, the report said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 16, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Offer Draws Few Haitians

BYLINE: By ANNE BARNARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 462 words


Within days of the devastating earthquake in Haiti on Jan. 12, the United States
government declared that Haitians living illegally in the United States were
eligible for temporary protected status, a special immigration designation that
temporarily allows them to work here legally.

While advocates and government officials alike said that this was one of the
most effective ways to get  help to needy quake victims, the number of
applicants has fallen short of expectations.

Two months after the earthquake, and a third of the way to the July deadline to
file for the special status,  just 34,427 of the estimated 100,000 to 200,000
undocumented Haitians who were in the United States before Jan. 12 have applied,
said the Department of Homeland Security. The protected status allows  18 months
of legally working.

Charitable groups blame the lag on the application fees, which total about $500.
The average monthly amount that Haitians abroad send to relatives in Haiti -- a
pillar of the country's economy -- is just $150, according to the Inter-American
Development Bank. On Monday, a broad coalition of charities called on the
government to make it easier for applicants to have the fee waived.

Haitians who are granted the special immigration designation could add as much
as $1 billion to the Haitian economy over the next three years, Hunton &
Williams, a law firm for Catholic Charities Immigration Legal Services, wrote in
a letter backed by the Episcopal bishop of Haiti and 49 American charity groups.
The letter was sent to Congress and  the United States Citizenship and
Immigration Services, which administers the program.

Applicants for the special status are usually working class and, because they
are working illegally, may not be receiving fair wages, said Debi Sanders, a
government liaison for Catholic Charities Immigration Legal Services. And the
cost is not the only obstacle: To get the fee waived, applicants must supply
extensive financial information, a challenge for workers who have ''gone out of
their way not to have anything on paper,'' she said.

Ms. Sanders said the charities were optimistic that the government would adopt
their suggestion to make the fee waiver process simpler, because department
officials have told advocates privately that they want to see more applications.
Just 1,657 people have applied for waivers so far, said Luz Figuereo Irazabal, a
spokeswoman for Citizenship and Immigration Services. Only 696 were granted,
partly because applicants offered little proof beyond saying, ''I don't have the
money.''  She said about 10 percent of the 34, 427 applications had been
rejected because of simple mistakes like forgetting to sign a form. Her agency's
Web site, uscis.gov, lists common filing mistakes.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 23, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Massachusetts: Ex-Customs Official Faces Jail Over Household Help

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING NEW ENGLAND; Pg.
17

LENGTH: 112 words


A former official with the Department of Homeland Security, Customs and Border
Protection was convicted Monday of encouraging her housekeeper to stay in the
country illegally. Lorraine Henderson, 52, of Salem, oversaw immigration
enforcement at airports and other international points of entry in three states
until she was suspended because of the charges in 2008. According to the United
States Attorney's Office, Ms. Henderson was warned in 2006 that the housekeeper
was in the country illegally, and ignored a colleague's warning that she should
fire her. Ms. Henderson faces up to five years in prison, three years' probation
and a $250,000 fine. Sentencing is June 17.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 24, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Are Focus Of New Curbs

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 341 words


LOS ANGELES -- The Arizona Legislature gave preliminary approval Tuesday to a
proposal that would allow the police to arrest illegal immigrants on trespassing
charges simply for being in the state.

The provision, which opponents and proponents call a first in the nation, is
part of a wide-ranging bill whose  sponsors say they hope will make life tougher
for illegal immigrants.

The House bill must be reconciled with a version passed by the Senate, something
that may be done within the next week or two. Both include measures to outlaw
the hiring of day laborers off the street; prohibit anyone from knowingly
transporting an illegal immigrant, even a relative, anywhere in the state; and
compel local police to check the status of people they reasonably suspect are in
the country illegally.

Immigrant advocates call the bill some of the harshest legislation they have
seen in a state where battles over immigration are particularly sharp edged.

Its sponsors said Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican facing a primary competition
from conservatives, has indicated  her support, though her spokesman said she
would not take a position until the final bill reaches her desk.

State Senator Russell Pearce, a Republican and the chief sponsor of the
legislation, brushed aside concerns raised by civil libertarians that the law
would  open the door to racial profiling. The local office of the American Civil
Liberties Union says the bill is unconstitutional.

Mr. Pearce said the bill  gives the police another tool and compensates for  lax
enforcement of immigration law by the federal authorities. The police, he said,
do not have to arrest every illegal immigrant on trespassing charges, but it
gives them that discretion.

''American citizens have a constitutional right to expect their rights and laws
to be enforced,'' he said in an interview.

Several police chiefs and sheriffs have criticized the bill, calling it
burdensome and impractical and a tactic that will scare immigrants out of
cooperating with investigations and reporting crime.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 2, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

If Only Arizona Were the Real Problem

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1585 words


DON'T blame it all on Arizona. The Grand Canyon State simply happened to be in
the right place at the right time to tilt over to the dark side. Its hysteria is
but another symptom of a political virus that can't be quarantined and whose
cure is as yet unknown.

If many of Arizona's defenders and critics hold one belief in common, it's that
the new ''show me your papers'' law is sui generis: it's seen as one angry
border state's response to its outsized share of America's illegal immigration
crisis. But to label this development ''Arizona's folly'' trivializes its import
and reach. The more you examine the law's provisions and proponents, the more
you realize that it's the latest and (so far) most vicious battle in a far
broader movement that is not just about illegal immigrants -- and that is
steadily increasing its annexation of one of America's two major political
parties.

Arizonans, like all Americans, have every right to be furious about Washington's
protracted and bipartisan failure to address the immigration stalemate. To be
angry about illegal immigration is hardly tantamount to being a bigot. But the
Arizona law expressing that anger is bigoted, and in a very particular way. The
law dovetails seamlessly with the national ''Take Back America'' crusade that
has attended the rise of Barack Obama and the accelerating demographic shift our
first African-American president represents.

The crowd that wants Latinos to show their papers if there's a ''reasonable
suspicion'' of illegality is often the same crowd still demanding that the
president produce a document proving his own citizenship. Lest there be any
doubt of that confluence, Rush Limbaugh hammered the point home after Obama
criticized Arizona's action. ''I can understand Obama being touchy on the
subject of producing your papers,'' he said. ''Maybe he's afraid somebody's
going to ask him for his.'' Or, as Glenn Beck chimed in about the president last
week: ''What has he said that sounds like American?''

To the ''Take Back America'' right, the illegitimate Obama is Illegal Alien No.
1. It's no surprise that of the 35 members of the Arizona House who voted for
the immigration law (the entire Republican caucus), 31 voted soon after for
another new law that would require all presidential candidates to produce birth
certificates to qualify for inclusion on the state's 2012 ballot. With the whole
country now watching Arizona, that ''birther'' bill was abruptly yanked
Thursday.

The legislators who voted for both it and the immigration law were exclusively
Republicans, but what happened in the Arizona G.O.P. is not staying in Arizona.
Officials in at least 10 other states are now teeing up their own new
immigration legislation. They are doing so even in un-Arizonan places like Ohio,
Missouri, Maryland and Nebraska, none of them on the Department of Homeland
Security's 2009 list of the 10 states that contain three-quarters of America's
illegal immigrant population.

Outbreaks of nativist apoplexy are nothing new in American history. The last
derailed George W. Bush's apparently earnest effort to get a bipartisan
immigration compromise through the Senate in 2007. At the time, the more
egregious expressions of anti-immigrant rage -- including Arizona's
self-appointed border-patrol militia, the Minutemen -- were stigmatized as a
fringe by the White House and much of the G.O.P. establishment. John McCain,
though facing a tough fight for the Republican presidential nomination, signed
on to the Bush reform effort despite being slimed by those in his party's base
who accused him of supporting ''amnesty.''

What a difference the Tea Party makes. This time McCain endorsed his state's new
immigration law as ''a good tool'' and ''a very important step forward,'' and
propagandized in favor of it with his widely ridiculed televised canard that
illegal immigrants were ''intentionally causing accidents on the freeway.''
McCain, like other mainstream conservative Republicans facing primaries this
year, is now fighting for his political life against a Tea Party-supported
radical. His opponent, the former congressman and radio shock jock J. D.
Hayworth, is an unabashed birther who frames the immigration debate as an
opportunity to ''stand up for our culture,'' presumably against all immigrants,
legal and illegal alike. In this political climate, he could well win.

McCain, like Arizona, shouldn't be singled out for censure: He is far from alone
in cowering before his party's extremists. Neither Mitch McConnell, John Boehner
nor Eric Cantor dared say a word against Arizona's law. Mitt Romney, who was
mocked during the 2008 campaign for having employed undocumented Guatemalan
immigrants as landscapers on his Massachusetts estate, tried to deflect the
issue by vacillating (as usual). So did Mike Huckabee, who told The Dallas
Morning News last week that ''it's not my place to agree or disagree'' with what
happened in Arizona. If it's not the place of a talk-show host and prospective
presidential candidate to take a stand on an issue of this moment, whose place
is it? There are few profiles in courage among the leaders in this G.O.P. --
only a lot of guys hiding under their desks.

The one group of Republicans that has been forthright in criticizing the Arizona
law is the Bush circle: Jeb Bush, the former speechwriter Michael Gerson, the
Homeland Security secretary Tom Ridge, the adviser Mark McKinnon and, with
somewhat more equivocal language, Karl Rove. McKinnon and Rove know well that
Latino-bashing will ultimately prove political suicide in a century when
Hispanic Americans are well on their way to becoming the largest minority in the
country and are already the swing voters in many critical states.

The Bushies, however, have no power and no juice in the new conservative order.
The former president is nearly as reviled in some Tea Party circles as Obama is.
Even conservatives as seemingly above reproach as Senator Lindsey Graham of
South Carolina now invite the nastiest of blow-back if they fail Tea Party
purity tests. When Graham had the gall to work with Chuck Schumer of New York on
an immigration reform bill, the hard-line Americans for Legal Immigration
punished him by spreading rumors about his private life as loudly as possible.
Graham has been backing away from supporting the immigration bill ever since.

It's harder and harder to cling to the conventional wisdom that the Tea Party is
merely an element in the G.O.P., not the party's controlling force -- the tail
that's wagging the snarling dog. It's also hard to maintain that the Tea Party's
nuttier elements are merely a fringe of a fringe. The first national Tea Party
convention, in Nashville in February, chose as its kickoff speaker the former
presidential candidate Tom Tancredo, a notorious nativist who surely was
enlisted precisely because he runs around saying things like he has ''no idea
where Obama was born.'' The Times/CBS poll of the Tea Party movement found that
only 41 percent of its supporters believe that the president was born in the
United States.

The angry right and its apologists also keep insisting that race has nothing to
do with their political passions. Thus Sarah Palin explained that it's Obama and
the ''lamestream media'' that are responsible for ''perpetuating this myth that
racial profiling is a part'' of Arizona's law. So how does that profiling work
without race or ethnicity, exactly? Brian Bilbray, a Republican Congressman from
California and another supporter of the law, rode to the rescue by suggesting
''they will look at the kind of dress you wear.'' Wise Latinas better start
shopping at Talbots!

In this Alice in Wonderland inversion of reality, it's politically incorrect to
entertain a reasonable suspicion that race may be at least a factor in what
drives an action like the Arizona immigration law. Any racism in America, it
turns out, is directed at whites. Beck called Obama a ''racist.'' Newt Gingrich
called Sonia Sotomayor a ''Latina woman racist.'' When Obama put up a routine
YouTube video calling for the Democratic base to mobilize last week -- which he
defined as ''young people, African-Americans, Latinos and women'' -- the
Republican National Committee attacked him for playing the race card. Presumably
the best defense is a good offense when you're a party boasting an all-white
membership in both the House and the Senate and represented by governors who
omit slavery from their proclamations of Confederate History Month.

In a development that can only be described as startling, the G.O.P.'s one
visible black leader, the party chairman Michael Steele, went off message when
appearing at DePaul University on April 20. He conceded that African-Americans
''really don't have a reason'' to vote Republican, citing his party's pursuit of
a race-baiting ''Southern strategy'' since the Nixon-Agnew era. For this he was
attacked by conservatives who denied there had ever been such a strategy. That
bit of historical revisionism would require erasing, for starters, Strom
Thurmond and Jesse Helms, not to mention the Willie Horton campaign that helped
to propel Bush 41 into the White House in 1988.

The rage of 2010 is far more incendiary than anything that went down in 1988,
and it will soon leap from illegal immigration to other issues in other states.
Boycott the Diamondbacks and Phoenix's convention hotels if you want to punish
Arizona, but don't for a second believe that it will stop the fire next time.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 30, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Stopping Arizona

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 626 words


A fight is brewing over Arizona's new law that turns all of the state's Latinos,
even legal immigrants and citizens, into criminal suspects. And this is not a
local fight. The poison is spreading; there is talk in Texas of passing a
version of the Arizona statute.

President Obama has called the law ''misguided'' and promised to keep an eye on
it. But when racial separation finds a foothold in any of the 50 states, the
president needs to do more than mildly criticize. He should act. Here's a
partial but urgent to-do list:

DEFEND CIVIL RIGHTSThe Justice Department needs to challenge this law forcefully
in court. The statute requires police officers to stop and question anyone who
looks like an illegal immigrant. Gov. Jan Brewer signed the law but says she
doesn't know what an illegal immigrant looks like, leaving that to others who
think they do.

The Justice Department knows what kinds of abuse that invites. Itis already
investigating the sheriff of Maricopa County, Joe Arpaio, who raids Hispanic
neighborhoods in and around Phoenix. His deputies demand people's papers based
on the shirts and boots they wear.

Federal law requires noncitizens to carry documents but does not empower police
officers to stop anyone they choose and demand to see papers. Arizona's attempt
to get around that by defining the act of standing on its soil without papers as
a criminal act is repellent.

STOP ARIZONA COLDArizona's scheme will rely on federal databases to determine
immigration status. It will also need the cooperation of the Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agency, or ICE, in accepting detainees. ICE says its
priorities are dangerous criminals and fugitives, not the peaceful workers and
families who are overwhelmingly the targets of the new law. In that case, ICE
will deny Arizona authorities data, cooperation and scarce resources.

TAKE BACK IMMIGRATION POLICY The Supreme Court has consistently ruled that
states cannot make their own immigration laws. The Arizona debacle gives the
Obama administration another chance to make it clear that the nation's
immigration policy cannot be left to a ragged patchwork of state and local laws.

As a presidential candidate, Mr. Obama praised a federal court's decision
striking down a law in Hazleton, Pa., that made it illegal to hire or rent
housing to undocumented immigrants. To start forcefully asserting the central
federal role in immigration, the administration should rescind a once-secret
2002 memo from President George W. Bush's attorney general, John Ashcroft, that
declared that state and local police had ''inherent authority'' to make
immigration arrests. It should have done that long ago. It should also weigh in
against another reckless Arizona law, now before the Supreme Court, that revokes
the business licenses of employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants.

The administration's actions elsewhere have sent the wrong message. Janet
Napolitano once vetoed extremist immigration-enforcement bills as Arizona's
governor, but as the homeland security secretary she defends the use of state
and local police as ''force multipliers.'' Ms. Napolitano needs to end dangerous
experiments like the 287(g) program and Secure Communities, which hand over
vital federal duties to untrained, unsupervised local deputies, openly enabling
racial-profiling and undermining community policing and public safety.

These steps are no substitute for immigration reform, the future of which seems
pretty murky after Mr. Obama started gingerly backing away this week. But the
federal government must react forcefully to the Arizona statute. Is our core
belief still the welcome and assimilation of newcomers? Arizona has given one
answer. It's time for Mr. Obama to give the other.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Court Requires Warning About Deportation Risk

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 759 words


WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Courtruled on Wednesday that lawyers for people
thinking of pleading guilty to a crime must advise their clients who are not
citizens about the possibility that they will be deported.

Likening deportation to the punishments of banishment and exile, Justice John
Paul Stevens, writing for five justices, said the Constitution guaranteed
competent legal advice on at least some collateral consequences of guilty pleas.

''It is our responsibility under the Constitution to ensure that no criminal
defendant -- whether a citizen or not -- is left to the mercies of incompetent
counsel,'' Justice Stevens wrote.

The vote was 7 to 2, though two justices in the majority would have required
only that criminal defense lawyers not say anything false and tell their clients
to consult an immigration lawyer if they had questions.

The case involved Jose Padilla, a native of Honduras who has lived in the United
States for 40 years, served in the Vietnam War and is a legal permanent
resident. Mr. Padilla, a commercial truck driver, was arrested in 2001 after the
authorities in Kentucky found more than 1,000 pounds of marijuana in his truck.

Mr. Padilla pleaded guilty to marijuana trafficking, a felony, and received a
five-year sentence. He later said he had agreed to the plea based on his
lawyer's incorrect advice that it would not affect his immigration status. In
fact, the plea made it all but certain that Mr. Padilla would be deported once
he served his time.

The question in the case, Padilla v. Kentucky, No. 08-651, was whether bad legal
advice about a collateral consequence of a guilty plea could amount to
ineffective assistance of counsel under the Sixth Amendment.

Justice Stevens said the answer was yes. Where the relevant immigration law is
''succinct and straightforward,'' he said, the defense lawyer must explain the
consequences of a guilty plea. Otherwise, the lawyer ''need do no more than
advise a noncitizen client that pending criminal charges may carry a risk of
adverse immigration consequences.''

''The importance of accurate legal advice for noncitizens accused of crimes has
never been more important,'' he wrote. ''Deportation is an integral part --
indeed, sometimes the most important part -- of the penalty that may be imposed
on noncitizen defendants who plead guilty to specified crimes.''

Justices Anthony M. Kennedy, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen G. Breyer and Sonia
Sotomayor joined Justice Stevens's opinion.

Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., writing for himself and Chief Justice John G.
Roberts Jr., agreed that the Constitution had a role to play where deportation
might be a consequence of guilty plea. But Justice Alito said that role was a
limited one. The majority's ''vague, halfway test will lead to much confusion
and needless litigation,'' he wrote.

In Justice Alito's view, criminal defense lawyers need only ''refrain from
unreasonably providing incorrect advice'' and tell their clients that their
pleas may have negative immigration consequences about which ''the alien should
consult an immigration attorney.''

''I do not agree with the court,'' Justice Alito added, ''that the attorney must
attempt to explain what those consequences may be.''

He added that criminal defense lawyers could not be expected to provide advice
about all areas of the law.

''Criminal convictions can carry a wide variety of consequences other than
conviction and sentencing,'' Justice Alito wrote, ''including civil commitment,
civil forfeiture, the loss of the right to vote, disqualification from public
benefits, ineligibility to possess firearms, dishonorable discharge from the
armed forces, and loss of business or professional licenses.''

''All of those consequences are serious,'' he went on, ''but this court has
never held that a criminal defense attorney's Sixth Amendment duties extend to
providing advice about such matters.''

Justice Antonin Scalia, writing for himself and Justice Clarence Thomas,
dissented.

''In the best of all possible worlds,'' Justice Scalia wrote, ''criminal
defendants contemplating a guilty plea ought to be advised of all serious
collateral consequences of conviction, and surely ought not to be misadvised.''
But the Constitution does not guarantee a perfect world, Justice Scalia added.

He said that addressing situations like Mr. Padilla's should be left to
legislatures. ''Statutory provisions can remedy these concerns in a more
targeted fashion,'' he wrote, ''and without producing permanent, and
legislatively irreparable, overkill.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Justices Agree on Detainee Death Case

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 914 words


WASHINGTON -- A man who received what the government concedes was negligent
medical treatment while held by immigration authorities may not sue the
personnel who failed to treat him, the Supreme Courtruled Monday in a unanimous
decision.

The case concerned Francisco Castaneda, a Salvadoran citizen who complained
about what turned out to be penile cancer while held in an immigration detention
facility in San Diego.

Over the course of about 10 months, Mr. Castaneda repeatedly sought treatment
for what he said was an increasingly painful lesion. Though he was advised
several times that he needed a biopsy to determine whether he had cancer,
employees of the United States Public Health Service, which provides medical
personnel to federal prisons and detention facilities, denied the recommended
procedure, saying it was elective.

Instead, Mr. Castaneda was treated with ibuprofen and antibiotics. He was also
given, Justice Sonia Sotomayor wrote for the court, ''an additional ration of
boxer shorts.''

After a fourth specialist recommended a biopsy, Mr. Castaneda was released from
custody. He promptly went to an emergency room, where a biopsy was performed. It
showed that Mr. Castaneda had penile cancer.

His penis was amputated, but the cancer had metastasized to his groin. Mr.
Castaneda filed suit in late 2007 and died in February 2008.

The trial judge, in allowing the case to go forward, said it ''should be taught
to every law student as conduct for which the moniker 'cruel' is inadequate.''

The legal question in the case, Hui v. Castaneda, No. 08-1529, was whether the
Federal Tort Claims Act bars suits against individuals in such circumstances.

Saying the justices ''are mindful of the confines of our judicial role,''
Justice Sotomayor said the act allows only suits against the government.

Such suits, however, are generally not as attractive to plaintiffs. They are
governed by state law, which in Mr. Castaneda's case appears to cap his estate's
damages at $250,000. They do not allow punitive damages. And they are not tried
before a jury.

Justice Sotomayor wrote that the government has recently ''filed a formal notice
admitting liability with respect to'' Mr. Castaneda's ''claims for medical
negligence'' under the Federal Tort Claims Act. His estate is therefore likely
to receive the limited compensation available under that law.

Steven R. Shapiro, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union, which filed
a brief supporting Mr. Castaneda, said there was a solution to the court's
narrow readings of the applicable federal statutes.

''Today's decision just highlights the need for Congress to address the systemic
failure of our immigration detention system,'' Mr. Shapiro said.

Mistrials

The justices divided 6 to 3 over whether a judge in a state criminal trial had
been too quick to order a new trial after hearing that the jury might be
deadlocked.

The defendant, Reginald Lett, was ultimately convicted of shooting a taxi driver
to death in 1996 after an argument outside a Detroit liquor store. His first
trial, in June 1997, took less than nine hours, though spread out over several
days. During some four hours of deliberation, jurors sent out seven notes. One
said: ''What if we can't agree? Mistrial? Retrial? What?''

Moments later, the jurors sent another note: ''What about lunch?''

The first of those notes caused the judge to call the jury back to the courtroom
and interview its forewoman. The forewoman, in a three-minute exchange with the
judge, was equivocal about whether the jury was hopelessly deadlocked but
ultimately said the jury would not be able reach a unanimous verdict.

The judge declared a mistrial on the spot. At a second trial in November 1997,
the jury deliberated for just over three hours before finding Mr. Lett guilty of
second-degree murder. Lower federal courts later ruled that the conviction had
violated Mr. Lett's rights under the double jeopardy clause of the Constitution.

Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., writing for himself and five others,
suggested that the trial judge might have acted too rashly. But he upheld the
decision of the state court.

''We do not deny that the trial judge could have been more thorough before
declaring a mistrial,'' Chief Justice Roberts wrote in the case, Renico v. Lett,
No. 09-338. But federal courts should not, he said, second-guess the reasonable
decisions of state court even when those decisions may be incorrect.

Justice John Paul Stevens dissented, joined by Justice Sonia Sotomayor and, in
large part, by Justice Stephen G. Breyer.

''Reginald Lett's constitutional rights were violated when the trial court
terminated his first trial without adequate justification, and he was
subsequently prosecuted for the same offense,'' Justice Stevens wrote. ''The
majority does not appear to dispute this point, but it nevertheless denies Lett
relief by applying a level of deference to the state court's ruling that
effectively effaces the role of the federal courts.''

Death penalty

The court turned down without comment an appeal from a British woman on death
row in Texas. The inmate, Linda Carty, said the performance of her lawyer at her
murder trial had been woefully inadequate.

The British government, in a supporting brief, had also urged the court to hear
the case, saying that the authorities in Texas should have notified the British
consulate of Ms. Carty's arrest so that it could have provided her with legal
assistance.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 13, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Republicans Settle on Florida for 2012 Presidential Convention

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 482 words


WASHINGTON -- The Republican Party selected Tampa, Fla., on Wednesday as the
site of its 2012 presidential nominating convention, with the city winning out
over Phoenix and Salt Lake City as the place to kick off the party's quest to
defeat President Obama.

Tampa was a leading contender in 2004 and 2008, but it lost out to New York City
and Minneapolis-St. Paul. This time, Tampa was considered the odds-on favorite,
considering the state's big role in presidential elections.

''Each convention is an important time in our party and nation's history, and
2012 will certainly be no different,'' said Marco Rubio, a rising Republican
figure and the party's candidate for United States Senate from Florida.

The Republican convention is scheduled to begin Aug. 27, 2012, and will be
followed a week later by the Democratic Party convention. Democrats have  not
disclosed their  list of prospective cities, but officials say applications are
under review from several  places, including Charlotte, N.C., Philadelphia and
St. Louis.

Florida is a perennial presidential battleground state, and Mr. Obama carried it
two years ago. Republicans said Phoenix's bid for the convention had been
complicated by high temperatures and the debate over Arizona's immigration law.
Salt Lake City was seen as doing little to build the party, officials said,
considering that Utah is solidly Republican.

Arizona's immigration law,  the nation's toughest,  has prompted several
convention cancellations in the state. It has also divided many Republicans. In
Florida, Mr. Rubio has voiced his opposition, while Senator John McCain of
Arizona has supported it.

Republican leaders dismissed the suggestion that immigration was a factor in
Tampa's selection.

''Nothing could be further from the truth,'' said Randall Pullen, chairman of
the Arizona Republican Party. ''Republicans from coast to coast stand with
Arizonans as we fight to secure our border.''

In March and April, a team from the Republican National Committee visited Tampa,
Salt Lake City and Phoenix to inspect convention halls and assess how well each
city could accommodate, and help finance, the convention.

''Tampa has put a great deal of effort into showcasing their city and what they
have to offer,'' said Holly Hughes, a Republican official who led the committee,
which unanimously chose Tampa.

The full Republican National Committee is expected to ratify the decision in
August.

A few minutes before the selection was made, Gov. Charlie Crist arrived at the
election supervisor's office in St. Petersburg to formally shed his affiliation
with the Republican Party. Mr. Crist is running as an independent in his bid for
the Senate seat that Mr. Rubio is seeking.

''I think all of us ought to be happy about that,'' Mr. Crist told reporters
after learning that Tampa had been selected. ''It's good for jobs. It's good for
tourism.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mississippi: Executive Pleads Guilty

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 146 words


The only company executive indicted in the nation's largest workplace raid on
illegal immigrants pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy. The executive,
Jose Humberto Gonzalez, pleaded guilty to knowingly hiring illegal immigrants at
Howard Industries, where he was personnel director. Prosecutors would not
discuss details of the plea agreement. More than 600 immigrants were arrested in
a raid in August 2008 at a Howard plant in southern Mississippi. In a statement
on Wednesday, the company said that Mr. Gonzalez was placed on leave after his
indictment in May and resigned Wednesday after entering his plea. The company
said it had always had ''a strict policy to hire only U.S. citizens or those who
have legal authorization to work in the United States'' and has since instituted
even more safeguards, including a fingerprint identification system for its
employees.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 6, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Reprieve Eases Medical Crisis for Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE BREAKING POINT; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1143 words


ATLANTA -- After a largely sleepless night, Cruz Constancia got up Tuesday
morning wondering whether this would be the day that she finally stopped
receiving dialysis without charge.

It was not. When Ms. Constancia, an illegal immigrant from El Salvador, arrived
at her dialysis clinic at 6 a.m., she was escorted promptly to her recliner. ''I
thanked God,'' she said after concluding the three-hour session, ''because he is
really the only one that can allow us to continue our treatments.''

More immediately, it was Grady Memorial Hospital that allowed it on Tuesday.

In early October, when Grady, Atlanta's public hospital, closed its outpatient
dialysis unit for budgetary reasons, it agreed to pay for three months of
dialysis at private clinics for about 50 dislocated patients. The patients,
mostly illegal immigrants with no access to insurance, signed documents stating
they understood that Grady's payments would end on Jan. 3. Until then, the
hospital would help them relocate to their home countries or other states.

But only a few immigrants left, and many of those who remain acknowledge that
they have done little to explore what they regard as untenable options at home.
Nonetheless, Grady officials announced this week that they would extend the
deadline to Feb. 3, and continue to pay for dialysis and relocation services
until then.

''We think it's the right thing to do,'' said Matt Gove, a senior vice president
at Grady, ''to help give patients more time to make long-term arrangements.''

The one-month reprieve prolongs a standoff that has become emblematic of the
medical crisis facing illegal immigrants. An estimated 7 million of the
country's 11 million illegal immigrants have no health coverage and are not
eligible for government insurance programs like Medicare and Medicaid.

Ms. Constancia, 44, heard the news about the extension Tuesday from a nurse with
Fresenius Medical Services, which operates her dialysis clinic in an Atlanta
office park. ''To think that today was my last day, and then hear that I've got
another one makes me happy,'' she said. ''Obviously, I was scared because my
life depends on this.''

When serious illness strikes, many immigrants have few options beyond presenting
themselves at charity hospitals like Grady. Supported by direct appropriations
from Fulton and DeKalb Counties, as well as insurance payments subsidized by
state and federal taxpayers, the hospital accepts patients regardless of their
insurance or immigration status.

But caring for uninsured immigrants has imposed a heavy financial burden,
particularly for public hospitals with broad missions to care for the indigent.
At Grady, where thrice-weekly dialysis treatments cost about $50,000 a year, the
outpatient clinic ran a deficit of $3.5 million in 2008. That was one-tenth of
the hospital's loss that year, although the clinic served only about 90
patients.

The hospital's recently reconfigured board, eager to demonstrate its newfound
discipline, announced last summer that it would close the clinic. The offer to
provide three months of transitional dialysis came later, in unsuccessful
negotiations to end a lawsuit filed by patients. A state court judge has twice
dismissed the case, but on Tuesday the patients' lawyer filed a notice of appeal
to the Georgia Supreme Court.

To a degree, Grady's extension of its deadline may be beside the point. For
reasons that Mr. Gove has not explained, the hospital made its contract with
Fresenius for a year, locking in a payment rate of $280 per session. While Grady
had said it would cut off assistance after Jan. 3, Fresenius officials consider
the contract to require treatment -- at Grady's expense -- until Sept. 1.

''Our understanding of the contract is that we will treat the Grady patients
that are referred to us for a period of one year, and we expect to be
reimbursed,'' said Terry L. Morris, a spokeswoman for Fresenius.

Mr. Gove said the hospital would consider assisting patients beyond Feb. 3 case
by case. He declined to say whether it might pay for some until September.

''It should be clear to the patients that there's a responsibility on their side
to continue trying to find a long-term plan because at some point this care
won't be available,'' Mr. Gove said.

He said that he did not know how much Grady had spent on the patients since the
clinic's closing, but that a rough calculation put the figure at close to
$700,000.

In interviews Monday and Tuesday, some patients said they had not made detailed
investigations of options for dialysis in their own countries. They said that
they were convinced it would not be economically viable and that the quality of
care would be poor. Several mentioned that two Grady dialysis patients who
returned to Mexico had died (as has one who stayed in Atlanta).

Most of the seven patients interviewed said their plan was to stay put until
Grady stopped paying, and then to present themselves at emergency rooms if
necessary. Federal law requires that emergency rooms treat anyone in serious
jeopardy. Going without dialysis can be fatal in as little as two weeks.

''I'm going to stay here until there's really not a hope of getting it any
more,'' said Jesus Neave, 32, who crossed illegally from his native Mexico in
1992 and was diagnosed with kidney disease four years later.

Like the others, Mr. Neave, a maintenance worker, said he would not be able to
make enough in Mexico to afford regular dialysis. ''Mexico is my country,'' he
said, ''but over there if you don't have money, the doctors won't treat you.''

Ms. Constancia said the same of El Salvador: ''People die very fast. The way it
works down there is that if you do not have money, they don't put medicine in
your machine.''

Several of the patients said the nearest dialysis provider would be a
four-or-five-hour drive from their towns. Many said their families and support
systems were all in the United States.

While recognizing that Grady is providing care they would not receive at home,
some said it had been unfair to withdraw it. ''If somebody holds your hand to
support you and then stops, you're going to fall,'' said Bineet Kaur, an Indian
who said she had had overstayed a visa by three years.

''They don't have the obligation, but they have a moral duty to help us,'' said
Rosa Lira, 78, a legal immigrant from Mexico. ''They cannot let us die.''

Many of the immigrants said they simply had no plan for when Grady stopped
paying the bills.

''The only thing that came to my mind is if they don't treat me I would go to
the emergency room,'' said Adolfo Sanchez, 31, an illegal immigrant from Mexico.
''At Grady.''

THE BREAKING POINT: Gaining an Extra Month. This is the third in a series of
articles about closing the dialysis unit at Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta.
Previous articles: nytimes.com/national

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jesus Neave, above, a former patient at Grady Memorial
Hospital's now-defunct dialysis clinic, outside Fresenius Medical Services after
receiving dialysis treatment, paid for by Grady. Cruz Constancia, top left, and
Rosa Lira, right, also former dialysis patients at Grady who get care for now.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID WALTER BANKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 13, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Spending for Immigrants

BYLINE: By MICHELLE ANDREWS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; COST OF HEALTH CARE; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 349 words


How much does care for illegal immigrants cost? The subject is an emotional one.

Tensions were evident last fall when Representative Joe Wilson, Republican of
South Carolina, shouted ''You lie!'' after President Obama, in a speech before
Congress, denied that illegal immigrants would receive free coverage under the
Democrats' proposed health care legislation.

Now, a new study published online in the journal Health Affairs suggests that
immigrants, including those here illegally, cost the health care system less per
person than natives of the United States do. Immigrants also do not make up a
disproportionate share of the costs to public programs like Medicaid, the
researchers found.

The study examined health care spending (which includes public, private and
out-of-pocket spending) from 1999 to 2006 for three groups: native citizens;
adult naturalized citizens; and noncitizens, including illegal immigrants.

Over all, spending increased across all groups during the study period. But
spending for noncitizens was on average about 50 percent less than spending for
United States natives, the study found. In 2006, for example, per capita
spending for native-born United States citizens was $3,723, while spending for
noncitizens was $1,904.

The government data on which the analysis was based do not break out data for
noncitizens who were in the country illegally. Still, ''we know that their
health care costs would certainly be less than those of legal immigrants, and
far, far less than those of U.S. natives, mostly because they have no legitimate
access to the health care system,'' said Jim P. Stimpson, the study's lead
author and an assistant professor of social and behavioral sciences at the
University of North Texas Health Science Center in Fort Worth.

A similar pattern emerged for spending on public programs like Medicaid and the
Children's Health Insurance Program. Public spending for immigrants, including
those here illegally, was slightly lower per capita than spending for United
States-born natives in each of the eight years studied.

MICHELLE ANDREWS

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 15, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Public Hospitals' Warning

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; UNINSURED IMMIGRANTS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 305 words


The leader of New York City's huge public hospital system warned this week that
the health care bills in Congress would burden safety-net hospitals by failing
to provide coverage for uninsured immigrants while also reducing federal
payments for indigent care.

In a conference call with reporters, Alan D. Aviles, president of the city's
Health and Hospitals Corporation, called for Congressional conferees to lift the
five-year ban on federal health benefits for legal immigrants. Neither the
Senate bill nor the House bill does so.

Mr. Aviles also encouraged the Senate to accept House language to allow illegal
immigrants to buy health coverage on new government exchanges at full cost.

''These exclusions do not eliminate the cost of care for these individuals and
families,'' he  said. ''They merely transfer the costs to providers. ''

Under both bills, federal payments to hospitals that handle large numbers of
uninsured patients would decline gradually as more Americans gained coverage.
The bills would make insurance mandatory for most people, and the government
would subsidize the cost of policies for those with low incomes. Illegal
immigrants would not be eligible for the subsidies, just as they typically are
not eligible for Medicare and Medicaid.

The House bill would allow illegal immigrants to buy policies on the exchange,
but the Senate provision, supported by President Obama, would not, on the theory
that illegal immigrants should not benefit even indirectly from a
taxpayer-supported marketplace.

Kevin Appleby, director of migration and policy services for the United States
Catholic Conference of Bishops, said Mr. Obama ''frankly has abandoned
immigrants in this debate.''

''With 12 million undocumented persons in the country,'' Mr. Appleby said,
''someone's going to need a doctor.'' KEVIN SACK

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 18, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fleeing Extreme Drug Violence, Mexican Families Pour Into U.S.

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1739 words


FORT HANCOCK, Tex. -- The giant rusty fence of metal bars along the border here,
built in recent years to keep illegal immigrants from crossing into the United
States, has a new nickname among local residents: Jurassic Park Gate, a nod to
the barrier in a 1993 movie that kept dangerous dinosaurs at bay in a theme
park.

On the other side, a brutal war between drug gangs has forced dozens of fearful
families from the Mexican town of El Porvenir to come to the border seeking
political asylum, and scores of other Mexicans have used special visas known as
border-crossing cards to flee into the United States. They say drug gangs  have
laid waste to their town, burning down houses and killing people in the street.

Americans are taking in their Mexican relatives, and the local schools have
swelled with traumatized children, many of whom have witnessed gangland
violence, school officials say.

''It's very hard over there,'' said Vicente Burciaga, 23, who fled El Porvenir a
month ago with his wife, Mayra, and their infant son after gang members burned
down five homes in their neighborhood and killed a neighbor. ''They are killing
people over there who have nothing to do with drug trafficking,'' he said.
''They kill you just for having seen what they are doing.''

The story of Fort Hancock, 57 miles southeast of El Paso on the Rio Grande, is
echoed along the Texas border with Mexico, from Brownsville to El Paso. As the
violence among drug gangs continues to spiral out of control in Mexico, more
Mexican citizens are seeking refuge in the United States.

The influx of people fleeing the violence, some of whom were involved in drug
dealing in Mexico, has disrupted Fort Hancock's peaceful rhythms. These days,
there are more police cars prowling the dusty streets, and fear runs high among
residents.

The town has only a few paved streets, one restaurant near Interstate 10, a feed
store, a small grocery, a gas station and a couple of general stores. Irrigation
canals carry water from the Rio Grande to alfalfa and chili fields, set amid the
cactus, sand and mesquite of the Chihuahuan Desert.

About 2,000 people live here, in ramshackle trailer homes, weather-battered
recreational vehicles and well-kept brick houses. The water tower boasts of the
high school's six-man football team having won the state championship five times
between 1986 and 1991.

A few children among the refugees belong to families involved in the drug trade,
and rival gang members have threatened them, bringing the specter of gangland
killings to the high school, law enforcement and school officials say.

''Some of the families who are fleeing from Mexico are doing it because they
were somehow participating in these acts,'' said Jose G. Franco, the school
superintendent, ''and if you want to get at somebody, you get at their
children.''

The Hudspeth County Sheriff's Department and the state police are keeping a
close eye on unknown vehicles parked near the schools. The school district has
for the first time hired a law enforcement officer to patrol its three campuses
and has installed security cameras. Spectators are now barred from football and
basketball practices.

''The kids are a little bit on edge, you know,'' said Constable Jose Sierra, who
patrols the schools. ''When we see a different car, we start to get phone
calls.''

Not everyone coming from El Porvenir is seeking asylum. Many Mexicans in towns
along the river have special border-crossing cards, which let them cross for up
to 30 days to do business and shop near the border. But some have used the visas
to relocate their families temporarily to Fort Hancock and other small towns on
the Texas side.

Those who have temporary tourist visas or who can obtain business visas because
they have enough money to start businesses in the United States are also moving
their families across the border. (Cities like El Paso and San Antonio have had
real estate booms and a flourishing of small businesses and Mexican restaurants
as a result.)

Other Mexicans who were once happy living in Mexico are taking advantage of
whatever means they have to obtain a visa and get out. Some were born in a
hospital on the United States side and are American citizens, for instance, or
have married citizens but have never applied for residency.

In El Paso alone, the police estimate that at least 30,000 Mexicans have moved
across the border in the past two years because of the violence in Juarez  and
the river towns to the southeast. So many people have left El Porvenir and
nearby Guadalupe Bravos that the two resemble ghost towns, former residents say.

People without access to visas, however, have been seeking asylum, even at the
risk of being detained for months. In the early days of the conflict, the
asylum-seekers were mostly journalists, police officers and officials who had
been threatened by organized crime. But now people with ordinary jobs  are
showing up at the border and saying they fear for their lives.

''This is an emergency situation, a war,'' said Jorge Luis Aguirre, a journalist
who himself has asked for asylum after his life was threatened in 2008 in Ciudad
Juarez. ''It's a question of life and death for these people.''

But few Mexicans are granted asylum. Over the last three federal fiscal years,
immigration judges heard 9,317 requests across the country, and granted only
183.

Fort Hancock has had a surge in applications in March and April, officials said.
All told the number of people asking for asylum at ports of entry along the
border alone has climbed steadily, to 338 for the federal fiscal year ended last
October, from 179 two years before.

In Fort Hancock, the influx grew after one of the warring drug gangs placed a
banner in El Porvenir's central square recently threatening death for anyone
left in the town on Easter. In response, the Mexican authorities flooded the
town with federal police officers, and the promised mayhem was averted.

A 23-year-old woman with five children, who asked to be identified only as Noemi
because she feared reprisals, was one of the people who crossed the two-lane
bridge over the Rio Grande the Thursday before Easter. The night before, drug
cartel thugs had set fire to four houses, and she and her husband were afraid
there would a blood bath that weekend, as the banner warned.

The United States customs officers sent the family to El Paso, where, after a
night in a jail, Noemi and her children were allowed to enter the country
pending an asylum hearing. Her husband, a farm worker, has remained locked up
while officials weigh his claim to be in danger. Noemi is staying with her
mother-in-law, who has legal residency, in a squalid trailer home on one of Fort
Hancock's unpaved streets.

Her oldest son, a wide-eyed boy of 8, clung to her sleeve and refused to speak.
Three girls, ages 4, 2 and 1, played in the desert dust at her feet or climbed
on a rusted pickup. She held an infant boy of 7 months.

''All the children, the only thing they know how to play is sicarios,'' she
said, using the Spanish word for hired killers.

She and her children are sleeping well for the first time in months, she said,
and she does not know if her family will ever be able to return to their small
house on the other side of the river. They did not even bring a change of
clothes with them, she said.

Mr. Franco, the school superintendent, said the schools have absorbed about 50
new students from Mexico since last year, a 10 percent increase in enrollment.
Many of the new students speak no English and are dealing with the trauma of
having had family members killed.

One Mexican boy in the high school, for instance,is so deeply affected by what
he has seen that he is being tutored apart from other  students, Mr. Franco
said. Several members of the boy's family -- his mother, his grandfather, an
aunt and an uncle -- were tortured with ice picks in El Porvenir in March, the
police said.

Reports of the atrocities on the other side of the border are passed from
neighbor to neighbor. Almost every family in Fort Hancock has been touched in
some way by the violence.

People who have fled El Porvenir say gruesome killings are occurring daily,
though newspaper reporters have been unable to enter the town to confirm them.
Last month, a man and his pregnant wife were murdered outside a primary school
in El Porvenir, according to residents; the man was shot but the killers were
said to have cut open the woman and taken her baby, leaving her to die. In
another account, gunmen were said to have killed a beggar in a wheelchair.

It was stories like these that persuaded Porfirio Flores to seek asylum for his
estranged wife and their two children, who still live in El Porvenir. On the day
before Easter, Mr. Flores, a 60-year-old oil worker with legal residency who
lives in a cramped RV in Fort Hancock, crossed over to Mexico and escorted his
wife and children to the border so they could ask for asylum. But the United
States customs officers turned them down without an explanation, he said.

''What can I do? I need a lawyer,'' he said, his eyebrows knit together in
worry. ''They are killing children over there. They are killing people who just
try to make a living.''

Other families have had more success bringing their loved ones over the border.
Imelda Montoya, a legal resident in the United States, brought in her
grandparents on the Monday after Easter after the taco stand the family runs was
burned to the ground by arsonists the night before.

The fire was the last straw, Ms. Montoya said. Two of her uncles -- one worked
at a carwash and another cleaned streets for the city -- had been shot to death
in the last year by gunmen.

At the border that Monday, the authorities let Ms. Montoya's grandmother,
Beatrice Diaz, 66, enter because she had a visa allowing her to cross  on
errands. But her grandfather, Lorenzo Saldana, 77, was detained pending a
hearing, she said.

A day later, Mrs. Diaz sat primly in her granddaughter's house. She seemed out
of place and out of time in her peasant's skirt and blouse. She had spent her
entire life in El Porvenir, she said in a bewildered tone, and had never
imagined she would live in the United States.

But then she had never imagined the streets of her town would echo at night with
car engines roaring and gunfire. ''It's very ugly now,'' she said. ''One cannot
sleep in peace.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Noemi, who fears reprisal if her identity is revealed, fled El
Porvenir with her daughter Alicia, 1, and her four other children.
 Vicente Burciaga and his wife, Mayra. They left after gang members burned down
five homes in their neighborhood and killed a neighbor. Above, the gate at the
border. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IVAN AGUIRRE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) MAPS:
Residents say drug gangs have laid waste to El Porvenir.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Long Walk For a Cause

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 130 words


Four immigrant students arrived at the White House on Wednesday  after walking
from Miami to raise support for legislation to open a path to legal status for
students who are illegal immigrants.

The students, Juan Rodriguez, 20, Felipe Matos, 24, Gaby Pacheco, 25, and Carlos
Roa, 22, started walking on Jan. 1, hoping to press Congress to adopt a bill
known by its supporters at the Dream Act. Mr. Roa and Mr. Matos  do not have
legal status.

Last week, the bill's sponsors, Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois,
and Senator Richard G. Lugar,  Republican of Indiana,  wrote a letter asking
President Obama to suspend deportations of students who are illegal immigrants.
The bill would give legal status to immigrants who arrived in the United States
at age 15 or younger.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Carlos Roa, Gaby Pacheco, Felipe Matos and Juan
Rodriguez in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 4, 2010 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

A Bitter Guest Worker Story

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 447 words


A federal agency appears to have collaborated in an effort to silence foreign
workers who claimed they were lured here under false pretenses and abused by the
company they worked for. The role of Immigration and Customs Enforcement --
reported in The Times by Julia Preston -- is being investigated by the
Department of Homeland Security and the Justice Department.

This is the latest twist in a sad tale of human trafficking and another reason
why Congress, as part of its immigration reform efforts, must solve a problem
that dates back to the Mexican bracero program: how to accept guest workers in
this country while preventing their exploitation.

In 2006, a company called Signal International hired 500 skilled metalworkers
from India, under the H-2B temporary guest worker program, to repair oil rigs
after Hurricane Katrina. The workers say they were promised green cards for
themselves and their families. Some paid recruiters as much as $20,000 to make
the trip to Mississippi, often taking on crushing debt or selling their homes.

The workers quickly learned that they had no hope of green cards. They could not
work for anyone else and were told they would be fired and deported if they left
their isolated labor camps. They were trapped as surely as if they were
shackled.

When they complained, the company -- according to court testimony by its own
officers -- sought guidance from ICE on how to fire ''chronic whiners'' who were
threatening to organize broader protests.

The agency replied, according to one official: ''Don't give them any advance
notice. Take them all out of the line on the way to work; get their personal
belongings. Get them in a van and get their tickets and get them to the airport
and send them back to India.''

The private deportation failed after workers' advocates organized a protest at
the shipyard gates. In an internal e-mail message 10 days later, a shipyard
official disclosed that the agency had promised to go after workers who had left
their jobs, ''if for no other reason than to send a message to the remaining
workers that it is not in their best interests to try and 'push' the system.''

The Indian workers are suing Signal. The company is suing Indian and American
recruiters for allegedly misleading the workers. And then there are the federal
investigations of ICE.

The story may yet have a decent ending for the workers, hundreds of whom are
seeking the protection the government guarantees to victims of trafficking. But
the broader problem remains -- of immigrant workers afraid to ''push the
system'' and challenge abusive employers and even federal agencies when their
jobs, visas and futures are at stake.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 5, 2010



CORRECTION: An editorial on Thursday about a Mississippi company apparently
enlisting a federal agency's help to silence complaining guest workers referred
incorrectly to investigations prompted by the complaints. The Justice Department
is reportedly investigating the company, Signal International. It is not
investigating the agency, Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 22, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

What Would You Do?

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 364 words


Many American workers know how a bad economy can chain them to a bad job or a
bad boss. But what if you're an immigrant guest worker and that boss holds your
visa and can get rid of you with one phone call to the feds? What if he just
threatened to call? Which would you choose -- to be exploited or deported? To
suffer silently here or in destitution back home?

There are laws to prevent such exploitation, but they often fail in the real
world, which is rife with examples of abuses, and not just among the
undocumented.

Hundreds of Indian shipyard workers brought legally to Mississippi under the
H-2B guest-worker program organized hunger strikes and recently filed lawsuits
protesting deplorable working conditions in what they called a system of human
trafficking and involuntary servitude. The Departments of Justice and Homeland
Security have been investigating. Farm workers and domestic workers regularly
rally and plead for legislative help to escape abusive conditions.

A new bill from Senator Robert Menendez, a Democrat of New Jersey, and
co-sponsored by Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, a Democrat of New York, seeks to
give these workers a chance to speak out. It offers temporary protection against
deportation and retaliation for noncitizen workers -- both visa holders and the
undocumented -- who file civil-rights or labor-rights complaints or are
witnesses in lawsuits or criminal investigations against employers.

This gives time for labor agencies and law enforcement to investigate claims of
workplace violations, investigations that now are often short-circuited after
complainants disappear or are deported. It also expands a visa program for
immigrants who are crime victims.

For too long the deck has been stacked against noncitizen workers. While the
country has drastically ramped up the arrest, prosecution and deportation of
tens of thousands of undocumented workers, it has done little to deal with
unscrupulous employers who like their work force cheap, easily intimidated and
disposable.

When one group of workers is powerless, all workers suffer. Mr. Menendez's bill
is essential civil-rights legislation that is long overdue and just in time.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 12, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Guest-Worker Rules Seek to Increase Wages

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 625 words


Labor Secretary Hilda Solis announced new rules on Thursday for the temporary
immigrant farm workers program, saying they would raise wages and strengthen
labor protections for foreign and American workers.

Under the new rules, growers will no longer be able to attest that they tried to
find American workers to fill jobs given to migrants, but will have to prove
they conducted job searches. The Labor Department will establish a national
electronic registry of farm jobs to assist the effort.

American farm worker organizations hailed the changes, but growers' groups said
they would be costly  and could be prohibitively cumbersome for many farmers,
particularly smaller producers.

Growers ''are just beside themselves that these rules keep changing; it just
makes it impossible,'' said Craig Regelbrugge, a spokesman for the American
Nursery and Landscape Association.

Many of the new measures restore previous procedures for the program, known as
H-2A for the type of visa that foreign workers receive, after the rules were
changed in the last days of the Bush administration. Farm worker organizations
strongly objected to those changes, arguing they had rapidly lowered wages for
American agricultural laborers.

Labor officials said Thursday that the method of calculating wages for temporary
foreign workers introduced by the Bush administration had reduced farm workers'
wages  by an average of a dollar an hour in the year they were in effect. The
new rules, which take effect on March 15, revert to the prior method for setting
wages.

''The major change is that we are asking employers to prioritize those American
workers that might be available,'' Ms. Solis said. ''And we are trying to make
it realistic in terms of wages that can be earned by the farm workers that are
currently out in the fields.''

The rules restore the role of state workforce agencies in carrying out
inspections of farms seeking temporary foreign workers, including mandatory
inspection of the housing that employers are required to provide.

''We are very grateful to Secretary Solis for her willingness to spend the time
and resources to ensure that the most vulnerable workers are protected,'' said
Bruce Goldstein, executive director of Farmworker Justice, an advocacy group in
Washington.

In California, growers said that new restrictions on the jobs guest workers in
the program could perform were too inflexible for the rapidly changing
conditions of agriculture. ''I am not optimistic that any significant numbers of
growers are going to be able to use this program,'' said Bryan Little, Director
of Labor Affairs for the California Farm Bureau Federation.

The new rules require growers to provide contracts to foreign guest workers
before they leave their home countries, to protect against abuse by recruiters.

While the Department of Homeland Security runs the program, the Labor Department
approves growers' requests for foreign workers. In 2009, labor officials said,
the department approved 94 percent of the applications growers submitted for
H-2A workers, bringing  86,014 foreign migrants to the United States.

The program supplies only a fraction of the about one million farm workers in
the United States. At least half of those workers are illegal immigrants, labor
officials have estimated, with many farm employers hiring those immigrants
instead of dealing with the slow-moving guest worker process.

While sharply divided over the new rules, growers and farm workers agreed that
the Obama administration should press Congress to pass legislation overhauling
the immigration system. Most versions of that legislation include a bill that
creates a new guest worker program that all sides in agriculture have long
supported.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 13, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Church's Compact With U.S. Spares Immigrants Detention

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1759 words

DATELINE: HIGHLAND PARK, N.J.


When the young pastor started his ministry here at the century-old Reformed
Church in 2001, he gave little thought to the separate congregation of
Indonesian Christians who shared the sanctuary. They worshiped quietly in their
own language on Sunday afternoons, at the end of a hard week's work in the
factories and warehouses of central New Jersey.

But by May 2006, when they began pleading to sleep at the church, the pastor,
the Rev. Seth Kaper-Dale, had to pay attention. At the apartment complex where
many Indonesians lived, armed federal immigration agents in a single night had
rounded up 35 men with expired visas and outstanding deportation orders, as
their wives and children cried and other families hid.

Suddenly a prosperous suburban congregation was confronted with the labyrinthine
world of immigration law and detention. This year, when one of its own leaders,
an Indonesian, was detained for months, only the pastor's passionate, last-ditch
efforts saved him from deportation. And the church reached a new level of
activism -- with extraordinary results.

Under an unusual compact between the pastor and Immigration and Customs
Enforcement officials in Newark, four Indonesians have been released from
detention in recent weeks, and  41 others living as fugitives from deportation
have turned themselves in under church auspices. Instead of being jailed -- as
hundreds of thousands of immigrants without criminal records have been in recent
years -- they have been released on orders of supervision, eligible for work
permits while their lawyers consider how their cases might be reopened.

Though agency officials say the arrangement is simply an example of the
case-by-case discretion they often use, the outcome has astonished advocates and
experts in immigration enforcement, and raised hopes that it signals some
broader use of humanitarian release as the Obama administration vows to overhaul
the immigration system.

Still, for those who turn themselves in, the leap of faith carries big risks.
For now, they can check in at a federal office every three months and, if
granted a work permit, can secure a driver's license. But they are also
vulnerable to immediate deportation. Just this fall, nine Indonesian Christians
in Seattle who had been on supervised release for years were abruptly detained,
and some were deported.

The immigration agency issues about 10,000 orders of supervision annually, but
they typically involve people who cannot be deported for practical reasons, like
a homeland that will not take them back. The agency detains roughly 380,000
people a year.

''I'm totally on uncharted waters,'' Mr. Kaper-Dale, 34, a Vermont native who
shares the pulpit with his wife, Stephanie, said in October as he began seeking
volunteers willing to place themselves in the government's hands, from about 200
candidates not only at his church, but at several other New Jersey
congregations.

The first ones to step up had to overcome fear born of experience.

''Very, very scary,'' said Augus Alex Assa, 46, who fought tears as his
5-year-old daughter, Christia Celine, clung to him in the van from the church,
in Middlesex County, to an immigration enforcement unit in Newark. ''In my
heart, I hope I will stay in the United States.''

Like most of the Indonesians, Mr. Assa and his wife, Grace, came on tourist
visas that were suddenly easy for poor people to get in the 1990s, when a
booming economy welcomed foreign labor with a wink and a nod. Everything changed
after 9/11, when a government directive required the ''special registration'' of
men ages 16 to 65 who had entered the country on temporary visas from a list of
predominantly Muslim countries, including Indonesia. If they did not register,
it was understood, they would be considered terrorist fugitives.

Most of the Indonesian Christians complied, on the advice of pastors. They hoped
that honesty would open a path to legal status rather than deportation to their
homeland, where many had faced discrimination and sectarian violence.

Instead, their appeals for asylum were denied in most cases, some through
inattention by inept or overburdened lawyers. And those who registered became
easy targets when national immigration politics demanded a crackdown.

During the 2006 raid, Mr. Assa hid in a closet when immigration agents came to
the door, as his wife covered their daughter's mouth. For two weeks afterward,
they and others slept at the church.

About 50 men were eventually deported, typically after lengthy stays in
immigration jails, leaving wives struggling to support American-born children.
''We were shocked, but we were kind of paralyzed,'' the pastor said.

On Jan. 12, the detention of one of their own spurred the congregation to
action. Harry Pangemanan, a popular Bible study leader, was picked up by
immigration agents as he left for work as a warehouse supervisor. He and his
wife, Mariyana, parents of two American-born daughters, were the only
Indonesians among the 300 people in the main congregation.

Church members organized daily visits to the detention center, a 40-minute drive
away in Elizabeth, N.J., while the pastor appealed to Congressional and
immigration offices. When Mr. Pangemanan reached out with his Bible to fellow
detainees, the congregation visited them, too. Appalled to find asylum-seekers
behind barbed wire and plexiglass, they began holding vigils outside the center,
run for profit by the Corrections Corporation of America.

Some church members resisted. ''As a construction worker who is directly
affected by immigration, it's very hard,'' said Rich Lord, 39. ''I felt like,
they're taking my jobs away.''

But his union and his faith changed his mind, he said: ''There's pregnant women
so desperate in Mexico that they're willing to cross the desert so their child
will be born in the United States. And as a Christian, I have to remember that
Mary, the mother of Jesus, had to flee their homeland.''

Then, at 5 a.m. on March 31, came bad news: Mr. Pangemanan was being put on a
plane to Indonesia. The pastor threw on his clerical collar and ran through
Newark Liberty International Airport in a frantic search for the right gate,
determined to pray with his friend before he was sent away.

By the time the pastor found the flight, the passengers had already boarded. As
he tells the story, he prayed at the gate, so visibly upset that an airline
worker let him on the plane.

Mr. Pangemanan was in the last row between two immigration agents -- bound not
for Jakarta but for a detention center in Tacoma, Wash. -- when he saw his
pastor coming down the aisle. An astonished agent asked, ''How did this guy get
in here?''

''And I just put my finger up,'' Mr. Pangemanan recalled, pointing heavenward.

The agents let them pray briefly; the pastor said goodbye but vowed to keep
trying. Back at the church, he phoned every number on the immigration agency's
Web site.

He still cherishes the recording of the only message that came back, from Dora
B. Schriro, who has since left the agency but was then special detention adviser
to Janet Napolitano, secretary of homeland security. Within a week of their
conversation, Mr. Pangemanan was back in New Jersey with his family, his case
under reconsideration by the Board of Immigration Appeals.

When immigration agents arrested several more Indonesian men in late September,
church leaders took their effort to a new level, meeting with Scott Weber,
director of the detention and removal field office in New Jersey, and agency
envoys from Washington.

David J. Venturella, acting director of the agency's national detention and
removal operations, said he approved the discussions. ''We encourage all of our
field office directors to exercise prosecutorial discretion on a case-by-case
basis,'' he said. ''This is a perfect example.''

Mr. Weber rejected the ministers' proposal for a church-run alternative to
detention, but offered his own: In groups of 5 or 10, twice a week, the church
could bring in the Indonesians they vouched for, and lawyers committed to the
lengthy process of seeking their full case files.

Unless something was amiss -- a hidden criminal conviction, a false address --
the former fugitives could walk out the same day. Even before the details were
arranged, Mr. Weber released four recent Indonesian detainees, one a Muslim.

Amy Gottlieb, immigrant rights director for the American Friends Service
Committee in New Jersey, who has been dealing with the field office since 1996,
called it ''an amazing moment.''

''One, you just never believe that ICE is going to work with you on anything,
given the history,'' she said. ''And given the intensive arrest efforts for the
last two or three years, it's hard to believe that people are ready to recognize
that every single case has a human angle.''

Rex Chen, the supervising lawyer at Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of
Newark, remains more pessimistic, likening himself to a financial adviser who
warns, ''This mutual fund could collapse.''

While the arrangement may buy the Indonesians a year or two, he said, unless
grounds are found to reopen their cases, or Congress changes immigration law,
they could find ''they just moved up from not known, to on the list, to you're
taking the steps up to the airplane.''

There are no guarantees, acknowledged Melinda Basaran, another participating
lawyer and chairwoman of the New Jersey chapter of the American Immigration
Lawyers Association. But many of the Indonesian wives, who did not have to
register after 9/11, will soon have been here 10 years without drawing official
attention, making them eligible to apply for green cards.

The more pressing question is who is included in the supervised release,  said
Joan Pinnock, another lawyer involved. Word of mouth has brought calls from
Washington State, Pennsylvania and New Hampshire, where many Indonesians fled
after the New Jersey raid -- and where their detention and deportation continues
unabated. But Newark immigration authorities have ruled out their return to New
Jersey.

''I would love to get this for my Jamaican clients,'' Ms. Pinnock said, echoing
others who pointed to different groups, like the many Muslims affected by
special registration.

On a recent Wednesday night, in a church meeting room hung with the quilts of
four generations of grandmothers, fathers restored to their families thanked God
and the congregation.

''I'm proud of my church,'' Mr. Pangemanan said. ''Not just the pastor, the
whole church.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Harry Pangemanan, right, and the Rev. Seth Kaper-Dale. At left,
Augus Alex Assa prepared to face federal officials. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE
DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A38)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 10, 2010 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Before Deaths That Caught Public's Eye, Others Stayed Hidden

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 706 words


Over the last two years, the news media and Congress have brought attention to
many deaths in the immigration detention system  that appear to have involved
substandard medical care or abuse. But a  trove of documents obtained over
recent months by The New York Times and the American Civil Liberties Union sheds
light on even more fatalities.

Among the most haunting cases to emerge from the files are  deaths that were
undisclosed at the time but  foreshadow the later fatalities that galvanized
public attention.

One example is the case of  Miguel J. Rodriguez Gonzales, 43, a longtime legal
resident of California who was detained for immigration violations on Feb. 22,
2006. He had end-stage renal disease, diabetes and chronic heart failure, and
was receiving dialysis at a hospital three times a week.

Records show that Mr. Rodriguez fell at least five times during his first 10
days in detention and reported ''intense pain all over.'' By March he was unable
to shower by himself, and ''for hygiene issues'' he was sent to a disciplinary
isolation cell. Soon he had to be taken to the clinic in a wheelchair because he
was unable to walk.

''He has been sent to the emergency room three times and has been admitted twice
for infection and hypotensive episodes while in our custody,'' an immigration
enforcement officer reported to a supervisor in April 2006, noting that the
man's condition appeared to be rapidly deteriorating.

To give him a chance to find a lawyer, the report said, an immigration judge
kept delaying his deportation to Mexico --  where Mr. Rodriguez had told jail
medical personnel that he had no family and could not get dialysis.

On April 10, 2006, after two Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents returned
him to the San Pedro detention center after dialysis, Mr. Rodriguez told a
supervisor that the agents had made him stand up from the wheelchair and let him
fall to the ground several times, laughing and insisting that he could walk.

''He asked why they were treating him that way,'' the supervisor wrote in a
report about the allegations. ''They picked him up from the ground and harshly
shoved him into the transporting vehicle. One used his feet to shove or kick him
into the vehicle.''

The Rodriguez matter was referred to the agency's Office of the Inspector
General, records show. But when an investigator arrived to interview Mr.
Rodriguez, he was in a coma. With no complaining witness, the Justice
Department's civil rights division and the local United States attorney's office
declined to prosecute without comment. And when Mr. Rodriguez died on April 21,
2006, the investigation was closed.

The allegations are strikingly similar to those made by the family of Hiu Lui
Ng, a Chinese computer engineer who died in April 2008, his spine broken and his
body riddled with cancer that had gone undiagnosed in a Rhode Island detention
center, where he had pleaded in vain for proper medical care. In that case,
however, the investigation unfolded against a backdrop of  news media coverage
and a lawsuit by relatives.

Detention center guards had been caught on security cameras as they dragged Mr.
Ng from his cell a week before his death, insisted that he could walk, and
ridiculed him as they loaded him into a van. The agency, caught in the spotlight
of public attention, stopped placing immigration detainees there.

''There are tremendous acts of cruelty, and these are not just rogue
individuals,'' said Joshua Bardavid, a lawyer who represented Mr. Ng. ''If
there's a common thread, it's the system. It really is a systemic problem.''

Last summer the Obama administration announced an overhaul of detention,
including improved health care for detainees and more centralized oversight. But
the administration did not make legally binding rules for immigration detention,
rejecting a federal court petition by former detainees and their advocates. It
argued that ''rule-making would be laborious, time-consuming and less flexible''
than its own overhaul.

''I'm glad there are changes in the works, but obviously it's too late for a lot
of people,'' Mr. Bardavid said. ''And I'm skeptical until I see actually
substantive changes and independently enforceable rules.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 16, 2010 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Schumer Seeks to Keep Immigration Detention Site in Manhattan Open

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 812 words


Senator Charles E. Schumer is urging federal officials not to close immigration
detention operations at the Varick Federal Detention Facility  in Manhattan,
saying that their decision to transfer its roughly 300 detainees to a county
jail in New Jersey ''will represent a crushing blow to the due process rights of
immigrants detained within the New York metropolitan area.''

In a letter Friday to Janet Napolitano, secretary of homeland security, Mr.
Schumer said he was ''extremely troubled'' by the plan to transfer the
detainees, mostly longtime New Yorkers facing deportation without a lawyer, to
the Hudson County Correctional Center in Kearny, N.J., seven miles away.

He was even more upset, the senator said in an interview late Friday, after he
discussed the decision with Beth Gibson, legal counsel and head of detention for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, part of the Department of Homeland
Security, who told him she had driven to Hudson herself without difficulty.

''They didn't have a concept of New York -- most people New York don't have
cars, whether they be lawyers or immigrant families, '' he said, noting that the
agency had not consulted with him or any immigrant groups. ''I certainly don't
think this decision was well thought out.''

Though a distance of seven miles  might seem  short  to someone with a car
living in a suburb, he said,  for residents of New York City the difficulties of
reaching the jail by public transportation -- a two-hour round trip at best --
will make it much harder to enlist volunteer lawyers or arrange family visits
for the detainees.

About 11,000 detainees passed through the Varick jail last year, including
illegal immigrants, asylum-seekers and legal immigrants who face deportation
because of past criminal convictions. Varick, which falls short of detention
standards adopted in 2000, was quietly reopened in 2008 after being shuttered
for seven years.

It has become the site of an ambitious volunteer legal program to counsel
detainees, as well as the focus of investigative scrutiny by civil liberties
lawyers. In recent weeks, it has also been a rallying point for street protests
against detention and deportation that have led to arrests of some protesters,
including members of the clergy, who blocked traffic as a form of civil
disobedience.

Officials of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said the jail in Hudson County
would house immigration detainees at half the cost --  $111 a day per detainee,
compared with $253 at Varick. It will also provide fresh-air recreation, which
the Lower Manhattan jail has never offered, though that has been required by
national detention standards since 2000, officials said.

But Nancy Morawetz, a professor at the New York University School of Law and
director of its Immigrant Rights Clinic, said the Hudson jail's current federal
contract did not require it to meet national detention standards, just to treat
immigration detainees the same as its criminal inmates.

Students at the law clinic said they had been trying for months without success
to visit detainees at the Hudson jail, including some transferred there from the
Middlesex County Jail, which ended its contract with Immigration and Customs
Enforcement last year. Jail visitor lists are updated only every 90 days.

''There is probably no detainee at Varick Street who, despite the problems at
Varick, wouldn't prefer to be at Varick,'' Ms. Morawetz said. ''This is really
just moving away the problems where they're not going to be seen.''

Her concern was echoed by Udi Ofer, advocacy director of the New York Civil
Liberties Union, in an e-mail message to other lawyers representing detainees at
Varick.

''I'm really worried about the motivation and impact of this closure,'' he
wrote. ''Advocates have been scrutinizing conditions at Varick, and I think that
ICE decided to simply close it and shift responsibilities to other facilities
rather than fix conditions.''

In a statement, Brian P. Hale, a spokesman for the agency, said, ''ICE will work
with our detention providers to continue to expand the opportunities for legal
and family visitation, ensure indigent detainees can correspond with family and
representatives and address any inconveniences that may arise from this
change.''

Senator Schumer said he had asked the immigration enforcement agency to answer
in writing why it would not reconsider the decision.

''I'm convinced that they simply looked at the immediate cost, and they didn't
look at when they have fewer pro bono lawyers, it will end up costing them
more,'' he said.

Legal counsel can shorten time in detention, studies have found, because
detainees with no legal relief from deportation are quicker to accept it, while
some of those with a claim to stay in the United States are more likely to be
released on bond while their case is decided.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 20, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Secrets of the Immigration Jails

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 420 words


Americans have long known that the government has been running secretive
immigration prisons into which detainees have frequently disappeared, their
grave illnesses and injuries untreated, their fates undisclosed until well after
early and unnecessary deaths.

What we did not know, until a recent article in The Times by Nina Bernstein, was
how strenuously the government has tried to cover up those failings -- keeping
relatives and lawyers in the dark, deflecting blame, fighting rigorous quality
standards, outside oversight and transparency. These deficiencies endure today.

It took digging by The Times and the American Civil Liberties Union to unearth
the evidence. A detainee with a broken leg killed himself; his pain had been
unbearable but never treated, and someone later faked a medication log to show
that he had been given Motrin. A spokesman for Immigration and Customs
Enforcement told a reporter asking after a mortally injured African detainee
that nothing could be learned, even though the spokesman and top managers
already knew the man had fallen, fractured his skull, lain untreated for more
than 13 hours, was comatose and dying. The officials fretted by phone over how
to avoid unflattering publicity.

Here, as evidence of the agency mind-set, is a spokesman's warning to his
supervisors about a Washington Post reporter who was looking into detention
deaths and the story of a man whose fatal cancer had been ignored and untreated:

''These are quite horrible medical stories, and I think we'll need to have a
pretty strong response to keep this from becoming a very damaging national story
that takes on long legs.''

The strong response? A misleading public-relations offensive designed to show
that mortality in detention was less serious than it really was.

The Obama administration has since promised a top-to-bottom reform of the
immense detention system, which was erected in sloppy haste during the Bush
years, largely by private contractors that had dim regard for oversight and
standards. John Morton, the leader of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, has
promised to create a system of civil detention suitable for inmates who are
mostly not criminals.

But his agency has a long way to go. And it still is resisting adequate outside
oversight and the adoption of legally binding detention standards, insisting
instead that it can best change its own rules and police itself. The new
disclosures about the agency's deep-set culture of shameful secrecy do not
inspire confidence.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 10, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Officials Obscured Truth Of Migrant Deaths in Jail

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1777 words


Silence has long shrouded the men and women who die in the nation's immigration
jails. For years, they went uncounted and unnamed in the public record. Even in
2008, when The New York Times obtained and published a federal government list
of such deaths, few facts were available about who these people were and how
they died.

But behind the scenes, it is now clear, the deaths had already generated
thousands of pages of government documents, including scathing investigative
reports that were kept under wraps, and a trail of confidential memos and
BlackBerry messages that show officials working to stymie outside inquiry.

The documents, obtained over recent months by The Times and the American Civil
Liberties Union under the Freedom of Information Act, concern most of the 107
deaths in detention counted by Immigration and Customs Enforcement since October
2003, after the agency was created within the Department of Homeland Security.

The Obama administration has vowed to overhaul immigration detention, a
haphazard network of privately run jails, federal centers and county cells where
the government holds noncitizens while it tries to deport them.

But as the administration moves to increase oversight within the agency, the
documents show how officials -- some still in key positions -- used their role
as overseers to cover up evidence of mistreatment, deflect scrutiny by the news
media or prepare exculpatory public statements after gathering facts that
pointed to substandard care or abuse.

As one man lay dying of head injuries suffered in a New Jersey immigration jail
in 2007, for example, a spokesman for the federal agency told The Times that he
could learn nothing about the case from government authorities. In fact, the
records show, the spokesman had alerted those officials to the reporter's
inquiry, and they conferred at length about sending the man back to Africa to
avoid embarrassing publicity.

In another case that year, investigators from the agency's Office of
Professional Responsibility concluded that unbearable, untreated pain had been a
significant factor in the suicide of a 22-year-old detainee at the Bergen County
Jail in New Jersey, and that the medical unit was so poorly run that other
detainees were at risk.

The investigation found that jail medical personnel had falsified a medication
log to show that the detainee, a Salvadoran named Nery Romero, had been given
Motrin. The fake entry was easy to detect: When the drug was supposedly
administered, Mr. Romero was already dead.

Yet those findings were never disclosed to the public or to Mr. Romero's
relatives on Long Island, who had accused the jail of abruptly depriving him of
his prescription painkiller for a broken leg. And an agency supervisor wrote
that because other jails were ''finicky'' about accepting detainees with known
medical problems like Mr. Romero's, such people would continue to be placed at
the Bergen jail as ''a last resort.''

In a recent interview, Benjamin Feldman, a spokesman for the jail, which housed
1,503 immigration detainees last year, would not say whether any changes had
been made since the death.

In February 2007, in the case of the dying African man, the immigration agency's
spokesman for the Northeast, Michael Gilhooly, rebuffed a Times reporter's
questions about the detainee, who had suffered a skull fracture at the privately
run Elizabeth Detention Center in New Jersey. Mr. Gilhooly said that without a
full name and alien registration number for the man, he could not check on the
case.

But, records show, he had already filed a report warning top managers at the
federal agency about the reporter's interest and sharing information about the
injured man, a Guinean tailor named Boubacar Bah. Mr. Bah, 52, had been left in
an isolation cell without treatment for more than 13 hours before an ambulance
was called.

While he lay in the hospital in a coma after emergency brain surgery, 10 agency
managers in Washington and Newark conferred by telephone and e-mail about how to
avoid the cost of his care and the likelihood of ''increased scrutiny and/or
media exposure,'' according to a memo summarizing the discussion.

One option they explored was sending the dying man to Guinea, despite an e-mail
message from the supervising deportation officer, who wrote, ''I don't condone
removal in his present state as he has a catheter'' and was unconscious. Another
idea was renewing Mr. Bah's canceled work permit in hopes of tapping into
Medicaid or disability benefits.

Eventually, faced with paying $10,000 a month for nursing home care, officials
settled on a third course: ''humanitarian release'' to cousins in New York who
had protested that they had no way to care for him. But days before the planned
release, Mr. Bah died.

Among the participants in the conferences was Nina Dozoretz, a longtime manager
in the agency's Division of Immigration Health Services who had won an award for
cutting detainee health care costs. Later she was vice president of the Nakamoto
Group, a company hired by the Bush administration to monitor detention. The
Obama administration recently rehired her to lead its overhaul of detainee
health care.

Asked about the conference call on Mr. Bah, Ms. Dozoretz said: ''How many years
ago was that? I don't recall all the specifics if indeed there was a call.'' She
added, ''I advise you to contact our public affairs office.'' Mr. Gilhooly, the
spokesman who had said he had no information on the case, would not comment.

On the day after Mr. Bah's death in May 2007, Scott Weber, director of the
Newark field office of the immigration enforcement agency, recommended in a memo
that the agency take the unusual step of paying to send the body to Guinea for
burial, to prevent his widow from showing up in the United States for a funeral
and drawing news coverage.

Mr. Weber wrote that he believed the agency had handled Mr. Bah's case
appropriately. ''However,'' he added, ''I also don't want to stir up any media
interest where none is warranted.'' Helping to bury Mr. Bah overseas, he wrote,
''will go a long way to putting this matter to rest.''

In the agency's confidential files was a jail video showing Mr. Bah face down in
the medical unit, hands cuffed behind his back, just before medical personnel
sent him to a disciplinary cell. The tape shows him crying out repeatedly in his
native Fulani, ''Help, they are killing me!''

Almost a year after his death, the agency quietly closed the case without
action. But Mr. Bah's name had shown up on the first list of detention
fatalities, obtained under the Freedom of Information Act, and on May 5, 2008,
his death was the subject of a front-page article in The Times.

Brian P. Hale, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said in an
interview that the newly disclosed records represented the past, and that the
agency's new leaders were committed to transparency and greater oversight,
including prompt public disclosure and investigation of every death, and more
attention to detainee care in a better-managed system.

But the most recent documents show that the culture of secrecy has endured. And
the past cover-ups underscore what some of the agency's own employees say is a
central flaw in the proposed overhaul: a reliance on the agency to oversee
itself.

''Because ICE investigates itself there is no transparency and there is no
reform or improvement,'' Chris Crane, a vice president in the union that
represents employees of the agency's detention and removal operations, told a
Congressional subcommittee on Dec. 10.

The agency has kept a database of detention fatalities at least since December
2005, when a National Public Radio investigation spurred a Congressional
inquiry. In 2006, the agency issued standard procedures for all such deaths to
be reported in detail to headquarters.

But internal documents suggest that officials were intensely concerned with
controlling public information. In April 2007, Marc Raimondi, then an agency
spokesman, warned top managers that a Washington Post reporter had asked about a
list of 19 deaths that the civil liberties union had compiled, and about a dying
man whose penile cancer had spread after going undiagnosed in detention, despite
numerous medical requests for a biopsy.

''These are quite horrible medical stories,'' Mr. Raimondi wrote, ''and I think
we'll need to have a pretty strong response to keep this from becoming a very
damaging national story that takes on long legs.''

That response was an all-out defense of detainee medical care over several
months, including statistics that appeared to show that mortality rates in
detention were declining, and were low compared with death rates in prisons.

Experts in detention health care called the comparison misleading; it also came
to light that the agency was undercounting the number of detention deaths, as
well as discharging some detainees shortly before they died. In August,
litigation by the civil liberties union prompted the Obama administration to
disclose that more than one in 10 immigrant detention deaths had been overlooked
and omitted from a list submitted to Congress last year.

Two of those deaths had occurred in Arizona, in 2004 and 2007, at the Eloy
Detention Center, run by the Corrections Corporation of America. Eloy had nine
known fatalities -- more than any other immigration jail under contract to the
federal government. But Immigration and Customs Enforcement was still secretive.
When a reporter for The Arizona Republic asked about the circumstances of those
deaths, an agency spokesman told him the records were unavailable.

According to records The Times obtained in December, one Eloy detainee who died,
in October 2008, was Emmanuel Owusu. An ailing 62-year-old barber who had
arrived from Ghana on a student visa in 1972, he had been a legal permanent
resident for 33 years, mostly in Chicago. Immigration authorities detained him
in 2006, based on a 1979 conviction for misdemeanor battery and retail theft.

''I am confused as to how subject came into our custody???'' the Phoenix field
office director, Katrina S. Kane, wrote to subordinates. ''Convicted in 1979?
That's a long time ago.''

In response, a report on his death was revised to refer to Mr. Owusu's ''lengthy
criminal history ranging from 1977 to 1998.'' It did not note that except for
the battery conviction, that history consisted mostly of shoplifting offenses.

A diabetic with high blood pressure, he had been detained for two years at Eloy
while he battled deportation. He died of a heart ailment weeks after his last
appeal was dismissed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nery Romero, who died in immigration detention in 2007.(A1)
 Above, the family of Nery Romero in Elmont, N.Y., in 2007, after he was found
hanging in his detention cell. At left is Boubacar Bah, who suffered fatal head
injuries in an immigration jail the same year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A29)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 15, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Demonstrators Press for Haitian Advocate's Release

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 735 words


Against the backdrop of the earthquake in Haiti, dozens of protesters gathered
outside a Greenwich Village detention center on Thursday to demand the release
of Jean Montrevil, a Haitian immigrant rights advocate and a community leader in
New York who has been detained since December while awaiting deportation.

The rally came a week after two other demonstrations for Mr. Montrevil led to
the arrests of 19 people, many of them clergy members, who blocked traffic in an
effort to step up their pressure on federal authorities and draw more attention
to their cause. Organizers said the protests appeared to be the first time in
recent years that local immigration demonstrators had turned to civil
disobedience.

On Thursday, however, the organizers said they toned down their protest out of
respect for the suffering in Haiti and throughout the Haitian diaspora, and
temporarily suspended their civil disobedience.

''We plan on using that tactic as we move forward,'' said Angad Bhalla of the
New Sanctuary Coalition of New York City, one of the groups that organized the
protests outside the Varick Federal Detention Facility. ''But today didn't seem
to be the right day to do it.''

The protesters have cast Mr. Montrevil, 41, as a symbol of the flaws in the
immigration system and of the need for comprehensive reform.

Mr. Montrevil entered the country in 1986 as a legal permanent resident. He was
convicted of selling cocaine in 1990, at the age of 21. After 11 years in
prison, he was released.

Mr. Montrevil started a van service, married an American woman and became a
respected member of the Haitian community in New York, his supporters say. He is
the father of four children.

But under immigration laws enacted in 1996, all noncitizens convicted of
felonies are subject to deportation. And on Dec. 30, 2009, during Mr.
Montrevil's regular weekly check-in with immigration officials as part of a
supervised release program for deportable immigrants, he was detained. His
lawyer, Joshua E. Bardavid, said the authorities had given no explanation about
why they were detaining his client after so many years.

Mr. Montrevil is now in a detention center in York County, Pa. On Wednesday,
after the earthquake struck, federal authorities temporarily suspended
deportations to Haiti. Mr. Bardavid said he believed that case law dictated that
Mr. Montrevil be released until deportations were resumed, and vowed to sue the
government if necessary.

On Thursday, protesters argued that immigration laws did not make allowances for
Mr. Montrevil's rehabilitation and contributions to the community.

''Why are we sentencing his kids to not having a father?'' Mr. Bhalla said, as
about 70 demonstrators gathered at the Varick Street detention center. (They
chose the jail as a symbol of the detention system, but later Thursday, federal
immigration officials announced that they would close the center, in part
because it lacked access to open-air recreation.)

Some protesters carried signs that said, ''Bring Jean Home,'' and sang
spirituals. Among the group was Mr. Montrevil's wife, Jani, who said she had
spoken to her husband almost daily since he was detained last month.

They last spoke on Wednesday evening, she said, and news of the earthquake left
him shocked and relieved. Mrs. Montrevil said that her husband was supposed to
have been deported within a few days of his detention in December. Had he been
sent to Haiti, she said, ''he could've been dead.''

Mrs. Montrevil added, ''I could've been a widow today.''

Protest organizers said they would engage in acts of civil disobedience in
future protests.

''It attests to a scale-up in the intensity of the movement,'' said Janis
Rosheuvel, director of Families for Freedom, a New York-based organization that
lobbies on behalf of people facing deportation.  The strategy fits in with a
shift in tactics among advocates across the country who are pushing for a
comprehensive immigration overhaul.

A group of immigrant students are on a four-month-long trek from Miami to
Washington to press the Obama administration to move faster on immigration
changes. Other activists have used tactics like a hunger strike and a mass
conference call in which 60,000 people heard a proposal to overhaul immigration
by Representative Luis V. Gutierrez, Democrat of Illinois. Mr. Gutierrez
introduced an immigration bill in the House last month.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rabbi Michael Feinberg, foreground, of the Greater New York
Labor-Religion Coalition, was among those protesting Thursday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY
JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 15, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants In Detention To Be Sent Out of State

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 678 words


Immigration and Customs Enforcement will close a controversial detention center
in Greenwich Village next month and transfer the center's roughly 300 detainees
to a county jail in New Jersey, federal officials announced on Thursday.

Officials said that the jail, in Hudson County, will house immigration detainees
at half the cost -- $111 a day per detainee, compared with $253 at the Village
center, the Varick Street Detention Facility. It will also provide fresh-air
recreation, which the Lower Manhattan jail has never offered, though that has
been required by national detention standards since 2000.

The Varick Street jail, run for the federal government by a private company
owned by an Alaskan native tribe, now takes in more than 11,000 men a year,
including illegal immigrants, asylum-seekers and legal immigrants who face
deportation because they have criminal convictions. Most are longtime New
Yorkers facing deportation without a lawyer. ''Hudson does not represent the
future, the big picture of where we're headed,'' said Beth Gibson, senior
counsel to John Morton, who heads the immigration enforcement agency, referring
to the Obama administration's vow to transform detention system into a
less-penal one. ''Yes, it is a jail.''

But, she said, recent visits to both facilities showed that the Hudson County
Correctional Center is an improvement on the Varick Street jail, which is on the
fourth floor of a federal office building, with no access to sunshine or fresh
air. It also allows contact visits with relatives.

To make room for the New York detainees, who will be moved by the end of next
month and housed separately from regular inmates, New Jersey immigration
detainees now at the Hudson jail will be transferred elsewhere, Ms. Gibson said.
She said that the New York detainees would return to Varick Street for
immigration court hearings, where special arrangements could be made for lawyers
who had difficulty reaching clients at the Hudson jail, about seven miles from
Manhattan in Kearny, N.J. -- an hour's trip by PATH train and bus from
Manhattan.

In November, the Varick Street jail was the subject of an article in The New
York Times that detailed how a petition from 100 detainees had spurred the New
York City Bar Justice Center to send in free volunteer lawyers -- a strategy
that the Obama administration has embraced as part of its overhaul of the entire
detention system.

The lawyers found that most detainees with a legal claim to stay in the United
States were routinely transferred to more remote jails in other states before
they could be helped.

Lynn M. Kelly, the director of the Justice Center, said it was unclear whether
the Hudson County jail could accommodate the volunteer project. ''We're
concerned that members of the New York community that are detained continue to
have access to pro bono legal assistance, evidence for their cases, and to
visits from families and loved ones,'' Ms. Kelly said.

In 2008, an American Bar Association inspection of the Hudson County jail noted
that it did not allow weekend visits for families and had persistently failed to
allow lawyers sufficient telephone access to detainees.

At the Varick Street jail, recurrent complaints have included low  temperatures,
mildew, and meals that leave detainees hungry and willing to work  for $1 a day
to pay for commissary food.

Opened as a federal immigration detention center in 1984, Varick Street became
chronically overcrowded after 1998, after new laws required the detention of all
noncitizens who had ever committed a crime on a list of deportable offenses,
which was expanded to include misdemeanors like drug possession. Though it fell
short of national detention standards, it was allowed to remain open under a
grandfather clause, until after the 9/11 attack.

It reopened in February 2008, operated by Ahtna Technical Services, a subsidiary
of Ahtna Inc., whose private shareholders are 1,200 members of a central Alaskan
tribe. Their dividends have been linked to Varick's profits under a $79 million
contract.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 21, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jail Protest By Detainees Is Broken Up

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 476 words


Agents in riot gear from Immigration and Customs Enforcement tried to break up a
hunger strike by detainees at the Varick Federal Detention Center in Lower
Manhattan on Tuesday, three detainees at the center said Wednesday in telephone
interviews.

Matthew Chandler, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security, denied
that there was ''a sustained hunger strike'' at Varick, but said immigration
agents entered and searched a jail dormitory when detainees complaining about
conditions refused to leave it.

A Jamaican detainee in one dorm said ''all hell broke loose'' after about 100
inmates refused to go to the mess hall on Tuesday morning and gave guards a
flier declaring they were on a hunger strike to protest detention policies and
practices.

The detainee, who asked that his name not be published for fear of retaliation,
said a SWAT team used pepper spray and ''beat up'' some detainees, took many to
segregation cells as punishment and transferred about 17 to immigration jails in
other states. The 20 detainees remaining in his dorm were threatened with
similar treatment if they continued the hunger strike, he said.

But Mr. Chandler, in a written statement, said, ''No pepper spray was used at
any time during this search, and any allegations of threat or intimidation are
simply untrue.''

Two detainees in another dorm said they had seen eight immigration agents in
riot gear dragging two detainees from the far side of the jail, while at least
eight other detainees were escorted toward the segregation unit.

''After we started the hunger strike yesterday the SWAT team came into the other
side,'' Chao Chen, 36, a chef who is fighting deportation to China, said as his
immigration lawyer, Chunyu Jean Wang, translated. ''On our side a gentleman from
immigration came and told them not to strike.''

The third detainee, an architect who said he had been a legal resident for 30
years, gave a similar account, but he would not give his name.

''I don't want to be singled out,'' he said. ''A lot of things are happening in
the night -- people are being moved secretly.''

Last week, the government announced that it would close the Varick jail and
transfer all detainees to the Hudson County Correctional Facility in Kearny,
N.J., by Feb. 28. The three detainees said that they opposed the transfer, but
that the hunger strike was part of a broader protest over detention.

According to the flier, the idea for the hunger strike originated at the Bergen
County Jail, one of several in New Jersey where the federal government holds
noncitizens while it tries to deport them.

''We are seeking answers from President Obama's administration in immigration
reform that he promised,'' the one-page flier says, asking that detention and
deportation be suspended for people with family members who are citizens or
legal residents.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 24, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sick Detainees Complicate Plans to Close Immigration Jail

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1101 words


When Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials announced last month that
they would close New York City's only immigration jail and relocate its roughly
300 detainees to New Jersey, they described the step as part of a larger
overhaul to improve health care and cost-effectiveness in the nation's detention
system.

But with only three days to go before the official end of detention operations
at the jail, the Varick Federal Detention Facility in Greenwich Village, on
Friday, officials have found that the detainees hardest to relocate are those
with serious medical problems.

And each day, dozens of noncitizen New Yorkers -- some with acute or chronic
ailments -- are still entering Varick, which immigration officials say they will
keep using only as  a  processing hub for about 11,000 men a year, to be held no
more than  12 hours.

For years the immigration jail, on the fourth floor of a federal office building
at Varick and Houston Streets, was supposed to be a brief holding place for New
York detainees. But it ended up keeping hundreds of detainees for months,
especially those with medical or mental problems who were often denied admission
by county jails in New Jersey where immigration authorities rent cells.

Immigrant advocates predict the same problem will recur. ''Whether they plan on
it or not, detainees are going to be held longer than intended at Varick,'' said
Udi Ofer, advocacy director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, who analyzed
hundreds of detainee grievances obtained under the Freedom of Information Act,
in a report to be released Wednesday.

''Moving detainees from New York to New Jersey is not going to fix the problem
of inadequate care for immigration detainees,'' Mr. Ofer added, echoing other
advocates who question whether the government should be detaining so many in the
first place. ''The absence of legally enforceable standards leads to situations
where detainees are being mistreated, whether they're being held for a day, a
month or a year.''

Last week, as federal officials took a reporter on a rare tour of the jail, past
the crowded holding cells into locked dorms and disciplinary cells that double
as ''medical holds,'' one of the longtime detainees waiting to learn his fate
was Adler Michel, 52, a legal resident from Haiti with diabetes, high blood
pressure and a swollen jaw.

Mr. Michel, a Brooklyn barber with two drug convictions but no record of
violence, has spent more than 20 months at Varick while battling deportation.
Officials said one reason he stayed was that at least one New Jersey jail had
refused to accept him because of medical concerns. He is ineligible for bond
under laws that require detention for immigrants who have ever been convicted of
misdemeanor drug possession, or any of a long list of other offenses.

''Obviously, his medical needs must and will be addressed by us while he is in
our custody,'' said Brian P. Hale, a spokesman for the immigration enforcement
agency. The 100 detainees remaining on Tuesday were expected to be reduced to 70
by the end of the day, he added.

Beth Gibson, senior counsel to the agency's chief,  who joined Mr. Hale on the
tour of Varick, said opening the jail to a reporter underscored the Obama
administration's commitment to transparency and reform. Plans she cited include
streamlining cumbersome paperwork requirements that delay needed care.

''We didn't get where it is overnight,'' Ms. Gibson said.

But immigrant advocacy groups see the handling of Varick detainees as an
illustration of the unfairness and waste in the $1.7 billion detention system.

A coalition of 16 legal and advocacy organizations offered this month to
collaborate on a case-by-case review to identify detainees eligible for release,
parole, or alternatives to detention like electronic monitoring, which costs
about $14 a day, instead of Varick's $253 or the $111 at the Hudson County
Correctional Center, where many detainees are being transferred.

But last week, their request was rejected by federal officials, who said they
lacked the resources to conduct such a review before the transfers.

At most of the New Jersey jails, health care is provided by a company with a
record of medical cost-cutting that has sometimes proved lethal. Federal
officials pledged that a government physician at Varick, Dr. Peter D'Orazio,
would oversee the care of the relocated New York detainees and screen those
entering the jail.

But that does not reassure the Civil Liberties Union lawyers, who said that Dr.
D'Orazio was no help when they tried to get proper care for a detainee suffering
from infected teeth and gastrointestinal ailments.

''As I write this, I am in so much pain that I want to hit my head against the
wall and cry,'' the detainee, then 23, wrote last July, in one of more than 210
grievances filed by Varick detainees between August 2008 and August 2009. About
30 percent of the complaints cited medical neglect.

A medical screening record notes that the detainee had a tooth abscess when he
entered the jail in October 2008. But despite his pleas to see a dentist, it
went untreated for 10 months and spread to seven teeth, Mr. Ofer said, even as
the detainee was put on a liquid diet because he could no longer chew.

Only after Mr. Ofer intervened did the man get to see a dentist, who offered
extraction, records show. The detainee, who remains at Varick, instead wants to
save the teeth with root canals at his own expense, Mr. Ofer said. The
government has refused, citing liability issues.

Asked about the case, Dr. D'Orazio first denied that the detainee had an
abscessed tooth, then said: ''We addressed his issue. Now it's up to him to seek
the care.''

Most grievances cannot be checked and outcomes are not known because detainee
names were redacted by the government under privacy laws. But one described an
attempt to deport a detainee with prostate cancer two days after he had
requested a doctor's appointment.

The detainee, a 47-year-old Russian, wrote in November 2008 of being locked in a
van at Kennedy International Airport for hours in acute pain as guards refused
to let him go to the bathroom. He was eventually returned to Varick and
catheterized, he wrote.

Records confirm that he had been found to have cancer at Beth Israel Medical
Center before his detention and that he had been advised to get immediate
treatment. But on Dec. 9, 2008, the detainee, still waiting for a medical
appointment, wrote in a grievance, ''Will it be after my death?''

An official's handwritten note adds that the detainee was deported 12 days
later.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Udi Ofer, 35, advocacy director of the New York Civil Liberties
Union, predicts detainees will still be held too long at Varick. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 4, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lawsuits Renew Questions on Immigrant Detention

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN; Ted Siefer contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 897 words


When the Obama administration vowed to overhaul immigration detention last year,
its promise of more humane treatment and accountability was spurred in part by
the harrowing treatment of two detainees who died in the Bush years.

In one case, captured by security cameras in 2008, a Chinese computer engineer
was dragged from a Rhode Island immigration jail and mocked by guards as he
screamed in pain from undiagnosed cancer and a broken spine. In the other, a
Salvadoran detainee held for two years in a California detention center was
denied a biopsy for a painful penile lesion, though government doctors suspected
the cancer that eventually required amputation of his penis.

But on Wednesday, the administration argued in federal court that the government
had no liability for neglect or abuse by private contractors running the Donald
W. Wyatt Detention Facility in Central Falls, R.I., where the computer engineer
was held. And in oral arguments before the United States Supreme Court on
Tuesday, federal lawyers maintained that government doctors responsible for the
Salvadoran's care in detention were immune from being personally sued for
medical negligence.

In both cases, the arguments were made against lawsuits brought by the families
of the men who died, Hiu Lui Ng, 34, and Francisco Castaneda, 36. In the Ng
case, the government sought to be dropped as a defendant, and in the other, it
tried to sharply limit potential monetary damages.

But critics of the sprawling immigration detention system, which relies mainly
on privately run jails to hold noncitizens facing deportation, said those
arguments had broader and more disturbing implications.

''The government's positions both in Castaneda and in the Ng case fly in the
face of the stated commitment to overhauling the immigration detention system
and bringing to it more transparency and accountability,'' said Vanita Gupta, a
lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union, which filed an amicus brief in
the Castaneda case and through its Rhode Island affiliate supported the lawsuit
brought by Mr. Ng's widow, Lin Li Qu, and two children, all United States
citizens who live in New York.

''Real reform wouldn't be about pointing the finger elsewhere,'' Ms. Gupta said.
''It would be about promulgating legally binding standards and making
individualized determinations about whether someone like Ng needs to be detained
in the first place.''

Brian P. Hale, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, reiterated
the agency's commitment to an overhaul. ''This administration takes any
allegation of inadequate medical care or ill treatment seriously and will not
accept or tolerate any willful misconduct,'' he wrote. ''We have taken important
initial steps to change this system and are committed to finishing the job.''

Oral arguments in the Ng case, in Federal District Court in Providence, centered
on the federal agency's role in ordering that the gravely ill man be taken in
shackles to a federal office in Hartford and returned the same day to the Wyatt
detention center. For that trip, Mr. Ng was dragged from his cell.

The government's lawyer, Helene Kazanjian, argued that it was ''completely
unfair'' to expect an agency ''that has no contact with the detainee on a
regular basis,'' to know that Mr. Ng was in dire condition.

But Fidelma L. Fitzpatrick, arguing the other side, pointed out that the agency
had been repeatedly notified that Mr. Ng was in terrible pain and unable to
walk, and that he had been denied a wheelchair and outside medical care by the
detention center, run for profit by a municipal corporation in Central Falls.

''The U.S. government cannot just hire someone and then close the file,'' Ms.
Fitzpatrick said. ''The government must take responsibility for the actions of
ICE.''

Judge William E. Smith said he would rule later, but his questions took up the
plaintiffs' theme. ''If you know about the severity of the detainee's condition,
isn't there an obligation to give him special treatment, to put him on an
ambulance?'' he asked.

Ms. Kazanjian contended that when the agency learned how sick Mr. Ng was, it
sent him to the hospital where he died six days later. But the judge corrected
her.

''I ordered him hospitalized,'' he said, referring to his unusual intervention
at a habeas corpus hearing the day after the Hartford trip. ''I don't think ICE
can take credit for that.''

In the Castaneda case, the government has admitted to medical negligence, and a
federal judge has said ''the word 'cruel' is an understatement'' for the
treatment described in the lawsuit.

But on Tuesday, the Supreme Court seemed receptive to the government's argument
that Public Health Service doctors were immune from suit under a 1970 federal
law.

A government lawyer argued that that immunity reflected ''a balance of evils,''
adding, ''Congress has decided that it would rather protect the P.H.S., make
sure that causes of action and liability aren't hanging over the heads of P.H,S.
officers, even if that means some individuals don't get recovery against certain
specific P.H.S. personnel.''

Lawyers representing Mr. Castaneda's teenage daughter have said a ruling for the
government would preclude a jury trial in the case and cap any damages at
$250,000, which they called insufficient deterrence to the negligence that has
been widely documented.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Francisco Castaneda in 2007. He died of cancer in 2008, after
being denied treatment while at a California detention center.(PHOTOGRAPH BY
STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 An immigrant went untreated at this Rhode Island center.  (PHOTOGRAPH BY
RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 17, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Move Further Isolates Immigration Detainees

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 932 words


When federal authorities shut down New York City's only immigration detention
center last month, and sent most of its detainees to a county jail in New Jersey
over protests by their advocates, Obama administration officials stressed that
the jail was only a short drive from the city.

But under a contract with a private telephone company, calls to detainees'
families and lawyers back in New York are decidedly long distance. The result is
a 800 percent increase in the cost of a call, to more than 89 cents a minute, in
a phone system so cumbersome that detainees say it impedes their ability to
contest deportation or contact relatives.

In protest, the detainees have sent appeals for help to the American Bar
Association, signed by more than 180 detainees, and have threatened a hunger
strike. They cite exorbitant telephone costs as their central grievance, but
also complain of poor health care, confiscation of legal documents and
mistreatment by guards at the jail, the Hudson County Correctional Center in
Kearny.

The isolation of many immigration detainees was underscored last week when a
Chinese New Yorker freed from another New Jersey jail had no clue that he had
been pardoned by Gov. David A. Paterson four days earlier.

Officials of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the federal agency that pays
jails to house detainees, have said improvements are in the works. But for
detainees shifted from the New York jail, the Varick Federal Detention Facility,
the possibilities for communication with the outside world have shrunk.

Brian P. Hale, a spokesman for the federal agency, said that a hunger strike
began at the Hudson County jail on Monday, adding that it had been organized by
the same detainee who started a hunger strike at Varick a few weeks before it
ended detention operations. Agents in riot gear broke up that protest after
detainees refused to go to the jail cafeteria, officials said then.

Several detainees said the leaders were punished with isolation or were
transferred to distant detention centers. Similar complaints of retaliation have
been made by detainees on hunger strikes at the Port Isabel Detention Center
near Los Fresnos, Tex., which houses many longtime legal residents of New York
fighting deportation based on past criminal convictions.

One letter to the bar association said the Hudson County hunger strike would
start March 15, but another put it a week later. Jail officials said all but a
few detainees were eating on Tuesday.

''No one is unwilling to listen to these concerns and to make sure that
detainees are treated with respect and dignity,'' said James Kennelly, a
spokesman for Hudson County and the jail. ''We take the care and custody of the
detainees very seriously.''

Karen T. Grisez, chairwoman of the bar association's commission on immigration,
said the association would look into the complaints and refer them to government
authorities for further investigation.

''We take this very seriously,'' Ms. Grisez, a lawyer with the Washington firm
of Fried Frank, said on Tuesday, noting that legal access, including phone calls
at competitive rates, was part of the national detention standards adopted by
the federal government in 2000. The Obama administration, however, like its
predecessor, has declined to make the standards enforceable.

Mr. Hale said all immigration detainees were allowed free calls to foreign
consulates and to a list of free legal services. But other calls from the New
Jersey county jails are charged at rates negotiated by the state and the phone
provider, Global Tel   Link of Reston, Va. The rate is $1.75 to connect a call,
and 89 cents a minute, he said. But Global Tel Link will not connect a call
until the recipient puts $25 into an account with a major credit card.

Many lawyers will not accept such calls, and many family members do not have a
credit card, Ms. Grisez said.

Typically, phone companies compete not to provide more reasonable rates to
inmates and their families, but to provide the highest commissions to the jail.
Dorothy Cukier, a spokeswoman for Global Tel Link, said it was not the company's
responsibility to negotiate special rates for immigration detainees.

''To my understanding, we have never been approached by ICE about that,'' she
said.

Mr. Kennelly said the county now got just under $1 million annually in its
commission.

One detainee who signed the petition is Orville Wayne Allen, 47, a longtime New
York State resident who has spent more than 19 months in immigration custody
without seeing an immigration judge, his fiancee, Desiree Williams, said. When a
police officer in Mount Vernon stopped him for riding a bicycle on the wrong
side of a street in 2008, she said, a database check turned up an order of
deportation in absentia from the 1980s, something a lawyer had supposedly
resolved years before.

Ms. Williams, who works weekdays, has not seen him since he was transferred last
month, because the jail allows only weekday visits. She said she could afford to
receive only three brief calls, in which Mr. Allen urged her to call his lawyer.
The lawyer keeps demanding more money, she said, but he has not filed any legal
papers -- something she has not told Mr. Allen.

''The phone conversations out there are so expensive we can't talk,'' Ms.
Williams added, describing a $25 account that cost her hours and $14 to set up.

In their complaints, detainees said they were not even allowed to read
newspapers or watch the news. ''They stop us from knowing what is going on with
our own family and around us,'' one letter said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 30, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Plight of Mentally Ill Detainees Is Outlined in Study

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 934 words


For lawyers offering free legal information at large immigration detention
centers in remote parts of Texas, the task is difficult enough: coaching
hundreds of detainees on how to represent themselves at assembly-line
deportation hearings. But the lawyers soon discover a more daunting problem:
many detainees are too mentally ill or mentally disabled to understand anything.

The detainees, mostly apprehended in New York and other Northeastern cities,
some right from mental hospitals, have often been moved to Texas without
medication or medical records, far from relatives and mental health workers who
know their histories. Their mental incompetence is routinely ignored by
immigration judges and deportation officers, who are under pressure to handle
rising caseloads and meet government quotas.

These are among the findings of a yearlong examination of the way the nation's
immigration detention system handles the mentally disabled in Texas, where 29
percent of all detainees are held while the government tries to deport them. The
study, conducted by Texas Appleseed, a public interest law center, and Akin
Gump, a corporate law firm, documents mistreatment at every stage of the
process.

Among many examples in the 88-page report, to be released Tuesday, is that of a
50-year-old legal permanent resident with schizophrenia who had lived in New
York City since 1974. In November, a New York criminal court declared him
incompetent to stand trial on a trespassing charge and ordered him to serve 90
days in a mental institution. Instead, he was transferred to the Willacy County
Regional Detention Facility in South Texas, to face a deportation proceeding
without counsel -- so abruptly, the report said, that his family and lawyer did
not know what had happened.

At the detention center, he received no medication for weeks, and in March, he
was deported to the Dominican Republic. ''My mother is devastated,'' his sister,
Janet Jiminez, said on Sunday. ''She says he will die out there on the
streets.''

''I've been a U.S. citizen for many, many years,'' Ms. Jiminez added. ''If we
have a law system and the law system has declared that you are incompetent and
should be taken to a mental hospital, why are you taken to Texas to be
deported?''

Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the report said, routinely ignores its
discretionary authority to leave such detainees in community settings rather
than lock them up, at great expense, in distant jails where they can rapidly
deteriorate.

The agency is reviewing the report, a spokesman, Brian P. Hale, said Monday,
adding that ''in cases where ICE is required by law to detain certain aliens
with serious medical and mental health issues, we work to ensure the person
receives sound, appropriate and timely care.''

A recent government memorandum shows that agents are under intense pressure to
increase detentions and deportations. In the memo, James M. Chaparro, the Obama
administration's chief of detention and removal operations, congratulated agents
for reaching the agency's goal of ''150,000 criminal alien removals'' for the
year ending Sept. 30. But Mr. Chaparro  urged them to overcome a shortfall in
the goal of 400,000 deportations by making maximum use of detention slots,
including an additional 3,000 this year.

Despite the administration's vow to focus resources on detaining and deporting
the most dangerous criminals, the Feb. 22 memorandum, posted online Saturday by
The Washington Post, instructed agents to pick up the pace of deportations by
detaining more noncitizens suspected only of unauthorized residence. Such
illegal immigrants can typically be deported more quickly than legal immigrants
with criminal convictions.

The publication of the memo clearly embarrassed the administration. A spokesman,
Sean Smith, said that ''our focus continues to be on the criminal side,'' and
that Mr. Chaparro was reprimanded Monday by John Morton, the chief of the
immigration enforcement agency, at a meeting with immigrant advocates. The memo,
Mr. Smith added, was sent without Mr. Morton's approval and ''is completely
unrelated'' to the findings of the study.

Ann Baddour, who directed the study, disagreed. ''Setting these kinds of quotas
only encourages the process of detaining people and taking them far from their
infrastructure,'' she said. ''When you take a mentally ill person from New York
to rural Texas, you're basically setting them up for almost certain
deportation.''

Another  example in the report is that of a Haitian man found incompetent to
stand trial in an assault case and sent to a state mental hospital in Boston.
The day he arrived, however, immigration agents sent him in shackles and without
medical records to the Port Isabel Detention Center near Los Fresnos, Tex.

In that case, the man was eventually returned to the Boston hospital, said
Maunica Sthanki, a lawyer involved in the study. More typical, she said, is the
mentally disabled refugee from Southeast Asia who was wrongly taken into custody
in Providence, R.I., sent to Texas, then abruptly released without notice at a
rural gas station at 11 p.m.

The report details several such releases: a schizophrenic woman who spoke only
Russian, left in a dangerous area at 1 a.m.; a man lost for a week on his way
back from Texas to his family in Maryland; a delusional man who was deported
four days earlier than planned, though his parents had arranged for his
voluntary departure to Mexico, where his mother was to pick him up.

Two years later, the man has not been found, but a body matching his description
is in a morgue in Mexico.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Detainees waiting to be processed at the Willacy County Regional
Detention Facility in Texas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL J. RICHARDS/AGENCE
FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 2, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Haitian Quake Survivors Released From Florida Immigration Jails

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 482 words


More than three dozen Haitian earthquake survivors were released from Florida
immigration jails on Thursday after more than two months in the custody of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Many had lost relatives in the Jan. 12 earthquake; some had been pulled from the
rubble themselves. In the chaotic days and aftershocks that followed, many had
been seeking security, food or treatment at the Port-au-Prince airport when they
were waved onto military transports or other planes by United States Marines,
only to be detained for lack of visas when they landed.

Lawyers at the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center, who had urged their release
for weeks, were jubilant as they waited with relatives outside the Broward
County Transitional Center, a privately operated jail in Pompano Beach, for the
last ones to walk out. Immigration officials said 40 Haitian survivors would be
released on orders of supervision by nightfall. This came on the day that The
New York Times reported  that at least 30 earthquake survivors were being
detained.

By February, nearly all had been ordered deported, but deportations have been
indefinitely suspended since the earthquake. Advocates said their continued
detention was traumatic and legally unjustified.

Allison Kent, a lawyer with the center, said two young women  remained in jail
-- including one originally flown to the United States for hospital care --
because they were still in deportation proceedings. A Creole-speaking therapist
was to visit them Friday, she said.

Lawyers said the federal government was now reversing a practice adopted after
the earthquake, to hold Haitians for at least 90 days after a deportation order
before considering them for supervised release. Those released can be returned
to Haiti when deportations resume.

Among the first to be freed was Jackson Ulysse, 20, whose request for release
described how sounds in the jail made him fear another earthquake and panic that
he would not be able to get out. He had been trapped  when his family's
apartment building collapsed in the quake, in which many relatives died.

He and his brother, Reagan Ulysse, 25, had been detained together until March
11, when Reagan was abruptly transferred to a distant immigration jail, leaving
Jackson not knowing where he was. But by Thursday evening a family friend had
picked up Jackson and was driving him to pick up Reagan from the lobby of the
Krome Detention Center in Miami.

''That's what I want -- to see my brother, to see that they let him go, I want
to hug him,'' Jackson said in French in a telephone interview. ''I'm very happy,
and I'm going to church to thank God.''

The brothers' uncle, Virgile Ulysse, 69, a United States citizen who will take
them in to his home in Norwalk, Conn., was also full of gratitude. ''Thank the
United States for Jackson and Reagan's release,'' he said in a telephone
message.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Virgile Ulysse, a United States citizen of Haitian descent, will
take his newly released nephews in to his home in Connecticut. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Volunteers Report on Treatment of Immigration Detainees

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1051 words


It is the routine violations that have been most shocking to the small bands of
suburban volunteers who visit immigration detainees in New Jersey jails.

Things like visits cut short after 15 minutes, following two-hour waits outside
in the rain. Transfers from jail to jail that isolate detainees for months, even
when volunteers are asking to see them. And the pillows -- only five pillows for
more than 100 detainees, who had devised a seniority system to share them.

The shortage of pillows really got to Daniel Cummings, a high school teacher who
began visiting the Middlesex County Adult Correctional Institute last spring as
part of a local group formed after the death of a 72-year-old detainee there.

''To me, that was such a basic issue,'' Mr. Cummings said Wednesday of the
pillow shortage, contrasting the everyday injustices he sees as a jail visitor
with the Obama administration's promise to transform the immigration detention
system into ''truly civil'' detention. ''Like, let's treat these people as
humans.''

The voices of citizen volunteers like Mr. Cummings, 26, fill a new report that
points to harsh conditions and arbitrary visiting restrictions imposed by a
half-dozen New Jersey jails where Immigration and Customs Enforcement holds
thousands of noncitizens each year while it tries to deport them.

Many of the restrictions could be changed immediately, the report contends. It
is to be released on Thursday by the American Friends Service Committee, the New
York University Immigrant Rights Clinic and New Jersey Advocates for Immigrant
Detainees,  a coalition of religious and advocacy groups.

The report also describes how volunteer visitors have been trying to fill the
gap in accountability: advocating for a seriously ill detainee denied his heart
medication for weeks, foiling what it called the cover-up of one guard's abuse
and persuading jailers to supply the pillows required under detention standards.

But the pillow victory was short-lived. When the Middlesex County Freeholders
dropped the county's contract with Immigration and Customs Enforcement last
fall, all the detainees in its jail were transferred. Many ended up at the Essex
County Correctional Facility in Newark, where they have neither pillows nor
access to visits from the volunteers, the report said.

Officials at Immigration and Customs Enforcement said Wednesday evening that
they had not seen the report, but pointed to measures and plans to increase
oversight and address detainee mistreatment.

''This administration is committed to immigration detention reform and has taken
important steps to fundamentally change the detention system,'' Brian P. Hale, a
spokesman, said in an e-mail message.

Volunteers were unable to reach most of the transferred detainees because of
restrictive visiting rules that change from jail to jail, said Karin Wilkinson,
the leader of Middlesex First Friends,  the group that Mr. Cummings joined. It
enlisted two law students in the N.Y.U. rights clinic, Ruben Loyo and Carolyn
Corrado, whose efforts were also stymied for months. But what the students
learned in the process led them to write the report.

''In theory, I knew a lot about detention,'' said Mr. Loyo, 24, who worked on a
detention-reform bill last summer as a Congressional intern. ''But the reality
-- I really didn't know the reality of immigration detention.''

Among the most distressing situations, Mr. Loyo said, was that of Angela Joseph,
a New Yorker who for three years had devoted hours each week to get 15-minute
visits with her brother Warren Joseph at the Hudson County jail, where there are
no weekend visits and weekday visits end at 6:15 p.m.

Mr. Joseph, a Trinidadian-American, a decorated veteran of the Persian Gulf war
who had served eight years in the Army and suffered from depression and
post-traumatic stress syndrome, eventually won his fight against deportation. A
federal court ruled that his conviction for carrying a gun across state lines
was not an aggravated felony under immigration law. But after three years of
unnecessary detention, Mr. Loyo said, the victory was bittersweet.

The citizen volunteers, who have stepped up their efforts to penetrate the
jails, are mostly drawn from churches and synagogues, said Gregory Sullivan, 78,
a retired banker, who leads First Friends,  one of the oldest groups.

Others are motivated by political activism. ''These are just ordinary citizens
of New York and New Jersey that we bring in,'' he said.

Most of the restraints imposed on immigration detainees by jails are the rules
set for their criminal-justice population, he said.

''In their haste to dump detainees in the county jails because it's convenient
and cheap,'' Mr. Sullivan  said, Immigration and Customs Enforcement
''overlooked the discrepancies with the standards ICE itself has proclaimed.''

Mr. Sullivan's group is beginning to expand its visits from the Elizabeth
Detention Center to the Hudson County Correctional Institute, in Kearny But the
Essex County and Bergen County jails have rebuffed efforts to institute a
sign-up sheet for detainees to request visits, he said. At the Monmouth County
Correctional Institute, Ms. Wilkinson's group has been unable to set up regular
visits like those it arranged in Middlesex.

Even a brief outside presence is meaningful to those locked away far from
relatives; 84 percent of them have no lawyer, and none have any way to know when
they will be freed, Ms. Wilkinson said.

In one case that Ms. Wilkinson followed, an African man fighting to stay in the
United States because of fear of persecution at home was abruptly transferred to
the Essex jail on the same day that an immigration judge ruled in his case. Two
weeks passed before he learned that the judge had ruled against him, leaving him
only 15 days, instead of 30, to file an appeal.

''He was so upset that his court papers hadn't come, he wrote me a six-page
letter,'' Ms. Wilkinson said. ''He wrote, 'It's unjust justice.' ''

Two weeks ago, she was able to visit him at Essex, a huge jail topped by
concertina wire. But that entailed standing in line for more than two hours, she
said, for less than 20 minutes' conversation through a plexiglass barrier.

''You wait outside,'' she said. ''Men, women, children in the rain.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gregory Sullivan and Lorna Henkel, who visit immigration
detainees, at the Hudson County jail. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Subsisting on Cellphones and Hope

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'SINCERELY
YOURS'; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 625 words


The migrant workers from Southeast Asia who swarm through the cities of Taiwan
in Rich Lee's debut film, ''Sincerely Yours,'' take the same kind of low-paying
menial jobs as many  immigrants in the United States. Setia (Lola Amaria), the
film's central character, is a divorced, 27-year-old Muslim woman from East Java
with a 6-year-old daughter in Indonesia; as the movie opens, she is about to
begin a new job scrubbing floors in a Taipei massage parlor.

Her best friend at work, Wonpen (Li-Qi Wu), is a slightly older Thai woman,
divorced with two children, who has breast cancer and cares for an ailing old
man in the owner's upstairs apartment. Wonpen, who also gives erotic massages,
conceals her mastectomy from clients who interpret her reluctance to undress as
an appealing demureness.

Setia's devil-may-care older Thai boyfriend, Supayong (Banlop Lomnoi), works for
meager wages laboring on construction crews. For Supayong, scuffling for a
living and evading the police is high adventure. In one scene he gleefully
steals a motorbike parked at a curb and takes Setia for a joyride. He is not
averse to selling his body to men for cash, unpleasant as the encounters
obviously are to him.

Supayong and Setia, who are in love but don't speak each other's languages,
converse in halting Mandarin. Their bosses are harshly demanding, and each must
be constantly on guard against police raids that would lead to deportation. For
these workers the cellphone is a life line to family back home as well as the
surest connection to a loose network of peripatetic fellow migrants, many of
whom go back to their native countries only to return to Taiwan under new
aliases.

''Sincerely Yours,'' which begins a one-week engagement at the Museum of Modern
Art, used to have a more descriptive English-language title: ''Detours to
Paradise.'' Gazing dispassionately at the seedier Taipei neighborhoods where
Setia and Supayong rendezvous in cheap hotels, the movie, a high point of the
museum's ContemporAsian film series, conveys a mood of urban desolation in an
impersonal universe.

If the narrative leaps in this leisurely paced movie often seem abrupt and
unprepared, ''Sincerely Yours'' offers complex, humane portraits of determined,
hard-working people doing whatever they must to survive in an unwelcoming
environment. Most of the available jobs are either demeaning or dangerous or
worse. For the characters who practice sex work, there is no implied moral
judgment. An unspoken rule of behavior is to do as you're told and never
complain, even when your wages are less than what was promised.

Setia takes a job working for Man-Guang Fei (Kuei-Mei Yang), an alcoholic former
Taiwanese movie star paralyzed from the waist down and in excruciating pain from
a car accident. As the two form a bond, it is clear that Setia's wealthy
employer is much worse off than Setia. Even after Supayong is swept up in a raid
on illegal workers crammed in the back of a truck, her fighting spirit only
momentarily flags. The movie is a collective picture of a people living on hope
although there is little chance  of their dreams coming true any time soon.

SINCERELY YOURS

Opens on Thursday in Manhattan.

Produced and directed by Rich Lee; written by Shu-Wen Hu, Mr. Lee and Shou-Qian
Ho; director of photography, Mark Ping-Bin Lee; edited by Ching-Sung Liao; music
by Rahayu Supanggah; production designer, Wen-Ying Huang; released by Zoom Hunt
International Productions Co., Ltd. At the Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, Museum
of Modern Art. In Mandarin, with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 36
minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH: Lola Amaria (Setia Xiao Li), Banlop Lomnoi (Supayong),  Keui-Mei Yang
(Man-Guang Fei) and Li-Qi Wu (Wonpen).

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lola Amaria, left, and Banlop Lomnoi in ''Sincerely Yours,'' the
director  Rich Lee's debut film. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH LEE COMPANY)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 11, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

California: Immigration Conflict

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WEST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 140 words


Setting up a potential showdown with the mayor, the San Francisco Board of
Supervisors reinstated an ordinance  requiring that juvenile offenders who are
in the country illegally be convicted of a crime before they are turned over to
federal immigration authorities. The board passed the measure in October, but it
was vetoed by Mayor Gavin Newsom, who said that it very likely conflicted with
federal immigration law. On Tuesday, the board overrode that veto by an 8-to-3
vote. The mayor says that he has no intention of abiding by the board's action
and that the current policy of turning over juveniles at the time of their
arrest would stay in place. A spokesman called the ordinance unenforceable.
Supervisor David Campos, who sponsored the measure, urged the mayor ''to follow
the democratic process'' and put the ordinance into effect.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 12, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Year After an Immigrant's Death, Signs of Hope

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME.

E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 778 words

DATELINE: PATCHOGUE, N.Y.


There is a bright display of diversity and tolerance banners in front of the
middle school around the corner from the village hall.

There are new bilingual forms for village business and more bilingual village
employees and police officers, new guidelines for the Suffolk County police in
dealing with Hispanic immigrants, a more moderate tone from county officials on
the subject of immigration, more diversity facilitators and consultants than
anyone can remember.

If well-intentioned interventions could magically change lives, last weekend
would have marked more of an end than a beginning when people paused to remember
the anniversary of the stabbing death of Marcelo Lucero, a 37-year-old
Ecuadorean immigrant who the police said was attacked by seven teenagers outside
the village train station.

But life is never that simple. So people drew what lessons they could in a place
that has become symbolic of the tensions in suburban towns like Farmingville in
Suffolk County; Hempstead in Nassau; Brewster in Putnam; Danbury, Conn.; and
Freehold, N.J.

Joselo Lucero, Mr. Lucero's younger brother, sat on a bench outside the railroad
station, buses wheezing by, talking about the past weekend.

To the good, in his mind, was a vigil and memorial church service on Saturday
that drew 500 people. To the less good, he said, was a Roman Catholic service on
Sunday that, to his surprise, drew news cameras and political leaders including
the Suffolk County executive, Steve Levy, whose harsh words on immigration and
missteps after the attack made him a lightning rod.

''That was a circus for me, that was an ambush,'' Mr. Lucero said. ''I felt like
they were trying to use my family for a political campaign.''

Still, you could say the most striking thing one year later is how, in this
place at least, tragedy has led to some degree of hope, where politicians of all
stripes seem to want to be seen as on the side of reconciliation as opposed to
confrontation.

Foster Maer, a lawyer for the group LatinoJustice P.R.L.D.E.F., said that at the
very least, the background noise around immigration seemed to have changed
enormously.

''I would like to think those who are in the public view are more thoughtful
about what they say and how they approach immigration issues and the Latino
community,'' he said. ''There have always been some tremendous organizations
serving the Latino community, doing great work for many years. And I sense,
perhaps hopefully, that there's a greater willingness to listen to them, and not
attack them than there's been in the past.''

Indeed, some say, if anything, there has been too much effort toward
intervention, mediation, counseling -- the diversity happy talk imposed from
outside that often preaches to the already converted.

The Rev. Dwight Lee Wolter of the Congregational Church of Patchogue, where Mr.
Lucero's funeral service was held last year and the post-vigil service was held
on Saturday night, said there are competing emotions:  attempts to do good and
attempts to look good as Patchogue deals with its unwanted and probably
undeserved notoriety.

He said that by many measures Patchogue was a more tolerant and responsive place
than it had been a year ago. What's needed, he said, is a way to hear from the
unconverted, to have an honest conversation with the people who do not condone
violence but have concerns about immigration  issues -- crowded and unsafe
housing; access to health care; school overcrowding; language differences --
which deserve a hearing.

That's a conversation, with both sides in the same room, that is hard to find in
our balkanized MSNBC-here, Fox News-there world.

Still, any cursory glimpse of Patchogue is a reminder that we are long past the
point where it is a marginal conversation about suburban life. At Patricio
Records, with its Ecuadorean soccer uniforms in the window and Nuestra Salud
herbal teas inside, the ''nuevo'' CDs are far more likely to be by Jaly Alvarez
or Lolita Echeverria than Nirvana.  At Lempa Pizza & Tacos, the culinary accent
now on the taco, a handwritten sign on the door says, ''No Pizza, thank you.''
Young Hispanic kids parade down Main Street twirling their iPod ear buds.
Hispanic men in Yankee caps and A-Rod jerseys gather outside the Caribe Mini
Market reading El Diario or El Bilingue of East Suffolk. The face on the poster
at the Armed Forces Career Center belongs to a Latina.

If the attack on Marcelo Lucero was not just witless teenage violence, but
rather a way to strike out against a changing world, the change is not going
away, and long after this doleful anniversary, people will still need to find a
way to make it work.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joselo Lucero, the brother of Marcelo Lucero, an Ecuadorean man
who was killed last year in Patchogue, N.Y., at the village's middle school
Wednesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KATHY KMONICEK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 17, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Their Future Is Ours

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 503 words


There are 16 million children in immigrant families in the United States, one of
the fastest-growing segments of the population. It's an old American story made
new in the age of globalization, when waves of human displacement in recent
decades have led to immigration on a scale not seen since Ellis Island. But a
country that has been so good for so long at integrating new Americans is
stumbling under the challenge.

That is the conclusion of Professors Marcelo and Carola Suarez-Orozco, fellows
at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton and co-directors of immigration
studies at New York University. They have done basic research in immigration for
more than 20 years, five of them studying 400 children from China, Haiti, the
Dominican Republic, Central America and Mexico.

The results of their research, released this month, show the stark effects of
what Marcelo Suarez-Orozco calls ''the age of global vertigo.'' Dislocation
breeds a host of difficulties, starting with family separation. Nearly half of
the children in their sample had at some point lost contact with one or both
parents, either through migration directly or through divorce or death. The
absent parent was most often the father for long stretches or permanently. For
49 percent of the Central American children, separations lasted more than five
years.

The children from separated families were, perhaps unsurprising, more likely to
show signs of depression. Those symptoms were often accompanied by poverty,
isolation and -- despite an early period of hopefulness and engagement -- a
downward academic slide. Immigrant children lagged in mastering standard
academic English, the passport to college and to brighter futures. Whereas
native-born children's language skills follow a bell curve, immigrants' children
were crowded in the lower ranks: More than three-quarters of the sample scored
below the 85th percentile in English proficiency.

There is clearly a need for policies and programs to support immigrant parents
and children, but the reality is as haphazard and tenuous as these children's
lives often are. Millions are growing up in mixed families, with some members
here illegally, others not. Bills to help immigrant families with a path to
legalization have died repeatedly in Congress, and small-scale reforms like the
Dream Act, a path to college or the military for children of illegal immigrants
have been stymied for years. New investments in language education, citizenship
preparation and after-school and preschool programs have been derailed by
economic crisis, harsh immigration politics and a general lack of attention.

This is the great challenge that is forgotten in the heat of the immigration
debate. The children of immigrants are Americans. ''They'' are ''us,'' a cohort
of newcomers who will be filling the demographic void left as the baby boomers
start fading away. Their future is our country's future. The job of integrating
them is not only unfinished but in many critical ways has hardly begun.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 8, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Census Finds Increase In Foreign-Born Workers

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 660 words


Nearly one in six American workers is foreign-born, the highest proportion since
the 1920s, according to a census analysis released Monday.

Because of government barriers to immigration, the share of foreign-born workers
dipped from a 20th-century high of 21 percent in 1910 to barely 5 percent in
1970, but has been rising since then, to the current 16 percent.

In 2007, immigrants accounted for more than one in four workers in California
(35 percent), New York (27 percent), New Jersey (26 percent) and Nevada (25
percent).

For the first time, the Census Bureau also compared immigrants by generation.
Generally, income and other measures of achievement rose from one generation to
the next, although educational attainment peaked with the second generation.

Monica Boyd, a sociology professor at the University of Toronto, said the second
generation personified ''the overachievement model, a tendency for very high
achievement that seems to come as a result of immigrant parents' instilling in
these kids an enormous drive.'' Professor Boyd added, ''Many try to instill in
their kids the phrase, 'We did this all for you.' ''

Among all immigrant families, median income rose from $50,867 in the first
generation to $63,359 and $65,144 in the second and third, respectively. The
only group to register any decrease was family households headed by single
mothers; their income declined from the second generation to the third.

Similarly, the overall proportion of immigrant families living below the
government's official poverty level declined, from 16.5 percent to 14.5 to 11.5
among three generations. But among adult immigrants, the proportion who are poor
grew again between the second and third generations.

While the proportion of high school graduates increased from one generation to
the next, the share who had bachelor's degrees or more higher education declined
from the second to the third generations. The proportion with doctorates peaked
with the first generation.

Elizabeth Grieco, chief of the Census Bureau's immigration statistics staff,
said the figures suggested substantial progress from the first generation to the
second.

''This really shows that immigrants integrate over time the same way they always
have,'' Ms. Grieco said.

In terms of education, she said, ''the third generation seems to be stopping at
bachelor's or master's degrees.''

Nancy Foner, a sociology professor at Hunter College of the City University of
New York, said, ''If there is some evidence of third-generation decline, then
this no doubt has a lot to do with persistent inequalities and disadvantages
facing many of the second generation and their children.''

Professor Foner added that ''the economic declines of the past few years no
doubt play a role'' and that ''it could also be that second-generation parents,
themselves born in the U.S., are less optimistic and push their children less
hard than their own immigrant parents who came here and struggled so their
children could succeed.''

In 2007, the census found that immigrants were more likely to be employed or
looking for work than native-born adults. The proportion of immigrants without a
high school diploma is higher than among native-born Americans, but so is the
share of immigrants with graduate degrees. While immigrants constitute 16
percent of the total labor force, the foreign-born (mostly from Asia and Europe)
make up 28 percent of workers with doctoral degrees.

Noncitizens were most likely to work in agriculture, construction and the hotel
and food service industries. Citizens born abroad were most prevalent in real
estate, health care and transportation. Immigrants from Asia, Europe and Africa
are most likely to be employed in management and professional occupations, those
from Mexico in construction and farming.

The labor force figures are from the 2007 American Community Survey. The
generation comparison comes from the 2008 Current Population Survey.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 11, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside the Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 728 words


International

POLITICIAN FASTS, SEEKING

Redraw of India's Map

A politician's hunger strike incited the process of forming the Telangana state,
but the drama underscores that while India represents an ancient civilization,
it is a relatively young democracy whose internal political shape is likely to
keep evolving.   PAGE A6

NUCLEAR TALKS WITH N. KOREA

North Korea said that its differences with the United States had been diminished
during the visit this week of President Obama's special envoy, but that it
needed additional talks before deciding whether to return to six-nation nuclear
disarmament talks.    PAGE A6

QUAKE THREAT ENDS PROJECT

A $60 million project to extract renewable energy from the hot bedrock beneath
Basel, Switzerland, was shut down permanently after a government study
determined that earthquakes generated by the project were likely to do millions
of dollars in damage.  PAGE A12

CRIME WAVE IN CEMETERIES

Accompanying Venezuela's soaring levels of murders and kidnappings, its
cemeteries are the setting for a new kind of crime wave. Grave robbers are
looting them for human bones for a transplanted Cuban religion called Palo that
uses the bones in its ceremonies.   PAGE A16

obituaries

GENE BARRY, 90

He portrayed debonair lawmen on television, but his career of more than 60 years
ranged from song and dance on Broadway to science fiction.   PAGE B13

National

STUDENTS BECOME THE VOICE

For Illegal Immigrants

With many illegal immigrants trying to avoid a continuing crackdown, immigrant
students have become the most visible supporters of a legislative overhaul,
which President Obama pledged to take up early next year.  PAGE A18

DRUGS IN THE HEALTH DEBATE

During debate of an overhaul of the health care system, the Senate found itself
tied in knots over a bipartisan proposal to allow people to import lower-cost
prescription drugs from Canada and other countries.   PAGE A24

SHIFT IN LATINO IDENTITY

A survey of young Latinos paints a mixed picture of their footing in America.
They express overall satisfaction with their lives, while carving an identity
based more on their parents' home country than labels like American or even
Hispanic or Latino.   PAGE A26

New York

WITH TIGHTER BUDGETS,

A Principal Maps Out Cuts

Principals like Edward Tom at the Bronx Center for Science and Mathematics are
preparing for the worst in budget cuts. It is part of their role managing a
portion of their operating budgets, which they have been doing since 2007.
PAGE A30

SUIT FILED IN TACONIC CRASH

Relatives of a Westchester father and son killed in a wrong-way crash on the
Taconic State Parkway in July that left eight people dead filed a lawsuit
against the estate of the driver at fault.  PAGE A32

Business

HOUSE DEMOCRATS DEFEND

Effort to Rein In Wall Street

House Democrats defended their Wall Street regulatory overhaul against sharp
Republican criticism that it would perpetuate a bailout mentality and accused
Republicans of aligning themselves with the financial institutions that caused
the crisis.  PAGE B1

FITBIT ATTEMPTS TO DELIVER

Fitbit tracker is a classic start-up story: entrepreneurs with a hot idea
generate excitement, then run into problems making and delivering their product.
PAGE B1

Weekend

CHEERING A TEAM,

Uniting a Nation

Clint Eastwood's ''Invictus,'' starring Morgan Freeman as Nelson Mandela, is an
exciting sports movie, an inspiring tale of prejudice overcome and, above all, a
fascinating study of political leadership, A. O. Scott writes.   PAGE C1

PLEDGING THE ANIMAL HOUSE

Dominic Dromgoole's interpretation of Shakespeare's ''Love's Labour's Lost'' is
to be commended for revealing that this word-infatuated frolic may well be the
first and best example of college comedy, Ben Brantley writes.   PAGE C1

Escape

NICARAGUA IS ATTRACTING

Many U.S. Retirees

Following Costa Rica's lead as an affordable paradise for second- and
retirement-home owners, there are an estimated 3,000 foreign property owners in
Nicaragua.  PAGE C36

Sports

WASHINGTON MAY HOST

Famous Cycling Event

Organizers of the Giro d'Italia, one of the world's most prestigious cycling
events, met with Mayor Adrian M. Fenty to discuss plans for Washington to host
the start of the 2012 Giro, a storied race that is 100 years old. Page B16

Op-ed

PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A35

DAVID BROOKS PAGE A35

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 15, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 116 words


An obituary on Thursday about Yosef Yerushalmi, a scholar of Jewish history,
referred incorrectly in some copies to his parents' immigration. Mr.
Yerushalmi's father immigrated from Russia in the 1920s to what was then the
British mandate of Palestine, and then to the United States; his mother
immigrated directly to the United States from Pinsk, Russia. They did not
immigrate from Russia ''to Israel.'' (The state of Israel did not exist at that
time.) The obituary also misspelled part of the name of one of Mr. Yerushalmi's
major works. It is ''Zakhor: Jewish History and Jewish Memory,'' not ''Zachor.''
And the obituary and a picture caption misspelled his middle name. It is Hayim,
not Haim.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 24, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

California: Pastor Accused In Visa Scheme

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WEST; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 143 words


Immigration authorities accused a California pastor  of helping foreigners
fraudulently obtain student visas and of handing out phony diplomas at a fake
graduation ceremony on a campus where they never attended class. The pastor,
Samuel Chai Cho Oh, 65, faces a charge of conspiracy to commit visa fraud for
allegedly charging foreigners cash to help get them student visas on the premise
that they would attend the Christian university he owns in Fullerton. But more
than 100 students from countries including South Korea and Japan never took
classes at California Union University, which served as a shell for them to stay
in the country legally, Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials said. The
authorities said Mr. Oh received $40,000 to $50,000 a month in the scheme.
Adriaan F. van der Capellen, Mr. Oh's lawyer, said his client was not guilty.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 26, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trying to Build Bonds With Immigrant Stories

BYLINE: By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN.

E-mail: sgfreedman@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ON RELIGION; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 940 words

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif.


On the last Sunday before Christmas, from an altar flanked by Advent candles and
potted poinsettias, the Rev. Clarence L. Johnson preached to the Mills Grove
Christian Church about the Nativity. A precise and measured man, Mr. Johnson
departed just once from his typewritten text.

In the midst of recounting a certain birth in ancient Judea, the minister placed
his gaze a dozen rows back into the congregation and rested it on a dark-haired
woman in a patterned blouse. He called her by name, Luz, and then he went back
into his sermon, to words he had surely chosen with her in mind.

''Joseph was warned by an angel of the Lord that Herod, the king, was searching
for the young child in order to destroy him,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''He was
instructed to get up and take the baby and his mother, Mary, and flee into Egypt
and remain there until it was safe to return. This, then, becomes a refugee
story, a story of immigrants, a young family having to escape the dangers of
their native land and relocate to a strange new place.''

Throughout the stucco church, among the hundred worshipers, nobody needed a
concordance to grasp the minister's meaning. Earlier in the morning service,
they had heard from Luz Dominguez herself. Or, more accurately, they had heard
her through the interpreter who translated the testimony of a Mexican immigrant
to a congregation of African-Americans.

''I am a woman of faith,'' Mrs. Dominguez, 45, had said from the pulpit, ''and I
am here to speak to you with my heart in my hands.''

Then she told a different kind of Christmas narrative, one about being suspended
from her job as a hotel housekeeper 10 days before the holiday in 2006.
Officially, the reason was that the Social Security number Mrs. Dominguez had
provided to the hotel did not match federal records.

The timing of the suspension, which was followed two weeks later by her firing,
also coincided with the efforts of Mrs. Dominguez and dozens of co-workers to
have the hotel comply with a local living-wage law that would have reduced their
workload.

Three years later, the dispute remains unresolved. Mrs. Dominguez now works at a
different job and fears a return visit from immigration agents, who have
surprised her at home once already. And while she said nothing overt about her
immigration status, the audience could surmise that even after 15 years in
America it fell somewhere short of legal.

Her testimony took just four or five minutes of the service, leaving plenty of
time for hymns, poetry recitation by the children, collection of offerings and
the distribution of the wine and wafer known in many Protestant churches as the
Lord's Supper. But when Mrs. Dominguez's brief part ended, there was applause.

Applause was part of the point. So was the response at the congregational lunch
after the service. Over rice and gumbo, about two dozen members of Mills Grove
signed letters to Bay Area members of Congress endorsing  immigration law
change, an issue that President Obama is expected to revive in 2010. The
letterhead, quite deliberately, consisted of a verse from Deuteronomy:
''Therefore love the stranger, for you were once strangers in the land of
Egypt.''

Mrs. Dominguez had spoken at Mills Grove as part of several related programs in
the Oakland area intended to enlist African-American churches in support of
immigration change and, at a more personal level, to neutralize the resistance
many blacks have felt toward advocacy for immigrants, especially illegal ones,
who are perceived as unfair competitors for manufacturing and service-industry
jobs.

Over the past year,  immigrant workers like Mrs. Dominguez have told their
stories at 10 black churches in the Oakland area under a program called Labor in
the Pulpit, overseen by the East Bay Interfaith Committee for Worker Justice.
Another local advocacy group, the Black Alliance for Just Immigration, has held
dialogues with members of 15 black churches over the past three years.

What underlies both of these initiatives has been the sense of disengagement,
sometimes ranging to antipathy, on the immigration issue among African-American
churches. In part, these churches see more than enough challenges meeting the
needs of blacks during the severe economic downturn. In part, they see Latino
immigrants as adversaries.

''We get 'They're taking our jobs,' '' said Gerald Lenoir, director of the Black
Alliance for Just Immigration, recalling his conversations at churches. ''We
get, 'They're overwhelming our social services, they're taking over our
communities, they're calling it a civil rights struggle, and what about our
struggle?' ''

Black church leaders have come up with answers both idealistic and pragmatic.
Brian K. Woodson Sr. pastors a church, the Bay Area Christian Connection, that
is near Chinatown in Oakland and shares its building with a Vietnamese
congregation. To him, the immigrants make more sense as allies on issues of
economic justice than as rivals.

By bringing immigrants like Mrs. Dominguez into church, sympathetic blacks have
been able not only to put a human face on the immigration issue but also a  face
that is brown-skinned and Christian, affirming two common bonds. The attacks on
Latino immigrants on talk radio and cable TV have also encouraged a certain
dynamic of ''The enemy of my enemy is my friend.''

''Whenever we see our brothers and sisters being treated wrongly,'' Mr. Johnson
said in an interview, ''it's incumbent on us to raise our voices. For those of
us who've been involved in the struggle and have gained benefits from that
struggle, we feel it's right to pass the benefits along.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 27, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

After L.I. Killing, Helping Immigrants Heal

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 265 words


The Lucero de America Foundation has its origins in the community mourning and
outrage that followed the ambush and death of an unarmed Ecuadorean immigrant,
Marcelo Lucero, in Patchogue in November 2008.

The seven Patchogue-Medford High School students accused of baiting, beating and
dealing a fatal knife blow to Mr. Lucero are  on trial, but unease among the
immigrant population persists.

The foundation's immediate purpose was to help the Ecuadorean community heal;
its  continuing goal is to provide educational and health  classes  to a
balkanized immigrant contingent, maintain its cultural traditions and defend
human rights. The foundation, which is no longer directly affiliated with the
Lucero family, is composed of 40 Ecuadoreans who live in Patchogue (some here
legally, some not) and some other sympathetic Long Islanders.

One of those sympathetic Long Islanders is Regina Casale, a Spanish teacher in
Middle Island.

''When Marcelo passed, I thought back to what happened in Farmingville six years
ago, when immigrants were the victims of violent crimes and nothing educational
was done afterwards to teach kids how wrong that was,'' said Ms. Casale. ''Maybe
if we'd done something then, those kids from Patchogue perhaps wouldn't have
attacked Marcelo.''

Ms. Casale hopes that the foundation, which operates on donations and members'
dues, fills that gap.

''If a member of our community is sick, or facing deportation, or has lost their
job, we'll hold fund-raisers to try and help,'' she said. ''But it's all just a
baby step in the right direction.''  ROBIN FINN

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 27, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Difficult Year for Latinos in East Haven

BYLINE: By CHRIS HARCUM

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 272 words


''It's a cute town,'' Cynthia Rojas said about her home, East Haven. But
relations there between immigrants and suburbanites have had their ups and downs
in 2009.

According to the most recent estimates, 7 percent to 8 percent of East Haven
residents are Latino. Most of the rest are non-Latino whites. ''We Latinos stick
out at this point in history, and some people can't get used to the change,''
said Angel Fernandez, leader of the pastoral council of the St. Rose of Lima
Church in New Haven, which counts many East Haven Latinos among its members.

Several incidents increased tensions in East Haven this year. In March, fliers
calling for the deportation of all illegal immigrants were hand-delivered by a
white supremacist group to local Latino businesses. The move was a response to
allegations by Ecuadorean business owners, who accused the police of harassing
Latinos.

Then, in August, some immigrants held a march against racial profiling. As they
proceeded to East Haven Town Hall, a number of groups, some waving ''White Pride
Worldwide'' flags and some shouting anti-immigrant slogans, gathered to conduct
their own counterprotest.

But since those tense encounters, said Patricio Troya, consul of Ecuador in
Connecticut, there have been some initiatives to increase dialogue and
understanding between the police and the Ecuadoreans. Mr. Troya said that he was
hopeful, and that East Haven's mayor, April Capone Almon, had helped in this
effort.

What does Ms. Rojas think about the current state of relations in her town? ''I
don't think it's simmered down,'' she said. ''But it's gotten quiet.''   CHRIS
HARCUM

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 6, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration's New Year

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 555 words


The quest for overhauling immigration received two very welcome lifts on New
Year's Day.

Mayor Michael Bloomberg of New York City, at his inauguration, pledged to help
the Obama administration pass immigration reform. Mr. Bloomberg is a force to
reckon with, as he proved with his national campaign against illegal guns. On
the same day, four young people in Miami, current or former students at Miami
Dade College, began their own determined march to Washington in an effort to
bring pressure from the grass roots.

Three of the four were brought to this country illegally as children. Like
thousands of other young people, they bear no blame for their status, and they
are frustrated that their hard work and bright promise lead to a brick wall.
Their protest for a chance to become Americans is courageous because it exposes
them to possible arrest and deportation. ''We are risking our future because our
present is unbearable,'' one of them, Felipe Matos, told The Times.

The Obama administration has vowed to press ahead with reform this year. Given
the hard economic times, the politics may be bleaker even than in 2007 when
reform was scuttled in an ugly battle. The need is just as real -- for the
undocumented and for the country.

America needs to shut the path to illegal entry and employment while opening
smoother and more rational routes to legal immigration. Opponents of reform say
the downturn is a terrible time to fix the system, but they are wrong. When the
recovery comes, the country will need a functioning system more than ever -- one
that encourages legal entry and bolsters all workers' rights.

To do this, the country needs to bring its huge undocumented underclass into the
light. This means putting 12 million people on a path to being assimilated. It
is not a question of adding new people to the work force; they are here, many
helping keep the economy afloat while tolerating low pay and abuse from
lawbreaking employers who prefer them to American workers.

Representative Luis Gutierrez, a Democrat of Illinois, already has offered a
sensible bill that legalizes immigrants who show that they have been employed,
pay a $500 fine, learn English and undergo a criminal background check, among
other things.

Opponents will try their best to scuttle reform by claiming to be open to
compromise while they insist on prohibitive fees, penalties and requirements
that turn the path into a fiction --  not a wait of months but of decades or
never. That is not reform. And it won't solve the problem.

After years of tightening the screws, the system is hopelessly frozen. Those who
want to fix it will have to shut out the choruses of no-amnestys and
over-my-dead-bodys, sidestep the false arguments and press into the headwinds
while holding firm to the core of the better solution. To legalize the
undocumented, collect their unpaid taxes, free them to earn more and spend more,
to get the immigrant escalator to the middle class moving again. The country
needs it; the economy needs it; the immigrants need and deserve it.

''No city on earth has been more rewarded by immigrant labor, more renewed by
immigrant ideas, more revitalized by immigrant culture,'' Mr. Bloomberg said of
New York City last week. Substitute ''country'' in that sentence, as in America,
and it is every bit as true.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 6, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside the Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 975 words


International

RISING INDIAN OFFICIAL

Gets Far on Few Words

The political rise of Shashi Tharoor, a writer and a member of India's
Parliament, has been defined by his avid use of Twitter, the microblogging
service. But the habit recently invited trouble for appearing to disagree on the
site with his superiors on a delicate issue. PAGE A6

AID TO SOMALIA SUSPENDED

After weeks of receiving threats and demands that it dismiss many female
employees and pay a ''security fee'' to an Islamic extremist group, the United
Nations World Food Program announced that it was suspending food deliveries to
one million people in southern Somalia indefinitely. PAGE A6

PUTTING LENS ON GAZA LIFE

The Israeli human rights group B'Tselem decided to distribute video cameras to
18 young people in Gaza, and set them up with an instructor and Web guidance.
The assignment: to tell about their lives in the aftermath of the Israeli
invasion a year ago. PAGE A10

National

REPRIEVE EASES CRISIS

For Illegal Immigrants

Officials at Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta announced that they would again
extend services for patients dislocated by its choice to shutter its outpatient
unit, where many patients are illegal immigrants.The reprieve prolongs a
standoff that has come to epitomize the medical crisis facing illegal
immigrants. PAGE A12

WEATHER THREATENS CROPS

As a cold spell continued its rigid hold on much of the eastern United States,
farmers in central and southern Florida were bracing for freezing temperatures
overnight that could damage orange, strawberry and tomato crops. PAGE A13

GENDER IDENTITY PROTECTIONS

In a move applauded by civil liberties groups and decried by cultural
conservatives, the Obama administration has inserted language into the federal
jobs Web site explicitly banning employment discrimination based on gender
identity. PAGE A15

New York

PAMPHLET ON HEROIN USE

Criticized as a How-To Guide

In 2007, New York City health officials released a 17-page pamphlet with ''tips
for safer use'' of heroin that the city financed and distributed. But in the
last few days, the pamphlet has raised the hackles of public officials, who
criticized the brochure as a how-to manual for beginning drug users that makes
drug use seem normal. PAGE A17

Business

HOME CONTRACTS FALL,

Thwarting Optimism

The number of houses placed under contract fell sharply in November in the first
drop in nearly a year. It was the clearest sign yet that predictions of another
downturn in real estate may become a reality. PAGE B1

COOPERATING TO SURVIVE

Union employees at the car plan in Lordstown, Ohio, used to be a seemingly
endless source of trouble for General Motors. But United Automobile Workers'
leaders in Lordstown and other cities say they have decided that their only
chance to survive in a global economy is to work with, not against, their
employers. PAGE B1

MIXED MONTH FOR CAR SALES

Automakers ended a miserable year with some less bad sales figures, though the
Ford Motor Company was the only one of the three domestic companies to report
higher numbers in December. PAGE B1

BACKING RISKY START-UPS

Large Taiwanese and Chinese manufacturers have created an investment network in
Silicon Valley that pumps money into a variety of technology companies. As a
result, some Asian manufacturers are more willing than entrenched Silicon Valley
venture capitalists to back risky endeavors. PAGE B1

APPLE BUYS AD FIRM

Apple encroached on Google's turf with its acquisition of Quattro Wireless, a
mobile advertising company. The sale is the latest sign that the mobile phone is
the next battleground for technology companies. PAGE B8

Arts

AN AMORPHOUS SLEUTH

For Any Era

Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes has been reimagined countless times. In
his latest incarnation, he is an action hero played by Robert Downey Jr. in a
Hollywood blockbuster that has annoyed purists. But Charles McGrath writes that
Holmes's vagueness and incompleteness on the page make him irresistible as a pop
figure, on whom we can project our own interpretation. PAGE C1

LAUGHING AT A CRISIS

Dwight Garner writes that few if any of the books to be written about the
fallout from the banking crisis will be as pleasurable as John Lanchester's
''I.O.U.: Why Everyone Owes Everyone and No One Can Pay.'' PAGE C1

Game Show for 'Genius' Children C1

Film Review: 'Garbage Dreams' C7

Sports

BLOCKBUSTER THAT PROVED

Worthy of the Hall of Fame

Fred McGriff and Roberto Alomar are set to be inducted into the Baseball Hall of
Fame this week, which is perhaps fitting: In 1990, the two All-Stars were part
of a blockbuster trade that helped send both the Toronto Blue Jays and Atlanta
Braves to eventual World Series championships. PAGE B11

BOISE'S B.C.S. FUTURE

Boise State's 17-10 victory over Texas Christian University in the Fiesta Bowl
marked a historical and controversial milepost in the Bowl Championship Series
era. With 21 starters returning next year, the Broncos have a chance to play for
a national title, despite playing outside of a Bowl Championship Series
Conference. News Analysis. PAGE B11

RULING ON VICTORIES UPHELD

The N.C.A.A. announced that it had upheld its decision to strip the Florida
State football team of 14 victories. The decision will leave Bobby Bowden, the
retiring Seminole head coach, as many as 19 behind Joe Paterno of Penn State for
most victories among football coaches at major colleges. PAGE B14

Dining

A UKRAINIAN BEACON

In the East Village

Tom Birchard is the owner of Veselka, an East Village restaurant famous for its
garlicky Ukrainian dumplings and borscht. It has made him an unlikely
Anglo-Saxon Noah of a food culture that is fading in the East Village, once a
haven for Eastern European immigrants. PAGE D1

Restaurant Review: Casa Lever D6

Op-ed

THOMAS FRIEDMAN PAGE A19

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 8, 2010 Friday
                                National Edition

Despite Work for U.S. Forces, Iraqi Is Denied a Green Card

BYLINE: By KATIE FRETLAND

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE;
Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 1223 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


Nada Alkhaddar spends her days at the Muslim Women Resource Center helping
refugees and immigrants deal with government and commercial bureaucracies that
can make life in the United States seem about as easy as computing the
Alternative Minimum Tax.

''We help anyone, Muslims or Christians, from here or anywhere in the city,''
Ms. Alkhaddar said as she guided an Eastern European man through a long
questionnaire from a local bank. She adjusted her hijab and smiled as she worked
in an office overlooking Devon and Western Avenues, an Indo-Pakistani
neighborhood just north and west of downtown.

Despite her skills at navigating the obstacles immigrants face, Ms. Alkhaddar
cannot seem to help the person closest to her and her three children -- her
husband, Ahmed Alrais -- who is trying to get a green card.

Mr. Alrais came to the United States in the spring of 2008 after his life had
been threatened for working as an interpreter for the United States Army in
Iraq. Unable to find a job during the recession and without a green card, he
returned in February to the country he had fled to work again for the Army
through a private contractor.

Federal officials at United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, part of
the Department of Homeland Security, will not give Mr. Alrais credit for the
time he has spent on a United States military base overseas so he can fulfill an
American residency requirement to get the green card. His application was denied
in November.

Mr. Alrais, 51, struggles to understand a system that would have given him a
green card if he had stayed in the United States for the full year without a
job, instead of working with American forces in Iraq.

''That's confusing; that's very confusing,'' Mr. Alrais said Wednesday via Skype
from northern Iraq. ''We get hit by mortars, like, I don't know, once or twice a
month, and when we go out, we don't know when we are going to be attacked, and
sacrificing being here away from our families.''

Despite the turmoil and political controversy over how easily some immigrants
enter the United States illegally, Mr. Alrais's experience shows how formidable
the challenges can be for many refugees and immigrants -- even those with
families in the United States and seemingly solid credentials.

''He serves the country with his life in such a dangerous place,'' said Ms.
Alkhaddar, 50, who keeps a purple folder full of government papers relating to
her husband's case at her apartment on Chicago's North Side.

The folder contains documents like their marriage license, as well as letters of
recommendation from Mr. Alrais's military supervisors in Iraq.

''He has been very supportive of our presence, helped our soldiers and has been
a loyal friend to us,'' said Maj. James B. Phillips of the Army in one letter,
which also described Mr. Alrais as ''trustworthy and dependable.'' Major
Phillips worked with Mr. Alrais in 2003.

In an e-mail message this week from Iraq, Major Philips said Mr. Alrais was an
outstanding interpreter whom he highly respected.

''The troops and I also liked him because when we first met he had a Mustang
that he would drive to work every now and then,'' the major said. ''It was
always nice to see a classic American car while deployed.''

Fred Tsao, policy director at the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee
Rights, said Mr. Alrais's ordeal to secure a green card was ''crazy.''

''To go back and face the dangers while serving this country and then be denied
a green card seems really unfair,'' Mr. Tsao said. ''It's an awful deterrence to
making a contribution to the country that took you in. Something is terribly
wrong here.''

Ms. Alkhaddar and Mr. Alrais fled their home in Baghdad in 2006 after his work
for the United States Army in 2003 and 2004 made him a target for Iraqis angered
by the invasion.

''A lot of people were assassinated just because they had a contract working
with the U.S. forces,'' Mr. Alrais said.

A grocer refused to sell food to his youngest son, Mohamed. ''He said, 'We will
never sell anything for you because of your father,' '' Ms. Alkhaddar said. ''He
came home crying. They start kidnapping people. For our safety we moved.''

The family went to Egypt for two years, where they lived in a compound called
Beverly Hills outside Cairo. They came to the United States as refugees in May
2008, as the recession was hitting the American job market.

Even though Mr. Alrais had the proper documentation for a refugee and was a chef
trained in France, he could not find a good job in Chicago to support his
family. He left the United States in February to work in Iraq as an interpreter
with Global Linguist Solutions, a contractor based in Virginia that provides
translators to the American military.

Mr. Alrais's wife and children stayed behind, planning to apply for citizenship
for the family after they had met the residency requirement of one year. May was
their one-year anniversary, and Ms. Alkhaddar and the children were given green
cards. But Mr. Alrais's application was denied.

In a letter to Mr. Alrais in November, Donald P. Ferguson, the Chicago field
office director of Citizenship and Immigration Services, said Mr. Alrais had not
met the residency requirement because he had not been in the United States for a
full year after he arrived. Because of his work with the military in Iraq, he
was away from Feb. 19 until Sept. 11, 2009.

Mr. Ferguson wrote that being on an American territory on a military base in
Iraq did not count toward residency. ''The service is unable to consider your
time working in Iraq to fulfill the physical presence requirement for adjustment
of status purposes,'' he wrote.

Mr. Ferguson cited another problem with the application: Mr. Alrais had given
his power of attorney to his wife so she could apply for the green card for him
while he was overseas. Ms. Alkhaddar submitted an Internal Revenue Service form
showing she held his power of attorney, but the Department of Homeland Security
does not accept that form as sufficient proof of power of attorney, Mr. Ferguson
said.

Mr. Ferguson did not return phone calls requesting comment. Marilu Cabrera, an
agency spokeswoman, said the agency would not comment on any specific cases.

Thomas Ragland, an immigration lawyer in Washington who previously worked for
the Department of Justice and the Board of Immigration Appeals, said the
immigration system could be impossible for the average person to handle.

''Even some average lawyers out there are not very good at navigating it,'' Mr.
Ragland said, ''even though they charge for it.''

Mr. Ragland said Mr. Alrais, who plans to come to Chicago later this month to
plead his case, deserved an advocate to help him get a green card, considering
how members of Congress and the military had spoken about the importance of
taking care of Iraqis who aid the armed forces.

Ms. Alkhaddar keeps in touch with her husband over her computer at home, telling
him how the children are doing.

Their oldest son, Amro, 27, is a mechanic on Chicago's South Side. Their
daughter, Shahad, 21, is an interior design student at Harrington College
downtown. Their youngest son, Mohamed, is a sophomore at Mather High School,
where he plays football.

Mohamed, 17, dreams of being a Chicago policeman. ''For America,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nada Alkhaddar, shown with her son Mohamed in their North Side
apartment, is struggling to get a green card for her husband. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
JOSE MORE/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE)
 Ahmed Alrais, center with back to camera, in an undated photo from Iraq, where
he works as an interpreter for the Army.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 8, 2010 Friday
                                National Edition

A Special Visa Program Benefits Abused Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By KATHERINE ELLISON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 1412 words


She was 14 when her mother smuggled her into Los Angeles. She met her future
husband, a legal resident, two years later.

He had all the cards, and played them cruelly, as she recalls. He would not let
her go to school or work, dragged his feet on supporting her citizenship
request, and called her fat and ugly after she became pregnant.

She endured it all -- until she caught him romancing a 13-year-old girl from
their church choir. When she complained, he beat her bloody, tried to rape her,
and fled, with the girl, to Arizona, she said in an affidavit that is now part
of federal immigration records.

Today, he is in prison, and she is caring for her children in San Francisco,
with a driver's license and a legal job baby-sitting. Her legal status came
about through what is known as a U visa -- a humanitarian ''island of
niceness,'' as one advocate called it, in a sea of restrictive United States
immigration laws.

Victims of domestic violence are often deeply reluctant to press charges,
fearing retaliation or simply hoping their abusers will change. The risk of
deportation only escalates the aversion to go to the police. That is a main
reason that Congress passed legislation in 2000, creating the U visa. It allows
immigrants who have endured substantial mental or physical abuse and who
cooperate with law enforcement officials to work legally and stay in the United
States for up to four years while applying for permanent residence.

After nearly a decade of delays, federal officials began allowing the visas en
masse only early last year, after sustained efforts from immigrant rights
groups, particularly several based in Oakland and San Francisco. The pace of
approvals has since stepped up, as has the controversy, with both defense
lawyers and groups opposed to immigration contending that the process invites
scams.

For millions of immigrants and their supporters, however, the program is truly
an island of niceness, as Catherine Ward-Seitz, the regional immigration
coordinator for Bay Area Legal Aid in San Francisco, put it. With a soured
economy encouraging hostility at worst and apathy at best toward illegal
immigrants, the U visas are a bittersweet consolation prize.

In a compassionate twist on the idea that felons should be imprisoned, victims
who can show that guns (or knives or fists) were used against them can be
released from the fear of deportation.

While victims of several specified crimes are eligible, at least three-fourths
of the applicants for U visas to date, like the Guatemalan baby sitter, who
asked that her name not be used for fear of retaliation from her spouse, say
they have suffered domestic violence, said Chris Rhatigan, a spokeswoman for the
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services. Immigration lawyers said
this was largely because of the prevalence of domestic violence in general.

Ending impunity in cases of domestic violence makes whole communities safer,
proponents say.

''These are disclosure-driven crimes, meaning people have to come forth and
report them; there's no gunshot to bring it to our attention,'' said Lt. Kevin
Wiley, commander of the Oakland Police Department's special victims unit, which
certified 153 U visas last year.

''It's all about building trust,'' Lieutenant Wiley said, adding that police
certification of the visas was a powerful tool in creating bonds among wary
residents who have long been the silent victims of a range of crimes, like the
robberies of illegal immigrants known on the streets as ''amigo checkings.''

What is more, Lieutenant Wiley said, the police often discover that domestic
violence offenders have multiple victims.

Congress approved an annual limit of 10,000 U visas. Yet the regulations that
would put the law in force were not made final by the Department of Homeland
Security until September 2007.

A few dozen U visas were approved in 2008. Then the pace increased. In the
fiscal year ending last September, immigration officials approved 5,825. Another
2,244 were approved in October and November. More than 10,000 applications are
pending.

Ms. Rhatigan said the long delay resulted mostly from the complexity of the new
rules, although some immigration advocates say the change of administrations in
Washington played a part.

Lawyers defending clients on the other side of the visa petitions worry that the
incentives of a U visa are creating new wrongs as well as righting old ones.

Marin County's deputy public defender, Tamara Chellam, argued that the U visas
might create irresistible incentives for people to invent or exaggerate
offenses. A recent client of Ms. Chellam is married to a woman who applied for a
U visa while fighting her spouse for custody of their daughter. The woman
testified that in early 2008, the defendant followed her to work at 5 a.m. and
broke the window of her car. Although there were no other witnesses, the husband
was convicted of stalking and assault. Ms. Chellam said she expected him to be
deported on his release from prison.

A decade earlier, the woman had reported that her husband had abused her but
subsequently said she wanted to drop charges, Ms. Chellam said. She applied for
a U visa in 2007 on the basis of that incident, but court testimony revealed she
had worried that it would not suffice because victims are required to cooperate
continuously. Ms. Chellam said she suspected that the wife had tailored the 2008
incident to help support her subsequent successful application for a visa.

''The U visa offers a wonderful opportunity when used appropriately, but it can
be lopsided and misused,'' Ms. Chellam said. ''If a person wants to get rid of a
spouse fighting for custody, or a rival gang member, these visas are very
convenient, while the people on the other side can lose everything: their
children, their jobs, their liberty and their right to stay here.''

On the other hand, applicants for U visas tend to be unusually sympathetic,
helping to explain why the law creating the visa gained nearly unanimous
bipartisan support at the end of the Clinton administration.

''Undocumented immigrants are unbelievably vulnerable to abuse, exploitation and
victimization because their fear of detection keeps them from reporting that
victimization,'' said Susan Bowyer, the managing lawyer for the Oakland office
of the International Institute of the Bay Area. ''It's like they're in a
never-ending nightmare, where people kick them while they're down because they
are down.''

While struggling to break the bureaucratic logjam surrounding U visas,
immigration lawyers and other advocates in this region, which is rich in both
immigrants and immigrant advocates, formed a coalition. The group met regularly
and communicated by frequently by e-mail to encourage one another, trade ideas
and pressure immigration officials.

Keen pressure was brought in March 2007, when the Center for Human Rights and
Constitutional Law in Los Angeles -- joined by three Bay Area advocacy groups --
filed a federal lawsuit in San Francisco against Citizenship and Immigration
Services. The Bay Area groups included Ms. Bowyer's team in Oakland, the Asian
Pacific Islander Legal Outreach group in San Francisco and Catholic Charities
CYO, also based in San Francisco.

The Bay Area has since taken a prominent position nationwide in winning
approvals for visas, with 16 local advocacy groups gaining 773 visas for their
clients -- more than 12 percent of the national total.

Ms. Bowyer's office alone claimed 148 approvals. She calls herself a
''U-vangelist'' and churns out long e-mail messages and reports late into the
night.

But not everyone applauds her success.

''The U visa goes beyond what's necessary -- or what should be necessary -- to
get people's cooperation,'' said Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the Federation for
Immigration Reform. ''Why should we have to provide incentives for people not
here legally when we do nothing extra for people who are here legally?''

For the baby sitter from Guatemala, the idea of getting a U visa in return for
cooperation played no role in her decision to go to the police. She had done so
in 2003, six years before she sought a visa. When she later learned she could
apply for the visa, it was more, she suggested, like a gift from a universe that
now seemed just a little more kind.

''Of course, I would have preferred another way to stay here,'' she said. ''But
this was the way it happened, and it was worth it.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Guatemalan immigrant now has legal United States residency
after helping the authorities prosecute her husband for abuse. She asked that
her identity be withheld for fear of retaliation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THEO RIGBY FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 15, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Help Haitians Help Haiti

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 388 words


President Obama made a promise to the people of Haiti on Thursday. ''You will
not be forsaken,'' he said. ''You will not be forgotten.'' He said those words
at the end of a short White House speech detailing the many ways the United
States was rushing food, water, medicine and other aid to that stricken country.

We wish he had added that his administration had found the courage, in this
emergency, to take a basic but politically difficult step -- to grant temporary
protected status to undocumented Haitians in the United States.

The Department of Homeland Security occasionally grants such status to
immigrants stranded in this country by war, famine, earthquake or some other
disaster back home. Protected immigrants are allowed to work legally and cannot
be detained or deported. It's a temporary amnesty, given in 18-month increments
to those who qualify, and is currently available to citizens of El Salvador,
Honduras, Nicaragua, Somalia and Sudan.

Earthquakes and hurricanes have routinely prompted the United States to grant
and extend protected status to Central Americans. Similar pleas by Haitians have
always been rebuffed, even after a devastating series of storms in 2008 left
hundreds of thousands homeless.

Advocates for Haitian immigrants, whose diaspora is centered in Miami, have
waged a long and fruitless campaign for protected status, arguing that
remittances by Haitians in the United States are a vital source of aid -- more
than $1 billion each year. Now that Haiti has suffered its worst disaster in
centuries, the argument for a temporary amnesty is overwhelming.

It was not enough for the administration to announce this week that the
Department of Homeland Security would halt the pending deportations of the
30,000 or so undocumented Haitians. Burdening a collapsed country with destitute
deportees would be a true crime. But all that does is leave the potential
deportees in limbo, unable to work without fear.

Tuesday's earthquake has caused a global outpouring of giving. But that will
inevitably subside as fatigue sets in and new crises arise. What will help keep
Haiti going for the long haul is Haitians helping Haitians. The Obama
administration should give undocumented Haitians in the United States the simple
thing they desperately want: not charity, but the chance to work.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 16, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Will Protect Illegal Haitian Residents From Deportation for 18 Months

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Sarah Wheaton contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 669 words


The Obama administration extended a special immigration status on Friday to
Haitians living illegally in the United States that protects them from
deportation for 18 months and allows them to work here.

Calling the aftermath of the earthquake ''a disaster of historic proportions,''
the secretary of homeland security, Janet Napolitano, said she was granting the
designation, known as temporary protected status, for Haitian immigrants because
their safety would be at risk if they were deported.

Administration officials said the special status would cover at least 100,000
Haitians believed to be living in the United States illegally, as well as about
30,000 Haitians who had been ordered deported. Haitians who receive the
temporary status will be able to obtain documents allowing them to live here and
work legally.

The administration's decision followed a rising chorus of calls for the
temporary status after the earthquake on Tuesday. On Friday, 80 representatives
and 18 senators, including Democrats and Republicans, sent appeals to the
administration to grant the status, as did the conference of Roman Catholic
bishops.

Ms. Napolitano said the protection would extend only to Haitians who were
already in the United States as of Tuesday. Until now, officials had hesitated
to grant the temporary status for fear it would encourage a new exodus of
desperate Haitians by boat toward South Florida.

''Attempting to leave Haiti now will only bring more hardship to the Haitian
people and nation,'' Ms. Napolitano said Friday. She said Haitians who tried to
travel illegally to the United States after this week would be sent back to
Haiti.

The administration's move drew praise from members of Congress. ''To send
Haitians back to that country right now would be nothing short of inhumane,''
said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, chairman of the Senate
Judiciary subcommittee on immigration.

Representative Lincoln Diaz-Balart, Republican of Florida, lauded the
administration, saying he had requested the status for Haitians in a telephone
conversation on Friday with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. State
Department officials took part in the decision by providing their assessment of
the scope of the disaster.

Refugee advocates were elated. Cheryl Little, executive director of the Florida
Immigrant Advocacy Center in Miami, said she and other advocates had contended
that allowing Haitians who lacked legal status to work in this country could
help prevent a new wave of boat people because the immigrants would send money
back to needy relatives in Haiti, giving them resources to rebuild.

On Wednesday Ms. Napolitano suspended deportations of Haitians.

She can grant temporary protected status to immigrants in the United States from
countries that have suffered a catastrophic war or ''an environmental disaster''
that would make it dangerous to deport their citizens back home. Although the
status is granted originally for a short period, in practice it has been renewed
for years for citizens of some countries. Immigrants from Honduras and Nicaragua
have enjoyed the status since 1999, after Hurricane Mitch battered their
countries. El Salvador was added to the list in 2001. Somalia and Sudan were
added more recently.

The Haitian government and refugee advocates have been asking for protected
status since 2008, when four major hurricanes killed about 800 people. The Bush
administration decided not to grant the request. The Obama administration
continued to deport Haitians last year, but officials said that those cases
mainly involved people who had committed crimes in the United States.

Some groups that have opposed protected status for Haitians changed their views
after seeing the destruction in Haiti. Dan Stein, president of the Federation
for American Immigration Reform, called Thursday for the protection for
Haitians. But he said officials should also cancel the status for immigrants
from El Salvador and some other countries.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 20, 2010 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Listening to Immigrants

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 166 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Immigration's New Year'' (editorial, Jan. 6):

One crucial point as the Obama administration presses ahead with immigration
reform is that reform won't succeed unless the voices of immigrants themselves
are heard.

In our recent report conducted with financing from the Carnegie Corporation of
New York, we interviewed more than 1,100 foreign-born adults about their life in
the United States.

Despite the worst economic conditions in decades and renewed national security
concerns, 88 percent rated the United States as better than their birth country
and agreed that they made the right choice in coming here.

As one of our study participants in Detroit, a Lebanese immigrant, said: ''The
motto of this country is 'Out of many, one.' Where else on earth can all these
people come together and become as one?''

Immigrants' strong embrace of American life is a real asset in building a just
and fair policy.

Ruth Wooden   President, Public Agenda   New York, Jan. 6, 2010

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 29, 2010 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

FedEx and the Immigrants: What Guatemala Says

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 283 words


To the Editor:

Re ''After Arrest of 3 Immigrants, Guatemala Issues Protest Over Diplomatic
Protocol'' (news article, Jan. 19):

I would like to add some important details about actions by Federal Express that
led to the arrest and deportation of three undocumented Guatemalan immigrants.

FedEx says that its agents followed standard procedure in opening a suspicious
package and in calling United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement upon
finding passports inside. FedEx also denies luring the immigrants to its office
or collaborating with ICE to have them detained.

All Guatemalan passports indicate clearly the issuing agency and location and
date of issue. If FedEx employees suspected fraud, they should have checked with
the Guatemalan consulate or embassy. Instead, they phoned ICE agents and,
according to one of the detainees, went so far as to stall a Guatemalan customer
and three companions at their office until ICE agents showed up. One of the
detained Guatemalans, a 22-year-old woman, told consular staff she was held at
gunpoint.

At no point did FedEx or ICE contact Guatemalan authorities; we learned about
these events from the detainees themselves.

Guatemala has asked the United States Department of State for an explanation of
these actions, which interfere with legitimate consular functions governed by
international conventions. Meanwhile, Guatemala reminds all concerned that its
citizens have the right to possess legally issued passports and that it is in
the mutual interests of both the United States and Guatemala to document
Guatemalans who live here, whether legally or not.

Francisco Villagran de Leon  Ambassador of Guatemala  Washington, Jan.  25, 2010

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 19, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Keeps Word to Immigrant Who Kept His

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1493 words


The judge and the juvenile had grown up on the same mean streets, 40 years
apart. And in fall 1996, they faced each other in a New York court where
children are prosecuted as adults, but sentenced like candidates for redemption.

The teenager, a gifted student, was pleading guilty to a string of muggings
committed at 15 with an eclectic crew in Manhattan's Chinatown. The judge, who
remembered the pitfalls of Little Italy in the 1950s, urged him to use his
sentence -- three to nine years in a reformatory -- as a chance to turn his life
around.

''If you do that, I am here to stand behind you,'' the judge, Michael A.
Corriero, promised. The youth, Qing Hong Wu, vowed to change.

Mr. Wu kept his word. He was a model inmate, earning release after three years.
He became the main support of his immigrant mother, studying and working his way
up from data entry clerk to vice president for Internet technology at a national
company.

But almost 15 years after his crimes, by applying for citizenship, Mr. Wu, 29,
came to the attention of immigration authorities in a parallel law enforcement
system that makes no allowances for rehabilitation. He was abruptly locked up in
November as a ''criminal alien,'' subject to mandatory deportation to China --
the nation he left at 5, when his family immigrated legally to the United
States.

Now Judge Corriero, 67, retired from the bench, is trying to keep his side of
the bargain.

''Mr. Wu earned his second chance,'' the judge wrote in a letter supporting a
petition to Gov. David A. Paterson for a pardon that would erase Mr. Wu's
criminal record and stop the deportation proceedings. ''He should have the
opportunity to remain in this country.''

The letter is one of dozens of testimonials, including appeals from Mr. Wu's
fiancee, mother and sisters, who are all citizens; from the Police Benevolent
Association, where Mr. Wu used to work; and from his employers at the Centerline
Capital Group, a real estate financial and management company, where his boss,
Tom Pope, calls Mr. Wu ''a shining star.''

But under lawsenacted in 1996, the same year Mr. Wu was sentenced, the
immigration judge hearing the deportation case has no discretion to consider any
of it. For Mr. Wu, who remains in a cell in the Monmouth County Correctional
Institute in Freehold, N.J., the best hope may be that the Manhattan district
attorney will retroactively allow him the ''youthful offender'' status that
would scrub his record clean.

''The law is so inflexible,'' said Judge Corriero, now executive director of Big
Brothers Big Sisters of New York City and the author of ''Judging Children as
Children: A Proposal for a Juvenile Justice System.'' The 2006 book calls for a
justice system that reduces future crime rates by nurturing those who can learn
from their mistakes, instead of turning them into career criminals.

That was his aim, he said, when he presided over the special court known as the
Manhattan Youth Part, his views shaped by his own childhood. The son of a
longshoreman and a factory seamstress, he grew up in a tenement across the
street from the Tombs -- the Manhattan House of Detention -- and was schooled by
both Roman Catholic missionaries in Chinatown and the Mulberry Street Boys.
While he avoided serious trouble, he saw how easily a careless choice could lead
to culpability instead of accomplishment.

The neighborhood pressures were not so different decades later, when Mr. Wu hung
out at video arcades while his mother worked long hours in a garment factory and
his father cooked at Chinese restaurants out of state. A friend from that period
recalls seeing a shoe print on the teenager's back from a street beating. He
looked to his pals for self-defense that turned predatory.

In December 1995, he and two other teenagers, one of them pretending to have a
gun, took a jacket from a young boy. In two episodes in April 1996, he and
others robbed elderly men of money, knocking one down and punching another; he
took part in a fourth mugging that June, records show.

''I'm sorry and I really hope that you will forgive me for all the pain and
trouble I made them go through,'' the teenager said when he was sentenced.

The judge called the case a tragedy, according to the court transcript. ''But
this is not the end,'' he told the youth, who had scored in the 98th percentile
in mathematics. ''This is really the beginning of a new period for you. I want
you to educate yourself. Continue to read, follow the rules.''

''You will want to get a job and become a meaningful, constructive member of
society to help your family,'' he added. ''I will be there to make sure that you
can.''

Long after Judge Corriero had forgotten the case, Mr. Wu remembered those words.
In 2007, confident that he had redeemed himself, he applied for citizenship,
disclosing his record. Later, learning he was not only ineligible but also
deportable, he tried to withdraw his application. But immigration authorities
summoned him to their headquarters at 26 Federal Plaza.

''He said, 'If I don't show up, I'm going to be labeled a fugitive,' '' his
sister Jenny Gong, 31, recalled.

So he went to the interview, and was led away in shackles.

''Being permanently banned from the U.S., that's the biggest stress I'm under,''
Mr. Wu said in a  telephone interview from jail. ''That's the harshest penalty
any person can ever receive.''

Under the 19th-century legal doctrine still at the heart of much of modern
immigration law, however, neither detention nor deportation counts as
punishment, just as administrative remedies for the  failure to exclude an
undesirable foreigner in the first place, experts say. The definition of
undesirability has changed over time, but the 1996 laws eliminated most
case-by-case judgment in favor of expanded categories of criminal convictions.

The shift was part of a national crackdown on crime, and the perception that
immigration judges had been too lenient, allowing noncitizen felons to remain in
the country and sometimes commit new offenses.

''This administration is committed to smart and effective immigration policies
that place an emphasis on the deportation of criminal aliens,'' Brian P. Hale, a
spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said Thursday. ''While we are
not able to discuss any individual cases, ICE will enforce the law, and if an
individual has been convicted of a serious or dangerous crime, we will take the
appropriate action, including deportation.''

But the policy is hard for Mr. Wu's supporters to understand. ''We're losing a
great guy -- for nothing,'' said Mr. Pope, director of Centerline's Internet
technology operations. ''Qing Wu is somebody you'd interview two or three times
in your entire career. Nobody works as hard and as well as Qing.''

Mr. Wu's mother, Floren Wu-Li, 57, blames herself. Interviewed in the tiny
sixth-floor walkup on Spring Street where Mr. Wu lived with his fiancee, she
acknowledged that he would have  derived citizenship if she had secured it for
herself while he was still a minor. But she was naturalized only four years ago,
when she was allowed to take the test in Chinese.

''We were very poor and worked very hard and had no time to look after Qing when
he was a child,'' she said, weeping as her daughter translated. ''I had no time
to learn English back then.''

Now widowed and ailing, she cleans at a casino in Connecticut but relies on her
son's financial help. His fiancee, Anna Ng, 27, a compliance officer for a hedge
fund, said they had been scrimping to savefor a place large enough for her
parents and his mother to move in. Those savings are now going to legal fees.

Ms. Ng said she would want to follow Mr. Wu to China if he were deported, but
speaks no Mandarin. ''What if we end up homeless?'' she asked.

His sister spoke up: ''New York City is his home.''

To Judge Corriero, the case shows the long reach of laws that force judges to
impose indelible convictions on adolescents -- often, as in Mr. Wu's case, based
on guilty pleas made without knowledge of the dire immigration consequences to
follow.

Efforts to free Mr. Wu, championed by the New York chapter of OCA, an
Asian-American civil rights organization, now include a motion to vacate his
1996 guilty plea as legally defective because his lawyer wrongly advised him
that it would not affect his green card. The group's president, Elizabeth
OuYang, also plans on Friday to meet with Peter Kiernan, counsel to the
governor, to discuss the petition for a pardon, which Mr. Kiernan said was
''being seriously considered.''

The heart of the case lies in a letter Mr. Wu wrote to the judge when he was
detained in November, recalling their pledges to each other years ago. When
Judge Corriero checked the old court transcript, he said, he felt a mix of pride
and anger.

''Here was a young man who did everything we expected of him,'' he said. ''It
really cries out for some kind of justice.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Former Judge Michael Corriero, who sentenced Qing Hong Wu in
1996, joined a petition to have him pardoned. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE
DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
From left, Mr. Wu's mother, Floren Wu-Li
his sister Jenny Gong
and his fiancee, Anna Ng. Mr. Wu, 29, an executive who came here at age 5, faces
deportation for muggings when he was 15.
 Mr. Wu with his fiancee. When he was jailed last fall, he reminded Judge
Corriero of his old promise to stand by him. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (A21)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 19, 2010 Friday
                                National Edition

With Ban on H.I.V. Immigrants Now History, Relief and Revision

BYLINE: By SCOTT JAMES.

Scott James is an Emmy-winning television journalist and novelist who lives in
San Francisco.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 726 words


John Newman fondly recalled the eight years he taught first and second grades in
Vallejo public schools -- he felt appreciated, and was once named ''Teacher of
the Year.'' It was the 1990s, before he got sick and was told to leave the
United States.

''I was accepted by co-workers, neighbors and employers,'' Mr. Newman said.
''But I was not welcome by the government.''

Mr. Newman, a Canadian, contracted H.I.V., which causes AIDS and nearly killed
him. Breakthrough drugs brought back his health. Then he discovered that a law
many considered cruel required him to leave his home. Sadly, he returned to
Canada.

Now the stories of people like Mr. Newman are becoming public. Experts say tens
of thousands shared similarly interrupted lives thanks to a 22-year United
States ban on allowing foreigners with H.I.V. to live in this country.

President Obama described the ban as ''rooted in fear rather than fact.'' It
became a dead letter in January.

''The people affected by this have lived in the shadows,'' said Steve Ralls, a
spokesman for Immigration Equality, a nonprofit organization working to end
immigration restraints based on H.I.V. status and sexual orientation.

Mr. Ralls said the phones at his group's legal aid headquarters in New York
''started ringing off the hook and they have not stopped'' since the ban was
lifted. He said people were being reunited with lives -- and in some cases
spouses and families -- they had been forced to leave behind.

The ban was imposed in 1987 when H.I.V.-positive foreigners were added to a list
of inadmissible undesirables that included prostitutes and felons, said
Christian Schmidt, a San Francisco immigration lawyer.

''They didn't let you in,'' Mr. Schmidt said. Those already here were tested. If
results were positive, they had to leave.

The ban grouped H.I.V. -- which is infectious and transmitted in blood and
through sexual contact -- with tuberculosis, a contagious airborne disease.

Critics said that by incorrectly inferring that H.I.V. was spread by casual
contact, and equating the sick with criminals, the ban demonized those infected.
''It's really impossible to underestimate the stigma caused by this law,'' Mr.
Ralls said.

The ban ''set a very bad precedent,'' he said. ''It undermined H.I.V. awareness
and testing.''

Foreigners avoided testing, which Mr. Ralls said might have worsened the spread
of AIDS.

The United States was the only industrialized country with such a policy; the
handful of others included Iran, Iraq and Syria.

The policy took effect in the Reagan administration. Former Secretary of State
George P. Shultz declined to comment when contacted recently.

Efforts to lift the ban were blocked by a 1993 Congressional amendment
introduced by Senator Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina. Those who
fought the law say Mr. Helms, who died in 2008, perpetuated decades of
discrimination.

But just as the ban has disappeared, the curators of Mr. Helms's legacy are
trying to touch up the relevant history. Some want him seen as a savior to those
with AIDS and a defender of gay rights.

Despite Mr. Helms's storied opposition to ''a homosexual lifestyle,'' the Jesse
Helms Center in Wingate, N.C., is challenging the idea that he was a
''homophobe'' or obstructive in the AIDS fight.

According to the center's Web site, ''It was Senator Helms who worked most
tirelessly to protect the very principles of freedom that homosexuals are denied
in many other nations.''

John Dodd, president of the Jesse Helms Center Foundation, recently disputed an
editorial in the British newspaper The Guardian that vilified Mr. Helms for his
role in the ban. Mr. Dodd argued that ''two million Africans were alive''
because of the senator's work fighting H.I.V.

Assemblyman Tom Ammiano of San Francisco, whose partner Tim Curbo died from
AIDS, said the Helms Center sought to sanitize the record. ''It's spitting on
the graves of all the people who suffered,'' Mr. Ammiano said, adding, ''He was
truly evil and very cavalier about it. He should be in the hall of shame.''

Meanwhile, Mr. Newman is making plans to return to the United States. He
e-mailed this week that he was in Kino Bay, Mexico, where ''the sky is blue and
the sun is hot.'' Next week he plans to get behind the wheel of an R.V. and head
north, feeling welcome for the first time in years.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rushed From Haiti by U.S., Only to Be Jailed for Lacking Visas

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1216 words


More than two months after the earthquake that devastated Haiti, at least 30
survivors who were waved onto planes by Marines in the chaotic aftermath are
prisoners of the United States immigration system, locked up since their arrival
in detention centers in Florida.

In Haiti, some were pulled from the rubble, their legal advocates say. Some lost
parents, siblings or children. Many were seeking food, safety or medical care at
the Port-au-Prince airport when terrifying aftershocks prompted hasty
evacuations by military transports, with no time for immigration processing.
None have criminal histories.

But when they landed in the United States without visas, they were taken into
custody by immigration authorities and held for deportation, even though
deportations to Haiti have been suspended indefinitely since the earthquake.
Legal advocates who stumbled on the survivors in February at the Broward County
Transitional Center, a privately operated immigration jail in Pompano Beach,
Fla., have tried for weeks to persuade government officials to release them to
citizen relatives who are eager to take them in, letters and affidavits show.

Meanwhile, the detainees have received little or no mental health care for the
trauma they suffered, lawyers at the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center said,
despite an offer of free treatment at the jail by a local Creole-speaking
psychotherapist.

Their plight is a result of the scramble to cope quickly with the immigration
consequences of the quake's destruction and death toll. Some Haitians who
arrived without papers were handed tourist visas, only to find that status
barred them from working; the more fortunate received humanitarian parole, an
open-ended status that permits employment. Those already in the country
illegally were allowed to apply for temporary protected status, which shields
recipients from deportation for at least 18 months and lets them work.

Almost at random, it seems, immigration jail was the ad hoc solution for these
30 survivors and for others still hidden in pockets of the nation's sprawling
detention network. Some of the 30 have already been transferred to more remote
immigration jails without explanation.

On Wednesday, after inquiries by The New York Times, a spokesman for Immigration
and Customs Enforcement said the 30 Florida detainees were ''being processed for
release,'' and that 35 others who had arrived since the Jan. 12 earthquake, some
by boat, were also being held in detention centers around the country.

''In order to mitigate the probability that Haitians may attempt to make a
potentially deadly journey to the U.S., we clearly articulated that those who
traveled to the U.S. illegally after Jan. 12 may be arrested, detained and
placed in removal proceedings,'' the spokesman, Brian P. Hale, said in a
statement. He added that Nina Dozoretz, acting director of the agency's Division
of Immigration Health Services, had just approved counseling by the volunteer
psychotherapist.

Advocates for the detainees said they had been told for weeks that deportation
officers in Florida were waiting for senior officials in Washington to set a
policy for the group. Most were ordered deported in February, but are eligible
for release under an order of supervision until deportations resume.

''Their prolonged and unnecessary detention is only exacerbating their trauma,''
the advocates wrote to the agency on March 19, after receiving no response to
detailed, individual requests for release by two dozen of the detainees. ''There
is no reason to spend taxpayer dollars detaining traumatized earthquake
survivors who cannot be deported and who have demonstrated that they are neither
a flight risk nor a danger to the community.''

The government's actions have been especially bewildering for the survivors'
relatives, like Virgile Ulysse, 69, an American citizen who keeps an Obama
poster on his kitchen wall in Norwalk, Conn. Mr. Ulysse said he could not
explain to his nephews, Jackson, 20, and Reagan, 25, why they were brought to
the United States on a military plane only to be jailed at the Broward center
when they arrived in Orlando on Jan. 19.

''Every time I called immigration, they told me they will release them in two or
three weeks, and now it's almost three months,'' said Mr. Ulysse, a retired
carpenter and architectural designer who said he had always warned his relatives
in Haiti not to come illegally on boats, but to wait for a green light from the
United States.

On March 11, Reagan was abruptly transferred, and for days his younger brother
did not know where he was. It turned out he had been taken to the Baker County
jail, in Macclenny, Fla., six hours away. On Tuesday evening, a paralegal found
him there in shackles, about to be transferred again; guards, following
government protocol, would not say where.

''His brother is far away -- he's waiting, waiting,'' Mr. Ulysse said of
Jackson. ''He started to cry on the phone. It's very terrible.''

Jackson, who was trapped in the collapse of his family's apartment building in
the quake, and pulled from under cinderblock by a cousin, lost many relatives in
the destruction. His formal request for release, dated March 12, describes how
even the sound of someone on the jail stairs makes him fear another earthquake
and worry that because he is locked up, he will be unable to escape.

The jailed survivors' requests for release, prepared with help from law students
volunteering on spring break, detail a variety of circumstances that led them to
board the airplanes.

One man who was in a taxi when the earthquake hit was later placed on a military
plane to Miami by a doctor from Texas who had treated him for severe back and
leg injuries. He left the plane in a wheelchair.

Mike Kenson Delva, 21, asked a Marine for a job and was assigned to help board a
young boy whose leg had been amputated, along with the boy's wheelchair-bound
mother. Suddenly, the plane took off.

''That's my little nephew, my brother's son,'' said his uncle, Reymond Joseph,
46, an American citizen and a supervisor with the New Jersey Department of Motor
Vehicles, who is ready to take care of him.

Another jailed survivor is Lunva Charles, 25, who hopes to be reunited with her
3-year-old son and his father, Paul Herver Sanon, legal permanent residents
living with his parents in Irvington, N.J.

''I want to marry her, she wants to marry me,'' Mr. Sanon, who works in a
nursing home, said in French on Tuesday. ''She's sad, she's so sad, she wants to
see her child.''

The youngest detainee, Eventz Jean-Baptiste, 18, has no parents. ''He is now
responsible for his two younger brothers, who are homeless and living in a tent
city in Port-au-Prince,'' Charu Newhouse al-Sahli, the statewide director of the
advocacy center, wrote in urging his release to his aunt and uncle in Coral
Springs, Fla.

Mr. Jean-Baptiste describes putting his little brother and a cousin's baby on
top of a collapsed concrete wall during the quake, as they all prayed and cried.
Afterward, ''we had nothing to eat or drink,'' he said. ''I thought if I stayed
in Haiti any longer I would not survive, and my family would not survive, so I
decided to try to board a plane.'' No one asked him for papers until he reached
Orlando, he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Haitian identification for a detainee, Mike Kenson Delva. (A1)
  Lunva Charles, a jailed quake victim, hopes to be reunited with Paul Herver
Sanon, above, and their son, Herver Sanon, 3, who live in New Jersey. Left, the
Haitian identification of Mike Kenson Delva. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS
JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 16, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants in Work Force: Study Belies Image

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1595 words


ST. LOUIS -- After a career as a corporate executive with her name in brass on
the office door, Amparo Kollman-Moore, an immigrant from Colombia, likes to
drive a Jaguar and shop at Saks. ''It was a good life,'' she said, ''a really
good ride.''

As a member of this city's economic elite, Ms. Kollman-Moore is not unusual
among immigrants who live in St. Louis. According to a new analysis of census
data, more than half of the working immigrants in this metropolitan area hold
higher-paying white-collar jobs -- as professionals, technicians or
administrators -- rather than lower-paying blue-collar and service jobs.

Among American cities, St. Louis is not an exception, the data show. In 14 of
the 25 largest metropolitan areas, including Boston, New York and San Francisco,
more immigrants are employed in white-collar occupations than in lower-wage work
like construction, manufacturing or cleaning.

The data belie a common perception in the nation's hard-fought debate over
immigration -- articulated by lawmakers, pundits and advocates on all sides of
the issue -- that the surge in immigration in the last two decades has
overwhelmed the United States with low-wage foreign laborers.

Over all, the analysis showed, the 25 million immigrants who live in the
country's largest metropolitan areas (about two-thirds of all immigrants in the
country) are nearly evenly distributed across the job and income spectrum.

''The United States is getting a more varied and economically important flow of
immigrants than the public seems to realize,'' said David Dyssegaard Kallick,
director for immigration research at the Fiscal Policy Institute, a nonpartisan
group in New York that conducted the data analysis for The New York Times.

The findings are significant because Americans' views of immigration are based
largely on the work immigrants do, new research shows.

''Americans, whether they are rich or poor, are much more in favor of
high-skilled immigrants,'' said Jens Hainmueller, a political scientist at
M.I.T. and co-author of a survey of attitudes toward immigration with Michael J.
Hiscox, professor of government at Harvard. The survey of 1,600 adults, which
examined the reasons for anti-immigration sentiment in the United States, was
published in February in American Political Science Review, a peer-reviewed
journal.

Americans are inclined to welcome upper-tier immigrants -- like Ms.
Kollman-Moore -- believing they contribute to economic growth without burdening
public services, the study found. More than 60 percent of Americans are opposed
to allowing more low-skilled foreign laborers, regarding them as more likely to
be a drag on the economy.

Those kinds of views, in turn, have informed recent efforts by Congress to
remake the immigration system. A measure unveiled last month by Senator Lindsey
Graham, Republican of South Carolina, and Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat
of New York, aims to reshape the legal system to give priority to high-skilled,
high-earning immigrants, offering narrower channels for low-wage workers. (A
bill in 2007 by the Bush administration tilted even more sharply toward
upper-tier immigrants; it failed in Congress.)

Yet while visa bottlenecks persist for high-skilled immigrants, on the whole,
the census data show, the current system has brought a range of foreign workers
across skill and income levels. The analysis suggests, moreover, that the
immigrants played a central role in the cycle of the economic growth of cities
over the last two decades.

Cities with thriving immigrant populations -- with high-earning and lower-wage
workers -- tended to be those that prospered the most.

''Economic growth in urban areas has been clearly connected with an increase in
immigrants' share of the local labor force,'' Mr. Kallick said.

Surprisingly, the analysis showed, the growing cities were not the ones, like
St. Louis, that drew primarily high-earning foreigners. In fact, the St. Louis
area had one of the slowest growing economies.

Rather, the fastest economic growth between 1990 and 2008 was in cities like
Atlanta, Denver and Phoenix that received large influxes of immigrants with a
mix of occupations -- including many in lower-paid service and blue-collar jobs.

In metropolitan Denver, where the economy doubled between 1990 and 2008, 63
percent of immigrants worked in jobs on the lower end of the pay scale.

Denver ''did a great job of attracting people from other places in the world,''
said Rich Jones, director of policy and research at the Bell Policy Center, a
nonpartisan group in that city that focuses on the impact of economic and fiscal
policies in Colorado. ''They are coming with a variety of skills,'' Mr. Jones
said. ''They created demand for goods, services and housing that began a
dynamic.''

The figures on jobs and earnings of immigrants in American cities are based on
an analysis by the Fiscal Policy Institute of census data for the 25 largest
metropolitan areas from 1990 to 2008. The data from 2008 are the most current
in-depth census statistics on immigrants' places of residence and earnings; they
also include the first year of the severe recession. The analysis includes legal
and illegal immigrants and naturalized citizens.

St. Louis is a good vantage point to observe the census analysis play out on the
ground -- both in the past and, possibly, the future.

Here, a pattern of stalled growth and low immigration prevailed for decades. But
more recently a new pattern is emerging: even in the recession, some corners of
the metropolitan area are sputtering to life, and new immigrants with a mix of
skills are playing a conspicuous part.

''If you look at what feeds the core of many American cities, it's the arrival
of the immigrant groups,'' said Anna Crosslin, president of the International
Institute of St. Louis, a refugee resettlement and immigrant aid agency here.
''Then one generation moves out, and they're replaced by another generation. We
didn't have that here in St. Louis.''

In its heyday as a commerce hub in the 1950s, St. Louis was one of the nation's
premier cities. Since then, business has stagnated, the population of the city
proper declined by more than half, and immigration to the area has been slow.
Today, in the St. Louis metropolitan area, only 111,000 residents are
foreign-born, out of 2.3 million total, according to the census data.

Many immigrants who were drawn here were doctors, researchers and business
executives, attracted by the city's corporate headquarters, universities and
medical centers.

Ms. Kollman-Moore, 60, came to St. Louis in the 1970s and rose through the ranks
at Mallinckrodt, a medical supply company, to become president of the Latin
American division, a $100 million business. She retired when the company was
sold in 2000 and is now a consultant and business school professor. She planted
a grove of tropical shade trees in the center of the living room in her home on
a posh suburban cul-de-sac, a literal reminder of her roots.

''I made a wonderful career out of understanding the cultures of Latin America
and the culture of the United States and how to do business in both,'' said Ms.
Kollman-Moore, a naturalized American.

During the 1990s, a wider variety of foreigners began to settle in the
metropolitan area. Bosnians fleeing the Balkan wars have now made this city
their largest community in the United States. Sukrija Dzidzovic, 52, publisher
of the Bosnian weekly newspaper SabaH, moved the paper here from New York in
2006 to be closer to the core of his readers.

Bosnians run the gamut, from truckers and bakery workers to lawyers and
engineers. Many Bosnians hit the ground running here because they came from
Europe with savings they had stashed away, Mr. Dzidzovic said. At one time,
Bosnians opened so many businesses on blighted streets that hostile rumors
spread that they were receiving secret subsidies from the federal government.

Now, appreciative city officials make a point of attending Bosnian celebrations,
Mr. Dzidzovic said.

Immigrants from China have also prospered here as entrepreneurs, creating jobs
for other immigrants. Sandy Tsai, 59, said she and her husband chose St. Louis
to start a business because they noticed it was in the middle of the country.
Now their company, Baily, makes egg rolls, noodles and fortune cookies in three
local factories that distribute to thousands of Chinese restaurants nationwide.
Ms. Tsai said her employees ranged from egg-roll makers earning $8 an hour to
laboratory researchers with advanced degrees in food science.

''It's a good group, a good combination,'' Ms. Tsai said. But despite the long
hard times in St. Louis, low-wage workers have not always been easy to find, she
said, and her business expansion was slowed because of it.

Now, those workers have started to arrive in larger numbers. Raul Rico, 31, said
he came here 14 years ago from the Mexican state of Queretaro, the first in his
family to settle in St. Louis. Today, between parents, siblings, cousins and
their offspring, his local clan numbers 56.

''Every year our community is growing with all kinds of people, more workers are
coming, more people are coming to invest in businesses and open stores,'' said
Mr. Rico, a carpenter.

Ms. Crosslin, of the International Institute of St. Louis, said the emerging
pattern was changing the face, and possibly the fortunes, of the city.

''We have turned the corner slightly,'' she said. ''And one of the factors is
the newcomers who are starting to arrive again.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sandy Tsai, an immigrant from China, opened a business with her
husband in St. Louis. (A1)
Amparo Kollman-Moore, 60, moved to St. Louis in the 1970s and is now a
consultant and business school professor.
 Raul Rico, 31, a carpenter. was the first in his family to settle in St. Louis,
14 years ago. Today, his local clan numbers 56. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R.
CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) CHART: More Immigrants In White-Collar Jobs: In
more than half of the 25 largest metropolitan areas, more immigrants are
employed in mostly higher-paid white-collar occupations than in lower-paid
blue-collar and service jobs, according to an analysis of census data. (Source:
Analysis of 1990 census data and 2008 American Community Survey data by Fiscal
Policy Institute) (A3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 16, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Quotation of the Day

BYLINE: DAVID DYSSEGAARD KALLICK,

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 36 words


The United States is getting a more varied and economically important flow of
immigrants than the public seems to realize.

DAVID DYSSEGAARD KALLICK, director for immigration research at the Fiscal Policy
Institute. [A3]

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 25, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Graham Pulls Support For Senate Climate Bill

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 890 words


WASHINGTON -- In a move that may derail a comprehensive climate change and
energy bill in the Senate, one of the measure's central architects, Senator
Lindsey Graham, has issued an angry protest over what he says are Democratic
plans to give priority to a debate over immigration policy.

Mr. Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said in a sharply worded letter on
Saturday that he would no longer participate in negotiations on the energy bill,
throwing its already cloudy prospects deeper into doubt. He had been working for
months with Senators John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Joseph I.
Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, on the a legislation, which they were
scheduled to announce with considerable fanfare on Monday morning. That
announcement has been indefinitely postponed.

In his letter to his two colleagues, Mr. Graham said that he was troubled by
reports that the Senate Democratic leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, and the White
House were planning to take up an immigration measure before the energy bill.
Mr. Graham has worked with Democrats in the past on immigration matters and was
expected to be an important bridge to Republicans on that issue, as well as on
energy.

Mr. Graham said that any Senate debate on the highly charged subject of illegal
immigration would make it impossible to deal with the difficult issues involved
in national energy and global warming policy.

He said in his letter that energy must come first and that Democrats appeared to
be rushing to take up immigration because of rising anti-immigrant sentiment,
including a harsh new measure signed into law in Arizona on Friday.

''Moving forward on immigration -- in this hurried, panicked manner -- is
nothing more than a cynical political ploy,'' Mr. Graham said. ''I know from my
own personal experience the tremendous amounts of time, energy and effort that
must be devoted to this issue to make even limited progress.''

Hours after Mr. Graham released his letter, Mr. Kerry said in a statement that
Mr. Graham's actions had scuttled plans for an elaborate announcement of the
proposal, whose passage is a major priority for the Obama administration.

''We all believe that this year is our best and perhaps last chance for Congress
to pass a comprehensive approach,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''We believe that we had
reached such an agreement and were excited to announce it on Monday, but
regrettably external issues have arisen that force us to postpone only
temporarily.''

Mr. Kerry said that he was prepared to resume work on the climate measure when
Mr. Graham rejoined the discussion. But he said he was uncertain when that would
be.

''We will continue to work, and we will do everything necessary to be ready when
the moment presents itself,'' Mr. Kerry said.

Progress on an energy and climate bill in the Senate has relied heavily on Mr.
Graham's active participation and support. He is the only Republican to have
formally endorsed a broad approach to dealing with global warming and energy
issues and is needed to try to bring in support from other Republicans.

Carol M. Browner, the White House coordinator for energy and climate policy,
said that the administration would work to secure bipartisan agreement on both
energy and immigration measures this year.

She praised Mr. Graham for his efforts to build a coalition of business and
environmental organizations in favor of comprehensive energy legislation.
''We're determined to see it happen this year,'' Ms. Browner said, ''and we
encourage the senators to continue their important work on behalf of the country
and not walk away from the progress they've already made.''

Mr. Reid has spoken of the importance of dealing with immigration but has not
definitively said that it would take precedence over energy and climate
legislation. But he has said that the current system is broken and must be
reformed.

Mr. Graham wrote that Mr. Reid's refusal to state explicitly that energy would
come first ''has destroyed my confidence that there will be a serious commitment
and focus to move energy legislation this year.''

He said that reducing the nation's dependence on imported oil and reducing
emissions of greenhouse gases were such contentious issues that they required
the full commitment of the Senate and the White House. ''All of the key players,
particularly the Senate leadership, have to want this debate as much as we do,''
Mr. Graham wrote. ''This is clearly not the case.''

Mr. Reid said in a statement that he intended to work on both issues in this
session of Congress. ''As I have said, I am committed to trying to enact
comprehensive clean energy legislation this session of Congress,'' he said.
''Doing so will require strong bipartisan support and energy could be next if
it's ready.''

He said that revising immigration law will also require bipartisan support and
noted that significant committee work had not yet begun on the issue.

Mr. Reid said that Mr. Graham was under ''tremendous pressure'' from fellow
Republicans not to cooperate with Democrats on either energy or immigration. In
a swipe, he added, ''But I will not allow him to play one issue off of another,
and neither will the American people. They expect us to do both, and they will
not accept the notion that trying to act on one is an excuse for not acting on
the other.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 2, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

LAUGH LINES

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 187 words


JAY LENO

As you know, Arizona recently passed the toughest anti-immigration bill in
American history. The idea behind this bill is to drive illegal immigrants out
of Arizona and back to their homeland of Los Angeles.

It's an unbelievable law. And it's already starting to backfire. Today, a group
of Native Americans pulled over a bunch of white guys and said, ''Let's see your
papers.''

The top executive of Goldman Sachs testified before Congress today, which proves
crooks always return to the scene of the crime.

DAVID LETTERMAN

By the way, Sarah Palin, if you're watching, how is that offshore drilling
working out for ya?

Here's a nice story. President Barack Obama and his wife, Michelle, took the
weekend off. They went hiking in North Carolina. Had a great time. And so he
wouldn't get lost, Obama left behind a trail of cigarette butts.

JIMMY KIMMEL

The International Olympic Committee stripped China of its bronze medal in the
women's team gymnastics event from the 2000 Olympics because they fielded an
underage athlete. Ten years later, when she still hadn't finished high school,
they figured it out.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARTOONS: Tony Auth: Philadelphia Inquirer, Universal Uclick
Dan Wasserman: Boston Globe, Tribune Media Services
Nick Anderson: Houston Chronicle, Washington Post Writers Group
 Ed Stein, United Feature Syndicate

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 16, 2010 Sunday
                                National Edition

An Immigration Story, And a Love Story

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE;
Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 728 words


The tale of Luigi and Rita Bragaloni is an immigrants' love story. But so is
that of Luigi and America. It merits telling amid the caustic policy debate
exacerbated by the new immigration law in Arizona.

Rita and Luigi met as teenagers in a small Italian town 50 miles south of Rome.
She was 13; he was 15. A year later, in 1960, her family moved to suburban
Chicago Heights. Then, in a wonderful happenstance, he moved to the same
neighborhood to live with two uncles and enrolled at Prairie State.

They were engaged in 1965 and married in 1967 at San Rocco Oratory, a Roman
Catholic church in Chicago Heights. She was a full-fledged citizen, and he was
on a student visa. To gain permanent residency status, Luigi enlisted in the
United States Army and fought in Vietnam, winning several medals, including the
Bronze Star.

He returned home and finished college at Prairie State. In 1972, their daughter
was born here. Luigi worked as a manager at a tuxedo rental shop. They had a son
and, in 1976, returned to Italy, where he worked as a traveling salesman of
medical equipment. In 1984, the couple started a company reselling medical
supplies.

By leaving the United States, Luigi lost his permanent-resident status. But he
always talked about citizenship and how indebted he was to this country. Every
few years the couple returned to the United States, usually to visit her brother
and sister here.

Two years ago, he decided to pursue citizenship, even as he battled lymphoma. He
was planning retirement and, with their children grown and married, the
Bragalonis wanted to live here six months a year, then six months back in
Latina, Italy.

They got the name of a Loop immigration lawyer, William Schiller. The loss of
Luigi's permanent residency status normally would have complicated matters, but
there's a legal exception carved out for veterans who serve honorably ''during a
specifically designated period of hostility.'' It can be retroactive.

Luigi would have to jump through a few hoops, including taking the
naturalization exam like anyone else. With Mr. Schiller in tow, he was
interviewed at the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services offices on
Aug. 17. All went well.

''The officer treated him great and told him his case would be approved,'' Mr.
Schiller said.

Rita said: ''He was very happy and had tears in his eyes. He finally was getting
something he wanted so very much. He reached his goal.''

And despite a rough time with chemotherapy and a stem-cell transplant, he'd just
heard good news about his condition.

Mr. Schiller couldn't make the always emotional swearing-in ceremony, where
Luigi and others became citizens, on Aug. 24 at the Dirksen Federal Building.
Luigi then applied for his United States passport and, a few weeks later, got
it.

Mr. Schiller, who had lost contact with the couple, called me last week. We had
been discussing immigration matters in earlier chats, and he told me about
receiving a neatly typed letter from Rita. She apologized for not having sent
him a copy of the naturalization certificate, but it had been a difficult
period.

On Sept. 23, the day before they were to return to Italy, they were in the
Crete, Ill., home of one of Rita's nephews. Luigi borrowed the nephew's car to
pick up a few things for a family dinner. On an isolated road by a cornfield, he
was hit by another car, whose driver said Luigi didn't heed a stop sign. There
were no witnesses.

''He was always very careful,'' Rita said by phone from Latina.

Whatever happened, he was killed instantly.

After a memorial service at San Rocco, where they were married 42 years earlier,
Rita took him back to Italy for burial. He never met Arthur Thomas Bragaloni, a
grandchild who is now 5 months old.

Mr. Schiller frequently finds himself in heated immigration debates with fellow
commuters to and from Glenview. The tale of Luigi Bragaloni hit him hard, and
for good reason.

Whether we argue over the harsh Arizona law or less-onerous proposals, the
deeply individual essence of immigration is often lost amid good versus evil
constructs. Both an individual's cravings for this land and his contributions --
past, current or prospective -- may not get the respect they deserve.

''It reminded me what a very important thing citizenship is for my clients,''
Mr. Schiller said. ''This was a good man.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Luigi Bragaloni.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 16, 2010 Sunday
                                National Edition

Correction

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; Pg. 25B

LENGTH: 74 words


An article last Sunday about deportation of illegal immigrants quoted
incorrectly from comments by Fred Tsao, policy director of the Illinois
Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights. Mr. Tsao said, ''It's far from being
the case that individuals flagged through the criminal justice system are in
fact criminals.'' He did not say, ''It's far from being the case that criminals
flagged through the criminal justice system are in fact criminals.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Lens)

                            April 10, 2010 Saturday

In Brooklyn, Hope for a Home Far Away

BYLINE: KERRI MACDONALD

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 801 words



HIGHLIGHT: An interview with Dave Sanders, who has been photographing the lives
of Darfurian immigrants in a Brooklyn neighborhood.






Q.

How did you begin photographing immigrants from Darfur in Brooklyn?

A.

A friend of a friend was doing some work with the Darfur People's Association of
New York and I came with her to a meeting and she introduced me to some folks
and it just sort of went from there. There was no real stated purpose or
structure; I just thought that the sense of community and the sense of
solidarity was so inspiring.

Q.

What about the community interests you?

A.

These are people that have come from the worst kind of hardship and have just
built this community within themselves that's so supportive and so dedicated to
helping their friends and family back in Darfur.

Shortly after I started taking photos, the I.C.C. [International Criminal Court]
issued an arrest warrant for the Sudanese President, last year, and the
political activity that they were engaged in was tremendous.

Q.

How did you gain the trust of the community, to be able to get such personal
photos?

A.

I would like to be able to say that I ran the gauntlet and walked through fire
to gain their trust, but honestly, it's just the most accepting, generous group
of people that I've really ever met. They were very open to me and very generous
and willing to opens their homes to me.

They understand that they're in a privileged position by being able to influence
the U.S. government. I think that they appreciate that anyone here that is
trying to help them is going to help their friends and family back home.

Q.

How did this community develop in Kensington?

A.

I think it's the sort of thing where one or two people move there, and their
friends move nearby and it sort of snowballs from there.

A lot of people from Darfur actually came to the U.S. and moved to Fort Wayne,
Ind. More and more people started moving to Kensington and even now some people
go back and forth. There's still a population there, as well.

Q.

Are there any moments from the time you have spent with the Darfurian community
that stick out in your mind?

A.

I'd have to say the wedding, honestly. There was just so much energy and
excitement and it did not stop. That wedding started very late at night and it
went very early into the morning and it just didn't slow down. It was impossible
not to get caught up in that.

Actually, it was kind of funny. A number of people invited me. No one directly
involved in the ceremony, but the community is such that anyone going felt like
they could offer an invite to me. So I actually had about half a dozen
invitations.

Q.

You photographed Gouma Mahamat, who claims to be the first of over 300 Sudanese
immigrants in Kensington. What did you learn from Mr. Mahamat and his family?

A.

I may actually have met him at the breaking of the Ramadan fast. We stayed in
touch. I didn't have very many images of family.

I called him and asked him if I could come and take photos of his family sitting
down for dinner and he said, "Absolutely." I called him back and said, you know,
"Sorry I made a mistake; it's probably not a good idea. Would it be possible to
come in the afternoon instead, at 3 or 4 o'clock?" I got to his house at 4 p.m.
and he'd been out making dinner all day.

He's a contractor. He has a number of children and he actually sent them to
Darfur. I think he said it was more than $10,000 to fly to Darfur to meet their
grandparents a couple of years ago.

I haven't spent a lot of time with them, but they were very, very accommodating
and just very generous with their time.

Q.

You also photographed Abdallah Abaker, a taxi driver who paints in his spare
time. Can you tell me more about him?

A.

He is one of the people that moved to Indiana. He had a manufacturing job in
Fort Wayne and while he was doing that he was pursuing his interest in art. He
was living with his uncle out there. Eventually he really couldn't make ends
meet with the work that was available.

So he's been driving a taxi pretty much every night, all night, and when he's
not doing that, he is painting. So he's got these portraits of Nelson Mandela,
but he also paints these very moving portraits of these women in refugee camps
in Darfur. And he's expecting his first child in a few weeks.

Q.

How do the people in the Darfurian community feel about Sunday's election?

A.

I was talking to Ahmat Nour, who's the president of the D.P.A.N.Y. He explained
to me that he absolutely would not vote because regardless of who he voted for
the vote would be counted for Bashir [Lieut. Gen. Omar Hassan al-Bashir]. He
told me the election is corrupt.

Q.

Is this a story you plan to continue to follow?

A.

It is. I'm trying to stay with it through the foreseeable future.

Q.

When will you feel the project is "finished?"

A.

I think that I don't think it'll ever be finished. There's going to be some very
interesting developments next year when there's a referendum in Sudan. I don't
see it ending.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Paul Krugman)

                             April 26, 2010 Monday

The Curious Politics of Immigration

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 345 words



HIGHLIGHT: Immigration divides both parties, but in different ways.


Just a quick note: my take on the politics of immigration is that it divides
both parties, but in different ways.

Democrats are torn  (a state I share). On one side, they favor helping those in
need, which inclines them to look sympathetically on immigrants; plus they're
relatively open to a multicultural, multiracial society. I know that when I look
at today's Mexicans and Central Americans, they seem to me fundamentally the
same as my grandparents seeking a better life in America.

On the other side, however, open immigration can't coexist with a strong social
safety net; if you're going to assure health care and a decent income to
everyone, you can't make that offer global.

So Democrats have mixed feelings about immigration; in fact, it's an agonizing
issue.

Republicans, on the other hand, either love immigration or hate it. The
business-friendly wing of the party likes inexpensive workers (and would really
enjoy a huge guest-worker program that would both provide such workers and
ensure that they can neither vote nor, in practice, unionize). But the
cultural/nativist/tribal conservatives hate having these alien-looking,
alien-sounding people on American soil.

So immigration is an issue that divides Republicans one from another, not within
each individual's heart.

For a long time the GOP was essentially run by business interests, with the
cultural right taken for a ride; in 2004 Bush ran as the nation's defender
against gay married terrorists, then announced that the election gave him a
mandate to ... privatize Social Security.

But what the Tea Party really signifies, I think, is that the business interests
have lost control, that the base, with its fears about the Other, has escaped
from guidance. And the sudden immigration outburst is part of that phenomenon.

Democrats think this gives them an opening. I'm unclear about that, at least for
2010. But yes, in the long run you have to think that if the GOP becomes the
party of angry white men, unleashed - as opposed to angry white men harnessed to
the business elite - it will have a poor future.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Paul Krugman)

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday

Un-American Activities

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 161 words



HIGHLIGHT: Anti-immigration fever is deeply un-American.


So Rep. Duncan Hunter wants to deport people born in America - if their parents
were illegal immigrants.

As everyone who knows anything about the Constitution knows, this would be
unconstitutional: if you were born here, you're a citizen, no matter who your
parents were.

But it's not just a matter of the letter of the law: it's about who we are as a
nation. What America means to me is a land in which you are judged for yourself
- not by your race, your ethnic origins, or what your parents do. Saying that
citizenship depends on whether your parents were here legally crosses a
fundamental line; it's not far from there to making all kinds of rights
hereditary rather than inherent in the simple fact that you were born in the
USA.

It fits in, of course, with the idea that people can be arrested if they aren't
carrying the right papers - or be implanted involuntarily with microchips.

Anti-immigration fever is deeply un-American - at least as I understand America.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 16, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Lose Lawsuit Against Atlanta Hospital

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 737 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


Efforts to force the public hospital here to continue providing free dialysis
treatment to a group of immigrants, most of them illegal, suffered a setback on
Tuesday when a judge dismissed a lawsuit challenging the recent closing of the
hospital's outpatient renal clinic.

A lawyer for the roughly 50 patients said he would appeal. But the ruling for
Grady Memorial Hospital brings the patients closer to a Jan. 3 deadline for
finding new sources of the life-sustaining dialysis treatment.

When the struggling hospital closed the clinic for fiscal reasons in early
October, it agreed to pay for three months of dialysis for the patients at
private clinics, either in the United States or in their home countries. That
reprieve has nearly expired, and most of the patients have not taken steps to
seek treatment elsewhere.

A hospital spokesman disclosed Tuesday that three of the patients had died since
the clinic's closing, two of them in Mexico and one in Atlanta. None of the
deaths, he said, appeared related to inadequate access to dialysis.

''Based on the best information that we have, the patients' deaths were not
caused by a lack of dialysis care but by other health issues,'' said Matt Gove,
the Grady spokesman.

The hospital, which provides charity care to patients regardless of their
immigration status, has lost five dialysis patients in each of the last two
years, Mr. Gove said. Nationally, about one in five dialysis patients dies
within a year of starting treatment, and about two in three die within five
years, according to government figures.

The hospital has said its offer to assist patients in relocating will end on
Jan. 3, and patients have signed forms stating that they understand as much. But
that may not mean they will be cut off from care after that date.

Grady has a contract with a large dialysis provider, Fresenius Medical Services,
that covers the patients' treatment until September 2010. If the patients
continue to go to Fresenius clinics, and the clinics continue to treat them,
Grady will presumably be billed for their continuing care.

Because of their immigration status, the patients are not eligible for Medicare,
the federal insurance program, which covers the prohibitive costs of dialysis
for American citizens and longtime legal immigrants.

At a hearing on Tuesday morning, Judge Ural D. Glanville of Fulton County
Superior Court provided little reasoning for granting the hospital's request to
dismiss the patients' lawsuit. The patients' lawyer, Lindsay Jones, had
contended among other claims that Grady had illegally abandoned the patients. A
lawyer for the hospital, Bernard Taylor, said the patients were asserting a
constitutional right to medical care that does not exist in law.

Several patients said they were saddened by the ruling. ''I'm a person who loves
life, who wants to live,'' said Reina Andrade, 32, one of the plaintiffs. ''If I
return to my village in Honduras, I know I will die.''

Mr. Gove, the hospital spokesman, said he could not name the three patients who
had died or discuss details of their cases. But one of them is Adriana Rios
Fernandez, a 23-year-old mother of two whose father said she died in Durango,
Mexico, on Nov. 28.

Ms. Rios was receiving only two dialysis treatments a week, rather than the
standard regimen of three, said her father, Adrian Rios Zuniga. Five or six
hours after each treatment, he said, her lungs would fill with fluid, making it
difficult to breathe. Mexican nephrologists briefed on her case said it was
possible that more dialysis would have made a difference.

But Ms. Rios left Atlanta in August, shortly after Grady announced that the
clinic would close and before the hospital offered its deal for three months of
paid dialysis, Mr. Rios said. He said his family had paid the $118 cost of her
treatments out of pocket and could not afford more than two sessions a week.

''We sold rings, we sold chains, we got money from cousins and friends,'' he
said. ''A lot of people did try to help us, but unfortunately it came to an
end.''

Mr. Gove would not comment on whether the hospital kept track of Ms. Rios after
her departure, or whether Grady felt any obligation to patients who left the
country before the hospital made its offer of assistance.

''We've done everything we can to see that patients, if they chose to go back
home, had safe travel and the support they needed,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Honduran who had been getting free dialysis treatment.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID WALTER BANKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 18, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Projections Show U.S. As Less White And Older

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 464 words


Without new immigrants, by the middle of the century the nation's population
would begin to decline, the elderly would account for nearly one in four
Americans and non-Hispanic whites would remain a majority, according to new
projections by the Census Bureau.

But if immigration were to merely slow, rather than stop, non-Hispanic whites,
who now account for nearly two-thirds of the population, would become a minority
by 2050, according to the projections released Wednesday. If the pace of
immigration increases, that benchmark could be reached as early as 2040.

Depending on the pace of international migration, the nation's population,
currently at 308 million, could grow to as much as 458 million by midcentury,
with immigrants accounting for up to 136 million of the increase.

Since 2000, the  population has been growing by just under one million
immigrants annually. The bureau's lower estimates assume a range of 1.1 million
to 1.8 million; the higher estimates range from 1.5 million to 2.4 million.

Even if no new immigrants arrived, said William H. Frey, a demographer with the
Brookings Institution, the Hispanic share of the population would rise from
about 14 percent in 2010 to between 21 percent (with no further immigration) and
31 percent (with the highest projected immigration) in 2050.

Similarly, without any immigration, minorities would still constitute a majority
of the population under age 5 in 2050, because of higher birth rates among
Hispanic people already living here. If immigration continues, black, Hispanic
and Asian children will become a majority of young children sometime between
2019 and 2023, according to the latest projections.

People aged 65 and over would constitute more than one in five Americans by
midcentury under all of the projections except for that of zero immigration.

Without immigration, the nation's labor force would decline by 7 million people,
mostly between 2015 and 2035, as baby boomers start to retire. Continuing
immigration would add  31 million to  64 million people to the labor force.

''The availability of work in agriculture, construction and manufacturing has
attracted millions of low-skilled workers from Latin America, especially
Mexico,'' said Mark Mather, the associate vice president for domestic programs
of the Population Reference Bureau, a research group in Washington. ''However,
immigration levels have dropped since the onset of the recession, mostly due to
a decline in new arrivals, rather than immigrants' returning to their home
countries.''

Mr. Mather  estimated that natural increase -- births over deaths -- has
accounted for two-thirds of the nation's population growth in the past few
years. Without any further immigration, deaths would begin to exceed births
around 2048.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 20, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rejecting U.S. and U.N. Pleas, Cambodia Deports 20 Uighurs to China

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 406 words

DATELINE: BANGKOK


Under pressure from China, and despite the objections of the United States and
the United Nations, the Cambodian government on Saturday deported 20 members of
the Uighur minority who had sought asylum after fleeing a government crackdown
in China.

''They are going back to China,'' said an Interior Ministry spokesman, Lt. Gen.
Khieu Sopheak. He said the Uighurs had been put on a special plane sent from
China that left the Cambodian capital, Phnom Penh, on Saturday night.

The expulsion came one day before Vice President Xi Jinping of China was due to
visit Cambodia. China, which is Cambodia's biggest investor, had branded the
Uighurs criminals and demanded their return.

Earlier, a Cambodian government spokesman, Koy Kuong, said the Uighurs were
being expelled because they had entered the country illegally. He said two
others who fled with them were missing. ''The Cambodian government is
implementing its immigration law,'' he said. ''They came illegally without any
passports or visas, so we consider them illegal immigrants.''

The United States and the United Nations have urged Cambodia not to deport the
group. ''We are deeply disturbed by the reports that the Cambodian government
might forcibly return this group of Uighurs without the benefit of a credible
refugee status determination process,'' said John Johnson, an American Embassy
spokesman in Phnom Penh. ''The United States strongly urges the Cambodian
government to honor its commitments under international law.''

The Uighurs are a Turkic-speaking ethnic minority group whose members say the
Chinese government, dominated by ethnic Han, discriminates against them. The 22
fugitives entered Cambodia about a month ago with the aid of Christian
missionaries.

In Beijing, a Foreign Ministry spokeswoman said the Uighurs were under
investigation for suspected criminal activities. She said at a news conference
and in a written statement to The New York Times on Thursday that criminals
should not be allowed to take advantage of the United Nations refugee system.
''China's stance is very clear: the international refugee protection system
shouldn't become a shelter where criminals stay to escape legal punishment,''
she said.

In July, ethnic tensions led to riots in which the Chinese government said that
at least 197, mostly Han Chinese, were killed.  Han Chinese carried out a
campaign of vengeance. Hundreds of Uighurs have been detained since then.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 23, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT
NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 494 words


PASSPORT STAMP

Ends Long Fight

Six years ago, Osserritta Robinson, a Jamaican immigrant, lost her husband of
eight months in the Staten Island ferry crash.

Four years ago, at her interview for permanent residency, she learned that her
husband's death had disqualified her application because of the so-called widow
penalty, the government's practice of annulling foreigners' applications for
permanent residency when their American spouses die before the marriage is two
years old.

On Tuesday morning, Ms. Robinson, 32, once again sat for a residency interview
in a federal office building in Newark. But this time, she had the weight of a
new law behind her: On Oct. 28, President Obama signed legislation that enabled
all widows and widowers of American citizens to apply for permanent residency
regardless of how long the couple were married.

When Ms. Robinson walked out of the federal building an hour later, she had a
stamp in her passport that granted her permanent residency.

''It's such a good feeling!'' she said in a phone interview.

The government's decision not only ends an emotional six-year ordeal for Ms.
Robinson, but also a lengthy legal battle.

The annulling of her residency application prompted her to sue the Department of
Homeland Security, and the case wended its way through the courts. Last summer,
her lawyer filed an appeal with the United States Supreme Court.

The lawyer, Jeffrey A. Feinbloom, said he would seek to dismiss the appeal now
that Ms. Robinson had permanent residency.

''Quite an ordeal,'' Mr. Feinbloom said, reflecting on Ms. Robinson's struggle.

After she got her residency stamp, Ms. Robinson -- who lives in Mahwah, N.J.,
with her 4-year-old son -- went immediately to an office of the Department of
Motor Vehicles to renew her driver's license. (The license expired in 2006, but
she had been unable to renew it because her legal immigration status was
effectively terminated in 2005 when the government denied her application for
permanent residency.)

She next planned to call family members in Jamaica she had not seen since
January 2002; she had not traveled abroad because she would have been barred
from re-entering the United States.

Ms. Robinson said she was also going to book a flight for her and her son to
visit Jamaica. Ideally, she said, they would get back in time for Christmas. If
that proved impossible at this late date, she said, they would go early in the
new year.

Finally, she said, she planned to send President Obama a note thanking him for
supporting the law that enabled her to gain permanent residency.

She considered sending him a message on Facebook, but decided that an
achievement this significant demanded something more formal: a handwritten
letter posted to the White House. KIRK SEMPLE ALSO

ON THE BLOG

Ideas on Condom Wrappers: Readers answer the call for designs for the New York
City-themed condom. There's still time to submit yours: The contest ends Jan.
22.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Osserritta Robinson in 2003 with a photo of her husband, who
died in the Staten Island ferry crash. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NANCY SIESEL/THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 3, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Exiles From Themselves

BYLINE: By COLM TOIBIN.

Colm Toibin's most recent novel is ''Brooklyn.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1121 words


A GOOD FALL

By Ha Jin

240 pp. Pantheon Books. $24.95

In his latest collection of  stories, Ha Jin explores the nature of displacement
and the unease with which Chinese immigrants in the United States experience
their new country. With skill and spareness, he uses the dozen stories in ''A
Good Fall'' to dramatize lives in which hope has been crushed rather than
abandoned, in which the struggle to find a place to live becomes as much a daily
battle within the self as it is with society. His characters seem to be in exile
not only from the China of their memories and dreams but from their very sense
of who they are. Their emotional universe has become as circumscribed as their
physical surroundings. Once inhabitants of a sprawling and familiar culture,
they are now confined to a few rooms, a few streets.

Although Jin is more concerned with the patterns made by small lives under new
pressures, there are times when the broader picture comes to the fore. ''It's
foolish to think you're done for,'' the downtrodden hero of the title story is
told by a friend. ''Lots of people here are illegal aliens. They live a hard
life but still can manage. In a couple of years there might be an amnesty that
allows them to become legal immigrants.'' To characters like this, immigration
to a land of opportunity proves an occasion of loss as well as gain. They are
ordinary people with modest expectations, modest even in what they notice and
remember and imagine. This lack of color is reflected in Jin's quiet, careful,
restrained prose -- prose whose absence of flourish can, at times, make it all
the more eloquent.

Paradoxically, some of the early stories seem to have been weakened by this
approach. ''Children as Enemies'' and ''In the Crossfire'' deal with the stark
clash between generations. Here the parents or grandparents, locked into an old
Chinese mind-set in which family loyalty comes before anything else, make
impossible demands on their children and grandchildren, who are desperate to
become more fully American. This sort of conflict runs the danger of being too
obvious and predictable, and so the stories read more like sketches or fables.
No one behaves out of character; each confrontation is inevitable and
schematically rendered.

The use of a simple scenario also undermines stories like ''The Bane of the
Internet,'' in which a woman in China asks too much of her sister in the United
States, who is overworked and underpaid. Similar problems beset ''The Beauty,''
about a jealous husband who hires a detective to follow his wife; and ''The
Choice,'' about a student agreeing to offer private tutoring, then trying to
decide whether he prefers his teenage pupil or her widowed mother.

Yet as the collection proceeds, Jin's strategy becomes clearer: the stories seem
to have been arranged in order of complexity, becoming increasingly filled with
the unexpected, with characters who are more ambiguous and subtly drawn. Their
motives and actions become surprising and interesting; the depiction of the
characters is now shadowed by social circumstances rather than rigidly dictated
by them. Thus in the story called ''Shame,'' a Chinese student with a summer job
in Flushing receives a call from his much-admired former professor, who is
visiting the United States with a delegation of educators. Narrated by the
student, the story features a wonderful passage in which he visits a famous
American scholar in the company of his old mentor, who seems weaker and more
self-deluded -- and then sadder -- as the story goes on. The Chinese professor
is handled very deftly, emerging as neither too comic nor too tragic. This is an
essential feature of the best of Jin's stories.

''An English Professor'' is rendered in broader strokes as it traces a Chinese
professor's realization that he has made a mistake in his application for tenure
at an American university -- by writing ''Respectly yours'' at the end of a
letter. The dark nights of the soul that follow this innocent error have a sharp
and credible edge, but also conjure up a sense of pure nightmare, full of
delusion and paranoia.

Jin writes with a peculiar intensity and insight about money. His stories are
filled with people who are emotionally disfigured because they don't have enough
or because they are desperate to get more, from one another or from an employer.
He writes about money as if it were the opposite of love, and he manages to be
unsettlingly precise and convincing in conveying what poverty feels like, what
it does to relationships, to the way people not only experience but perceive
their lives. He is at his best when he writes about what the struggle against
penury and financial ruin can do to the soul.

In two of the collection's finest stories, the struggle for money is bathed in
rich ironies; love and tenderness are allowed to complicate matters. Mr. Sheng,
the central character in ''A Pension Plan,'' is suffering from ''a kind of
senile dementia'' and almost falls in love with his caregiver, who narrates the
story with considerable delicacy. What emerges is an affecting portrait of Mr.
Sheng's need for love, coupled with the narrator's own struggle to achieve both
dignity and gainful employment.

Another story, ''Temporary Love,'' charts a highly dramatic and suggestive
arrangement within immigrant society. Lina and Panbin are ''a wartime couple''
-- a term, Jin explains, ''referring to those men and women who, unable to bring
their spouses to America, cohabit for the time being to comfort each other and
also to reduce living expenses.'' For some men, he adds, such a relationship is
''just a way to sleep with women without having to pay,'' but in the case in
question, these two roommates have fallen in love, setting off a conflict
between loyalty and love, feeling and duty.

Ha Jin's characters are almost emblematic: they are people beginning in America,
creating a new self in a new country. This gives them an importance that can be
suggested between the lines, allowing them to be small in their hopes and
experiences but large in their implications and political resonance. But this
also means that it is difficult for their creator to end their stories in
darkness or despair. Many of the stories -- perhaps too many -- end in easy
hope. Consider these two samples: ''But I remember that it was on the day Mr.
Meng left New York that I sat down at night and began my first novel in
English.'' ''To be honest, I'm not sure if I'll be able to learn enough English
to live a different life, but I must try.''

These characters are subject to unusual pressures as they try to fulfill their
destinies. One of the greatest is that they find themselves trapped in a land of
hope.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JERRY BAUER)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 7, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Massachusetts: Immigrant Arrests

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING NEW ENGLAND; Pg.
22

LENGTH: 94 words


Federal immigration agents stopped 58 immigrants in Foxborough, southwest of
Boston, in an operation they said was to capture fugitives with criminal
records. Of the immigrants, who were traveling in four vans, nine were arrested
as criminal suspects and 49 were released but ordered to report to Immigration
and Customs Enforcement for questioning, a spokesman for the agency said. Most
of the immigrants were janitorial workers, many from Guatemala, who were on
their way to clean the parking lot of Gillette Stadium,    a lawyer for the
Guatemalan Consulate said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 15, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant-Services Groups and Their Founder Are Frauds, Suit Says

BYLINE: By JOHN ELIGON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 458 words


Over the past 25 years, Edward Juarez-Pagliocco built a reputation as a national
expert on immigrant affairs. His work earned him keys to cities in Florida and
New Jersey,  he had a radio show on WPAT-FM (93.1) in New York, and he wrote an
immigration column for El Diario La Prensa, the Spanish-language daily.

But according to Andrew M. Cuomo, the New York State attorney general, Mr.
Juarez-Pagliocco was not who he claimed to be.

The nonprofit foundations he started, the International Immigrants Foundation
and the International Professional Association, promoted themselves as
organizations that helped immigrants get their legal affairs in order. Instead,
Mr. Cuomo's office contends in a lawsuit filed Thursday in State Supreme Court
in Manhattan, they were companies that employed people who falsely claimed to be
lawyers, often made things worse for the immigrants they promised to help, and
overcharged for bogus services.

''These businesses make millions of dollars by exploiting the dreams of New
York's immigrant community,'' Mr. Cuomo said in a statement.

Mr. Cuomo's office is suing Mr. Juarez-Pagliocco and his organizations, asking
that the court force the groups to shut down and pay restitution to the people
they worked for. The civil case is part of a larger inquiry into immigration
services organizations.

Solomon Zabrowsky, a lawyer for Mr. Juarez-Pagliocco and his foundations,
declined to comment on the specifics of the case. But he said that his clients
''intend to vigorously defend themselves.''

Mr. Juarez-Pagliocco used his foundations' money to support a lavish lifestyle,
the lawsuit said. He paid the rent on his Midtown apartment -- he also owns a
house in New Jersey -- financed his luxury car, parking space, cellphone, and
travel and meal expenses with the foundations' money, the lawsuit said. Mr.
Juarez-Pagliocco also used a foundation debit card to make hundreds of purchases
at restaurants, bars, clubs, hotels and other places, as well as tens of
thousands of dollars worth of A.T.M. withdrawals, the lawsuit said.

Justice Barbara R. Kapnick placed a temporary restraining order on the two
organizations, prohibiting them from doing business and freezing their assets, a
spokeswoman for Mr. Cuomo said.

Mr. Juarez-Pagliocco's companies advertised widely, and immigrants came to them
for services like obtaining citizenship or a green card. In one case, a man
seeking a green card paid the organizations more than $18,000 but never got it
because of the groups' delays and negligence, the statement said. Other clients
faced deportation because of inadequate representation, the statement said.

El Diario released a statement on Thursday saying that it had suspended Mr.
Juarez-Pagliocco's column.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 19, 2010 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

After Arrest of 3 Immigrants, Guatemala Issues Protest Over Diplomatic Protocol

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 722 words


The Guatemalan government has issued a public protest after three Guatemalans
were arrested this month by immigration agents at a Federal Express office in
Florida, when one of the immigrants went to pick up a package containing his
newly issued Guatemalan passport.

Suspecting that the passport was fraudulent, Federal Express officials called
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents to alert them when the Guatemalans
arrived to collect the package, officials of the immigration agency said. Two of
the Guatemalans were illegal immigrants who have been deported, and one is in
deportation proceedings.

Guatemalan diplomats said that Federal Express and American officials had
examined and seized legitimate passports without notifying them and had
improperly disrupted their dealings with Guatemalan citizens living in this
country. Felipe Alejos, the Guatemalan consul in Miami, said the events appeared
to violate basic diplomatic protocols.

''They seized official documents, and they did not let us know,'' Mr. Alejos
said. ''There was coordination between FedEx and ICE to detain people.''

Federal Express officials said they had followed routine company procedures when
they contacted immigration authorities after detecting packages that suggested
organized document fraud. Officials from the immigration agency, known as ICE,
said they arrested the Guatemalans only after two of them tried to flee from the
Federal Express office. Both the company and the immigration agency denied that
they had collaborated to lure the immigrants to the office.

The arrests started a rumor mill of fears in communities along the Florida
coast, where many immigrants, both legal and illegal, have settled.

''When people in the community perceive that FedEx acted as an agent for
immigration, it undermines their belief that they can collect their mail and
trust in their government,'' said John De Leon, a lawyer for the Guatemalan
consulate in Miami.

The now disputed chain of events began in November when Guatemalan consular
officials based in Miami held a daylong session in Jupiter, Fla., to help
Guatemalans in the area resolve problems with birth certificates, passports and
other documents. Dozens of Guatemalans signed up for new or renewed passports,
which are useful as a form of identification in this country.

The Guatemalan government prints and distributes passports for its citizens
living in the United States through a private company, De La Luz, in Metairie,
La. In December, the company sent the new passports in Federal Express packages
to the Guatemalans who had applied for them.

At least 30 packages could not be delivered to the addresses listed, said a
Federal Express spokeswoman, Allison Sobczak, and the shipper in Louisiana did
not respond to telephone calls. FedEx employees opened several packages
searching for better address information, she said.

''This was a normal routine for us to open a package and inspect it to try to
get a correct shipping address,'' Ms. Sobczak said. Since the passports included
no paperwork indicating they were official, Federal Express contacted ICE ''to
make sure the documents were legitimate,'' she said.

Damaris Roxana Vasquez, 21, a Guatemalan living in Jupiter, said that on Jan. 6,
she and three Guatemalan men drove to a Federal Express office in Riviera Beach
to pick up a new passport for one of the men. When they arrived, she said in an
interview, Federal Express employees told them to wait because they could not
locate the package.

Federal Express employees called ICE agents, who were already on their way to
the office, to advise them that customers had come to pick up a suspect package,
ICE officials said. When the agents arrived, two of the men tried to flee, said
an ICE spokeswoman, Nicole Navas. One escaped; the other two men and Ms. Vasquez
were detained, and the men later deported. Ms. Vasquez has been released while
her deportation case proceeds. Her 5-year-old son, who was with her, was not
detained because he is a United States citizen.

ICE seized the undelivered passports, agency officials said. After an
investigation showed they were legitimate, ICE officials returned them to the
Guatemalan consulate last week.

''Document fraud poses a severe threat to national security and public safety,''
Ms. Navas said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 2, 2010



CORRECTION: An article on Jan. 19 about a public protest by the Guatemalan
government over the arrest of three Guatemalan men at a Florida office of a
shipping company gave an outdated name for the company. It is FedEx, not Federal
Express. The article also misstated the name of the FedEx division that shipped
a package containing a Guatemalan passport for one of the men arrested. It is
FedEx Ground, not Federal Express.

An article on Jan. 19 about a public protest by the Guatemalan government over
the arrest of three Guatemalan men at a Florida office of a shipping company
gave an outdated name for the company. It is FedEx, not Federal Express. The
article also misstated the name of the FedEx division that shipped a package
containing a Guatemalan passport for one of the men arrested. It is FedEx
Ground, not Federal Express.

An article on Jan. 19 about a public protest by the Guatemalan government over
the arrest of three Guatemalan men at a Florida office of a shipping company
gave an outdated name for the company. It is FedEx, not Federal Express. The
article also misstated the name of the FedEx division that shipped a package
containing a Guatemalan passport for one of the men arrested. It is FedEx
Ground, not Federal Express.

An article on Jan. 19 about a public protest by the Guatemalan government over
the arrest of three Guatemalan men at a Florida office of a shipping company
gave an outdated name for the company. It is FedEx, not Federal Express. The
article also misstated the name of the FedEx division that shipped a package
containing a Guatemalan passport for one of the men arrested. It is FedEx
Ground, not Federal Express.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 21, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Vows to Move Quickly on Temporary Legal Status for Haitian Immigrants in U.S.

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.; Julia Preston contributed reporting from New
York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1012 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Clutching their passports and well-thumbed documents, hundreds of illegal
Haitian immigrants crowded into a Roman Catholic church here on Wednesday to
seek help in applying for a program that would allow them to stay and work
legally in the United States for 18 months.

Officials said they expected 100,000 to 200,000 Haitians who have been living
illegally in the United States to take advantage of the offer from the Obama
administration for temporary legal status.

Federal immigration officials met with dozens of community leaders and laid out
plans to expedite the process and provide most illegal Haitian workers with
documents, including work permits, within three months.

Alejandro Mayorkas, the head of United States Citizenship and Immigration
Services, said all the decisions on applications would be made ''with a
generosity of spirit'' born of the humanitarian crisis created by last week's
massive earthquake in Haiti. He made it plain that the administration's goal was
to move as fast as possible to keep Haitians without criminal records in the
United States and allow them to work so they can send money back to the
devastated island.

''We are planning to move on a very fast track in recognition of the trauma
people are enduring,'' Mr. Mayorkas said at a news conference here.

The program gives any Haitian who was in this country on Jan. 12 -- the day of
the earthquake -- the chance to live and work legally in the United States for
18 months under temporary protected status. Immigration officials made it clear
they would push hard to get as many illegal Haitian immigrants to apply as
possible and would not immediately move to deport people even if they did not
qualify for the program.

It is a huge effort to bring people out of the shadows that will fundamentally
alter the lives of tens of thousands of families both in the United States and
Haiti, allowing people who have labored in the informal economy to find better
work and pursue studies.

''It's a great relief for the community,'' said the Rev. Reginald Jean-Mary, the
pastor at the church, Notre Dame d'Haiti. ''Every day we have people come in who
have been suffering, people unable to work and living in fear. It's bringing a
sense of hope amid the big tragedy that we are living now.''

Still, advocates for immigrants said the application process was cumbersome and
expensive, with total fees amounting to $470. Immigrants must provide proof that
they are indigent to qualify for a waiver.

''Many people may not have the financial capability to pay these fees and may
end up not benefiting,'' said the president of the Haitian-American Grassroots
Coalition in Miami, Jean Robert Lafortune.

Immigrants seeking the temporary legal status face many other bureaucratic
hurdles. They are asked to provide several documents many do not possess, like
passports or national identity cards confirming that they are Haitian. They must
also produce whatever documents they can muster to prove they were in this
country at the time of the earthquake -- rental agreements, utility bills,
student identity cards and sworn affidavits from friends and family members. And
those with records of a criminal felony or two misdemeanors can be disqualified.

At a public meeting in Miami on Wednesday, Mr. Mayorkas and other top
immigration officials faced a welter of questions about people caught up in
various stages of the immensely complicated game of trying to gain legal status.

How would people in immigration detention centers get money to apply for the
temporary status? Should people with visas who want to stay longer apply? Can
people who get the status go back to Haiti to help with relief efforts?

In answering most questions, immigration officials avoided making blanket
statements and said that they would review each application, taking individual
circumstances into account. Addressing several hundred Haitian community leaders
in New York, Andrea Quarantillo, the district director for Citizenship and
Immigration Services, emphasized that Haitians who applied for the temporary
status would not be questioned about whether they were now here legally.

''Their current status is really of no interest to us,'' Ms. Quarantillo said.

Ms. Quarantillo added that immigration authorities would not rush to deport
Haitians who apply but fail to qualify for the program, unless they were found
to have committed serious crimes.

The immigration agency is accepting applications only by mail, in part to
encourage illegal Haitian immigrants who are afraid to come to government
offices.

Many Haitians here are hopeful the temporary program will last beyond 18 months.
Similar protected status programs for immigrants from Nicaragua, Honduras and El
Salvador have been extended repeatedly. While the Haitian program also allows
for the possibility of extensions, officials cautioned that no decision had been
made.

''The past is not always an indicator of the future,'' Ms. Quarantillo said.

Because many Haitians are poor and do not speak English, the charities and
churches that provide legal advice to immigrants will be critical to the
program's success. At Notre Dame d'Haiti, hundreds of Haitians stood in long
lines waiting to be counseled by volunteer lawyers. The crush of people -- more
than 800 -- was so large that the church gave them numbers and asked many to
come back on Thursday, the day before the start of the program's six-month
application period.

In the crowd were people battling against deportation orders that had already
been issued. One, Bernex Beli, 34, who came to the United States 10 years ago on
a boat with seven other illegal immigrants, married an American woman and has
two children. He has survived on menial jobs, working on loading docks and
washing cars in parking lots. But he wants to go to college and get a better
job, something he cannot do without papers.

''If I get this status, it's not too late for me,'' he said. ''I have two sons.
I don't want them to grow up like I grew up. Since I was born, nothing has gone
right.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Deleranaeis Dolvin waited to speak with a counselor on
Wednesday at the Notre Dame d'Haiti church in Miami.
 Sister Romanie Guillaume helping advise Haitian immigrants who came to the
Roman Catholic church for information. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OSCAR HIDALGO FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 22, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Census Figures Challenge Views of Race and Ethnicity

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 662 words


New census figures that provide a snapshot of America's foreign-born population
are challenging conventional views of immigration, race and ethnicity.

What it means to be African-American, for example, may be redefined by the
record number of blacks -- now nearly 1 in 10 -- born abroad, according to the
report from American Community Survey data, which was released Wednesday. It
found that Africa now accounts for one in three foreign-born blacks in this
country, another modern record.

More than 1 in 50 Americans now identify themselves as ''multiracial.'' But the
pattern of race reporting for foreign-born Americans, is markedly different than
for native-born Americans. The foreign born are more likely to list their nation
of origin when identifying race or ethnicity.

For example, while 87 percent of Americans born in Cuba and 53 percent born in
Mexico identified themselves as white, a majority born in the Dominican Republic
and El Salvador, who are newer immigrants, described themselves as neither black
nor white.

''The concept of race and how we view it culturally has changed,'' said
Elizabeth M. Grieco, chief of the Census Bureau's immigration statistics staff,
which analyzed 2007 data. ''It's a part of not knowing where they fit into how
we define race in the United States.''

Recent arrivals  ''might not be sure how to classify themselves,'' Dr. Grieco
said. (The census treats race and Hispanic origin as separate categories.)

The changing perception of race is being driven largely by immigration and
higher birthrates among the foreign born. While immigrants account for 13
percent of the population, the share of recent births to foreign-born mothers
rose to 20 percent. As a result of intermarriage with native-born Americans, a
growing number of American children -- now more than one in four under the age
of 6 -- are being raised by at least one foreign-born parent.

''It's fair to say that we are approaching the shares seen at the peak of the
last great immigration wave'' at the beginning of the 20th century, said Jeffrey
S. Passel, senior demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center.

Kenneth M. Johnson, senior demographer at the Carsey Institute at the University
of New Hampshire, noted that more that two-thirds of the growth of the Hispanic
population last year came from births, not immigration.

''You could shut off immigration tomorrow and the impact of the foreign born on
U.S. demographic trends would still be a powerful force,'' he said.

Among the nation's 37.3 million blacks, more than 8 percent are now foreign
born, compared with 1 percent in 1960. Of those, more than half came from the
Caribbean. Some 34 percent emigrated from Africa,  compared with 1 percent in
1960.

The census recorded 10,500 American blacks born in Africa in 1970; in 2008, the
number of African-born Americans topped one million for the first time.

Seventy-eight percent of native-born Americans reported their race as white,
followed by 13 percent who said they were black. Among the foreign born, 46
percent identified themselves as white and 23 percent as Asian.

Since 2000, the Hispanic foreign-born population has increased 45 percent, to
18.5 million from 12.8 million. Latin Americans represent more than half of the
foreign-born population.

Among all who identified themselves as Asian-Americans, which is often
understood to mean born here, 67 percent were, in fact, foreign born.

How immigrants translate their own backgrounds and report their adopted
identities ''have important implications for the nation's racial and ethnic
composition,'' the Census Bureau said in the report.

Nicholas A. Jones, chief of the bureau's racial statistics branch, said that
given the likelihood that foreign-born people would identify themselves as
German or Irish or Nigerian instead of black or white, the bureau might
eventually encourage people to provide more detailed write-in answers to how
they define themselves.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 22, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Thriving Pentagon Program Stalled

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 878 words


A highly successful program by the armed forces to recruit skilled immigrants
who live in this country temporarily has run into a roadblock, leaving thousands
of potential recruits in limbo.

The Army stopped accepting applications for the program last week, officials
said Thursday, because the Pentagon had not completed a review required to keep
the recruitment going.

The program, which started as a pilot in February, allowed recruiters to enlist
immigrants, most of them in the Army, with special language or medical skills
who are in this country on temporary visas. Successful recruits are offered the
chance to become United States citizens within a few months.

More than 1,000 immigrants have been enlisted through the program, and hundreds
more, at least, are in the final stages of approval, Army officials said. More
than 14,000 immigrants have contacted Army recruiters to see if they qualified
for the program and have passed a first level of vetting, the officials said.

A Pentagon spokeswoman said the program had ''generated interest'' but still had
to be evaluated ''along many performance dimensions.'' After the pilot phase
formally ends next month, the Defense Department will ''review the results to
determine if the program warrants further consideration,'' said the spokeswoman,
Eileen M. Lainez.

Although the program has started small, senior commanders have praised it as an
exceptional success. Recruiting officials said it had attracted a large number
of unusually qualified candidates, including doctors, dentists and native
speakers of Arabic, Urdu, Hindi, Punjabi, Korean and other languages from
strategic regions where United States forces are operating.

''We don't see this normally; the quality for this population is off the
charts,'' said Lt. Col. Pete Badoian, a strategic planner at the Army Accessions
Command, the recruiting branch of the Army.

Set up to run through the end of 2009, and to accept 1,000 recruits, with 890
coming from the Army, the program was extended after the Army filled its slots.
The Pentagon extended the program through February by adding 120 new positions,
but the Army filled those by Jan. 14, according to a notice posted on the Web
site for the program, known in the military by the acronym Mavni (Military
Accessions Vital to National Interest).

Other than the salaries of staff members who ran the program, the Pentagon spent
no money on it, recruiting officials said.

The immigrants who have joined the Army through the program scored, on average,
about 20 points higher (on a scale of 100) than other recruits on basic armed
forces entry tests, and they had three to five years more education, Colonel
Badoian said. One-third of the recruits have a master's degree or higher.

Naomi Verdugo, a senior recruiting official in the Army's office for manpower
and reserve affairs, said the immigrants recruited for their language skills had
also shown ''extraordinarily high'' proficiency in their languages. ''We send
people to language school, but it is tough to get a non-native speaker to the
level of these folks,'' she said.

The program is open to immigrants who have lived in the United States for at
least two years with temporary visas related to their jobs, or as refugees. Most
temporary immigrants have already demonstrated to immigration authorities that
they have technology, science or medical skills. The program is not open to
illegal immigrants.

Under the program, recruits with language skills must agree to enlist for at
least four years of active duty, while medical professionals must agree to at
least three years.

Field officers took notice of the program soon after it started. In
Congressional testimony in June, Admiral Eric T. Olson, the senior commander for
Special Operations, said it had ''already demonstrated a great success,'' based
on the skills of the interpreters who had signed up.

Officials familiar with the immigrant program said that in order to obtain
visas, temporary immigrants must pass several criminal and terrorism background
checks. An additional security questionnaire has been part of the enlistment
process, the officials said.

The prospect of speedy naturalization is a powerful draw for many temporary
immigrants, who might otherwise have to wait a decade or more to become United
States citizens. So far, 129 recruits have been sworn in as American citizens,
Colonel Badoian said, including one dentist whose naturalization was completed
in 30 days. Last year Congress gave immigration authorities $5 million for
military naturalizations.

News of the program spread among immigrants mainly by word of mouth.

''Because we are now getting the naturalizations and having guys finish their
training and move out as U.S. citizens, the word is getting out and the program
is gaining momentum,'' Colonel Badoian said.

Recruiting officials said they were waiting for senior readiness officials in
the office of Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates to approve an extension of the
program. They said the Pentagon's review might have been slowed by the
top-to-bottom examination of security procedures after the shooting rampage in
November at Fort Hood, Tex., in which an Army psychiatrist, Maj. Nidal M. Hasan,
has been charged.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Skilled immigrants chosen for a special military program being
sworn in last spring in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 25, 2010 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Close Call for Haitian in an Immigration Web

BYLINE: By COLIN MOYNIHAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 524 words


A day after being released from federal custody in Pennsylvania, a Haitian
immigrant whose detention in December touched off protests told supporters at a
Manhattan church on Sunday that he was so close to being deported this month
that friends were waiting for him at the airport in Port-au-Prince.

The immigrant, Jean Montrevil, said that on Jan. 6, he and dozens of Haitian and
Dominican detainees were taken to the gymnasium of the detention center in York,
Pa., for a journey that, for him, was supposed to end in the Haitian capital.

Their departure was suddenly canceled, he said, when the authorities realized
that one of the other Haitians had a fever. Less than a week later, Mr.
Montrevil was watching televised images of the destruction wrought by the
earthquake in Haiti.

''I could've been there,'' he told a crowd of more than 100 people at the Judson
Memorial Church on Washington Square. ''I could've been dead.''

The congregants welcomed the return of Mr. Montrevil, a member of the church and
someone whom advocates have described as a symbol of both personal
rehabilitation and flaws in the immigration system.

Mr. Montrevil, a father of four, was 21 and a legal resident in 1990 when he was
convicted of selling cocaine and began an 11-year prison sentence. After his
release he became, by all accounts, a solid citizen. He married an American
woman and now owns a van service in Brooklyn.

A law passed in 1996 made noncitizens convicted of felonies subject to
deportation. Mr. Montrevil was ordered deported in 1994, while still in prison.
After his release he became part of a supervised program for deportable
immigrants. He had to check in with immigration agents regularly, and when he
showed up for what he thought was a routine appearance on Dec. 30, he was
detained and sent to York.

After federal officials announced that they were suspending deportations to
Haiti because of the earthquake, Mr. Montrevil's lawyer, Joshua E. Bardavid,
said he began negotiating for his client's release, arguing that since he was
not a flight risk or dangerous to others, the law barred him from being held
unless deportation was imminent.

Mr. Bardavid said that on Thursday he filed a writ of habeus corpus with a
federal court in Pennsylvania. On Saturday, Mr. Montrevil said, agents there
drove him to New York, where he was released.

Mr. Bardavid said he did not know why Mr. Montrevil was detained. He has a 10
p.m. curfew and cannot leave the metropolitan area for more than 48 hours at a
time. Mr. Bardavid added that he hoped to eventually get a judge to rule anew on
the deportation, taking into account Mr. Montrevil's rehabilitation.

A spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security, which oversees immigration,
did not immediately respond to questions about the case.

Members of the church and of an advocacy group, the New Sanctuary Coalition, had
sought to call attention to Mr. Montrevil's case with three demonstrations early
this month outside the Varick detention jail in TriBeCa.

Mr. Montrevil told the crowd that he was deeply grateful for that support.

''I can't thank you enough,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 27, 2010



CORRECTION: An article in some editions on Monday about Jean Montrevil, a
Haitian New Yorker fighting a deportation order who was released from federal
custody over the weekend, misstated the location of the Varick detention jail,
the site of three demonstrations by Mr. Montrevil's supporters. It is in
Greenwich Village, not TriBeCa.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jean Montrevil with his 6-year-old son, Jahsiah. He was nearly
deported to Haiti. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 28, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hundreds Arrested In Drug Raids

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WASHINGTON; Pg.
16

LENGTH: 78 words


A total of 476 people were arrested last week by immigration agents, who said
those detained were members of international drug-trafficking gangs.   The
arrests took place in coordinated operations in 83 cities in what Immigration
and Customs Enforcement officials  called the largest antinarcotics operation
ever undertaken by the immigration agency. Among those detained were 151
American citizens. The biggest roundup was near Charlotte, N.C., where 49 were
arrested.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 30, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

2 Charged in Deaths of Immigrants at Sea

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 423 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Two Mexican men have been indicted on federal charges arising from the deaths of
two people who drowned this month when a boat overloaded with migrants capsized
off the San Diego coast, the first known fatalities in a recent spate of
maritime smuggling.

The men, Fernando Figueroa-Rodriguez, 50, and Javier Jimenez-Yucupicio, 45, face
smuggling charges that, because of the deaths, could bring them life prison
terms, the office of Karen P. Hewitt, the United States attorney in San Diego,
said Thursday.

They had pleaded not guilty to smuggling charges after their arrest and will be
arraigned next month on the new charges, including causing the deaths.

Mr. Figueroa-Rodriguez and Mr. Jimenez-Yucupicio, whom survivors identified as
the crew of the boat, were among 16 people from Mexico and Guatemala found by
law enforcement officials after a small boat known as a panga overturned off
Torrey Pines State Beach before dawn on Jan. 16. Six people were hospitalized,
and two, a 34-year-old Mexican man and an 18-year-old Guatemalan woman, died.

The deaths were the first documented in United States waters since officials
began noticing a rise in smuggling off the coast, primarily in the last few
years.

Michael Carney, a supervisor with Immigration and Customs Enforcement in San
Diego, said additional guards and surveillance technology on the land border
have driven smugglers to use boats to ferry people north.

The vastness of the sea makes detection difficult, and smugglers find that ''the
money is too good,'' with fees up to $5,000 per person, double the cost of a
land journey, Mr. Carney said.

But the waters are cold, in the 50s this time of year, and often choppy. The
smugglers use cheap, barely seaworthy pangas that they often abandon after
dropping off their passengers.

''These boats are overloaded, they ride low in the water, they travel at night
without lights, without radios, with one engine,'' Mr. Carney said. ''The recipe
for disaster was there.''

People trying to cross illegally into the United States have long tried to swim,
surf or boat in, but the authorities are seeing water crossings rise to what
they say are unprecedented levels.

In the fiscal year that ended in September, 153 illegal immigrants were detained
at sea, compared with 136 the previous year and 44 in 2007. Since October, 138
have been arrested.

The total number of interdictions at sea, including drug and human smuggling,
has surged, with 419 incidents in the last fiscal year, compared with 224 in
2008 and 134 in 2007.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 27, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Texas: Sweep Seeks Criminal Immigrants

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 100 words


Federal, local and state authorities arrested 284 immigrants with criminal
records during a three-day enforcement surge across Texas. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement officials said Friday that it was the biggest operation
seeking out  illegal criminal immigrants that they had ever conducted in the
state. Of the 284 people arrested, 159 had previous convictions for violent
crimes. Arrests in the Dallas-Fort Worth area netted 119 criminal immigrants,
and there were 73 in San Antonio, 59 in Houston and 33 in El Paso.  Those
arrested came from countries in Asia and Central and South America.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 5, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

School Is Linked To Visa Fraud

BYLINE: By CARMEN GENTILE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 225 words


MIAMI -- More than 80 people have been arrested in connection with a language
school here that the government says was a front for the sale of fraudulent
applications for student visas, immigration authorities said Thursday.

Two of those arrested, Lydia Menocal and Ofelia Macia, ran the school, the
Florida Language Institute in Miami, the authorities said, and were masterminds
behind the scheme, which helped residents of more than a dozen countries enter
the United States fraudulently.

The visa recipients, officials of Immigrations and Customs Enforcement said,
rarely, if ever, attended classes at the school, which Ms. Menocal owns. Indeed,
fewer than 5 percent of the students attended class, investigators found.

In announcing the arrests, the United States attorney for the Southern District
of Florida, Jeffrey Sloman, noted that several Sept. 11 hijackers ''were foreign
nationals who abused the student visa program to enter and stay in the United
States illegally.''

According to the indictment, the language school first received approval from
the Department of Homeland Security and then issued the requisite federal forms
to the prospective students so they could apply for and receive student visas.
Ms. Menocal swore on the forms that the students would  attend classes.

In all, 81 students were arrested, but one was  released.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 7, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paterson Rewards Redemption With a Pardon

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 905 words


Gov. David A. Paterson announced on Saturday that he had pardoned a man whose
rise from poverty and street crime in Chinatown to success as an information
technology executive was about to end in deportation.

The case of the man, Qing Hong Wu, who immigrated to the United States legally
as a child, had drawn support from many, including the judge who sentenced him
to a reformatory in 1996 and promised to stand by him if he redeemed himself.

''Qing Hong Wu's case proves that an individual can, with hard work and
dedication, rise above past mistakes and turn his life around,'' Mr. Paterson
said in a statement on the pardon, which will stop deportation proceedings
against Mr. Wu and could open the door to American  citizenship.

The governor agreed with supporters who saw the case as ''the opportunity to
make a forceful statement about the harsh inequity and rigidity of the
immigration laws,'' the statement said.

Supporters and relatives were jubilant on Saturday night.

''First of all, we want to thank the governor for saving Qing Wu's life,'' said
Elizabeth OuYang, the president of an Asian-American civil rights organization
that led the campaign to free Mr. Wu from an immigration jail in New Jersey and
keep him in the country.

''It has been an amazing rainbow of people who have come together to stop his
removal in the midst of a very broken immigration system,'' she added.

While Mr. Wu's family and friends rejoiced, he remained in the Monmouth County
Correctional Institute in Freehold, N.J., apparently unaware that his life had
turned around once more.

He was taken there from immigration headquarters in Manhattan on Nov. 10. It was
his application for citizenship that brought Mr. Wu, now 29, to the attention of
immigration authorities almost 15 years after he committed a series of muggings
with other teenagers in Lower Manhattan. In a parallel system of immigration law
enforcement that makes no allowances for rehabilitation, the court hearing his
case had no discretion to consider the  exemplary life he had led after emerging
from the reformatory.

As a ''criminal alien,'' he was subject to mandatory detention and deportation
to China, which he had left at 5 and where he knew no one.

Ms. OuYang said a full and unconditional pardon should not only prevent the
federal government from deporting Mr. Wu, but should be grounds for granting him
citizenship ''so he can come full circle, where he started when this whole mess
began.''

The pardon was announced at the conclusion of a tumultuous week for Mr. Paterson
in which top aides resigned and he faced calls for his resignation over
accusations that he had abused the powers of his office.

Morgan Hook, a spokesman for the governor, said that ''the federal government
will be notified that he had been pardoned, and they will determine the next
steps as far as ending the removal proceedings and releasing him.''

The link between Mr. Wu and the judge who sentenced him, Michael A. Corriero,
was described in an article in The New York Times last month. Mr. Wu wrote to
the now-retired judge from detention reminding him of the promises that they had
exchanged at his sentencing.

Judge Corriero, who had grown in the same neighborhood 40 years earlier,
checked the old court transcripts and found that he had told Mr. Wu, then 16,
''This is really the beginning of a new period for you.''

''You will want to get a job and become a meaningful, constructive member of
society to help your family.'' The judge then added, ''I will be there to make
sure you can.''

The judge wrote a letter to the governor in support of a pardon, adding his
testimonial to dozens of others, including Mr. Wu's employer, Centerline Capital
Group, a real estate financial and management company where he was a vice
president of information technology.

After the article appeared, hundreds of readers signed an online petition urging
Mr. Paterson to grant a pardon.

The Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus Vance Jr., called the governor express
his approval of that course.

In December, Mr. Paterson pardoned a soldier whose conviction for gun possession
had prevented him from joining the New York Police Department. The soldier,
Specialist Osvaldo Hernandez of Queens, had been arrested in 2002 after a pistol
was found under a seat in his car.

He joined the Army after his release from prison and served 15 months in
Afghanistan with the 82nd Airborne. After the pardon he left for another tour
there.

In May 2008, the hip-hop performer Ricky Walters, who had been convicted in 1991
of attempted murder and weapons offenses, was pardoned by the governor. Mr.
Walters, known as Slick Rick, had also faced deportation, to Great Britain,
because of his criminal record.

In Mr. Wu's case, deportation would never have been an issue if his widowed
mother, Floren Wu-Li, had been able to secure citizenship while her son was
still a minor. But she became a citizen only four years ago, when she was
allowed to take the test in Chinese.

She blamed herself, and no one was happier about the news Saturday night. ''It's
like a miracle,'' she told her daughter Jenny Gong.

But to Judge Corriero, the governor's pardon represented more than one family's
happy ending. ''I'm ecstatic,'' he said. ''It restores my faith in the system,
and it is the beginning of the recognition that young people should be permitted
to recover from their mistakes.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 9, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Jury Selection for Hate Crime, a Struggle to Find Tolerance

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1297 words


RIVERHEAD, N.Y. -- Over the last several days, Justice Robert W. Doyle has heard
the typical excuses from potential jurors. One woman mentioned her husband's
medical problems. Another woman complained about her back.

But other prospective jurors, seeking to be excused, have brought up larger
issues in the judge's Long Island courtroom.

A young woman said that her father, a mechanic, has a ''huge opinion about
illegal immigration,'' and that his views on the subject have ''become my
opinions as well.'' A man told Justice Doyle that his house was broken into by
illegal immigrants while he was sleeping, a fact that he said would affect his
ability to be fair and impartial.

And there were those who took a different view, like the bank worker who said
that because her husband is of Mexican and Italian descent, she might have
difficulty being fair. And the woman who explained that most of the clients in
her job are illegal Latino immigrants.

''I don't think that because of that they should be killed,'' she told Justice
Doyle.

The prospective jurors were being asked to sit in judgment in the case involving
the killing of Marcelo Lucero, a 37-year-old Ecuadorean immigrant stabbed to
death in November 2008 in Patchogue, more than an hour's drive from Manhattan.

Mr. Lucero was attacked by seven teenagers who, the police said, had made a
sport out of assaulting Hispanic men, calling it ''beaner hopping.'' Mr.
Lucero's death prompted widespread outrage and exposed racial tensions in
Patchogue, where a number of Latinos came forward after the attack to describe
muggings and assaults that had them living in fear.

Now, as Jeffrey Conroy, 19, becomes the first defendant to go on trial in the
case, jury selection has proven difficult, in part because of the views on
Latino immigration held by some prospective jurors in Suffolk County.

Last week, after three days of jury selection, about 130 men and women were
questioned by the judge, the prosecutor and Mr. Conroy's defense lawyer here in
State Supreme Court. Only five were selected; the rest were excused. On Monday,
jury selection continued as another roughly 130 were brought in, and more than a
dozen were excused by the end of the day.

Once the jury is seated, Mr. Conroy's defense may be complicated by the fact
that four of the seven teenagers have pleaded guilty and may testify against
him. But something larger may be at play: the treatment of immigrants in Suffolk
County and the allegations that have been raised that some residents there are
biased against them.

At times, the jury selection had the feel of a call-in show on talk radio, as
men and women sounded off on illegal immigration, hate crimes, their ethnic
background and the American dream. Most of the comments made by potential jurors
came in response to questions asked by Justice Doyle in a third-floor courtroom
of the criminal courthouse in Riverhead, as Mr. Conroy sat motionless in a dark
suit at a table next to his lawyer.

Mr. Conroy is accused of second-degree murder as a hate crime, among other
charges, in Mr. Lucero's death, as well as attempted assault as a hate crime in
episodes involving other Hispanic men. He has pleaded not guilty. The other two
defendants have pleaded not guilty to a hate crime and other charges and are
awaiting trial.

Justice Doyle has said that some of the witnesses who will testify in the trial
are illegal immigrants, and the potential witnesses he has named in court
include three Hispanic men whom prosecutors say some or all of the young men
also attempted to attack. Mr. Lucero, who worked at a dry cleaning store, had
lived in the United States for 16 years at the time he was stabbed.

Several potential jurors were let go because they said they had strong views on
illegal immigration and would be unable to be fair and impartial. Others were
excused because they said they had Hispanic family members, or were Hispanic
themselves, and would side with the victim and his family. And still others said
they had followed the case in the news, and had already formed an opinion about
Mr. Conroy's guilt or innocence.

On Monday, a Riverhead man in his early 20s told the judge that he grew up in a
racist environment in Pennsylvania and felt that he could not be fair. Another
man said that a neighbor has been verbally abusing his son's family for several
years because his daughter-in-law is Puerto Rican and Peruvian. Justice Doyle
asked him if this would affect his ability to be fair.

''It could,'' said the man, who declined to elaborate after being excused.

Those who raised illegal immigration as a factor in their ability to serve chose
their words carefully, so as not to condone the crimes for which Mr. Conroy
stands accused.

One man, a school bus driver, said his Teamsters union had taken a stand on what
he described as a lack of a federal immigration policy, and because some
witnesses might be illegal immigrants, this would be a problem for him. Before
he was released, the man said that what he has and what he has earned was gained
legally, not illegally. ''I'm the old-fashioned way,'' he told Justice Doyle.

The majority of potential jurors, including the school bus driver, have been
white men and women of all ages. Only a handful have been Hispanic, black or
Asian.

The economic and social impact that Latino immigration and Hispanic day laborers
have had on communities in Suffolk County has long been a polarizing issue. A
report released following the death of Mr. Lucero by the Southern Poverty Law
Center, an organization that monitors hate groups, found that an environment of
racial intolerance fueled dozens of attacks on Latinos in the county in the past
decade.

''It is a little bit of a glimpse into the soul of a community,'' Bruce Barket,
a Long Island defense lawyer and a former Nassau County prosecutor, said of the
comments being made in this case so far. ''These kinds of issues and these kinds
of tensions are always present in the courtroom. Race is probably the most
dominant unspoken factor in almost every trial.''

Advocates for immigrants and the brother of Mr. Lucero criticized those who said
their feelings on illegal immigration prevented them from being impartial.
''We're not talking about any issues about immigration,'' Mr. Lucero's brother,
Joselo Lucero, 35, said in an interview. ''We're talking about justice and human
rights. This is totally different.''

Several more days of jury selection are expected. Mr. Conroy's lawyer, William
Keahon, said he was not concerned about how long it was taking to select a jury.
''It's going to take us a couple days longer than unusual, but there's no doubt
that the result will be a fair and impartial jury to both sides,'' he said.

There were times during the jury selection process when illegal immigration did
not seem to be such a daunting issue. Last week, Megan O'Donnell, an assistant
district attorney, asked prospective jurors sitting in the jury box if the
victim's immigration status mattered to them, and all assured her that it did
not matter.

Carla Panetta, 60, a Patchogue mother of four and grandmother of six, was among
a large group of prospective jurors that Justice Doyle excused at the end of the
day on Thursday. Outside the courthouse, she said that illegal immigration had
no bearing on the case, and that even though her 14-year-old grandson is
Hispanic, she would have had no problem being objective. She criticized those
prospective jurors who said they could not be fair because of their views on
illegal immigration.

''I don't care whether the man was legal, illegal, white, black, purple or
green,'' she said outside the courthouse. ''There was a murder. It almost seemed
like the poor victim was the one going on trial.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Marcelo Lucero died in 2008.
 The spot where Mr. Lucero was stabbed to death on Long Island.(PHOTOGRAPH BY
GORDON M. GRANT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 19, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

3 Charged With Stealing $1.75 Million From Immigrants

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE; Rebecca White contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 668 words


Three members of a family in Richmond Hill, Queens, have been indicted on
charges that they stole $1.75 million from 19 fellow West Indian immigrants by
falsely promising to help them obtain green cards and bargain deals on federally
seized property in New York City and Florida, the Queens district attorney
announced on Thursday.

As part of the scheme, the authorities said, one defendant, Shane Ramsundar, 50,
masqueraded as an agent from Immigration and Customs Enforcement on loan to the
F.B.I., carrying an air gun, a phony badge and a false ID card.

''Our immigrant community here in Queens can be especially vulnerable to
deception and fraud,'' the district attorney, Richard A. Brown, said in a
statement. ''In this particular case, many of their immigrant victims are
alleged to have implicitly trusted the defendants, who were West Indian like
themselves.''

In addition to Mr. Ramsundar, his wife, Gomatee Ramsundar, 46, and their
daughter, Shantal Ramsundar, 23, were indicted. All three pleaded not guilty at
their arraignment Thursday afternoon in Queens Supreme Court, as more than a
dozen of their accusers, accompanied by relatives, filled the courtroom.

The authorities said the Ramsundars had told their victims that the government
allowed its special agents first option to buy the properties seized from tax
evaders and drug dealers before offering them at a public auction.

Mr. Ramsundar is accused of telling his victims that he would buy property in
Florida and the Queens neighborhoods of Richmond Hill, Ozone Park and Jamaica at
low prices and get mortgages using his government connections, then transfer the
deeds to them.

The family, which owns a race-car repair company in Long Island City, is accused
of receiving $1.5 million from 10 victims in connection with this element of the
scheme, officials said. The family laundered checks through 11 bank accounts, 8
of them in the name of Shantal Ramsundar, the authorities said.

In the immigration component of the scheme, the family is accused of convincing
their victims that Mr. Ramsundar, as an immigration agent, could help them
obtain legal status and erase their names from deportation rolls and terrorist
watch lists.

The authorities say the Ramsundars received more than $250,000 from 12 victims
in this part of the scheme; some of them  also claim to have been defrauded in
the real estate deals.

The 34-count indictment, which was handed up by a Queens County grand jury on
Tuesday, charges them with a variety of crimes, including grand larceny, money
laundering, criminal impersonation, scheme to defraud and unlawful sale or
possession of an air pistol. If convicted, each could face up to 25 years in
prison, the authorities said.

At their arraignment, John Scarpa, the lawyer for the younger Ms. Ramsundar,
described his client as ''a victim.''

''They say there's all this money missing, but they can't find it,'' Mr. Scarpa
told Justice James P. Griffith, speaking of prosecutors. ''Isn't that
interesting?''

Dennis Coppin, the lawyer representing Gomatee Ramsundar, said in an interview
that his client ''is presumed innocent and we intend on fighting the case.'' Mr.
Ramsundar's lawyer could not be reached for comment.

Richard Bachan of Jamaica, Queens, who was at  the arraignment, said in an
interview that he had lost $400,000 to the Ramsundars in a Florida property
deal. Mr. Bachan, who immigrated from Trinidad and Tobago in 1992, said Mr.
Ramsundar had cast himself as a deeply religious Hindu and used this guise to
win his victims' confidence.

''You can't trust anybody,'' Mr. Bachan concluded. ''I wish I could get my money
back.''

The case began last year when several people contacted law enforcement officials
with claims that they had been duped by Mr. Ramsundar, officials said. After he
was arrested in September on charges of defrauding about a dozen West Indians,
more people stepped forward with claims, said Kevin R. Ryan, spokesman for the
district attorney's office.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Shane Ramsundar is accused of posing as a federal agent.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY QUEENS DISTRICT ATTORNEY'S OFFICE)
 Shantal Ramsundar, her mother, Gomatee Ramsundar, background, arriving in court
Thursday, and her father, Shane Ramsundar, have been charged with victimizing 19
fellow West Indians. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 21, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Shadow of Health Care Vote, Immigrant Advocates Keep Pushing for Change

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 879 words


WASHINGTON -- Immigrant advocates, frustrated with President Obama's lack of
progress on legislation to overhaul the immigration system, called one month ago
for a march in Washington that they said would display the strength of their
numbers and would give the president the push he needed to get the debate
rolling in Congress.

That was then.

In the space of a few weeks, with the acrimonious health care debate eclipsing
other issues in Washington, the results advocates can expect from the scheduled
rally of tens of thousands of their supporters on the Mall here on Sunday appear
to have diminished. Now the question for advocates, who planned their
go-for-broke mobilization as a catalyst to jump-start a bill in Congress, is
whether it will at least help to keep a conversation about immigration going in
Washington between now and the November elections.

As luck would have it, the immigration rally will not even be the main event
here on Sunday, when most of the nation's attention will be on the crucial
health care vote in the House of Representatives.

But advocates say the mobilization has already achieved results. In large part
because of their prodding, President Obama held meetings last week with groups
engaged in the immigration issue. On Thursday, Senator Charles E. Schumer,
Democrat of New York, and Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina,
unveiled a blueprint for a bill that would offer a path to legal status for an
estimated 11 million illegal immigrants, and also included new provisions for
expanded workplace and border enforcement.

Mr. Obama immediately embraced the blueprint. But after repeated promises last
year that he would move an immigration bill in early 2010, the president scaled
back last week, saying only that he would work to ''forge a bipartisan
consensus'' this year. And while advocates are insisting that Mr. Obama must
lead the way, he is throwing it back to them, calling on immigration groups to
help round up at least one other Republican sponsor for the legislation put
forth by Mr. Schumer and Mr. Graham.

On top of the difficulties any bill to overhaul immigration would confront with
unemployment near 10 percent, the near-term obstacles became clear on Friday
when Mr. Graham pointedly reiterated a warning that an immigration bill would be
''the first casualty'' if Democrats adopt health care legislation by an
expedited process that circumvents Republican votes.

''If the health care bill goes through this weekend, that will, in my view,
pretty much kill any chance of immigration reform passing the Senate this
year,'' Mr. Graham said.

Still, the rally allows advocates a chance to show a coalition that has
broadened since popular opposition roundly defeated a Bush administration
immigration proposal in 2007. Evangelical Christian churches have joined the
effort, led by the National Hispanic Christian Leadership Conference, the
largest group of Latino evangelicals, and by the National Association of
Evangelicals, which represents 450,000 churches nationwide.

African-American organizations, which in 2007 were skeptical, fearing that
immigrants could pose competition to black workers, are more fully on board, and
Benjamin T. Jealous, president of the N.A.A.C.P., is a scheduled speaker. While
the A.F.L.-C.I.O. did not support the 2007 overhaul proposal, this year
organized labor has united. Gay and lesbian groups, which had not been active on
the issue, are now involved.

But business groups like the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which strongly backed the
2007 legislation, are less enthusiastic this year and will stay away Sunday. Mr.
Schumer and Mr. Graham have said that the rift between business and labor over
their proposal will be one of the hardest to bridge. As soon as their blueprint
was released, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. blasted provisions for a temporary guest worker
program to handle future immigration of blue-collar laborers.

Immigrant groups are also coming to protest deportations and immigration
enforcement at workplaces that they say continue to affect immigrant
communities. Federal agents executing an arrest warrant at two restaurants in
Maryland detained more than 20 immigrants on March 11, the day the immigration
groups were meeting with Mr. Obama.

Some advocates met Friday with Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano to
criticize the enforcement. In an interview later Friday, Ms. Napolitano said the
administration's strategy would continue unchanged, with the emphasis on
capturing and deporting immigrants who have committed crimes.

Organizers of the march said on Saturday that their goal was to persuade Mr.
Obama to take up immigration legislation once the smoke has cleared from the
health care debate.

''We are trying to send a strong message that when health care is past us, this
is the issue that needs to be up at bat,'' said Angela Maria Kelley of the
Center for American Progress. ''We've been in the bullpen for a long time, and
now we want to show the strength of the team and the power of the issue.''

But even if the rally is a success, its organizers may face hard decisions about
how to manage the expectations of their followers in a political season when the
prospects in Congress for immigration have dimmed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 21, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Helping Haitians to Work

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 343 words


One very good thing the United States did to help Haiti after the Jan. 12
earthquake was to declare that Haitians living here when the quake hit could
apply for temporary protected status, a special 18-month amnesty granted to
illegal immigrants who cannot safely return home because of natural disasters or
other reasons.

This was supposed to help Haitians help one another, swiftly and effectively.
Undocumented immigrants live in the shadows, taking jobs at low wages, fearful
of deportation. If they were legalized and unafraid, they could look for better
work or further their education, and earn more to send to families in shattered
Haiti, which acutely depends on remittances by its large diaspora.

The administration has been preparing to receive protected-status applications
from as many as 100,000 of the 100,000 to 200,000 Haitians believed to be in the
United States illegally as of Jan. 12. But only about 37,000  have applied, and
only about 4,200  have been approved. The six-month application window closes in
July. The pace must pick up drastically.

Haitian advocacy groups say the main reason for the poor response is money.
Application fees total almost $500, a severe obstacle for working-class
immigrants.

The head of Citizenship and Immigration Services, Alejandro Mayorkas, says his
agency can't eliminate its fees, but it has the power to waive them for people
who can prove they are poor. He has promised that his employees will treat
applicants with a ''generosity of spirit.'' This would be a refreshing change
for an agency notorious for bureaucrats expert in finding a way to say no.

The citizenship agency must redouble its efforts to make the application process
simple and speedy, recognizing that many of these working poor lack documents
showing their need. There is a burden, too, on immigrant advocates and Haitians
themselves to make sure applicants are well-prepared for interviews -- taking
along, if necessary, simple affidavits attesting to financial need -- so they
can get working papers as quickly as possible.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 21, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Angry Young Man

BYLINE: By FIONA MAAZEL.

Fiona Maazel is the author of the novel ''Last Last Chance.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1286 words


WHAT WE ARE

By Peter Nathaniel Malae

383 pp. Grove Press. $24

It's Cinco de Mayo in San Jose, Calif., and our man Paul -- pundit, cynic,
iconoclast -- pummels a Mexican at a march for immigration reform, for which
infraction he's charged with a hate crime and hauled off to jail. And so begins
''What We Are,'' Peter Nathaniel Malae's first novel, with twofold irony: First,
Paul's father is a Samoan immigrant, which, in this story, inoculates his son
against cultural prejudice. Second, in 2006 immigration reform was largely about
paths to United States citizenship for illegals, the assumption being that they
wanted to stay. Not so much Paul. He is a first-generation American who lives in
a country he cannot stand, and spends much of his time railing against everyone
in it, himself included. One of this novel's organizing tensions is how to
reconcile misanthropy with a sense that taking a stand -- for people, for values
-- can suffuse your life with meaning. For Paul, whose heritage is mixed, there
is the added problem of how to straddle cultures while still forging an identity
of his own. From Page 1, his biggest gripe is that he has no story, no position
and, more worrisome, no heart.

At 28, Paul has a good sense of who he is. He knows he's a bit of an ass. He is,
as he puts it, ''anti-epiphany, ultraknowing yet ultranothing, the new
American.'' He is a self-anointed voice of the Me Generation, which should
already give you a sense of where Paul comes down on the ''Are we redeemable for
having been born into a culture of vice and greed?'' debate. A few years back,
he did time at San Quentin for beating up a mugger; now he lives off the
beneficence of a rich Haitian who wants to support his poetry (Paul is a poet!),
and also to get a little action on the side. She's 49. She has a son who's
hooked on chat-room porn and now, at her disposal, she also has Paul (''My wild
Samoan pony''), who has named his book of verse after her -- Beatrice La Dulce
Shaliqua Schneck -- and after Dante's muse, presumably because he, too, was a
poet who made his fame in hell.

It's an old saw, hell is other people, but Paul takes it to heart. As the novel
proceeds, he drifts from one place to the next without much purpose or urgency.
Nevertheless, his scorn of humanity is wholesale: ''I suspect that my only real
skill is being critical. Finding the flaw in the day, the sun, its light. I
could pick apart the heart of Mohandas Gandhi if you gave us 30 minutes of alone
time.'' Librarians, lawyers, M.F.A. students, meth heads, grass-roots
protesters, poets (''I used to believe in the sanctity of poetry -- before I met
anyone associated with it''), war- mongers, Jessica's Law, skaters, reality TV,
mainstream TV, indigent defense law, our penal system, Bill O'Reilly: these are
but a few targets of his wrath. And easy targets at that. There's no real satire
here, just disgust with the worst of Americana, and this disgust has probably
had its day. So the more interesting question is: Whence all the disgust? Paul
concedes it's a hat trick, a ''rebellion spurred by testosterone and personal
history and the easy lure of self-destruction.'' In the now, we see him victim
to the first and third of these problems with regularity, but it's when he
discusses his past that the novel surmounts the hate hate hate and suggests that
Malae can do more than strike the same note. There are lovely passages about his
family: his father, he tells us, ''believed God would condemn him to hell if he
didn't meet his duties as a man, and so he forced or forged love in his heart
for a woman he'd only known for four weeks and a few days. That kind of purity
of code gets diced up in the land of opportunity.'' There is a moving section
about an Iranian immigrant and ex-general whose mugger Paul nearly kills and
who, in thanks, says: ''We can no longer have the communicating. I was leaving
Iran because of men like you.'' And there is a memorable and harrowing scene of
Paul and his sister at a cockfight when he was 9. His takeaway? ''Each of us,
however committed, good-hearted and talented, however blessed, facile and sharp,
wherever we come from, whatever we are -- each of us can only peaceably contain
so much of the earth's molten fire in our core before we blow.''

''I could find beauty in the gutter,'' Paul says, ''as long as it's empty of
another heartbeat.'' For a man whose anti-American sentiment is profound, his
ideas about solitude feel quintessentially American. It's at least possible that
our quest for solitude comes from a deep need attached in American history to
the dread of convention. The System, the Man. And, of course, the illiterate and
foolhardy who keep the System alive. Paul is a bard among swine. No matter whose
work he quotes -- and he quotes a lot (Kerouac, Millay, Ferlinghetti, Sherman
Alexie) -- he is always met with the same ignorance. Regarding Alexie: ''Who the
hell's that?'' Regarding Millay: ''No poetry, nephew.''  ''Even sexy Millay?''
''Even her. Whoever the hell she is.'' Regarding Shakespeare: ''He a rapper?''
Of course, it doesn't help that Paul refers to our greatest bearer of words as
''Sir Willie Shakes,'' though it does expose one of the ways he resists
conformity (at least in the early going): He moves between registers of
expression that make it hard for us to get a lock on who he is. He'll disport an
urban vernacular (with all the usual suspects on display -- dawg, nigga, cat, as
in ''these two Hells Angel-looking cats were throwing darts'') or the dialect of
an Ivy League debater: ''We good sheep of California, given to the romantic
notion that the law, once erected, is unshakable, did not appreciate that the
law, like a reef, is a living organism in a constant state of flux.'' In speech,
this toggling says much about Paul: he contains multitudes and can assimilate as
well as the next guy. In narrative, it comes off as an instability in Paul's
voice. Would the same narrator who belabors his penis (''The boot. The package.
The wood. The johnson. The rooster'') also relish the setting sun in prose
elegant and restrained, as in: I ''place my line of vision straight above the
establishment where finally a beautiful saffron mass of sky rolls west''? Well,
sure, but maybe not again and again. It's human, even welcome, to enjoy Bach and
Tupac Shakur, both; less so to narrate as if you were both.

To an extent, Paul agrees. He can't continue to tack, amoeba-like, through life.
He needs to commit to a position -- an idiom, a sensibility that feels authentic
and worthwhile. To this end, he decides to conform. Make a buck. Get a job with
his rich uncle who owns a real estate company. His brand of conformity? Silence.
Keep your mouth shut, and when the greed, narcissism and hypocrisy of his milieu
begin to overwhelm his will to self-restraint, he resorts to his uncle's advice:
Do not think. Of course, Paul should beware the messenger, since his uncle is a
self-hating alcoholic Vietnam War vet who despairs over his daughter's suicide
and senses that at bottom all our lusts are pecuniary. This man cannot be
trusted to dole out life-affirming advice.

Predictably, Paul doesn't take to conformity all that well, and gives it up. But
he does grow more empathetic for the exercise. Even so, in testament to how
hostile this novel is to empathy, much of its climactic dialogue is in Spanish.
You can get the gist of it without knowing the language, but you miss out on the
exact voice of our hero at his most generous and self-affirming. It's a wasted
moment that makes it hard for us to care about Paul's future. And yet we have to
care, since his is the voice of the Me Generation, which needs a lot of help.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOSH COCHRAN)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 25, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

How Immigration Is Changing the Face of America

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 382 words


To the Editor:

I couldn't agree more with Thomas L. Friedman's pro-immigration stance in
''America's Real Dream Team'' (column, March 21), which noted the number of
children from immigrant families among the Intel Science Talent Search winners
this year.

Many of my 38 years with Citibank were spent living and working in Asia. In
those years, many of the company's best business ideas -- and more important,
many of our top executives -- came from Asia.

If there's any truth to the idea of American ''exceptionalism,'' much of it
derives, in my view, from our immigrant heritage and the cultural and
intellectual nourishment that diversity contributes to our society. Peter Howell

Nantucket, Mass., March 21, 2010

To the Editor:

I am a scientist made unemployed by legal immigration, so I oppose Thomas L.
Friedman's support of opening the doors further. There are too many scientists
with Ph.D.'s in many fields in the United States. Without stricter immigration
policies, the oversupply of Ph.D.'s just gets worse and worse, with the result
that in some fields immigrants are being given a large fraction of the jobs.
These are science jobs that Americans want, are applying for and are being
turned away from.

It is harmful to trumpet the rest of the world's students who are being given
our jobs as ''America's Real Dream Team.'' Let's make sure American scientists
can stay a part of the American Dream Team! Stuart Taylor

Los Angeles, March 21, 2010

To the Editor:

Why are so many of the Intel Science Talent Search winners this year from
immigrant families? Where were the children from families who have been resident
in America for two, three or more generations? What has happened to the spark
that ignited the determination and success of those early immigrants?

Both newcomer and ''old-timer'' families should be represented among our most
gifted student populations, and if they're not, educators should be taking
notice and recommending remedial action. Bonnie B. Good

Toronto, March 23, 2010

To the Editor:

Another reason for Thomas L. Friedman and the rest of us to be inspired and
encouraged by the Intel competition is the number of finalists who happen to be
female (including the winner and 4 of the top 10). David Hill

Mill Valley, Calif., March 22, 2010

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 7, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Funds Sought To Continue Restoration At Ellis Island

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1057 words


Save Ellis Island,  a nonprofit charged with restoring that historic immigrant
gateway to America,  may not be able to save itself.

The group has run out of money.

''We're not able to keep it going a whole lot longer,''  its president, Judith
R. McAlpin, said in an  interview. She added that the group, which recently
posted an ''urgent appeal'' for donations on its Web site
(www.saveellisisland.org/site/PageServer), needs to raise about $500,000 in the
next few weeks if it is to survive. If it does not, Save Ellis Island will have
to return $512,000 in grants that it has already received to restore 30
buildings and repurpose them for public benefit, Ms. McAlpin said, and work on
current projects will be suspended.

Save Ellis Island has been hurt not only by the decline in donations caused by
the economic downturn, but also by major spending cuts from New Jersey, one of
its  longtime benefactors.

Ellis Island, which closed as an immigrant-processing center in 1954, has
remained a serious concern for preservationists in the years since the main
building was restored and opened as the Ellis Island Immigration Museum  in
1990. Most of the remaining  buildings -- many on the island's south side --
have remained unused and in disrepair.

The World Monuments Fund put the island on its watch list of threatened sites in
1996 and 2006. The National Trust for Historic Preservation included Ellis
Island on its list of America's 11 Most Endangered Historic Places twice in the
1990s.

''Save Ellis Island has done a very good job of marshalling us,'' said Richard
Moe, the president of the National Trust, who serves on the Ellis Island group's
board. ''We need an organization that's solely focused on Ellis Island because
this is such a significant historical site.''

Save Ellis Island says that it has to conduct a large-scale fund-raising drive
if it hopes to cover the $350 million still needed for the renovations, but that
it has been unable to get approval from the National Park Service, which
oversees the island and the nearby Statue of Liberty.

''We're lacking a public commitment to the campaign'' from the Park Service, Ms.
McAlpin said.

David Luchsinger, the Park Service's superintendent of the Statue of Liberty
National Monument and Ellis Island, said the agency had been waiting for a
feasibility study and strategic plan from Save Ellis Island. ''We've been very
supportive of them, trying to help them out in any way we can; we would like
them to continue to be around,'' Mr. Luchsinger said.

But Ms. McAlpin said that her organization believed that it could not complete a
feasibility study without knowing if it could count on federal support. In
recent years the United States Department of the Interior has contributed to the
rehabilitation of Ellis Island, but no funds were appropriated for  the island
for the 2011 fiscal year.

Save Ellis Island said it had hoped to support its efforts with financing from a
for-profit partner, which might, for example, hold conventions on the island.
But the Park Service said certain agreements had to be in place before that move
would be considered.  This decision, Ms. McAlpin said, left Save Ellis Island
more dependent on public funds and private contributions.

Mr. Luchsinger said the Park Service would continue to maintain and improve the
island with whatever money is made available. ''We're going to continue to try
to do our part as best we can, given the allocations,'' he said. ''Whether Save
Ellis Island is here or not, that is our obligation.''

Save Ellis Island was established by a group of New York preservationists in
1999 to serve as a nonprofit partner for the Park Service, with the goal of
rehabilitating the buildings. In 2007 the organization completed the restoration
of the Ferry Building, a long hall built in Art Deco style by the federal Public
Works Administration, which served as the departure point for immigrants who had
passed their health and legal inspections. The Laundry/Hospital Outbuilding --
which still holds machinery that washed, sterilized and dried the bedding of
immigrant patients -- is about 70 percent complete, Ms. McAlpin said.

''If we can't save Ellis Island, I'd be pretty discouraged,'' said Peg Breen,
the president of the New York Landmarks Conservancy, an advocacy group, who also
serves on the island organization's board. ''There is a great story of America
at its best out there. It would be a shame for this country if the south side of
Ellis Island never happens.''

Save Ellis Island, which has an annual operating budget of $1.2 million, cut its
staff to four from seven last Thursday; at its peak the organization had about
12 full-time staff members.

Most of Ellis Island's 27.5 acres fall under New Jersey's jurisdiction; the
state fought New York and won  sovereignty in a 1998 Supreme Court ruling after
Christine Todd Whitman, the governor of New Jersey at the time, made Ellis
Island a personal cause. In 2000 she announced the plan for the island's
redevelopment, to be overseen by Save Ellis Island and financed with private and
public contributions.

''As New Jerseyans, we take great pride in our history,'' she said at a news
conference. ''But we must also take care of our history so that future
generations can share our pride and visit these landmarks of our national
journey.''

New Jersey has contributed as much as $650,000 a year toward  Save Ellis
Island's general operating funds, Ms. McAlpin said, but that figure dropped to
zero for its 2011 budget, and the state is under no obligation to support Ellis
Island.

New York State, which retains minority control of the island, has not given any
funds, Ms. McAlpin said. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Democrat of New York, said
through a spokesman that she was working with  senators from New Jersey to
encourage Ken Salazar, the interior secretary, ''and the interior appropriations
subcommittee to secure the funding Ellis Island needs to continue operations and
for much-needed upgrades to the park's infrastructure.''

Still, the lack of government  support is one of several problems that are
making it increasingly difficult for Save Ellis Island to stay afloat.

''It just makes me unspeakably sad,'' Ms. McAlpin said. ''This perfect storm of
elements have come together and brought us to a stop.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A giant autoclave was used to disinfect mattresses at the Ellis
Island hospital.
A passageway at the hospital on Ellis Island, one of several buildings being
restored. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The Ellis Island Immigration Museum opened in 1990 after undergoing a
restoration. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 8, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

At Last Allowed, Muslim Scholar Visits

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 924 words


A federal appeals court had ruled in his favor. Secretary of State Hillary
Rodham Clinton had issued an order that paved the way for a visa. And so, on
Wednesday afternoon, Tariq Ramadan stepped off a plane at Newark Liberty
International Airport for his first visit to the United States since 2004, when
the Bush administration barred him from entering, asserting he had contributed
money to terrorist enterprises.

But for Mr. Ramadan, one of the foremost European scholars of the Islamic world,
there was still one last hurdle: a closed-door session with three immigration
agents, one after the other, who asked him where he planned to go, whom he
planned to meet and what he planned to discuss.

Two hours after his plane from Paris landed, Mr. Ramadan, wearing a dark suit
and a smile of relief, cleared customs and shook hands with two representatives
of the American Civil Liberties Union, which had litigated his case, and Muna
Ali, an assistant of his who lives in the United States.

''How are you, Muna?'' he asked.

''You kept us waiting,'' she said, with good humor. ''What's new?''

The group split up into two cabs, and Mr. Ramadan, 47, boarded one with Jameel
Jaffer, a representative of the civil liberties union.

If Mr. Ramadan was flustered or annoyed by the immigration stop, he did not
betray it. ''I was expecting this,'' he said calmly.

In a telephone interview the night before, he said he had anticipated the moment
when he would come face to face with the American government in the form of the
immigration officer. His plan was to approach that encounter with ''a peaceful
mind.''

His admission into the country, he said, was good for two reasons: ''Just to
clear my name,'' he said, ''and for the work that we're doing.''

''The important thing is the substance, to be in touch with many people,'' he
added.

In the summer of 2004, Mr. Ramadan, a Swiss citizen, was preparing to travel to
the United States to become a tenured professor of religion, conflict and
peace-building at the University of Notre Dame when the Bush administration
revoked his visa.

The government cited a provision of the Patriot Act that allows the barring of
foreigners who ''use a position of prominence within any country to endorse or
espouse terrorist activity.'' Officials  eventually pointed to Mr. Ramadan's
donations of about $1,300 from 1998 to 2002 to a Swiss-based charity that the
Treasury Department later categorized as a terrorist organization because it
gave money to Hamas, the militant Palestinian group.

Mr. Ramadan, now a professor of Islamic studies  at the University of Oxford,
contended he was unaware of any links between the charity and Hamas or terrorist
activities. The professor, who had visited the United States dozens of times,
said he believed that the organization was involved in legitimate charitable
activities.

The civil liberties union challenged the exclusion in a lawsuit filed on behalf
of Mr. Ramadan and three organizations that had invited him to speak: the
American Association of University Professors, the American Academy of Religion
and PEN American Center. His lawyers argued that the exclusion was an illegal
form of censorship, motivated by the professor's political views and criticism
of American policy.

Last year, a federal appeals court in Manhattan reversed a lower court ruling
that had upheld the exclusion, and in January, Mrs. Clinton signed the order
effectively lifting it.

His five-day visit will involve a series of meetings and public appearances,
including a panel discussion Thursday night at the Cooper Union's Great Hall. He
is also scheduled to speak at functions in Chicago, Detroit and Washington.

For Mr. Ramadan, the greatest difficulty of the exclusion was feeling as if his
rights were being impinged. ''I knew I did nothing wrong,'' he said.

In addition, he was frustrated that he was not able to meet with Muslims and
others in the United States. ''I really think that virtual communication has
nothing to do with reality,'' he said as his cab headed toward his hotel in
Manhattan. ''I really think that if you want to work with people -- activists
and scholars -- you have to come and share views.''

Mr. Ramadan has been a polarizing figure in the world of contemporary Islamic
studies. His scholarship has argued that Muslims can be both fully Western and
fully Muslim, and that they need not simply choose a path of assimilation or a
path of isolation. His work has focused on Europe, where his writing and lecture
tapes have been embraced by many Muslim immigrants.

But he has also antagonized a wide range of critics, who have accused him of
being a radical in a moderate's clothing, and of speaking in contradictions.
Some have tried to draw direct links between his teachings and the Islamic
radicalism espoused by his grandfather, Hassan al-Banna, the founder of the
Muslim Brotherhood, a sometimes-violent political group in Egypt. But Mr.
Ramadan, who has rejected violence in the service of Islam, accuses his critics
of not reading him carefully enough -- or not reading him at all.

His trip closely follows the publication of the latest of his more than 25
books, ''What I Believe,'' which is intended to lay out his philosophy in simple
terms.

As the cab approached the Lincoln Tunnel, Mr. Ramadan revisited his lawsuit with
Mr. Jaffer, who was the lead lawyer in the case. ''Thank you so much for all
that,'' Mr. Ramadan said.

He paused, then asked, ''Do you think they will keep me for one hour or so every
time I come?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tariq Ramadan, a professor of Islamic studies at the University
of Oxford, at the airport in Newark on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V.
AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 17, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

John Jay College Accused of Bias Against Noncitizens

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 506 words


The Justice Department filed a lawsuit on Friday against John Jay College of
Criminal Justice, alleging that the school engaged in a pattern of job
discrimination against noncitizens who were authorized to work.

The lawsuit, considered the department's first in years to crack down on
immigration-related discrimination against noncitizens, says the college
violated provisions of immigration law by demanding extra work authorization
from at least 103 individuals since 2007, rather than accepting the
work-eligibility documents required of citizens, like a Social Security card and
a driver's license.

The suit seeks civil penalties of $1,100 for each individual and unspecified
measures to overcome the effects of discrimination. It also seeks compensation
for each person affected, including the woman who set off the investigation when
she complained in 2008 to the Justice Department's Office of Special Counsel for
Immigration-Related Unfair Employment Practices. She called the special counsel
after she was fired from her job as a part-time computer lab assistant at the
college, which is part of the City University of New York.

Christine Godek, a spokeswoman for the college, said John Jay had agreed ''in
principle'' with the Justice Department to settle the case and fully compensate
the woman who complained.

''We will be instituting a comprehensive training program to prevent any
recurrence,'' she said. ''We reaffirm our commitment to providing employment
opportunities to immigrants who are authorized to work in this country.''

While the Department of Homeland Security is responsible for policing employers
who hire unauthorized workers, the Justice Department is committed to enforcing
provisions of the 1996 Immigration and Nationality Act that prohibit employers
from imposing different employment eligibility verification standards on
noncitizens than on citizens, said Alejandro Miyar, a spokesman for the
department.

Thomas E. Perez, assistant attorney general for the department's Civil Rights
Division, said in a statement: ''Every individual who is authorized to work in
this country has the right to know they will be free from discrimination as they
look for a job, and that they will be on the same playing field as every other
applicant or worker.''

According to the complaint, the computer lab assistant, who began working for
John Jay in 2004, provided her driver's license and Social Security card, which
was unrestricted, to verify that she was eligible for employment. But John Jay
required that she also produce a green card, and fired her when she did not.

''I was crying, angry,'' the woman, now 57, said in a telephone interview on
Friday, asking that her name be withheld for fear of retaliation. ''But I did
not want to give them so much trouble.''

''They are not bad,'' added the woman, who said that she arrived from Korea on a
student visa almost 30 years ago and that her green card application was pending
while she worked at John Jay. ''I think they were just poorly trained.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Life Sentence Is Debated For Meat Plant Ex-Chief

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 867 words


In a final chapter to the long aftermath of a 2008 immigration raid at a kosher
meatpacking plant in Iowa, a federal court in Cedar Rapids heard arguments on
Wednesday over the sentencing of Sholom Rubashkin, the former chief executive.

Mr. Rubashkin was in charge of the Agriprocessors plant in Postville, Iowa, when
immigration agents landed in helicopters to detain nearly 400 illegal immigrant
workers. In November, Mr. Rubashkin was convicted of 86 counts of federal bank
fraud in connection with loans to the company.

Prosecutors, citing Mr. Rubashkin's ''blatant lawlessness, utter lack of
remorse, his egregious and repeated attempts to obstruct justice,'' have asked
Judge Linda R. Reade to impose a life sentence.

The proposed sentence startled legal experts around the country. In a letter
written to Judge Reade on Monday, six former attorneys general, one former
solicitor general and more than a dozen former United States attorneys
criticized ''the government's extreme sentencing position'' and the
''potentially severe injustice'' that could result.

The former Justice Department officials questioned the interpretation by
Stephanie M. Rose, the United States attorney for the Northern District of Iowa,
of the federal criminal sentencing guidelines that would apply to Mr.
Rubashkin's white-collar crime.

''We cannot fathom how truly sound and sensible sentencing rules could call for
a life sentence -- or anything close to it -- for Mr. Rubashkin, a 51-year-old,
first-time, nonviolent offender,'' they wrote. The letter is signed by Janet
Reno, William Barr, Richard Thornburgh, Edwin Meese III, Ramsey Clark and
Nicholas Katzenbach, all of whom served as attorney general.

The prosecutors' proposal is consistent with tough criminal charges they pursued
against immigrant workers and other managers at Agriprocessors, once the
nation's largest producer of kosher meat. Nearly 300 workers served federal
prison sentences of five months for identity theft, and several human resources
managers and floor supervisors were convicted of felony charges of harboring
illegal immigrants.

The raid was one of the Bush administration's most high-profile enforcement
actions, and became an emblem of its strategy of using criminal charges in
immigration cases. The Agriprocessors company collapsed, and the plant was shut,
resulting in a loss of hundreds of jobs in Postville, a small-town outpost in
Iowa for Orthodox Jews.

The Obama administration has not conducted conspicuous raids, with officials
saying they wanted to avoid the severe economic impact and the breaking up of
immigrant families that sometimes resulted.

After prosecutors won a decisive conviction in Mr. Rubashkin's financial fraud
trial, they dismissed all charges against him for employing illegal immigrants.
Both government and defense documents depict Agriprocessors under Mr. Rubashkin
as a chaotic enterprise continually teetering on the edge of financial failure,
its accounts in disarray and Mr. Rubashkin taking bank loans to cover gaps and
losses.

In court papers supporting the maximum sentence, prosecutors said Mr. Rubashkin
used $300,000 in Agriprocessors' funds to pay his credit card bills, $200,000 to
remodel his Postville home and $25,000 for jewelry. Prosecutors argued that he
''was living a rich lifestyle using Agriprocessors' money.''

They said Mr. Rubashkin had defrauded First Bank Business Capital, a St. Louis
bank, by fabricating fake collateral for loans. He ordered employees to create
false invoices and ''directed millions of dollars to be laundered through a
secret bank account'' in the name of Torah Education, prosecutors said, causing
more than $26 million in losses to the banks.

A defense lawyer, Guy Cook, said Mr. Rubashkin had been a poor manager who was
overwhelmed by trying to sustain the business founded by his father, Aaron
Rubashkin.

''His only intent was to keep the family kosher business in operation,'' Mr.
Cook said Tuesday. ''There was never any intent to steal or cheat or rob
anyone.''

Orthodox Jewish leaders have led a campaign in support of Mr. Rubashkin, and
more than 16,000 people signed a petition from a Jewish Web site to Judge Reade.

''People believe in him because the mission of Agriprocessors was to provide an
important means for Jews to become closer to their connection to God,'' defense
lawyers wrote in court papers. Many Jews believe the charges against Mr.
Rubashkin were ''attacks on kosher slaughter,'' they wrote.

Defense lawyers have asked Judge Reade to impose a six-year sentence. They said
the sentence urged by prosecutors is greater than the punishment for Bernard
Ebbers, the former chief executive of WorldCom, and Jeffrey K. Skilling, the
former Enron chief executive.

Mr. Rubashkin's trial on state charges for labor abuses, including hiring child
labor, starts Tuesday. Some 10 immigrant workers have received temporary visas
as witnesses to testify in those cases.

Federal prosecutors held 35 other immigrants in the United States as material
witnesses for Mr. Rubashkin's immigration trial. When the immigration charges
were dismissed, the immigrants were ordered to leave the country by March 31.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Supporters of Sholom Rubashkin, former kosher meatpacking plant
executive, from around the country prayed Wednesday outside Federal District
Court in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, as sentencing arguments were heard. Mr. Rubashkin,
left, made his initial court appearance in October 2008. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CLIFF
JETTE/IOWA CITY GAZETTE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
 JONATHAN D. WOODS/IOWA CITY GAZETTE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

596 Arrested In Sweep

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING IMMIGRATION; Pg.
12

LENGTH: 84 words


Immigration agents arrested 596 immigrants who they said had criminal records in
a three-day operation in the southeast and Puerto Rico, calling it their biggest
sweep to date in that region. The immigrants included Jose Oscar Avalo Molina,
from El Salvador, who was arrested in Florida; he had served a 20-year murder
sentence. John Morton, head of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said many of
the immigrants had eluded deportation when they were released from prison after
serving criminal sentences.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 15, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Strict Reading of Visa Rule Trips More Couples

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1228 words


They met on the eHarmony dating site -- the pretty, dark-haired psychologist
from Los Angeles and the blond German theologian at Kings College, London,
writing his Ph.D. dissertation on why Protestants had stopped believing in
miracles.

Their wedding last June capped more than two years of trans-Atlantic trips for
the couple, Diana Ali, 27, and Karsten van Sander, 33. They settled in
Plainsboro, N.J., near the Princeton hospital where she has an internship. And
with his application for a green card pending, they soon felt at home, joining a
Christian fellowship group run by Princeton University's chaplain.

But all that harmony was abruptly fractured last week, when three immigration
agents showed up at their apartment and took Mr. van Sander away in handcuffs.
Held in an immigration detention center in Elizabeth, N.J., Mr. van Sander, a
dual British and German citizen, faced deportation without a hearing and a
10-year ban on returning to the United States.

His offense: an error in his green card paperwork, which he filed after he
entered the country under the visa-waiver program. That program, used by
millions of travelers from 36 favored nations, including Germany and Britain,
allows a 90-day stay, but includes a little-noticed provision requiring foreign
visitors to give up any right to contest summary deportation, except in a claim
for asylum.

In practice, however, a more lenient law has long governed the way immigration
authorities treat foreigners who marry American citizens: Even if they
overstayed, as long as they originally entered the country legally, they had
been allowed to ''adjust'' their status to permanent resident.

Mr. van Sander, whose original paperwork would have stopped the 90-day clock if
it had not been flawed, seemed to be on track for such an adjustment in March,
when the couple refiled all the papers on the advice of an immigration officer.

But on April 22, a decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit in a separate case changed the legal landscape for such couples in New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware and the Virgin Islands. Lawyers say the van
Sanders are among thousands of couples who could be adversely affected by the
decision, which leaves the foreign spouses no defense against deportation if
immigration authorities, at their discretion, decide to expel them.

The decision echoes and sharpens recent rulings in 6 of the 12 regional circuits
across the country (but not the one that covers New York), holding that after a
90-day stay, foreigners who enter the country under the visa-waiver program
cannot fight summary deportation based on their marriages to American citizens.

''It's surreal,'' said Ms. van Sander, who went to immigration court with the
Princeton chaplain and a lawyer on Tuesday to plead for her husband's release.
The judge told them that the appeals court's decision left her no jurisdiction
over Mr. van Sander, and that he was not entitled to a bail hearing.

But on Friday, Mr. van Sander's 10th day in jail, the government responded to
inquiries from The New York Times by announcing that he would be released. Brian
P. Hale, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said the agency
was using its discretion to let Mr. van Sander try to repair his case.

Under the appeals court's decision, the larger issue remains. In the Third
Circuit, Citizenship and Immigration Services will no longer approve green cards
based on marriage if the application is made more than 90 days after the foreign
spouse entered on a visa waiver, officials said.

Until now, even in states in other circuits that have issued similar rulings,
immigration authorities have generally used the more-lenient law and their
discretion to approve such cases, rather than order deportation, immigration
lawyers say. But the van Sander case shows that the outlook is dire for couples
already in the pipeline for a green card, said Eric E. Olson, an immigration
lawyer who has followed the issue closely.

''It's crazy,'' he said, adding that it might provoke a public outcry, because
''it's going to affect a lot of white people, too, not just brown people.''

Coming as the Obama administration says its immigration enforcement priority is
deporting dangerous criminals, Mr. van Sander's arrest bewildered many in the
couple's 40-member Christian fellowship group, said the chaplain, the Rev. B.
Keith Brewer.

''They're both lovely people, not exactly the criminal types,'' said Mr. Brewer,
who visited Mr. van Sander several times in the detention center, which is run
by Corrections Corporation of American in a former warehouse. ''Just out of
nowhere, three people showed up, put him in handcuffs and took him away,'' the
chaplain added.

In light of 9/11, the chaplain said, he cannot blame the government for
following the letter of the law. But, he added, it was absurd to lock up the
young theologian, without his books, at a cost of $175 a day.

''Our tax dollars are paying to fly him back to London,'' he said. ''It's
ridiculous.''

Unlike the plaintiff in the Third Circuit case, Heathcliffe John Bradley, a New
Zealander who arrived in 1996 and had overstayed his visa by 10 years by the
time he married, Mr. van Sander always returned to Britain or his parents' home
in Solingen, Germany, before the 90 days were up, his wife said.

After their wedding, they visited his parents, returned to the United States in
August and filed his immigration paperwork in September, which should have
stopped the 90-day clock. All seemed to be in order, Ms. van Sander said,
because her husband was sent a work authorization, and began teaching at a local
Christian college.

Not until their immigration interview on March 9, she said, were they informed
that they had omitted a crucial document known as the I-130, her petition as an
American citizen on his behalf. Without it, his application to become a
permanent resident was not valid, and the clock had been running; officially, he
had overstayed by four months.

''We tried to do everything right,'' Ms. van Sander  said, recalling the four
forms they filled out without a lawyer. ''We made a mistake, but if two Ph.D.
students can't figure it out, it shows the paperwork is really confusing.''

The couple quickly refiled, paying the $355 in fees a second time, and canceled
a trip to London, as the immigration officer directed.

''He told us as long as we filed immediately and as long as Karsten entered
legally (which he did), that we were safe,'' Ms. van Sander said in an e-mail
message.

Instead, the case was apparently referred to agents at Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.  On May 4, Ms. van Sander received a text message at work from her
husband saying he was in immigration custody.

Daniel L. Weiss, a lawyer the couple hired Thursday evening, said he was
grateful that by Friday afternoon officials in both agencies were scrambling to
reopen it and fix it. By 3:30 p.m., a shaken Mr. van Sander walked out of jail
into his wife's arms.

''But this is much bigger than just them,'' Mr. Weiss said. ''The larger
question is government policy, and why do we treat these waiver people worse
than we treat other people?''

From New Jersey's Italian- and Irish-American families alone, he added, ''there
are going to be a hundred stories like this coming into my office.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Diana van Sander at the immigration detention center in
Elizabeth, N.J., where her husband was held while he faced deportation.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The van Sanders on a trip to Bonn. Karsten van Sander is a British and German
citizen.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 20, 2010 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Adviser to Americans Jailed in Haiti Is Arrested

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY and IAN URBINA; Marc Lacey reported from Mexico City and
Ian Urbina from Washington. Kitty Bennett contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 395 words


MEXICO CITY -- Dominican authorities announced Friday that they arrested Jorge
Torres Puello, who acted as a legal adviser for a group of American church
members detained in Haiti on child abduction charges even though he himself was
wanted on trafficking charges in the United States and El Salvador.

Working together with the United States Marshals Service and other United States
law enforcement agencies, the Dominican authorities detained Mr. Torres
Thursday night without incident in the parking lot of a McDonald's restaurant in
Santo Domingo, the officials said.

Mr. Torres, who used a variety of aliases and falsely described himself as a
lawyer, dropped out of sight in February after The New York Times asked him
about  trafficking charges against someone with a similar name and likeness in
El Salvador.

In El Salvador, Mr. Torres is wanted on accusations of human trafficking and
exploitation of minors for pornography and prostitution. In the United States,
he faces accusations of alien smuggling  in Vermont and of probation violations
for fraud in Pennsylvania. He is also wanted in Canada, American officials
said.

''The location and arrest of this fugitive, wanted by three countries on some of
the most egregious charges that ICE investigates, is an example of top-notch
cooperation among law enforcement agencies in all these countries and our
colleagues at Interpol,'' John Morton, assistant secretary of Homeland Security
for United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said in a statement.
''Hiding behind fake names or using phony identifications and passports will not
protect those who prey on the most vulnerable in our societies.''

Still, Mr. Torres managed to remain on the lam for more than a month, during
which time he sent emails to reporters, set up a Web site declaring his
innocence and contributed to many blogs. He said he was in Panama and planned to
turn himself in to Salvadoran authorities.

John F. Clark, director of the Marshals Service said in a statement that once
the international manhunt began for Mr. Torres ''the world becomes a very small
place for a fugitive to hide.''

Nine of the 10 Americans arrested by the Haitian authorities while trying to
take the children to the Dominican Republic after the devastating earthquake in
Haiti were later released. The leader, Laura Silsby, remains in custody.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 29, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cuba: Accord On Human Trafficking Sought With U.S.

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING THE AMERICAS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 89 words


Cuba wants to negotiate an agreement with the United States to slow the
trafficking of its citizens fleeing the island and hopes to tackle the issue at
immigration talks in February, the foreign minister, Bruno Rodriguez, said
Thursday. He said negotiators would meet Feb. 19 in Havana and that Cuba wanted
Washington's help in combating people smuggling, . He also said the United
States had yet to respond; a spokeswoman at the United States Interests Section
in Havana said that Washington had not settled on a date for the talks.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company
