
                               1 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 17, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

California Governor Ducked Immigrant Feud, Some Say

BYLINE: By DON TERRY

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 792 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 16


A day after Gov. Gray Davis asked a Federal appeals court to mediate a dispute
over a ballot measure that would end government services to illegal immigrants
and their children, some advocates for immigrants expressed their dismay,
contending that the Governor had taken the easy way out.

"We are disappointed in the Governor's decision," Genethia Hayes, executive
director of the Greater Los Angeles Southern Christian Leadership Conference and
a Davis supporter, said today. "This is a way for him not to really have to make
a tough decision, and making tough decisions is why we worked so hard to get him
elected."

On Thursday, Mr. Davis announced that he was asking the court to mediate the
five-year-old legal fight over the ballot measure, Proposition 187.

The measure, one of the most divisive ballot initiatives in the state's history,
passed by nearly 60 percent of the vote in 1994, although 77 percent of Hispanic
voters and more than 50 percent of blacks voted against it.

Opponents of the measure sued almost as soon as the polls closed, and it has
been tied up in court ever since.

Last year, opponents had a victory of sorts when a Federal court ruled much of
the proposition unconstitutional.

Mr. Davis faced a deadline next month over whether to appeal that decision or
drop the matter entirely. Proponents of the proposition argued that he was
compelled by his job as Governor to seek the appeal of a measure approved by
voters, while opponents -- many of whom supported Mr. Davis in his quest for the
Governor's office -- urged him to let the proposition die.

Instead, he rushed to the middle, searching for a compromise, by asking the
appeals court to try to find a solution acceptable to both sides, an outcome
considered unlikely by many.

"I think he was in a political bind," said Sharon Browne, a lawyer with the
Pacific Legal Foundation, which represents the authors and sponsors of the
initiative. "You had on the one side Latino groups who really wanted him to drop
the appeal, and on the other side proponents and more than five million voters
who had voted for 187. This is a way he's trying to duck the issue."

Mr. Davis, the first Democratic Governor in California in 16 years, opposed
Proposition 187 when he was Lieutenant Governor under Gov. Pete Wilson.

Mr. Davis said he thought the measure was unconstitutional, and in his own
campaign for the top job, in which he received overwhelming support from
minorities, he pledged to end divisive "wedge issue" politics.

On Thursday, shortly after Mr. Davis announced his plans to seek mediation
instead of dismissal of the appeal, Lieut. Gov. Cruz M. Bustamante said he, too,
was disappointed by the Governor's decision.

"I do not think Proposition 187 is morally or legally defensible," Mr.
Bustamante said.

Mr. Davis did receive some words of encouragement. Representative Xavier
Becerra, a Democrat from Los Angeles and a plaintiff in one of the lawsuits
against the proposition, had urged Mr. Davis to dismiss the appeal. But he said
he recognized the dueling priorities Mr. Davis faced as the Governor of all
Californians and "not just those who voted for him."

Mr. Becerra said he believed that mediation was a "legitimate step to take."

"I think he's trying to avoid this from becoming a political decision, or from
being viewed as a political decision," Mr. Becerra said. "The problem is,
whichever way he cuts it, it's going to look like a political decision to the
people who lose."

The Center for Human Rights and Constitutional Law, which represents several
groups and individuals seeking to overturn the proposition, issued a statement
saying that it "welcomed" Mr. Davis's decision to enter into formal settlement
talks through a mediation program offered by the United States Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco.

Mark Rosenbaum, legal director of the Southern California branch of the American
Civil Liberties Union, which has also been fighting the proposition in court,
said that the plaintiffs would be willing to discuss a settlement.

"But we're not going to surrender," Mr. Rosenbaum said, "we're not going to
agree to any offer which removes a kid from a classroom or denies social
services to needy individuals."

Abdi Soltani, an organizer of Californians for Justice, a statewide grass-roots
group that was founded in response to the Proposition 187 campaign, said that
Mr. Davis's decision not to dismiss the appeal "calls into question his overall
commitment to racial justice and building one California for all of us."

"Our communities elected Gray Davis to put a stop to the politics of division,"
Mr. Soltani said. "He had the legal authority to stop 187 outright and he passed
the buck."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 6, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Boosts Our Economy

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 151 words



To the Editor:

Re "Illegal Immigrant Workers Being Fired in I.N.S. Tactic" (front page, April
2): The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 made it a felony for
employers to hire an illegal immigrant. However, employers cannot refuse
employment to a worker who presents a document that appears "genuine on its
face." This Catch-22 forces farmers to hire workers they suspect may be illegal
immigrants, which in turn makes farms easy targets for raids and audits by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Farmers do not want to hire illegal immigrants, but the Federal guest worker
program -- the only way that immigrants can obtain temporary visas -- is
complex, time-consuming and expensive for farmers.

That program must be reformed.

JULIE MURRAY
Olympia, Wash., April 2, 1999

The writer is director of farm labor, Washington State Farm Bureau.






http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 23, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
18 People Face Charges In Immigrant Smuggling

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 159 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Sept. 22


Seventeen men and 1 woman have been charged with trying to smuggle 156 illegal
Chinese immigrants into the United States, an official said today.

The official, Assistant United States Attorney Alberto Arevalo, said a Federal
grand jury returned indictments on Monday against the 18 defendants, who pleaded
not guilty in Federal District Court.

A bail hearing was set for Thursday.

The ship Chih Yung was carrying the immigrants off the Mexico coast when it was
stopped by the United States Coast Guard on Aug. 27. The ship was detained
offshore until last Friday, when it was escorted into the San Diego Naval
Station.

The immigrants are being held in detention centers while the Immigration and
Naturalization Service decides whether they qualify for political asylum.

Immigration officials said all but three of the defendants were from China. Two
were from Taiwan, and the nationality of the third was unclear, the officials
said.


LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 15, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Change in Laws Sets Off Big Wave of Deportations

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2002 words


In the two years since Congress passed tough laws to stem the flow of illegal
immigration to the United States, Federal authorities have deported almost
300,000 immigrants to countries all over the world, more than twice the number
who were sent back in the two years before.

The unprecedented number of deportations has been possible because for the first
time the Immigration and Naturalization Service has both the Congressional
mandate and the money to investigate and prosecute violators of immigration law,
arrest immigrants with criminal convictions and would-be immigrants at the
border and swiftly deport them from the United States -- sometimes in less than
12 hours.

Many of the immigrants who are deported are barred from returning to the country
for five years or more. Some are barred for life.

"The rules have changed," said Kerry Bretz, a Manhattan immigration lawyer and
former I.N.S. prosecutor. "The agency has become completely enforcement-minded."

Flush with almost a billion dollars earmarked for the detention and deportation
of immigrants, the I.N.S. is now the largest Federal law enforcement agency, the
Justice Department says. The immigration service has more than 15,000 officers
authorized to carry weapons and make arrests, more than the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, the Bureau of Prisons, the Customs Service or the Drug
Enforcement Administration.

"It is as if, suddenly, war had been declared on immigrants," said Maria
Jimenez, director of the Immigration Law Enforcement Monitoring Project of the
American Friends Service Committee, a nonprofit organization in Houston that
documents abuses on the United States-Mexico border. "Stopping immigrants from
entering the country has become more important than the war against drugs."

Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican who is chairman of the House
Immigration Subcommittee and one of the architects of the law, said the number
of deportations demonstrated that the law was working, though not yet to his
satisfaction. The I.N.S., he said, is deporting only a small percentage of those
who should be deported. "The goal is to make sure as many illegal aliens as
possible return home," he said.

Before the law was changed, most of those deported had been convicted of crimes.
Now, the majority do not have criminal records but are caught at the southwest
border trying to enter the country with no documents or with fake documents.

But about 78,000 illegal immigrants who were already living in the country were
also deported in the last two years. They were arrested during job raids, at
routine traffic stops, at airports while returning from abroad and even at
immigration offices, where immigrants often go to seek services and sometimes
end up under arrest.

Many had lived here for years, working, paying taxes, studying and establishing
families. Their deportation often causes a great deal of emotional pain and
financial distress to the families left behind.

The family of Fernando Giraldo, one of the people deported last year, is still
trying to get him back to New York City, where he lived and worked for almost a
decade.

Mr. Giraldo, a 36-year-old amateur poet from Colombia, sneaked into the United
States through the southwest border a decade ago. The authorities detained him
at the airport in El Paso, Tex., as he was about to board a plane. An
immigration judge ordered him to leave the country in 30 days and released him
on bond.

But Mr. Giraldo ignored the judge's decision and flew to New York to join his
family in Brooklyn. For nine years, he went undetected by the authorities. He
worked as a maintenance supervisor in a Manhattan hotel and led what he calls "a
normal, happy life."

His luck ran out one morning in the summer of 1997. Mr. Giraldo had gone to the
downtown Manhattan immigration office for a scheduled interview with an
immigration officer, one of the steps in his quest for permanent residency. He
said he was sure the meeting would conclude with a handshake and a stamp on his
Colombian passport, making him a legal resident of the United States.

Instead, Mr. Giraldo was arrested, handcuffed and sent to a detention center in
Jamaica, Queens. Less than 48 hours later, he was on a plane to Bogota. He is
now barred from trying to enter the United States for 10 years and, even then,
his return is not guaranteed.

"I never even finished breakfast," Mr. Giraldo said from his home in Pereira,
Colombia. "I had told my mother that we would have coffee when I returned from
the interview and I just never did."

With Mr. Giraldo's deportation, his mother, Maria Judith Valencia, 63, and his
sister, Maritza Giraldo, 22, both permanent residents of the United States, were
left to fend for themselves. Ms. Valencia, who suffers from muscle spasms in her
eyelids and cannot keep her eyes open without medication, started making
pastries at home and selling them. Ms. Giraldo, a senior studying marketing at
Baruch College, had to leave school to find a job.

Goal for Deportations Is Set, and Exceeded

Last year, the year Mr. Giraldo was deported, the immigration agency set a
deportation goal for the first time -- and surpassed it: 114,285 people were
deported in the Federal fiscal year ending Sept. 30, 1997; the goal was 93,000.
In fiscal 1998, when $748 million, a record, was budgeted solely for the
detention and deportation of undesirable immigrants, 169,072 people were
deported. The goal was 127,300.

The money has allowed the agency to triple the number of beds available in
detention centers and local jails around the country and increase personnel by
80 percent. The added beds and staff are crucial because the agency must detain
immigrants before deporting them.

The increase in funds has also allowed immigration officials to conduct more
investigations than it had in the past. Now, the agency can routinely conduct
job raids and check on anonymous tips from, say, people who notice a sudden
influx of immigrants in their neighborhood. They also have the resources to
identify a particular problem in a specific state and try to combat it through
deportation.

Just two months ago, I.N.S. agents rounded up more than 500 legal immigrants in
Texas who had at least three drunken-driving convictions. Their detention is the
first step in a process that could culminate in their deportation. Immigration
officials in Washington said no other state had followed Texas' lead, but, by
law, they could.

"We apprehend and take into custody more people than any other agency in the
world," said Russell A. Bergeron Jr., an I.N.S. spokesman in Washington.

The law got tougher for immigrants who had not yet become citizens in 1996, when
Congress passed the Illegal Immigration and Reform Responsibility Act.
Proponents of the measure argued that illegal immigration was overtaxing public
services and potentially taking jobs away from citizens. The act granted the
agency wide powers previously afforded only to the courts.

Through a process called expedited removal, for example, the law now allows
immigration officials to quickly deport illegal immigrants who show up at
airports and at the border. Immigration officials, not judges, determine which
of them can be deported and, therefore, barred from the United States for at
least five years. The decision can be made in a matter of hours and without a
lawyer representing the immigrant.

Before the law changed, immigration officials at the border used to simply send
illegal immigrants back without formally deporting them. Undaunted, immigrants
tried again and many eventually succeeded at entering the country undetected.
Now, any immigrant caught trying to enter the country after having been formally
deported can be prosecuted and sentenced to prison.

Making More Crimes Grounds to Deport

The law also expanded the definition of a deportable crime and directed the
immigration agency to deport immigrants convicted of crimes even if they were
legal residents of the United States. While the agency has always been required
to deport murderers and rapists, now people who have forged checks or committed
minor sex offenses, like touching a woman inappropriately, are also being
deported. In addition, the law took away the power of judges to consider
mitigating factors.

In the past, many immigrants who had committed crimes were freed after
completing their sentences because there was no place to detain them pending
deportation. Now, the law requires -- and the increase in detention beds allows
-- such immigrants to remain behind bars while awaiting deportation. More than
106,000 immigrants with criminal convictions were deported in 1998, a 52 percent
increase over the previous two years.

Immigration officials say it is too early to know if the high number of
deportations is having the intended effect: to send a clear message to would-be
immigrants that coming to the country illegally is punishable.

"After so many years of the laws being ineffectual, it is going to take a long
time to restore the credibility of the immigration laws," Mr. Bergeron said.
"You are not going to have an overnight shift on the way people think."

Lawyers and advocates for immigrants, though, say the laws have begun to affect
the lives of their clients. Detention and deportation of people already living
in the United States legally or illegally has become so pervasive that many of
these immigrants -- who, unlike those caught at airports or at the border, have
the right to hearings and appeals -- are giving up on the legal process and
leaving the country on their own.

By doing that -- in essence, deporting themselves -- they may avoid both a
formal Federal deportation order and a long stay at a detention center while
their cases wind through the courts. Those who are not criminals can also avoid
being barred from re-entering the country.

"The law, in practical terms, deprives them of due process," said Nancy
Morawetz, a professor at New York University School of Law. "Congress passed
these laws without paying really close attention to them. And the results are
just awful."

A Law So Broad, Even The I.N.S. Has Doubts

Even immigration officials say the law is too broad. To detain all the convicted
criminals who should, under the law, be behind bars, the I.N.S. will have to
receive even more funds from Congress, Mr. Bergeron said. Immigration officials
have calculated that the agency would need up to 21,000 additional beds and as
many as 1,500 additional employees. To cover those costs, the current budget of
about $700 million will have to increase by $652 million.

"We've always said the law went too far," Mr. Bergeron said.

Already, some detention centers are dangerously overcrowded, lawyers for
immigrants say. Last month, about 80 detainees at the center on Varick Street in
Manhattan protested because they were sleeping on mattresses on the floor in a
dormitory meant to house only 42.

To avoid such disturbances, Mr. Bergeron said, the agency will have to continue
choosing whom to detain and whom to let go. But just how those choices are made
is not always obvious to immigrants' relatives.

Pam Gaul, whose adopted son, John Gaul, awaits deportation at a jail in north
Florida, said she could not understand why the authorities considered him a
dangerous criminal worthy of deportation. Mr. Gaul, 25, was convicted of check
fraud and of stealing a car four years ago. Because he was born in Thailand and
never became a United States citizen, he is what the law calls a "criminal
alien," and, thus, deportable.

Ms. Gaul, 52, and her former husband adopted John when he was 4 and always
thought that, because they were citizens, he would be protected by United States
law. He is not, the authorities said.

"He made a mistake, but do we punish him for life?" asked Ms. Gaul, a
respiratory therapist at a Tampa hospital. "Essentially, for me, they are trying
to take away his life and they are ripping our family apart."

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 19, 1998, Saturday

CORRECTION:

A front-page article on Tuesday about the deportation of immigrants from the
United States misstated the period in which 106,000 immigrants with criminal
convictions were deported. It was 1997 and 1998, not 1998 alone. As the article
said, the figure represented a 52 percent increase from the previous two years.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Pam Gaul says she does not understand why her adopted son John,
in photo, is facing deportation for committing check fraud and car theft. (Bobby
Sanchez for The New York Times)(pg. B12)

Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: More Deportations" tracks deportations of legal and
illegal immigrants nationwide, from 1992 through 1998 (for fiscal years ended
Sept. 30)

Countries to which the most immigrants were deported. (Number of deportations in
1998*)

Mexico (136,795)
El Salvador (5,179)
Guatemala (4,943)
Honduras (4,916)
Dominican Republic (2,440)
Jamaica (1,805)
Colombia (1,747)
Canada (864)
Ecuador (636)
Peru (571)

*For fiscal years ended Sept. 30.

(Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service)(pg. B12)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 28, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Visa Program Is Seen to Aid Illegal Entry

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 759 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26


A program that allows some visitors to the United States to enter without visas
is helping criminals and terrorists and increasing illegal immigration,
according to an internal investigation at the Department of Justice.

The agency's inspector general found that the Immigration and Naturalization
Service had not done enough to end abuses of the Visa Waiver Pilot Program,
which allows people carrying passports from any of 26 nations to visit the
United States for up to 90 days without obtaining a visa. The program has been
in place since 1988.

The program, which was intended to cut down on paperwork in admitting large
numbers of visitors from a small number of countries, is strongly supported by
trade groups and the tourism industry. In 1997, 14.5 million visitors entered
the United States under the visa-waiver program, coming from Britain, Japan,
Germany, Italy, Sweden, Ireland and Brunei, among other countries. To qualify,
visitors must not be deemed likely to violate terms of the program or represent
a security risk.

But Michael R. Bromwich, the inspector general, said, "Our review found that
terrorists, criminals, smugglers and others have attempted to enter the United
States using stolen blank passports from a visa-waiver country or by altering or
counterfeiting these passports." He testified about his office's report at a
Congressional hearing in May. The report was released to the public early this
month.

Few countries reported problems with passport theft before participation in the
program, immigration officials said. But the agency estimates that more than
100,000 blank passports have been stolen in the last several years.

When investigators looked at a sample of 1,067 blank passports reported stolen
from visa-waiver nations in 1997, almost 4 percent matched passports
successfully presented for entry into the United States.

Extrapolating from that sample, the auditors suggested that thousands of people
might have used stolen passports in this way.

Immigration inspectors interviewed for the report said terrorists and criminals
believed they would receive less scrutiny and have a better chance of avoiding
interception if they entered the United States under the visa-waiver program.

A man later convicted in the bombing of the World Trade Center tried to enter
the United States in 1992 with a fraudulent Swedish passport. He was briefly
detained and then deported. In 1998, an Irish man who admitted membership in the
Irish Republican Army was denied entry when inspectors learned that he was also
a member of the Real I.R.A. -- a terrorist group that has broken away from the
I.R.A. And in 1988, the immigration service in New York discovered a trend in
which Nigerian drug couriers were substituting their photos into passports from
Britain in order to smuggle narcotics into the United States.

The visa-waiver program also makes it easier to immigrate illegally to the
United States, investigators said. Because the program eliminates the need to
obtain visas, visitors from participating nations avoid the screening that
consular officers normally perform. As a result, inspectors at ports of entry
now bear most of the responsibility for stopping illegal immigrants. But the
inspectors have, on average, less than one minute to check and make their
decision on each visitor.

The I.N.S. has said it generally supports the findings in the report, but it
points to several factors that are out of its control. For example, another
agency, the State Department, nominates countries for the visa-waiver program,
and participating countries have their own standards for issuing passports and
reporting them stolen.

Michael A. Pearson, the executive associate commissioner for field operations at
the I.N.S., said there was no built-in mechanism for dealing with security
breakdowns.

"The program's lack of appropriate law enforcement standards mandating
compliance or removal from the program has only increased as the program has
been expanded," Mr. Pearson wrote in his response to the inspector general's
review. "Regrettably, the statute and standards for law enforcement concerns
have not evolved with the expansion, and we are now in the position of operating
this program, which was predicated on low risk, in a high-risk environment."

The inspector general recommended that the I.N.S. build a complete database on
stolen passports from countries that participate in the program and make sure
that border agents check all passport numbers against the database.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 31, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Stops Deportations to Nations Hurricane Hit

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 332 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 30


Continuing a policy of trying to help Central American countries recover from a
catastrophic hurricane, the United States will not deport illegal immigrants
from the nations hardest hit for at least 18 months, immigration officials said
today.

The temporary protection applies to an estimated 150,000 Nicaraguans and
Hondurans, and is designed to give their countries economic "breathing room,"
the Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Doris M.
Meissner, said. The delay, during which some of the immigrants will be eligible
to work in the United States, will afford more time for Central America's
economy to recover from the late-season storm, Mrs. Meissner said.

The deal is a tradeoff for illegal immigrants: They receive temporary protection
from deportation but must come forward, identify themselves and pay $175 in
fees. Although the temporary protection may be extended beyond the initial 18
months, the old rules of deportation apply whenever it ends.

The immigration service does not know how many people will take the offer, which
applies only to immigrants who can prove they were in the United States as of
Dec. 30.

The storm, Hurricane Mitch, hit Nicaragua, Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador
two months ago. More than 9,000 people were killed, 2 million were left
homeless, and damage was estimated at more than $5 billion.

Attorney General Janet Reno suspended deportations to the area immediately after
the hurricane, but the suspension was to expire in January. Ms. Reno has also
extended to March 8 the hiatus on deportations to Guatemala and El Salvador.

Nicaragua and Honduras, where more than 90 percent of those displaced by the
hurricane live, can least afford to absorb the hundreds of illegal immigrants
typically deported each month, officials said. Also, they said, the $400 million
annually that expatriates, illegal and otherwise, send home to Central America
will significantly aid the region's recovery.



LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 27, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Unjust Deportations

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 428 words


In a troubling decision this week, the Supreme Court granted immigration
officials virtual carte blanche to target illegal aliens for deportation based
on their lawful political associations and activities. The case involved eight
non-citizens who the Government conceded had been targeted for deportation
proceedings because of their leafletting, speaking, fund-raising and other
political activities in support of the Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine, which the Government regards as a terrorist organization.

Lower courts had supported the aliens' claim that they were being subjected to
selective prosecution. Others with similar technical visa problems were left
alone. None of the eight had been accused of committing any crime, or engaging
in any violent or terrorist activities. The F.B.I. concluded that if they had
been U.S. citizens, there would be no basis for their arrest.

A year ago, a unanimous Federal appellate panel in California ruled that the
deportations could not proceed without a showing of specific intent to further
the Palestinian group's illegal ends. Overturning that ruling, the justices, by
an 8-to-1 vote, held that a 1996 law designed to speed deportations barred
Federal courts from assuming jurisdiction in deportation cases until the
administrative process had been concluded and there was a final order of
deportation. The practical result in some cases will be to prevent meaningful
judicial review.

Unfortunately, the justices did not stop there. A slimmer, 6-to-3 majority
pronounced that illegal aliens had no First Amendment right not to be singled
out for removal because of their political activities and beliefs. This
pronouncement runs counter to the general trend of according aliens the same due
process and First Amendment rights as citizens. When the Court agreed to hear
the case last spring, it said it would review only the jurisdictional issue. The
parties were told not to argue the more fundamental First Amendment questions.
Handing down major rulings without fully exploring the arguments is not a way to
produce thoughtful decision-making by the nation's top judges.

The Court's rationale could bar Federal Court intervention to block deportations
based on an immigrant's ties to any group or cause out of favor with the
Government. The inevitable result will be to chill the free-speech rights not
just of illegal immigrants, but also of legal immigrants awaiting final
confirmation of their status. That is not an outcome that the Court, or the
nation, can feel proud about.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 27, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Harold W. Ezell Is Dead at 61; Immigration Official in West

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section D; Page 24; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 444 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 26


Harold W. Ezell, who as a Federal immigration official supported amnesty for
millions of illegal immigrants only to become a decade later the co-author of a
state initiative denying them public benefits, died on Tuesday at Hoag Memorial
Hospital Presbyterian in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 61 and lived in Newport
Beach.

The cause was liver cancer, a hospital spokeswoman said.

After working as an executive for Wienerschnitzel International, a hot dog
franchise company, Mr. Ezell was commissioner for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's western region under Presidents Ronald Reagan and
George Bush. He supported the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, which
granted legal residency to about three million illegal immigrants, more than
half of them in California.

In promoting that amnesty offer, Mr. Ezell donned a sombrero and appeared as
part of a group called Trio Amnestia, with his deputy and an Hispanic radio
personality called El Tigre. At the same time, he crusaded to stop illegal
immigrants from entering the United States, organizing night tours to the
Mexican border to show illegal immigrants coming into the country and conducting
raids on factories and restaurants.

In the early 1990's, after leaving the immigration agency, Mr. Ezell found a
niche as a go-between for foreign millionaires seeking United States
citizenship.

"I believe we've done a great job with boat people, and I think that a few yacht
people are not going to hurt America," he told The New York Times in 1991.

As California's economy remained in the doldrums into the mid-1990's and public
sentiment against illegal immigration grew, Mr. Ezell helped write Proposition
187, which would have denied public benefits, including health care and
education, to illegal immigrants. Though the measure was approved by
Californians in 1994, a Federal judge in Los Angeles ruled it unconstitutional
and it has not been enforced, but many of its provisions were embodied in the
Federal welfare reform act.

"He believed people should be welcome in this country, but they should come in
in a legal manner, and that illegal activity of any kind should not be
rewarded," said State Senator Dick Mountjoy, a Republican from suburban Los
Angeles who supported Proposition 187.

But Mr. Ezell often raised the ire of immigrant and civil liberties advocates
with comments that critics said made it impossible to have a dispassionate
discussion of the issue.

Mr. Ezell is survived by his wife, Lee; two daughters, Pamela Ezell of Los
Angeles, and Sandi Bushnell of New Jersey; his mother, Edna of Wilmington,
Calif., and his brother, Donald, of Wilmington.

NAME: Harold W. Ezell

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harold W. Ezell. (The New York Times, 1991)

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 21, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Settle Lawsuit Over Jail Beatings for $1.5 Million

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 385 words


More than three years after a group of immigrants seeking political asylum in
the United States were beaten and tortured by guards at a jail in Elizabeth,
N.J., county officials there have agreed to pay $1.5 million to settle a Federal
civil rights lawsuit brought by 21 of the immigrants, lawyers said yesterday.

The settlement, first reported on Saturday in The Star-Ledger of Newark, follows
the criminal convictions in March of two guards and a union official at the jail
in the case.

Yesterday, John J. Murphy, of Cherry Hill, N.J., a lawyer for 13 of the former
detainees, said the settlement avoided a long and costly trial. The lawsuit,
filed against Union County and 15 guards in February 1996, sought unspecified
compensatory and punitive damages.

The settlement caps a long and difficult journey for many of the immigrants, who
came to this country seeking asylum and were held at a Federal detention center
run by a private corporation, Esmor. They were transferred to the Union County
jail in Elizabeth in June 1995 after the Esmor center was shut down by a riot
set off by abusive conditions.

What they faced at the jail was considerably worse, they said in court during
the criminal trial. They testified that the guards beat and punched them,
knocked them to the ground and used pliers to pull the hairs around their
genitals. Some of the immigrants, who came from countries including Nigeria,
India and Algeria, have since been deported. Others were granted asylum.

Two guards -- James Rice, 42, a guard for 16 years, and Charles Popovic, 35, an
11-year veteran -- were both convicted on nine counts each of assault,
misconduct and conspiracy to obstruct the investigation. A Policemen's
Benevolent Association official at the jail, Michael Sica, 35, was also
convicted on nine counts of conspiracy to cover up misconduct.

Mr. Murphy declined to say what part of the settlement would be spent on fees
for himself and another lawyer, Thomas Sheehan, of Queens, who represents eight
of the plaintiffs.

Theodore Romankow, a lawyer representing Union County, said the settlement would
save the county as much as $3.5 million in legal fees. "All in all, it was a
compromise based on fees and costs," he said. "And for us, there was no
admission of liability. We're very pleased."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 1, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Asylum-Seekers Are Confined To Dormitories After Protest

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 714 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH, N.J., Sept. 30


Detainees at the Immigration and Naturalization Service detention center here --
the scene of a violent uprising by immigrants in 1995 -- are being confined to
their dormitories in response to a hunger strike over conditions and privileges.

About 94 of the 268 detainees were in the second day of a hunger strike to
protest, among other things, what they say are tighter rules in the parole
process, inadequate quantities of food and excessive telephone charges,
immigration officials said after a count at dinner tonight.

Mike Gilhooly, a spokesman for the I.N.S. in the Eastern United States, said
that officials of the Elizabeth center were confining all detainees to their
dormitories in the 350-bed center because of the hunger strike and the
complaints. Also, detainees' lawyers were being barred from visiting the center.

But Mr. Gilhooly added that things were calm and that detainees had met with
officials there to discuss their grievances.

In a visit to the center by a reporter at dinner today, the dormitories were
quiet, with many of the detainees milling about in their identical khaki-colored
clothing and not eating. But some among the groups were seen to be eating from
the plastic trays that are brought to the dormitories.

Since last spring, when the agency's district director expressed concern that
Newark International Airport was gaining a reputation as an easy point of
entrance for those seeking political asylum, the granting of parole to detainees
at Elizabeth has all but ended, according to detainees and their advocates. The
result, they said, was longer detentions in a center meant for short stays for
those seeking asylum who are neither criminals nor considered dangerous.

News of the hunger strike came from advocates for the detainees and from the
detainees themselves, who managed to get a telephone call out of the center to a
reporter.

"Three dormitories are on hunger strike," said a detainee who called collect
from the center but would not identify himself by name. "We are in discussions
with the warden, but we have a big problem and don't know what is going to
happen. There is tension here now."

Mr. Gilhooly said the goal of agency officials was "to keep the situation calm
and to work with them," adding that "we have taken their complaints under
advisement."

The center is operated under contract by the private Nashville-based company,
Corrections Corporation of America, which took over in January 1997. Before
that, the center was run by Esmor Correction Corporation.

In June 1995, rampaging detainees burned mattresses, destroyed furniture and
broke windows to protest long stays and harsh treatment. Esmor's contract was
terminated after investigators verified many of the detainees' complaints about
physical abuse, poor management, lack of training and poor conditions.

At the same time, the I.N.S. acknowledged its own failures to supervise Esmor.
The uprising at the center led to its closing and a review of other agency
practices. The Elizabeth center was reopened 20 months ago to promises of new
policies that would ease the granting of parole to those awaiting asylum
rulings.

Parole, pending a final ruling, is granted to asylum seekers who preliminarily
are judged by asylum officers to have a credible fear of persecution if returned
to their countries, who are not criminals and who have friends or relatives who
can care for them temporarily.

Mary McClenahan, a lawyer with the Catholic Legal Immigrant Network, said that
for much of the last two years, detention stays for her clients and other asylum
seekers had decreased. But last spring, the district director for the I.N.S.,
Andrea Quarantillo, told members of the New Jersey Immigration Policy Network,
an advocacy group of which Ms. McClenahan is a member, that "Newark was becoming
a sieve" in the eyes of asylum seekers who considered their parole policies to
be especially liberal.

Paroles declined sharply at that time, Eleanor Acer, coordinator of the asylum
program of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, said. Mr. Gilhooly disputed
that assessment, noting that of 282 asylum seekers interviewed at the center
this year, 175, or 62 percent, were paroled. Last year, of 152 interviewed, 102,
or 67 percent, were paroled.


LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 6, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Demanding Parole, Immigrants Held in Queens Stage Protest

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 384 words


Five days after asylum-seekers at an Immigration and Naturalization Service
detention center in New Jersey went on a hunger strike to demand better
conditions, immigrants at a center in Queens protested yesterday to pressure
immigration authorities into granting them parole.

A group of the detainees at the Wackenhut detention center in Jamaica, Queens,
distributed fliers over the weekend encouraging others to stop eating, working
and attending immigration hearings, said Amy Otton, a spokeswoman for the
eastern regional I.N.S. office. Most of the men detained in the 200-bed center,
96 out of 147, skipped breakfast, but at the end of the day, after immigration
officials had spent hours talking to the detainees and listening to their
concerns, only about 20 stayed away at dinnertime.

No one refused to work -- the detainees clean, do the laundry and help in the
kitchen -- and no one who had a scheduled hearing opted not to go, Ms. Otton
said. "We made real progress today," she said. "Sometimes they just need someone
to listen to them. It is not unusual that they would have concerns about being
detained for such a long time."

The immigrants, who are often asylum-seekers fleeing war-torn countries and who
rarely speak English, can be detained from two to six months, or longer. They
are demanding to be paroled to their families while a judge decides whether they
are eligible for political asylum.

Their protest came five days after a similar incident at the detention center in
Elizabeth, N.J., where 94 detainees went on a hunger strike to demand parole,
more food and a reduction of telephone charges. That strike ended after the
I.N.S. district director in New Jersey, Andrea Quarantillo, met with the
detainees and told them she would look into their demands, immigration officials
said yesterday.

Unlike the center in Elizabeth, the site of a violent uprising by detainees in
1995, Wackenhut, which opened last year, has never before reported any uprising
or strikes. Very few there are paroled. Although there seems to be no consistent
national policy about who is paroled and who stays in detention, some I.N.S.
districts grant parole more often than others. New York is known as granting
parole to relatively few people seeking political asylum.


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 10, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Judge Allows Detainees to Sue I.N.S. Officials

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1170 words


In a decision that could change the way asylum seekers are treated in
immigration detention centers, a Federal judge in New Jersey has ruled that
immigration officials can be sued for violating the human rights of detainees at
a center in Elizabeth.

The ruling by Senior Judge Dickinson R. Debevoise of Federal District Court in
Newark is the first major decision in a lawsuit filed last year on behalf of 19
asylum seekers who were held at the detention center in 1995, when a violent
uprising led to the temporary closing of the center and a review of the way the
Immigration and Naturalization Service handled detainees.

The Elizabeth center was reopened 20 months ago and, until now, has been held up
as the model of how a detention center should be run. But last week, about 94 of
the 268 detainees at the center began a hunger strike to demand more food and
fewer telephone charges, and to be released to their friends and relatives while
a judge determines their immigration status. The strike ended Wednesday after
I.N.S. officials promised to look into their grievances.

On Monday, another hunger strike began at a detention center in Jamaica, Queens,
when 96 detainees refused to eat breakfast. By yesterday, 18 people were still
refusing food, and 10 doctors and nurses were monitoring the health of detainees
around the clock, said Alen Atkinson, a spokesman with the immigration service's
district office in New York.

The judge's decision, issued Oct. 1 but disclosed by the detainees' lawyers
Wednesday night, is unlikely to help the strikers because the ruling is narrow:
it applies only to the 19 detainees who filed the suit alleging that they had
suffered physical and psychological abuse at the hands of untrained and poorly
supervised staff members.

Six of them were granted political asylum and now live in the United States; two
are still in detention in Pennsylvania, and the others were deported to their
countries, where they remain in hiding, said Penny Venetis, the lawyer who filed
the suit last year on behalf of the detainees.

Despite its narrowness, Ms. Venetis said, the ruling marks the first time that
international human rights law has been applied to government employees in the
United States. The judge also ruled that the Esmor Correction Corporation, the
company that was running the detention center under contract with the I.N.S.,
could be sued on the same grounds.

Daniel V. Gsovski, the lawyer for the corporation and some of its officers, said
he could not comment on the decision beyond stressing that the judge had not yet
ruled on culpability.

"This is just an evaluation on his part of what body of law, in addition to U.S.
law, can be used in the case," Mr. Gsovski said. "The facts of the case have not
changed, and we expect to prevail in the end."

Officials of the immigration service also played down the significance of the
judge's decision and instead claimed victory because, while the judge had ruled
that international law could be applied to government employees, he had also
ruled that the same law could not be used against the agency itself.

"Our lawyers are studying the decision and, if they deem it appropriate, we will
appeal within 30 days," said Russell A. Bergeron Jr., a spokesman for the agency
in Washington.

But Ms. Venetis and other immigration lawyers, who for years have complained
about the detention of asylum seekers and the conditions in which they are
sometimes held, said the decision offered hope to hundreds of refugees who each
year seek asylum in the United States only to find themselves behind bars while
judges determine their fate. There are now about 800 asylum seekers in detention
throughout the country, Mr. Bergeron said.

"Even when they are here, they are not protected by U.S. law, because they are
not legally here; it's like they haven't reached our shores, even though they
are in New Jersey," said Ms. Venetis, director of the Rutgers Constitutional
Litigation Clinic. "This decision says that now they can find remedy through
international law."

The decision, binding only in New Jersey, could have a wider impact if Federal
judges in other states use it as precedent when considering their own cases, Ms.
Venetis said.

"The implications are still unknown, but it certainly opens the door for other
lawsuits," she said.

The judge's ruling comes at a time when two internationally recognized human
rights organizations, Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International, have
released highly critical reports of the way the United States Government deals
with asylum seekers, and just weeks after the immigration subcommittee of the
Senate Judiciary Committee held a hearing to examine the I.N.S.'s detention
practices.

Since April 1, 1997, when a new law took effect, the immigration service has
detained all asylum seekers upon arrival. Those found to have a "credible fear"
of persecution in their homeland can be freed, or paroled, but only for "urgent
humanitarian reasons or significant public benefit." Because Congress never
defined those terms, the I.N.S. has allowed its 33 district directors to
exercise their discretion on parole decisions.

In New York, for example, in the last year, 79 asylum seekers out of 373 have
been paroled from the detention center in Queens, said Mark Thorn, a spokesman
for the New York district of the I.N.S.

Eleanor Acer, a senior coordinator of the asylum program at the Lawyers
Committee for Human Rights who testified at the Congressional hearing,
criticized the New York district's record of parole. Of the 70 asylum seekers
her agency has monitored, only one was released following the agency's own
parole criteria.

"The New York District has failed to release many of our clients, despite the
fact that they're eligible for parole," she said. "Many of these clients are
survivors of torture, and were ultimately granted asylum by immigration judges."

The Amnesty International report, released Tuesday, states that detention of
asylum seekers is in itself a human rights violation. "Asylum seekers are not
criminals," the report says, calling on the United States to detain refugees
only when there is no other recourse and their behavior makes it necessary.

Paul L. Hoffman, chairman of the board of Amnesty International U.S.A. and a
civil rights lawyer in Los Angeles, said the judge's ruling on the New Jersey
detention center "puts some real teeth into what we have been arguing." Mr.
Hoffman, who used the same international principles in 1992 to sue Ferdinand E.
Marcos, former President of the Philippines, said the ruling would also make it
easier to hold Federal Government officials to the same standards used for
abusive government officials outside the United States.

"It shows that cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment is a violation of
international law, no matter where it takes place," Mr. Hoffman said. "As more
international attention is paid to this issue, it will be impossible for the
Government not to start paying

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The immigrant detention center in Elizabeth, N.J. It was shut
down after an uprising in 1995 by detainees, and reopened 20 months ago. (Linda
Rosier for The New York Times)(pg. B8)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 31, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

The Immigrant Lockup

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 613 words


Thousands of people who are not accused of any crime or who have completed
prison terms for minor crimes spent this Christmas -- and may spend the next --
in jails around the nation. They are immigrants detained by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, which has filled its own detention centers and has now
resorted to using local and county lockups.

Hundreds of immigrants who are simply seeking political asylum share cells with
people accused of violent crimes, and are often subject to abuse because they
are foreigners. Keeping them in jails is cruel, unnecessary and a waste of
money.

The detentions have more than doubled since 1995 because Congress now provides
money for the I.N.S. to rent beds in local jails. In addition, punitive new
immigration laws kicked in this year that expand the categories of immigrants
the I.N.S. must detain as they await possible deportation.

Most of the 16,000 people in detention on any given day are immigrants, legal as
well as illegal, who have committed crimes, including very minor ones such as
marijuana possession or turnstile-jumping, even if their convictions were long
ago. They are held by the I.N.S. after they have finished their prison terms.
Another group comprises illegal immigrants rounded up in raids on workplaces.

The third group is asylum-seekers. The new immigration laws provide that
everyone who comes to America seeking asylum is detained before a first
interview. Those who pass it are then often detained for months or even years as
they wait for their asylum hearings. Many of them are victims of torture or
other traumatic events whose problems are exacerbated by jail.

The I.N.S. has not been able to assure decent conditions even in the centers
under its control. In 1995 inmates at an I.N.S. detention center in Elizabeth,
N.J., rioted over beatings and the use of shackles. The I.N.S. later criticized
the private company that administered the center, Esmor, for "inhumane"
conditions. Conditions in local jails are often far worse, and the I.N.S. cannot
supervise them. Human Rights Watch has collected numerous allegations of
beatings and other mistreatment. The I.N.S. has called for a government
investigation of alleged torture of immigrants by electric shock in a Florida
jail. Immigrants often have no access to lawyers or even someone who speaks
their language. Worst off are the 1,800 people scheduled for deportations to
countries that will not take them back, such as Cuba. They are jailed
indefinitely, some for years.

The main reason for I.N.S. detention is that the vast majority of people at risk
of deportation skip their court dates and simply vanish, given the chance. The
I.N.S. is beginning to study how to get people to keep their court appointments
without locking them up. One pilot project run by the Vera Institute of Justice,
a nonprofit group, keeps immigrants who seem unlikely to flee out of jail if
they check in regularly and receive home visits from supervisors. Preliminary
results show that compliance has soared -- at one-sixth of the $20,000 per year
that detention costs.

The I.N.S. should expand its search for alternatives to detention, including the
use of bail. The 5,000 children detained each year should be put in group homes
or foster care, not juvenile jails. Some people will require detention, but it
should be in centers for immigrants. Congress should allow the I.N.S. to build
its own facilities, which must be strictly supervised. Above all, the I.N.S. and
Congress must abandon their punitive mentality. It is hard not to suspect that
they are trying to deter immigration by making the process as harrowing as
possible.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 9, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrant's Death in Detention Prompts New Criticism

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1201 words


The death of a Dominican man last month at a detention center in lower Manhattan
has prompted advocates for immigrants to raise questions once again about the
conditions in which immigrants are held in the New York region and elsewhere in
the country.

After a month of tests, the authorities revealed last week that Miguel A.
Valoy-Nunez, a seemingly healthy 40-year-old awaiting deportation, died of
pneumonia and a viral infection two days after he first complained of chest pain
and a consistent cough. Nurses at the immigration detention center on Varick
Street treated him as if he had a cold and he was never checked by a doctor,
Federal health officials have said.

The fact that Mr. Valoy-Nunez's death -- the first at an immigration detention
center -- was from a treatable disease prompted advocates to renew their
complaints against not only the way the Immigration and Naturalization Service
treats detainees but also the practice of detention itself.

Lawyers and advocates for immigrants have been particularly concerned with
detention issues since a Federal law that mandates the detention of all
noncitizens who commit deportable crimes went into effect last fall. Since then,
jails and detention centers have been filled to capacity and, sometimes, beyond
capacity.

Overcrowding has become such an issue for the I.N.S. that immigration officials
said last week that some of the immigrants who were convicted of less serious
crimes were likely to be released soon to free up bed space.

Those who are released will await deportation at home, but some may flee,
immigration officials acknowledged. Although the releases are contrary to the
law, the agency's hands are tied, said Russell A. Bergeron, an I.N.S. spokesman
in Washington.

"We are only mandated to do what we can do with the resources we have," he said.
"We simply don't have the space to detain all the criminal immigrants we
encounter."

Nationwide, 93 percent of the beds the I.N.S. uses for the detention of
immigrants are occupied. In the Eastern region, which includes New York and New
Jersey, 100 percent of the beds are occupied, Mr. Bergeron said.

Overcrowding has resulted in a host of problems for the I.N.S. In the past few
months alone, well over 100 detainees at various immigration centers in the New
York region have staged hunger strikes, several have attempted suicide, and a
few have had confrontations with guards.

In October, a group of detainees at the Wackenhut detention center in Jamaica,
Queens, went on a hunger strike that lasted for about two weeks. During the
strike, three detainees, all people seeking political asylum, tried to kill
themselves. The protest in Queens came five days after 94 detainees went on a
hunger strike at the detention center in Elizabeth, N.J.

In November, 80 detainees on Varick Street protested because they were sleeping
on mattresses on the floor in a dormitory meant to house only 42. That same
month, a detainee from Jordan tried to kill himself at the detention center in
Elizabeth. And last week, in the same center, a man from Italy also attempted
suicide, immigration officials said.

The increasing number of detainees has not led the authorities to assign more
medical personnel to detention centers in the New York region, said Ada Rivera,
medical director for the United States Public Health Service's division of
immigration health service, which cares for immigrants in detention.

The center on Varick Street is staffed with registered nurses around the clock,
plus a doctor, a physician's assistant and a pharmacist during office hours.
After office hours and on the weekends, doctors are on call and at least one
nurse remains in the clinic per shift. That number of employees is adequate for
up to 450 detainees, Dr. Rivera said. The Varick center's maximum average daily
population in the last three years has never topped 195; last week there were
155 detainees, 10 more than its capacity.

This is not the first time that concerns have been raised about the Varick
Street center. A 1992 study of the facility by the American Civil Liberties
Union in New York found medical care there deficient.

"The question is, what kind of system is there in place to avoid this sort of
thing from happening again?" said Judy Rabinovitz, a lawyer with the A.C.L.U.
"Does someone have to die for us to see some kind of reaction?"

Mr. Valoy-Nunez, a legal resident of the United States since 1980, arrived at
Varick Street on Dec. 28 after serving seven months on Rikers Island on a
misdemeanor drug conviction. In September 1997, the police found a tiny amount
of heroin in his home, according to his lawyer, Sanford Talk. Mr. Valoy-Nunez's
crime rendered him deportable under new federal laws that make the possession of
drugs, except for a small amount of marijuana, a deportable crime for
noncitizens.

Five days after arriving at the detention center, Mr. Valoy-Nunez developed a
fever and a severe cough. Two days later he was dead. His widow, Anna
Valoy-Nunez, blames neglect. Had her husband of 15 years been taken to a
hospital, as the couple had repeatedly asked his jailers to do, he would be
alive today, she said.

"He didn't get the right treatment, that's all," Mrs. Valoy-Nunez, 41, said,
drying her tears while sitting in the dining room of her apartment in Borough
Park, Brooklyn. "He belonged in a hospital and they refused to listen."

Health officials deny that Mr. Valoy-Nunez's death was caused by lack of medical
care. The Public Health Service is investigating the case, and has found no
wrongdoing so far, according to Gene Migliaccio, director of the division of
immigration health services. His death, Dr. Migliaccio said, has baffled the
staff.

On the weekend before his death, Mr. Valoy-Nunez was checked 10 times during 36
hours by nurses who gave him over-the-counter cold medicines. On Monday, Jan. 4,
during regular clinic hours, a physician's assistant thought he heard an unusual
noise in Mr. Valoy-Nunez's lungs and ordered blood work and an X-ray. But it was
too late; Mr. Valoy-Nunez died shortly afterward.

Doctors at the Public Health Service say they do not know whether Mr.
Valoy-Nunez's life could have been saved if a doctor had actually checked him
when he first complained of feeling ill.

"Hindsight is 20-20," Dr. Rivera said. "Could he be alive today if a doctor had
seen him? That's an impossible question."

But that is the question that keeps Mrs. Valoy-Nunez awake at night, staring at
the urn where she keeps the ashes of her husband next to her bed.

A month after his death, his Christmas gifts remain unopened in a closet in the
couple's bedroom. Christmas ornaments, which were hung in anticipation of his
release from Rikers Island, are still on the walls. His son, Steven, 14, said he
wishes his father were home to help him with his basketball game; his daughter,
Doris, 15, wishes she could talk to him one more time.

Because deportation to the Dominican Republic seemed inevitable before Mr.
Valoy-Nunez's death, the family had already made plans to move there.

"We dreamed of a house in the capital and opening a business, a hair salon," she
said. "We would have followed him."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Anna Valoy-Nunez blames detention center neglect for her
husband's death. "He belonged in a hospital and they refused to listen," she
said. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times); Miguel A. Valoy-Nunez died in an
I.N.S. detention center last month.

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 4, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Law to Track Foreigners Entering U.S. Is Postponed

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 576 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, Oct. 3


A new law that tightens America's borders by tracking every foreigner who enters
the United States has been postponed because immigration officials say they are
not ready to handle the job and Congress is not sure it really wants the measure
enforced.

Congress now has until Oct. 15 to either repeal the law or delay it long enough
for the Immigration and Naturalization Service to develop a system for keeping
tabs on the millions of noncitizens who enter and leave the United States at
every airport, border crossing and seaport in the country.

Border states and the Governments of Canada and Mexico strongly opposed the
measure after experts warned that requiring even simple checks could cause huge
lineups at the borders and delays of up to 24 hours that would hurt businesses
and cost millions of dollars in delayed or lost trade.

The measure officially took effect on Thursday, but Congress voted to delay it
because the immigration service made it clear it had not developed adequate
technology to gather the information without causing delays. The agency also
does not have a system to process information estimated to be so vast that in
one year it would exceed all the data in the Library of Congress.

"This temporary delay will provide several more days for Congress to pass a
legislative fix and prevent gridlock at our borders," said Senator Spencer
Abraham, Republican of Michigan, who wrote the stopgap legislation.

The Senate has already voted twice to repeal the strict border measure. The
House of Representatives, however, had voted to delay its implementation one
year, until Oct. 1, 1999. But because both houses could not reach a compromise,
the measure went into effect on Thursday. And when the immigration service did
not enforce it, the government agency was in the position of technically
violating the law.

"We told Congress early on that the technology and system did not exist and
would not be in place by Oct. 1," said Russell A. Bergeron Jr., an immigration
service spokesman. "And it's impossible to project when such a system would be
in place."

Canadian business executives and Mexican officials were relieved that the delays
they feared had not materialized, but they remain concerned that uncertainty on
the border still can cause hardship.

"You can't make plans to build cars in Detroit based on parts made in Canada
that might be held up by 10 to 20 hours crossing the border," said Peter J.
Eide, head of labor law policy for the United States Chamber of Commerce and
chairman of Americans for Better Borders, an organization started by individuals
worried about the effect of the new law.

Gustavo Mohar, minister of governmental affairs at the Mexican Embassy in
Washington, said Mexico wants the measure repealed. "Regardless of the
technology available," Mr. Mohar said, "it doesn't make sense."

This latest border battle started with a measure buried deep in the Illegal
Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996. Section 110 of that
act required the immigration service to develop an automated system to track the
entry and exit of all noncitizens, thus providing a way of identifying
immigrants who stay longer than their visas allow.

While the new law would affect both the Canadian and Mexican borders if applied,
opposition has been strongest in the north, where millions of Canadians usually
cross the border without being required to produce documents.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 25, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Legal Immigrants Would Regain Aid In President's Plan

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 888 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Jan. 24


The Clinton Administration is proposing a $1.3 billion, five-year program to
close remaining gaps in medical and food stamp benefits for legal immigrants
that have existed since the overhaul of the nation's welfare system three years
ago.

The proposal builds on recent efforts to restore a safety net to hundreds of
thousands of people who lost coverage when Mr. Clinton agreed to eliminate the
benefits in 1996, at a savings of $20 billion, as a compromise with the
Republican-led Congress.

But that decision set off an immediate storm of protest, especially from states
with large immigrant populations, like New York, New Jersey and California,
where Hispanic residents and Asians are voting in ever-increasing numbers. As a
result, over the next two years, in 1997 and 1998, the Administration and
Congress began restoring some of the benefits.

Details of the latest restorations, which will be included in the budget Mr.
Clinton will send to Congress on Feb. 1, are scheduled to be made public on
Monday by Vice President Al Gore when he speaks at a senior center in San
Francisco.

A Republican Senate aide who works closely on immigrant benefit issues predicted
that Congress would likely approve it. "I have a hard time predicting exactly
what will happen," the aide said, "but there is a good chance to get them back."

Bruce Reed, Mr. Clinton's chief domestic policy adviser, said the President has
now "kept both promises he made when he signed the welfare law, to reform the
nation's welfare system and to restore benefits that never should have been cut
in the first place."

While the restored benefits are rather modest in scope, projected to cover at
least 132,000 people over the next five years, they nonetheless reflect a
growing political sensitivity toward Hispanic citizens, Asians and other ethnic
groups that are playing an increasingly larger role in the electoral process.

Hispanic Americans are the nation's fastest growing minority group, and in
California, where the Hispanic population has reached almost 31 percent,
demographers predict that within five years, the state will have no majority
race.

Cecilia Munoz, a chief policy adviser for the National Council of La Raza, a
nonprofit civil rights organization, praised the corrective measures, saying she
already knew of one legal immigrant whose death she attributed to the loss of
Medicaid benefits because of the welfare overhaul. Last July, a 46-year-old
Sudanese man living in New York City, Ahmad Muhammad, died after he could not
afford the $400,000 he needed for a lung transplant.

"This is a common sense proposal that has the added benefit of being very
politically wise," Ms. Munoz said. "It's very significant."

When Mr. Clinton signed the welfare legislation, he expressed regret over
benefit cuts and vowed to fight to restore them. But that promise did little to
quell outrage from the liberal wing of the Democratic Party, which felt the
President had gone too far to accommodate the Republicans.

"There was so much anger when the President signed the bill because it was paid
for on the backs of legal immigrants," said Maria Echaveste, a White House
deputy chief of staff. "There was real serious anger."

Josh Bernstein, an official with the National Immigration Law Center, a
nonprofit firm that represents low-income people and immigrants, said many
Hispanic and Asian Americans faulted Congress more than Mr. Clinton for
eliminating the benefits and began turning out in larger numbers for Democrats
in 1996 and 1998.

Mr. Bernstein said the cuts, combined with initiatives like California's
Proposition 187, which denied social services to undocumented aliens and was
supported by the former Governor, Pete Wilson, a Republican, left people in many
ethnic groups believing that Republicans were "anti-immigrant."

In effect, the latest effort to restore benefits picks up where previous changes
left off.

The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 brought back Supplemental Security Income for
the disabled and Medicaid benefits to 420,000 legal immigrants who were in the
country before the welfare legislation was enacted, on Aug. 22, 1996. The
proposed legislation would restore those benefits to legal immigrants who
entered the country after the law was enacted if they have been in the country
for five years and became disabled after entering.

The Agricultural Research Act of 1998 provided food stamps for 225,000 legal
immigrant children, senior citizens and people with disabilities who came to the
United States before the new welfare law. The new budget would extend those
benefits by allowing legal immigrants in the United States on Aug. 22, 1996, who
later reached age 65 to be eligible for food stamps.

A third element would give states the option to provide health coverage to legal
immigrant children who entered the country after Aug. 22, 1996. Currently,
states may only provide benefits to children who were here before that date.

Also, the Administration is proposing to give states the option to provide
Medicaid coverage for prenatal care to legal immigrant women who entered the
country after Aug. 22, 1996. Administration officials contend that such coverage
would help reduce the number of high-risk pregnancies and lower costs of
emergency births paid for by Medicaid.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 23, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Gay Couples Split by Immigration Law;
Under 1996 Act, Personal Commitments Are Not Recognized

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2244 words


A dozen roses in hand and butterflies in his stomach, Kent McCoy stood in the
arrivals area at Kennedy International Airport last summer waiting for his
companion, Samer Yahya, to return from a monthlong visit with relatives in
Italy.

But as the last passengers trickled out of the customs area that August evening,
Mr. McCoy's anticipation turned to panic. Three hours later, with the terminal
deserted and the roses wilting, an immigration agent appeared and told Mr. McCoy
that his partner of four years had been detained for carrying a flawed visa.
"We've got your friend," Mr. McCoy said the officer told him. "We're sending him
back."

Mr. Yahya, 29, a theater major at Trinity College in Hartford, says he did not
know that his student visa had been improperly issued in the United States when
it should have been issued in Rome. Still, he said he was strip-searched,
dressed in a prison jumpsuit and shackled to a bench overnight at the airport.
He and Mr. McCoy were not allowed to speak, and the next day, he was put on a
plane to Rome. Seven months later, the two men are still separated. The American
Embassy in Rome denied Mr. Yahya a new student visa, saying that although he was
a legitimate student, he was likely to stay in this country illegally after
finishing his studies.

Like thousands of gay Americans in relationships with foreigners, Mr. McCoy
discovered that although he considered himself married, his relationship with
Mr. Yahya had no legal standing and offered him no protection against
deportation.

While heterosexuals in similar circumstances can marry and automatically gain
residency rights for their spouses -- even if the spouse entered the country
illegally -- gay men and women who would be willing to make a similar legal
commitment to one another cannot.

And since 1996, when Congress passed a collection of new immigration laws, the
few provisions that once were interpreted to allow gay partners to stay in this
country have been eliminated. These laws were aimed, in general, at slowing the
tide of illegal immigrants coming to this country, not in particular at this
group. But gay couples have been caught up in its strict enforcement.

For example, judges, who previously had the discretion to waive a deportation on
humanitarian grounds and might have allowed someone like Mr. Yahya to stay, are
now obliged to deport such illegal immigrants -- even when they and their
partners share mortgages, businesses, homes and children.

As a result, immigration lawyers estimated, tens of thousands of relationships
have been thrown into jeopardy or broken apart by the new deportation drive,
which has sent nearly 290,000 immigrants back to their countries since 1997,
more than double the number from the previous two years.

"It doesn't matter that we've been sharing a home and a life for years, that
we're essentially married," said Mr. McCoy, 46, an architect who lives in
Hartford. "We've been torn apart."

Elaine Komis, a spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
there was nothing her agency could do. "We don't make the laws," she said.
"Congress does. This would be a major change to the immigration preference
system, one that requires an act of Congress."

But advocates of rights for gay people said a Congress that passed the 1996
Defense of Marriage Act, legislation that withholds Federal benefits from the
partners of gay men and women, is unlikely to change immigration law to help
couples like Mr. Yahya and Mr. McCoy.

Representative Bob Barr, a conservative Republican from Georgia, agreed that
such legislation would stand little chance. "It never ceases to amaze me the
off-the-wall things people come up with," he said. "How would immigration
officials distinguish between life partners and sex partners? How would they
even know who is homosexual and who isn't? There would be so much room for
abuse."

Need for Luck, Guile And Law-Breaking

For many couples, staying together requires a combination of luck, guile and,
sometimes, a willingness to break the law. Foreigners with special skills may
qualify for work permits, but such visas are hard to get and last only six
years. Some remain here on tourist visas, which allow them to come and go but
are issued with the expectation that the visa holder will live in his or her
home country and visit the United States occasionally. And so every few months,
as a way of pretending that they do not actually live here, such people leave
the country, hoping that a border agent will not turn them back on their return.

For a handful, there is asylum, but that option is available only to those who
can prove that returning to their home country would expose them to some form of
persecution.

There is also the "green card marriage," a fake union to someone of the opposite
sex. Such an arrangement is a felony, however, with penalties of imprisonment,
fines and a lifetime ban on re-entering the country.

Many who are desperate simply ignore the laws and remain here illegally when
their proper documents expire.

And for many, moving to the partner's country, even if the American is willing
to give up family and career, is impossible in the face of similar or even more
severe immigration restrictions.

When all else fails, there is Canada, one of 10 countries that grant immigration
rights to same-sex partners. A growing number of gay Americans are moving there,
though many say they do so bitterly.

Bruce MacDonald, 48, a medical social worker in Seattle, has applied to the
Canadian Government for immigrant status. If granted, he will have the right to
bring in his partner, a Thai national who has been repeatedly denied a visitor's
visa by the United States. So far the process has taken two years and cost Mr.
MacDonald $4,000 in legal fees.

"Imagine being forced by your government to leave behind family and friends
because your relationship has no value," Mr. MacDonald said. "It's wrenching."

Sitting in the fluorescent glare of an Immigration Court waiting room in Newark
last month, Christiana Pacheco and Alexandra Sousa anxiously held hands while a
Federal immigration judge decided their future. With a ticket to Lisbon in her
pocket, Ms. Sousa was prepared for the worst.

For the last eight years, the two women have shared a modest ranch house in a
Philadelphia suburb, where they have been raising Katie, Ms. Pacheco's
8-year-old daughter from her former marriage.

Born in Portugal, Ms. Sousa, 29, came to the United States with her family as a
teen-ager. When her parents returned home several years ago, she was already
involved with Ms. Pacheco and decided to stay, even though she was not here
legally. "At that point, I had a family of my own," she said.

When the new immigration laws were passed three years ago, Ms. Sousa, a software
designer, decided to deal with her undocumented status. On the advice of a
lawyer, she filed an asylum claim, citing anti-gay persecution at home. She now
realizes it was a mistake.

'Isn't There Some State?'

During a hearing last year, Judge Nicole Y. K. Kim found no grounds for asylum
and suggested the women find another way to preserve their family. According to
the women and their lawyers, the judge asked, "Isn't there some state where you
two can get married?" No, there is not, and even if there were, the 1996 Federal
law denies gay couples any benefits of marriage under immigration rules.

On this February morning, Judge Kim was deciding whether Ms. Sousa should be
deported immediately -- which would have meant being barred from re-entry for up
to 10 years -- or allowed to leave and preserve her right to return someday. The
judge granted her 120 days to leave, the maximum, and wished her good luck.

"I feel like I'm dying," Ms. Sousa said as the couple and their lawyers left the
courtroom. The most harrowing thing, she said, was having to break the news to
the child she had raised since infancy. "She won't understand that I don't have
the proper papers, that I have to go far away," she said.

Tom Hogan and Alex Lopez were caught trying to skirt the legal limitations of a
tourist visa three weeks ago, at the American border near Montreal. Mr. Hogan,
an Irish national with a 10-year tourist visa, was stopped by immigration
officials as he and Mr. Lopez, his partner of two and half years, tried to drive
back to their home in New Jersey.

Mr. Hogan had already come and gone a half-dozen times last year, in an attempt
to show that he was not really living in the United States. The last time he had
passed through immigration, however, an alert official said that he was spending
too much time here and warned that it would be his final visit.

Fearing rejection that Saturday night, Mr. Hogan hoped to take advantage of lax
checks at the Canadian-United States border by posing as an American, and he
offered up a driver's license and credit cards to prove it. The ruse failed.
During seven hours of questioning, Mr. Hogan confessed that he did actually live
here with his partner. His passport was stamped with a five-year re-entry
prohibition and he was immediately deported.

Speaking from Ireland the other day, Mr. Hogan said he had no idea how to rejoin
Mr. Lopez. He said he was particularly worried about the health of his partner,
who has AIDS. "The worst thing," said Mr. Hogan, a nurse, "is that if he were to
get sick tomorrow, I can't just get on a plane to take care of him."

Mr. Lopez, 38, a garment industry executive, said that he, too, was at a loss.
"I'm a good American," he said. "I pay my taxes. Why don't I have a right to be
with the person I love?"

Representative Jerrold L. Nadler, who has taken up the case, said he hoped to
introduce legislation that would give same-sex partners immigration rights. But
Mr. Nadler, a Democrat from New York, said he was not optimistic that such a
bill would pass.

"In a Republican Congress, the chances are zero to none," he said. "Anything you
do to help gay people deal with real-life problems they see as an affirmation of
the gay life style."

The Lesbian and Gay Immigration Rights Task Force, which has about 7,000 members
and seven branches nationwide, has started a lobbying campaign to change the
law, but its leaders acknowledge that it might be years before the changes gain
favor in Congress. It has been only a decade, they point out, since Congress
repealed a law that barred gay men and women from entering the United States at
all.

Like many foreigners desperate to stay with their partners, Rebecca, a human
resources executive from Israel, said she took a secretarial job because the
employer was the only one willing to sponsor her for a work visa. Rebecca, 37,
who said she was afraid to give her last name, shares a house in New Brunswick,
N.J., with her partner of two years, who owns a home renovation business. If she
loses her job, she loses her visa. That equation, Rebecca said, encourages her
employer to work her harder and longer than other employees.

"My back is really to the wall, and I'm always so nervous about losing my job,"
she said.

Yoshi Ito and his partner, Jay McMillan, learned how tenuous a work visa can be.
To help close a budget gap, Mr. Ito's employer, a New Jersey software company,
laid him off this month. Mr. Ito, 29, who had spent eight months in Japan
separated from Mr. McMillan while he waited for the visa, said he would go back
home in April, apply to American graduate schools and hope to return on a
student visa.

'All We Want Is to Be Together'

"Everyone talks about gay marriage, but all we want is to be together," said Mr.
McMillan, 40, a sales representative for a food manufacturer, who lives in
Detroit. Because he could find no other employer willing to sponsor him, Mr. Ito
took the job in New Jersey even though it meant driving 10 hours each way on
weekends to be with Mr. McMillan.

Despite the insecurity of holding a temporary student visa, Michel Buffet, a
29-year-old French national, bought a house this month in Montclair, N.J., with
his American partner, Robert Mogel, a vice president of a medical supply
company. The couple, who have been together for nine years, are also planning to
adopt a child.

As he comes to the end of his doctoral program in organizational psychology at
Columbia University, Mr. Buffet hopes to get a work visa by persuading officials
he has skills that are needed in this country -- the only way he can stay here
legally. "I don't think either of us will ever feel relaxed," Mr. Buffet said,
"until I have that paper in my hand."

Although he has no clear strategy for bringing him back, Kent McCoy keeps Samer
Yahya's voice on his answering machine's outgoing message. The two communicate
several times a day by E-mail, and though Trinity College continues to hold Mr.
Yahya's scholarship, Mr. McCoy says he is starting to lose hope.

At the moment, moving to Canada looks like the only viable option, but Mr. McCoy
cringes at the thought of giving up his architectural practice, his friends and
his home. "I'm the third generation in Hartford," he said. "I have an elderly
mother to look after. My whole life is here."

He mentioned a friend who recently met a woman during a vacation in Russia.
After a brief romance, they were married, and six weeks later, she was living in
the United States.

"I'm not asking for special rights," he said. "All I want is to be treated like
everyone else."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michel Buffet, left, and Robert Mogel have been together nine
years, but when Mr. Buffet gets his Ph.D., and is no longer a student, he faces
deportation to France. Christiana Pacheco, right, and Alexandra Sousa have
raised Ms. Pacheco's daughter, Katie, 8. Ms. Sousa has been ordered out of the
country before summer. (Above: Edward Keating/The New York Times. Below: Laura
Pedrick for The New York Times); Kent McCoy is in contact daily by E-mail with
his partner, Samer Yahya, who has been deported. (George Ruhe for The New York
Times)(pg. B1); Bruce MacDonald has applied to Canada for immigrant status so he
can bring in his Thai partner, whom the United States has refused to admit.
(Larry Davis for The New York Times)(pg. B4)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 26, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Protect Gay Couples

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 186 words



To the Editor:

Representative Bob Barr's sarcastic suggestion that amending United States
immigration law to protect lesbian and gay couples against deportation would
fail because immigration officials wouldn't be able to distinguish between life
partners and sex partners is ridiculous (news article, March 23).

The United States does not distinguish between "life partners" and "sex
partners" in recognizing marriages for immigration purposes. Anyone can sponsor
his or her legal spouse for immigration purposes so long as the marriage is
valid.

Moreover, a law allowing gay American citizens to sponsor their partners would
punish fraud in the same way as the current marriage sponsorship law: anyone who
pretends to be in a relationship just to get a green card would be guilty of a
felony and subject to imprisonment, fines or deportation. Ten countries permit
their citizens to sponsor same-sex partners for immigration purposes. It's time
the United States caught up.

SUZANNE B. GOLDBERG
New York, March 23, 1999

The writer is a lawyer at Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 25, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

5 Iraqis Are Released From U.S. Detention Center

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 275 words

DATELINE: LINCOLN, Neb., June 24


After being held for two years in a detention center in Los Angeles, five Iraqis
were freed today and reunited with their families here, where they will be
allowed to find jobs and stay until another country agrees to give them
permanent political asylum.

The five were among 7,000 Iraqi dissidents brought to the United States after
the unsuccessful effort to overthrow President Saddam Hussein after the Persian
Gulf war, but they fell under suspicion of being double agents working for
Baghdad.

In May 1998 an immigration judge found that the men were a national security
risk and signed an order for their deportation to Iraq, after a hearing in which
the information against them was classified.

At that point, a former Director of Central Intelligence, R. James Woolsey Jr.,
became involved in their fight to avoid deportation, which he said could have
meant their "being sent to their deaths based on classified information."

Their freedom came as a result of an agreement reached on June 11 with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

A leader of the Iraqi National Congress, Dr. Ahmad Chalabi, said he knew three
of the men and could vouch for their integrity, calling them "fighters for
democracy."

A spokesman for the immigration service in Washington, Russ Bergeron, said the
agency had acted properly.

"There was a broad range of evidence collected that indicated that these men
were a threat to national security," Mr. Bergeron said.

One of the five, Adil Hadi Awadh, said because of the aid of Mr. Woolsey and
others, he felt no bitterness.

"We're grateful for the support from the American people," he said.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 26, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Suspect in Serial Slayings Had Been Held by I.N.S.

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 110 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, June 25


The man wanted in connection with eight killings near railroad tracks was in the
custody of immigration officials earlier this month but was let go, Federal
authorities said today.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service arrested the man, Rafael Resendez
Ramirez, in the El Paso area for being in this country illegally and deported
him to Mexico on June 1, the Federal Bureau of Investigation said.

I.N.S. officials said they had been unaware that he was wanted for questioning
in four killings. They also said the deportation came on June 2.

Mr. Resendez Ramirez, believed to be 38, went on the agency's 10 Most Wanted
list on Monday.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 27, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

To Cut Delays, I.N.S. Checks Cases by Hand

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1584 words


After falling further behind than ever in reducing the snarled backlog of
citizenship cases, local immigration officials have forsaken their problematic
computer system and begun processing 120,000 mislaid naturalization applications
the old-fashioned way -- by hand.

The files, stranded in a kind of digital purgatory for up to three years,
represent the delayed dreams of many legal immigrants in the New York City area.

Like nearly two million similarly hopeful applicants nationwide, they have
waited in vain through three computer experiments, five naturalization directors
and many earnest promises for the Immigration and Naturalization Service to fix
its chronically ineffectual system for deciding who will become a United States
citizen.

And as they have waited, often at the cost of a hoped-for family reunification
as well as other benefits of citizenship, the naturalization backlog has caused
a new set of problems in other immigrant services.

In concentrating staffing and money on plowing through the pileup of
naturalization cases, the agency now finds itself with a ballooning backlog of
unprocessed applications for permanent residency, work permits and the temporary
protected status that was offered to Hondurans late last year after Hurricane
Mitch devastated their country.

Nationally, more than 1.8 million people are waiting for their citizenship
applications to be acted on, about the same number as were waiting at this time
last year. To get permanent-resident status, the immigration service said, an
applicant must now wait an average of 33 months, up from only 21 months a year
ago.

"They keep making these so-called improvements and things just keep getting
worse," said Mark Hetfield, a lawyer at the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society in
Washington, a private organization that assists and resettles immigrants.

"For some reason," he added, "the I.N.S. is cursed in that it can never get a
new data system up and running. Every time they move toward automation, they
have problems that other agencies and businesses don't experience."

Agency officials do not use loaded words like "cursed" to describe their
technological travails. But their frustration with the last few years' worth of
computer trial and error is now openly voiced.

"As soon as they fix one problem, another pops up," said Mary Ann Gantner, the
deputy director of the New York district of the immigration service.

That has been particularly true for her district and for the Vermont Service
Center, a support arm of the agency that is supposed to enter applications into
a computer system so appointments can be made to take fingerprints and interview
applicants.

For several years, both offices have been bombarded regularly with letters and
calls from thousands of immigrants seeking information about citizenship
applications sent in 1996 and early 1997, but not acted on.

But no one was absolutely sure how many of these waylaid files there were, in
part because the computer system lost track of most of the files as they were
being transferred from one new program to the next.

Ms. Gantner said she had determined that 120,000 old New York naturalization
cases from those years were "still stuck" in a form of computer limbo, and she
had 40,000 of them brought as paper files from Vermont to New York City for hand
processing.

She had to make a special plea to headquarters officials in Washington. "We
said, 'Send us those and we will do what we used to do and do well,' " Ms.
Gantner recalled. Her staff has now plowed through 19,000 in the last two months
and scheduled the applicants for interviews this month and next.

The 80,000 files that remained in the Vermont service center are being handled
manually by immigration officers there. "We're touching each one of them to make
sure everything is correct," said Paul Novak, the center's director.

He has hired 30 new employees just to deal with the old cases, bringing the
staff to 48, and he said they had already processed 10,000.

Officials said they found that many applicants had never been given an
appointment for fingerprinting so had to be scheduled for a criminal record
check. Others had waited so long for an interview that the validity of their
background check had expired and fingerprints needed to be retaken.

Together, the Vermont cases are a full 40 percent of the New York citizenship
processing backlog, which stood at 307,000 cases at the end of May. Only the Los
Angeles district has a bigger caseload of pending naturalization applications,
with 369,000 cases waiting for action at the end of April, the last month for
which the agency could provide statistics.

The New York district temporarily lost more files to computer error than other
districts because it raced through more different systems in a shorter period
than most.

"At each juncture where the pipes have to meet on the system, some cases would
just not go through," said Mary Ann Wyrsch, the Federal agency's Deputy
Commissioner.

Nowhere else in the country, she added, is so much of the catch-up work on
citizenship being done without computers.

"It took us a while to realize we couldn't deal with this in a systems way," Ms.
Wyrsch said. "It is terribly resource-intensive, but now New York's productivity
has gone very high."

But judging progress is difficult because the agency's statistics about New York
are the products of the same file-losing computer systems that helped create the
backlog.

The Vermont service center, which handles applications from the entire Northeast
and Puerto Rico, had a citizenship backlog last year of about 300,000 cases and
has a backlog today of between 350,000 to 400,000 cases, said Mr. Novak, the
center director.

Still, it is not clear whether the situation is better or worse because many
pending cases may not have been counted last year. "As we clear up glitches with
systems, we're better able to identify the entire caseload," Mr. Novak said.

Each new bureaucratic misfire touches the lives of millions of immigrants
nationwide who look to naturalization as the key to unlock the benefits of life
in the United States. The longer they wait for their citizenship applications to
be processed, the longer they must also wait to vote, to qualify for some
health-care benefits, and to sponsor a spouse, children or parents to join them
legally.

The citizenship backlog is not a new story. The waiting time for getting action
on a citizenship application took a leap about three years ago, when
anti-immigration sentiment in Congress led to a broad cutback in Federal
benefits for noncitizens.

A large movement by immigrants to naturalize then collided with the Government's
semi-automated processing system. Both were left reeling. The injuries were then
compounded by Congressional demands for better accountability in the background
checks, which slowed processing even more.

But advocates on immigrant issues said blaming the backlog on technological
hiccups understates the problems of a system that is also capricious.

"I don't talk about backlog, because that suggests that applications are
processed in the order they are received," said Dolly Hassan, the supervising
lawyer for the Liberty Center for Immigrants in Richmond Hill, Queens. "But when
I look at my logbook I see that it's not like that at all. It's like a genie is
just pulling cases as they fly up in the air and doing them or not doing them."

Ms. Hassan's client logbook shows more than 100 applications filed in 1996 still
awaiting a response from the immigration agency. It shows 24 citizenship
requests filed over a two-day period in July 1997, but not one of the applicants
called for a naturalization interview. Yet people who applied in November 1997
have all been interviewed, approved and sworn in as new citizens.

Immigration officials acknowledged that computer startup glitches did not wholly
explain the troubles.

A high attrition rate among naturalization employees in the New York district
has meant lost and sometimes forgotten files. Ms. Gantner said that last year
more officers departed than stayed and many of those left behind an unfinished
stack of cases.

Ms. Wyrsch maintained that the immigration service was close to gaining the
upper hand in its battles with modern technology. It expects about 700,000 new
citizenship applications to be filed this year, and the agency has projected
that it can reduce the waiting time to 12 months by September.

Meanwhile, it is losing ground on other areas of service to immigrants.

There are now 877,000 immigrants who have applied for permanent-resident status
and are still waiting for an answer -- a jump of nearly 90,000 in just one year.

Immigration lawyers in New York City also said they had seen a mounting backlog
in a six-month-old program to help Honduran immigrants get temporary work
permits.

Audrey Greene-Perez, a lawyer with the Central American Refugee Center in
Hempstead, in Nassau County, said she had filed applications on behalf of about
200 people in the last five months.

Most have not received a receipt from the Vermont center for the $175 fee they
paid. Many have not received appointments to have their fingerprints taken. And
none have completed the process.

"It's taken much longer than it should have, just to get a receipt," Ms.
Greene-Perez said. "The real frustration is that some of their names are not
even in the computer, although they had a handwritten receipt for fingerprint
fee."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 12, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Cuban Group Presses For Immigration Review

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 184 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 11


Hoping to persuade members of Congress to review immigration policy concerning
Cuba, an American anti-Castro group repeated calls today for an official
investigation of a collision at sea that resulted in the death of a woman in a
group of refugees.

The Coast Guard found the body of the Cuban woman on Saturday. She had been
missing since the boat she was in sank after colliding with a Coast Guard cutter
it was attempting to evade, a Coast Guard spokesman, Jeff Murphy, said. Eleven
other people who had been trying to make it to Florida on the boat were rescued
and eventually taken to the Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

Ninoska Perez, a spokeswoman for the Cuba American National Foundation, an
anti-Castro group based in Miami, said her group planned to contact members of
Congress. "What this type of interception is doing is, rather than saving lives,
it's putting people's lives in peril," she said.

Under Federal policy, foreigners who reach the United States are allowed to seek
asylum, but those intercepted at sea are returned to their homeland or another
country.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 13, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Court Backs Asylum for Woman Who Fled From Genital Cutting

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 473 words


A Federal appeals court has issued a decision supporting the asylum petition of
a 29-year-old native of Ghana who fled her country, she said, because she was
afraid that tribal elders were going to cut her genitals.

The decision, lawyers for the woman, Adelaide Abankwah, said yesterday, marked
the first time that a Federal court had recognized fear of genital cutting,
which is performed on millions of women in about 26 African countries, as a
legitimate claim in requests for asylum.

In its decision, which was made on Friday and released to her lawyers yesterday,
the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Manhattan ruled
that Ms. Abankwah had provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that her fear
of genital cutting was real and reasonable. The court cited State Department
reports indicating that although female genital cutting was outlawed in Ghana in
1994, 15 percent to 30 percent of Ghanaian women are still forced to undergo the
procedure.

The ruling challenges the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which had
denied her petition for asylum. Ms. Abankwah was detained by immigration
officials on March 29, 1997, when she arrived with false immigration documents
at Kennedy International Airport. Since then, she has been held at the Wackenhut
Detention Center in Queens and is considered its longest-serving prisoner.

Her detention, and the decision by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to
deny her petition, sparked widespread protests this spring among immigrant
rights groups and legislators from New York. The protesters said the immigration
service's position on Ms. Abankwah's case demonstrated that the agency was not
committed to protecting asylum seekers who flee sex-based persecution.

Female genital cutting was outlawed in the United States in 1996. In that same
year, the I.N.S. recognized the practice as a valid form of persecution for
immigrants seeking asylum. The decision in that case, based on the petition of
another African native, became part of a series of guidelines on sex-based
persecution that were issued to immigration judges.

But advocates for refugees say the guidelines are inadequate because they are
not binding. Immigration judges are not required to rule that persecution based
on an applicant's sex constitutes a valid claim for asylum, and they rarely do
so without public pressure, the advocates have said.

The decision by the Second Circuit Court sends the case back to the Board of
Immigration Appeals. A decision could take three to four weeks. Ms. Abankwah's
lawyer, Jonathan Rauchway, said he would petition the I.N.S. to release Ms.
Abankwah immediately on humanitarian grounds.

"I think this is the beginning of the end of their resistance," Mr. Rauchway
said of the I.N.S. "Sooner or later, Adelaide will be free."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 13, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Policy Revised

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 81 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 12


The Immigration and Naturalization Service today significantly changed its
mandatory detention policies for noncitizens with criminal records through a new
legal interpretation that could free hundreds of immigrants who are deemed
nonviolent and are being held pending their removal hearings.

The action essentially restores the discretion the agency once had to free
noncitizens with criminal records who are not believed to pose a danger to the
public or a flight risk.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 20, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Frees African Woman Who Fled Genital Cutting

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 520 words


A 29-year-old woman from Ghana who fled her country, fearing genital cutting,
and ended up in an immigration jail in the United States was released last night
after more than two years in custody, officials said.

After months of public protest and private pressure from members of Congress,
the woman, Adelaide Abankwah, walked out of a detention center in Queens around
6 P.M. and went to the home of a Ghanaian minister in the Bronx who had offered
her shelter.

"The judge is the one who let me out," she told reporters shortly after her
release, "and God will do the rest."

On July 9, a Federal appeals court issued a decision supporting the asylum
petition of Ms. Abankwah, who arrived at Kennedy International Airport in March
1997 with a false passport and a story about tribal leaders who had wanted to
cut her genitals. Sobbing and speaking in broken English, she asked immigration
officials for asylum. Instead she was arrested, her legs were shackled and she
was taken to the Wackenhut Detention Center in Queens. During two years of
hearings, immigration judges repeatedly turned down her asylum petitions, saying
she had failed to prove that she would be subject to ritual genital cutting if
she returned to Ghana.

Ms. Abankwah still faces a final determination on her asylum request by
immigration officials.

Alan Atkinson, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
the head of the New York office, Edward J. McElroy, signed Ms. Abankwah's parole
order last night after speaking with Senator Charles E. Schumer, and several
hours after Representative Carolyn Maloney, Gloria Steinem and a dozen other
protesters had gathered in front of the agency's New York office to demand Ms.
Abankwah's release.

In an interview last night, Mr. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat, said members of
his staff had been relentlessly pressing the agency to grant Ms. Abankwah's
release. "We just kept calling and calling," he said. "After sitting in jail for
two years, they realized that it was the humanitarian thing to do."

This month's decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit in Manhattan was the first time that a Federal court had recognized the
fear of genital cutting as a legitimate claim in requests for asylum. In 1996,
the United States outlawed genital cutting, and that same year, the I.N.S.
recognized it as a valid form of persecution for immigrants seeking asylum.

While that recognition became part of the agency's guidelines on sex-based
oppression, judges were not required to grant asylum based on such claims, and
most refused to do so, inflaming many feminists and advocates for refugees.

The agency's Board of Immigration Appeals will now take up Ms. Abankwah's case
and a decision could be issued in a few weeks.

As she left Wackenhut last night looking thin but exuberant, Ms. Abankwah told
reporters that she was grateful for her release. Members of a feminist group,
Equality Now, said they would help her get back on her feet. "I thank everyone
who helped me," she said. "And I thank God for making me strong for this long."



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 7, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

State Is Sued for Denying Aid To Many Poor Immigrants

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 770 words


Hoping to restore benefits to thousands of needy legal immigrants, lawyers for
the poor sued state welfare officials yesterday, calling their decision to deny
food stamps to able-bodied immigrants unconstitutional.

The lawsuit, which was filed in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, challenges a
year-old state program that provides food stamps only to legal immigrants who
are at least 60 years old, disabled or younger than 18. The program was created
last year to help legal immigrants who were denied federally financed food
stamps under the new Federal welfare law.

But the lawyers charged yesterday that state officials violated equal protection
laws under the Federal and state constitutions when they denied food stamps to
more than 31,000 impoverished, able-bodied immigrants 18 to 59 years old. Those
laws, the lawyers said, do not allow state officials to choose which poor people
will receive aid.

"What they're doing is supplying food stamps for some, but not all needy people,
which is illegal," said Marc Cohan, director of litigation at the Welfare Law
Center, a welfare advocacy group, which filed the lawsuit, acting with the Legal
Aid Society.

About a dozen states created food stamp programs for poor legal immigrants who
are not naturalized citizens in response to the Federal welfare law of 1996.
Some states, like New York, restricted participation. But welfare experts say
most advocates have supported those programs. And the New York lawsuit appears
to be the first in the nation to challenge a state food stamp program for
immigrants.

"In many states, it's been a major struggle to get a state to start a program at
all," said David Super, the general counsel at the Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities, a Washington research and advocacy group.

"Most advocates have focused more on appealing to the conscience of the state to
create a program or expand one," said Mr. Super, who specializes in food stamp
and immigrant issues. "I'm not aware of any that have talked about litigation."

Dan Hogan, executive deputy commissioner for the State Office of Temporary and
Disability Assistance, said advocates should be congratulating Gov. George E.
Pataki, not suing him, for providing food stamps to the state's most vulnerable
immigrants.

"New York State did step up to the plate to make sure people who were here
legally were, in fact, covered," Mr. Hogan said.

The food stamp lawsuit was one of two filed on behalf of the poor by the New
York City advocacy groups yesterday. The groups also filed a Federal lawsuit
contending that city officials improperly denied medical insurance to welfare
recipients.

In that case, the lawyers said city officials ended Medicaid coverage for single
adults who failed to comply with requirements that they work for their benefits.
A state law, which took effect last November, prohibits counties from denying
Medicaid to those people. City officials declined to comment on the Medicaid
lawsuit, saying they had yet to review it.

The food stamp lawsuit marks the second attempt by advocates for the poor to
restore benefits to legal immigrants who lost them under the Federal welfare
law, which sharply restricts assistance to them.

Last year, advocates lost a similar suit against the Federal Government when a
judge ruled that Federal officials, who control immigration, had the right to
deny benefits like food stamps to legal immigrants.

But some legal experts say the new lawsuit is more likely to succeed because
Federal officials have allowed states to choose whether to create local food
stamp programs.

"There can't be Federal immigration policy at work if the Federal Government is
leaving it to the states to decide what to do," said Nancy Morawetz, a professor
of political law at New York University Law School. She specializes in
immigration and public benefits.

"The question then is whether there is a good reason for distinguishing between
these groups of people since their need is already established," Ms. Morawetz
said. "The whole process of picking and choosing among needy people simply
because they're immigrants is something the courts are going to want to look at
carefully."

Advocates for the poor say the state has abandoned its constitutional obligation
to the needy. They say that its policy has left many people struggling to
survive. The plaintiffs in their lawsuit include Geraldo Alvarino, who often has
only one meal a day, and Francisco Santos of Catskill, N.Y., who relies on food
pantries.

"The tragedy is that people are going without food," said Helen Lee, a lawyer at
the Legal Aid Society.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 8, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Immigration Agency Spurs Process for Naturalization

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 540 words


Under pressure to reduce an unprecedented backlog of citizenship applications,
the Immigration and Naturalization Service yesterday announced measures that
agency officials said would cut in half the time immigrants must wait to become
United States citizens.

The measures range from creating a national customer service office to help
improve the agency's performance to asking Congress for $171 million to hire 200
new employees and increase overtime hours.

Agency officials also said they would more than double the filing fee for
citizenship applications -- to $225 from $95 -- and create a national telephone
line, staffed by 500 people, to answer routine questions about immigration
services.

According to the plan, which was detailed by the I.N.S. Commissioner, Doris M.
Meissner, much of the money would be used to send teams of experts to work in
the five cities that have the highest number of pending citizenship cases. They
are Los Angeles (420,000 cases), New York (more than 300,000), San Francisco
(220,000), Miami (185,000) and Chicago (100,000).

Immigration officials said the current backlog of 1.9 million cases nationwide
was the result of an inefficient, antiquated system and a soaring number of
applications prompted by recent laws that threaten to reduce benefits to
noncitizens.

In some parts of the country, applicants must wait more than two years to become
citizens, said an I.N.S. spokesman in Washington, Russell A. Bergeron Jr. Just
two years ago, the waiting time was six months. With the new plan, immigration
officials expect that a year from now, immigrants will have to wait only 10
months to a year to become citizens.

Except for the request for money, which would require Congressional approval,
the measures would begin to be implemented immediately. The request is likely to
be approved because immigration officials said the money was already part of the
budget for the Justice Department, which oversees the I.N.S.

The agency's lawyers and advocates for immigrants reacted to the announcement
with caution.

"Money is not going to help the situation," said Jesus Pena, an immigration
lawyer in Queens. "Immigration has already lost sight of its mission, and you
can't bring that back by throwing money at an agency."

Mr. Pena pointed to his most recent experience with the immigration agency as
the reason for his lack of optimism. He said he went to the immigration office
in Garden City, N.J., yesterday morning to find out why his client, Luz Galindo,
had not heard from the agency since she applied for citizenship two years ago.
He was told that, inexplicably, her file was in Detroit.

"How much money, how much sophistication, does it take to bring a file from
Detroit to New Jersey?" Mr. Pena asked.

Members of Congress have criticized the I.N.S. for rushing to naturalize people
without proper background checks, while advocates for immigrants criticize it
for taking too long to process applications.

Leonard Glickman, executive vice president of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society
in New York, said that he was "hopeful and optimistic" about the new measures
but that he did not understand why the agency would raise filing fees when the
level of service remained poor.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 10, 1998, Monday

CORRECTION:

Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about plans by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to reduce the backlog of citizenship
cases referred incorrectly to lawyers who reacted to the announcement of the
proposals with caution. They were immigration lawyers, not I.N.S. lawyers.



                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 8, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW YORK;
Temporary Aid Allowed For 5 Immigrants in Suit

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 159 words


A state judge ruled yesterday that five needy legal immigrants could apply for
food stamps while he evaluates whether state welfare officials could legally
deny those benefits to thousands of poor, able-bodied immigrants.

Justice Harold Tompkins of State Supreme Court in Manhattan issued the ruling
one day after lawyers for the poor immigrants sued the state officials, saying
they had violated Federal and state equal-protection laws when they created a
food stamp program to serve only those legal immigrants who are disabled,
elderly or younger than 18.

State welfare officials created the program last year to help legal immigrants
denied federally financed food stamps under the Federal welfare law. But the
program did not cover more than 31,000 impoverished, able-bodied legal
immigrants between the ages of 18 and 59, who lost their food stamps under the
Federal law. The next hearing date in the case is scheduled for Sept. 23.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 17, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths
TAFFET, WILLIAM B.

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 3; Classified

LENGTH: 190 words


TAFFET-William B. Age 83, a retired federal immigrations judge, died August 14th
of a heart attack at his home in Boca Raton, FL. Judge Taffet graduated from New
York University School of Commerce and New York University School of Law with
honors. Following his retirement in 1971 from the Department of Justice, he
became a partner in the firm of Colwin & Taffet in New York City, specializing
in immigration law. Upon moving to Florida, he continued to practice law in that
state, serving as a consultant to several international companies in the areas
of immigration, naturalization and visas. Judge Taffet was a frequent lecturer
at conferences of the American Immigration Lawyers Association and served on its
board. He is survived by his wife of 54 years Elizabeth Orkin Taffet of Boca
Raton, FL; a daughter Suzanne Taffet Fefer of Rockville, MD; a son Bruce Michael
Taffet of Denver, CO; a brother Sanford Taffet of West Orange, NJ, and five
grandchildren: Alyssa, Lori, and Will Taffet; and Rachel and Jonathan Fefer.
Donations in Judge Taffet's memory can be made to the Henry S. Jacobs Camp, P.O.
Box 16528, Jackson, MS 39236.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 4, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Fights Off His Deportation

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1124 words


A week after he was told that the United States Government would no longer try
to deport him to his native country, Jesus Collado, a Dominican immigrant who
has lived in New York for 24 years, is facing new challenges: learning to live
again without fear and paying the bills that have accumulated during his
16-month ordeal.

"I have lived with the fear of being separated from my family for such a long
time that I don't even know what I feel anymore," said Mr. Collado, a
45-year-old restaurant owner and father of three who still cries when he
remembers the months he spent detained by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service in York, Pa. "It will be a long time before that feeling in my heart
leaves me."

Last week, Judge Douglas B. Schoppert of Immigration Court in New York dismissed
the deportation case against Mr. Collado, a legal resident of the United States
who, upon returning from a trip to the Dominican Republic in April, was stopped
by immigration officials at Kennedy International Airport and sent to jail to
await deportation for a crime he committed 24 years ago.

Mr. Collado's case attracted immediate national attention because his ordeal
highlighted the effects that tougher immigration laws, passed in 1996, could
have on the lives of ordinary citizens who committed crimes long ago. In 1974,
Mr. Collado was convicted of statutory rape, a misdemeanor, for having sex with
his girlfriend, who was 13.

Immigration officials used his case to illustrate how the law had tied their
hands by taking away the agency's discretionary powers in certain deportation
cases. Members of Congress used the case to contend that the immigration agency
was interpreting the law too harshly and wasting resources in the process. Mr.
Collado became the subject of speeches on the Senate floor and special bills
were introduced to stop his deportation.

Advocates for immigrants used the case to show that anti-immigrant feelings
sweeping the country were destroying the lives of hard-working women and men
like Mr. Collado.

Judge Schoppert did not explain his ruling. But Mr. Collado's lawyer, Kerry W.
Bretz, said the case was dismissed because he had been able to show that the
agency had erred in holding his client for almost seven months and in trying to
deport him for a misdemeanor that did not warrant such treatment.

Immigration officials said they would not appeal the judge's ruling. They have
given Mr. Collado back his passport and his green card. He is free to travel
abroad and to re-enter the United States, his home since he was 19.

Mr. Collado said he was relieved by the judge's decision. But, he added, he
still cannot rest easy. While he was detained, he almost lost his restaurant in
Washington Heights. He said he owes $13,000 to vendors, $36,000 in back rent to
his landlord and about $30,000 in medical bills; both his wife and 19-year-old
daughter had serious health problems last year. He sleeps fitfully and visits a
psychologist once a week.

Mr. Collado was released from jail last October, but he remained under the
threat of deportation until last month when lawyers for the I.N.S suddenly filed
a motion to dismiss his case because, they argued, he had demonstrated he was
eligible to become a United States citizen -- a test of good moral character
that allows immigration officials to drop deportation proceedings.

But Mr. Bretz, Mr. Collado's lawyer, filed his own motion arguing that the case
should be dismissed for other reasons. Mr. Bretz argued that the immigration
agency should never have tried to deport him to begin with. Lawyers for the
agency did not oppose that motion.

"I.N.S. made a mistake and the result is that Jesus' life was turned around for
a long time," Mr. Bretz said. "They should have never locked him up."

Mr. Bretz said he planned to file a civil suit against the agency on Mr.
Collado's behalf.

At issue is an exception, overlooked until now, to the same law that allowed the
agency to detain Mr. Collado and try to deport him. Among other things, the law,
intended to rid the country of criminal immigrants, states that any immigrant
convicted of a crime of "moral turpitude," like rape, is inadmissible and
therefore deportable. But the law offers a respite for people who have committed
only one crime and have not been sentenced to more than six months'
imprisonment. Mr. Collado had been sentenced to one year of probation.

Immigration officials maintain that they did not err in seeking the deportation
of Mr. Collado. Russell A. Bergeron Jr., an agency spokesman in Washington, said
that immigration inspectors at the airport had no choice but to detain Mr.
Collado once he revealed that he had been convicted of rape.

Mr. Bergeron said that lawyers for the agency had become aware that the
exception to the law might apply to Mr. Collado only after carefully reviewing
his criminal record last month. He said the full records of Mr. Collado's
conviction had not reached the agency until then.

Mr. Bergeron said the judge's decision does not set a precedent or change the
way the immigration agency interprets the laws that have broadened the
definition of what constitutes a deportable crime and who is subject to
deportation or deemed inadmissible to the United States. Had it not been for
that exception, Mr. Bergeron insisted, the agency would have had no recourse but
to deport Mr. Collado, because the laws have stripped immigration judges of the
power to make those decisions.

Instead, he said, they must apply the law equally and retroactively, regardless
of the nature of the crime or the behavior of the immigrant since the crime was
committed. Mr. Bergeron said the agency had asked Congress to amend the language
of the law to return to the immigration courts a measure of discretion.

That interpretation of the law is a point of contention between the agency and
members of Congress.

"We have tried to impress upon I.N.S. what the intent of the legislation was and
it clearly was not to deport people like Mr. Collado," said Joseph P. McMonigle,
communications director for Senator Spencer Abraham, a Michigan Republican who
supports tougher laws against immigrants who are criminals.  "They have
prosecutorial discretion and they should use it."

But, Mr. Bergeron said, the agency has no procedures in place to determine when
to pursue a deportation case, because, historically, that has been the role of
immigration courts.

"This has been a continual theme in the Collado case," said Lucas Guttentag,
director of the Immigrants' Rights Project of the American Civil Liberties
Union. "Immigration washes its hands and says: 'It's not my fault. It's you!'
and Congress points to I.N.S and says, 'No, it's you!' "


LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jesus Collado, a Dominican immigrant who has lived in New York
for 24 years, just learned that the Government will no longer try to deport him.
(James Estrin/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 9, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Judge Orders Release Of 23 Immigrants

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 161 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


More than three months after they scrambled onto an Ocean County beach on a
foggy night, 23 illegal Chinese immigrants were ordered released from Federal
custody yesterday, pending further immigration proceedings.

All 23 had been granted bail by immigration judges considering their requests
for political asylum, but were then detained by Federal prosecutors as witnesses
to an alien-smuggling operation.

Two men have admitted roles in the botched smuggling, and three others face
trial in United States District Court on Nov. 16.

Four of the Chinese gave depositions to prosecutors and were released earlier
this month.

Assistant United States Attorney Carolyn A. Murray asked United States
Magistrate Joel A. Pisano to let the remaining 19 go, saying that prosecutors
would not depose them. He agreed. The 19 were then turned over to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service for processing and released on the bonds
set by immigration judges.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 13, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Judge Tries to Force Ex-Wife of a Terrorism Suspect to Testify

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section 1; Page 53; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 894 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Sept. 12


In an unusual move, an immigration judge handling the deportation case of a
Palestinian accused of having links to terrorists has moved to force the man's
former wife to disclose what she told the Federal Bureau of Investigation about
him.

Despite the opposition of immigration officials, the judge, Daniel Meisner,
asked Federal prosecutors to seek a court order compelling the woman to testify.

The Palestinian, Hany Kiareldeen, is a native of Gaza who has been in the United
States since 1990 and has been detained since March by the Federal Immigration
and Naturalization Service. He is one of about two dozen people in the country
of Arab descent who, in an era of rising concern about domestic terrorism, are
being detained or deported largely on the basis of secret information from
unidentified informers.

In such cases, which are rare among the 100,000 or so immigration hearings held
annually, immigration officials cite national security concerns and are not
required to disclose the details or the sources of the secret information.

Mr. Kiareldeen's lawyers, who have seen only sketchy, declassified, summaries of
the the secret information on file against their client, have maintained that
his former wife, Amal Mohamed, is the source of the allegations that he has ties
to terrorists. Regis Fernandez, one of the lawyers, said that the couple's
divorce was bitter and that Ms. Mohamed has a history of vindictiveness and
filing false charges against her former husband.

When Mr. Fernandez subpoenaed her last month to testify at Mr. Kiareldeen's
deportation hearing, Ms. Mohamed acknowledged in the early stages of the hearing
that she had talked with Federal agents about her former husband, but she
refused to say what she told them. When she testified that she was afraid and
that her life had been threatened, the judge adjourned the hearing until Sept.
18.

Immigration judges like Judge Meisner do not have the power to cite witnesses
for contempt as a way of compelling their testimony. Under an 18-month-old
provision of the Immigration Reform Act, they have to ask Federal prosecutors to
seek an order from a Federal District Court judge, who does have such power.
Judge Meisner took that step on Wednesday after rejecting the arguments of
lawyers for the Federal agency, who said that Ms. Mohamed's testimony should be
limited in scope.

Rick Kinney, a spokesman for the Executive Office for Immigration Review, the
independent unit within the Justice Department that supervises the nation's 200
immigration judges, said Judge Meisner's request was the first effort by an
immigration judge to compel testimony in this way.

Lawyers with experience in immigration cases said most subpoenas issued by the
judges were for documents and were directed at government agencies, which
usually comply readily. Few could recall a recalcitrant witness at such
hearings.

Carol Wolchok, an expert on immigration law with the American Bar Association,
said the new provision of immigration law under which Judge Meisner acted was
intended to make immigration judges less dependent on the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Before the legislation was passed in 1996, she said, the
judges were part of the agency and relied on it to enforce subpoenas and other
orders. In this case, the agency opposes forcing Ms. Mohamed to testify.

A spokesman for the United States Attorney's office for northern New Jersey
confirmed that it had received Judge Meisner's request, but he declined to say
what the office would do, especially in light of the opposition of another
Justice Department unit, the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

As for Ms. Mohamed, her lawyer, Jack Sachs, said he would oppose any action by a
Federal judge to compel her to testify. Noting that Ms. Mohamed has expressed
fears for her safety and that of her three children if she testifies, he said
that should be enough for a judge to reject the order.

Mr. Fernandez said that in the weeks since Ms. Mohamed, who is also known as
Amal Kamal, had refused to answer his questions he had uncovered police reports
from Nutley, N.J., where the couple lived in 1995.

Those reports say that she told officers responding to a report of a domestic
dispute that Mr. Kiareldeen and his brother, Ghassan, were linked to terrorists,
Mr. Fernandez said.

The Nutley police passed along the allegations to the I.N.S. and F.B.I.,
according to the reports.

Over time, Ms. Mohamed had filed a half-dozen charges against Mr. Kiareldeen,
from abuse to assault, all of which were either dropped or dismissed by the
courts, Mr. Fernandez said.

"Our position is that the allegations of terrorist links are untrue," Mr.
Fernandez said. "But because it is secret evidence and classified, we have a
due-process problem of determining who is making the allegations and questioning
them and their credibility. Once we establish that she is the source, we can
raise questions about credibility."

The sketchy F.B.I. summaries of the classified data on Mr. Kiareldeen, who has
been held in a Mercer County prison for six months, allege that he threatened
the life of Attorney General Janet Reno and met in his Nutley home with Nidal A.
Ayyad just a week before the bombing of the World Trade Center on Feb. 26, 1993.
Mr. Ayyad was one of four defendants convicted in the attack.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 20, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

TRAVEL ADVISORY;
Through Customs In 15 to 20 Seconds

BYLINE: By BETSY WADE

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 284 words


The quick passage through immigration control that is now used by business
travelers at six airports may soon be open to leisure travelers who re-enter the
country at least three times a year. The electronic recognition system gives the
green light to an enrolled passenger in 15 to 20 seconds; 70,000 business
travelers are enrolled now.

The system, which reads a plastic card, then recognizes a traveler's hand
inserted in a kiosk that looks like an A.T.M., is in operation at international
terminals at John F. Kennedy, Newark, Miami, Los Angeles, Toronto and Vancouver.

Immigration offices at these airports approve business travelers for a free
one-year certification to use the system, which is called Inspass: Immigration
and Naturalization Service Accelerated Service System. Inspass is free now, but
Thomas Andreotta of the Immigration Service says that eventually there will be a
charge for it.

San Francisco will soon join the list of Inspass airports; in 1999, Honolulu,
Seattle and Washington Dulles will, too. After that will come, not necessarily
in this order: Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas-Fort Worth, Detroit, Houston,
Minneapolis and Montreal.

Citizens of Canada, Bermuda and 26 other countries in the Visa Waiver Pilot
Program who enter the United States regularly may also qualify for Inspass.
Steps to open it to other frequent travelers are planned for next year.

The goal is to speed through travelers who are considered low risk so the
Immigration staff can concentrate on the rest. Application information is
available from the I.N.S. offices at the six airports. I.N.S. form I-823 can
also be obtained from the Internet: www.usdoj.gov/ins/forms.
   BETSY WADE

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 20, 1998, Sunday

CORRECTION:

A headline in the Travel Advisory column on page 3 of the Travel section today,
about speeding the passage of travelers through American airports, refers
incorrectly to the agency involved. It is Immigration, not Customs.


                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 27, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW YORK;
Newlywed Left Stranded By Immigration Mix-Up

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 211 words


A belated honeymoon weekend for Habiba Boumlik and Erik Sherman of Queens ended
in separation when an immigration problem left Ms. Boumlik stranded at a
Montreal airport.

"Our short honeymoon ended with a surprise," said Ms. Boumlik, who is six months
pregnant.

On Monday, United States immigration officials stopped Ms. Boumlik, a native of
France, before she could board her flight home. She was not allowed to return
until Friday night.

"It's pretty much been a sleepless week, and an angry week," said Mr. Sherman,
her American husband, "and I'm just relieved it's over."

Immigration rules require foreign citizens with pending applications for
permanent residency to ask permission to leave and re-enter the country. Mr.
Sherman, 32, a sales manager for Westinghouse Communications, said he and his
wife, an anthropologist who is seeking residency, were not aware of the
requirement.

Mr. Sherman, who said the incident endangered his pregnant wife's health, said
he was "just floored by the coldheartedness" of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service over an honest mistake.

Winston Barrus Jr., deputy district director of the I.N.S. office in Buffalo,
said the agency was just sticking to its rules and had acted as quickly as
possible.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 6, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Supreme Court Roundup;
Justices Agree to Clarify the Law on Leniency for Refugees Seeking Asylum

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1476 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5


Adding an immigration case and five other new cases to the term that opened
today, the Supreme Court agreed to clarify the law on leniency for refugees who
seek to remain in the United States despite having committed crimes in their
home countries.

The Justices accepted the Clinton Administration's appeal of a ruling in favor
of a Guatemalan who, as a student leader in Guatemala, had burned 10 buses and
vandalized stores while demonstrating against the government. He had entered the
United States illegally in 1993 and, when faced with deportation the next year,
requested asylum and the "withholding of deportation," a form of administrative
relief granted by immigration officials in the name of the Attorney General.

Although an immigration judge granted his request, finding that he had
established a "well-founded fear" of political reprisal in Guatemala, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service appealed. The service argued that the
man, Juan Anibal Aguirre-Aguirre, was ineligible for leniency, citing a
provision of the immigration law that denies relief to an alien who has
"committed a serious nonpolitical crime outside the United States."

An immigration appeals board agreed with the agency, but its ruling was
overturned last year by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit, in San Francisco. That court ruled that the Board of Immigration
Appeals should not have simply applied the law automatically, but should have
weighed a number of factors, including the seriousness of the offenses when
balanced against the seriousness of the reprisals Mr. Aguirre faced, and the
nature of the crime in proportion to the political situation and objectives.

In its Supreme Court appeal, Immigration and Naturalization Service v.
Aguirre-Aguirre, No. 97-1754, the Administration essentially takes the view that
decisions of immigration officials on whether to proceed with deportation or
grant administrative relief is not subject to second-guessing by the courts. The
Court of Appeals "failed to give due deference" to the Board of Immigration
Appeals and "improperly substituted its judgment" for that of the board, the
Administration told the Justices.

The Court's reaction to these arguments could indicate how the Justices will
respond to other immigration cases now making their way through the courts in
the wake of Congress's sharp curtailment two years ago of aliens' ability to
challenge adverse administrative decisions. Several Federal appeals courts have
ruled in the past few months that immigration decisions cannot be completely
insulated from judicial review and that, at least in certain circumstances,
aliens must be given access to Federal courts.

Most recently, in a major ruling late last month, the United States Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York, rejected the Administration's view
and ruled that Congress lacked authority to deprive Federal courts of
jurisdiction to hear habeas corpus petitions from immigrants who are in custody
and who are challenging deportation orders.

The six new cases the Justices accepted today brought to 51 the number now
available for decision during the new term. The Court denied review today in
some 1,700 cases that had accumulated since the last term ended in June.

One unusual feature today was the extent to which the Justices undertook to
reformulate the legal questions posed by the cases they agreed to take on.
Typically, the Court simply announces that review has been granted, presumably
on the terms presented by the lawyer who brings the case. In the immigration
case today, for example, the Court simply said "granted." But in the five other
cases, the Justices actually rewrote the questions, sharpening the focus and
limiting their review to those questions that were logically interrelated. In
one case, in which the lawyer offered a full page of what he described to the
Court as "a cascading series of sub-issues," the Justices boiled the matter down
to two questions and six lines of type.

Although it is too early in the term to tell whether the Justices are taking a
new and more aggressive approach to managing their docket, the action today may
reflect their frustration with cases in recent terms in which the underlying
issue was important but the presentation was too unfocused to let the Court make
much headway.

Here are some of the highlights of the opening day.

Disability Policy

The Court agreed to resolve a dispute among the lower Federal courts over the
relationship between the Americans With Disabilities Act and receipt of Social
Security disability benefits.

The disabilities act, a 1990 Federal law, prohibits employers from
discriminating against "a qualified individual with a disability," meaning
someone who is able to work, although perhaps with reasonable accommodations to
the disability. The question in this case, Cleveland v. Policy Management
Systems, No. 97-1008, is whether receipt of disability benefits under Social
Security creates a presumption that the employee is not able to work and is
therefore not covered by the disabilities act.

The extent of disability necessary to qualify for Social Security benefits is
considerable: a person must be unable "to engage in any substantial gainful
activity" in the economy. Some Federal courts have ruled that a person who
qualifies as disabled for Social Security purposes is, by virtue of that fact,
outside the disabilities act's protection.

In this case, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in New
Orleans, established a presumption to that effect, and dismissed a disabilities
act suit brought against an employer by a woman who had collected Social
Security benefits following a stroke. The woman argued that her subsequent
dismissal from her job violated the disabilities act.

Reporters' Access

Without comment, the Court turned down an appeal from a coalition of news
organizations, including The New York Times, challenging denial of public access
this year to court hearings and legal motions connected to the Whitewater
independent counsel's investigation into the Lewinsky matter and to assertions
of privileges raised by grand jury witnesses. Hearings on claims of executive
privilege and lawyer-client privilege by White House officials were not
announced in advance and took place behind closed doors.

The United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled on
May 5 that the First Amendment did not provide a right of access to proceedings
that were "ancillary" to a grand jury investigation. In their appeal, Dow Jones
v. Clinton, No. 97-1959, the news organizations said the ruling "effectively
bars the public from meaningful and timely access to information of overwhelming
public interest."

Drug Testing

Also without comment, the Court refused to hear a challenge to an Indiana school
district's drug testing policy, under which any student who wants to participate
in any extracurricular activity must agree to be subject to random testing for
alcohol, illegal drugs and cigarettes.

The policy, upheld earlier this year by the United States Court of Appeals for
the Seventh Circuit, in Chicago, goes considerably beyond a student drug-testing
policy the Supreme Court upheld three years ago in an Oregon case that applied
only to student athletes. In that case, the Court found that an existing drug
problem and the role of athletes as student leaders justified the policy.

In Rush County, Ind., a rural area with no evidence of a drug problem, the
policy applies to members of the French club, the Future Homemakers of America,
the library club and many others.

The Indiana Civil Liberties Union challenged the policy on behalf of a student
who had volunteered to videotape football games but was barred from doing so
because he refused to submit to random drug testing.

The case was Todd v. Rush County Schools, No. 97-2021.

Lawyer Search

The Court agreed to decide whether two Los Angeles prosecutors violated a
defense lawyer's due process rights by having him held and searched in a
separate room of the courthouse while his client was required to testify before
a grand jury. The prosecutors are appealing a ruling by the Ninth Circuit that
in its timing and motivation -- to prevent the lawyer from consulting with his
client -- the search amounted to an unreasonable interference with the right of
the lawyer, Paul L. Gabbert, to practice his profession.

Mr. Gabbert was representing Traci Baker, a defense witness in the trial of Lyle
and Erik Menendez for murdering their parents. The prosecutors had obtained a
warrant to search Mr. Gabbert to see if he was carrying a letter to Ms. Baker
from Lyle Menendez, her former boyfriend. No letter was discovered. The case is
Conn v. Gabbert, No. 97-1802.


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 8, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW YORK;
Detained Immigrants Still Not Eating in Protest

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 192 words


On the third day of a protest to pressure immigration authorities into granting
them parole, about 35 asylum seekers at an Immigration and Naturalization
Service in Jamaica, Queens, continued to refuse to eat yesterday.

Immigration officials, following Bureau of Prison guidelines, declined yesterday
to describe the protest as a hunger strike -- the term the detainees were using
-- because 72 hours had not yet passed since the first meal was refused. But by
breakfast today, some people were expected to have gone 72 hours without any
food. Immigration officials said they were taking steps to identify those who
consistently have refused to eat.

The protest started at breakfast Monday, after several of the detainees
distributed fliers encouraging others to stop eating; 96 out of the 147
detainees in the center skipped breakfast Monday. By yesterday at lunch, 35
continued to refuse food, said Mark Thorn, a spokesman at the New York district
office.

The detainees, many of whom say they are fleeing war-torn countries or political
persecution, want to be paroled to relatives or friends while a judge decides
their asylum cases.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 4, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Deportation Is Ordered In Nazi Massacre Case

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 177 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 3


A Federal immigration court has ordered the deportation of an Illinois man
accused of taking part in a massacre of Jews at a Nazi slave labor camp, the
Justice Department said today.

The man, Bronislaw Hajda, lost his United States citizenship this year when a
Federal appeals court affirmed a lower court's finding that Mr. Hajda was as an
armed guard at SS Training Camp Trawniki and the Treblinka labor camp in
Nazi-occupied Poland from 1943 to 1945.

The court also found that Mr. Hajda, now 74, lied about his World War II record
and Nazi ties when applying for citizenship in 1950. His past would have made
him ineligible to enter the United States and ineligible for citizenship.

Judge Carlos Cuevas of immigration court in Chicago ordered the deportation on
Friday. Mr. Hajda will be deported either to Poland, where he was born, or to
Germany, where he lived before entering the United States. Mr. Hajda, a retired
factory worker in Schiller Park, Ill., denied the charges at a Federal trial
last year, declaring, "I never killed anyone."


LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 13, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Prosecutor Refuses to Enforce Subpoena in I.N.S. Case

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 493 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Nov. 12


Siding with Federal immigration officials in their effort to protect secret
evidence in a sensitive deportation case, the United States Attorney's office
here has refused an immigration judge's request to force a witness to testify
about her contacts with law enforcement agencies.

Instead, Faith S. Hochberg, the United States Attorney for New Jersey, said her
office would modify the judge's request to limit questioning of the witness to
written interrogatories that could not explore any discussions she had had with
law enforcement agencies.

The case, which has broken new ground in immigration law, involves Hany
Kiareldeen, a 31-year-old Palestinian man who has been detained by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service since March. The agency is seeking to
deport him largely on the basis of secret evidence alleging that he associated
with the terrorists involved in the World Trade Center bombing and uttered
threats to kill Attorney General Janet Reno.

Mr. Kiareldeen denies the charges and maintains that his ex-wife, Amal Mohamed,
made the allegations contained in the secret evidence out of vindictiveness.

His lawyer's efforts to force her to testify about her contacts with the Federal
Bureau of Investigation and her refusal to do so led an immigration judge in
September to become the first such judge to ask the United States Attorney for
help in compelling Ms. Mohamed's testimony.

In making the request, the judge, Daniel Meisner, was using a 1996 law intended
to strengthen the hand of immigration courts in adjudicating cases and to give
them some independence from I.N.S. lawyers, on whom they had previously relied
for enforcement of subpoenas.

With her response to Judge Meisner, Ms. Hochberg has also broken new ground in
asserting that she is not bound to seek information that immigration judges
request under the 1996 law. In court papers, Ms. Hochberg's office argued that
United States attorneys have "discretion to determine whether the interests of
justice" warrant enforcement of such a subpoena.

Judge Meisner had no comment today on the action taken by Ms. Hochberg's office.
But Regis Fernandez, Mr. Kiareldeen's lawyer, said there appeared to be a
conflict of interest involving the F.B.I., the I.N.S., the immigration courts
and the United States Attorney's office -- all entities within the Federal
Department of Justice.

"The U.S. Attorney's office at this point is wearing too many hats in this
case," Mr. Fernandez said.  "They are basically saying that the 1996 statute is
meaningless and immigration judges are powerless.  The law seemed to make the
erroneous assumption that the immigration judge's interest in getting at the
truth would be in sync with the U.S. Attorney's interest."

Rick Kenny, a spokesman for the Executive Office of Immigration Review, which
supervises the judges, said the agency would have no comment until it had talked
with the United States Attorney's office.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hany Kiareldeen, 31, has been detained since March. (Associated
Press)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 14, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Temporarily Suspends Deportations to 4 Countries

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 290 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 13


As four Central American countries struggle to recover from the catastrophe of
Hurricane Mitch, the Clinton Administration plans to make it easier for people
from those countries who are already in the United States.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service announced today that it had suspended
the deportation of aliens from El Salvador and Nicaragua "as a humanitarian
response to the catastrophic damage" caused by the hurricane. On Thursday, the
agency made a similar announcement about aliens from Guatemala and Honduras.

The temporary suspension of deportations will be in effect until Nov. 23, the
agency said, when the situation will be re-evaluated.

The temporary change would allow people who are in the United States from those
countries, both legally and illegally, to remain here and work without fear of
deportation, at least for the time being. Similar privileges have been granted
to people from nations torn by violence in Eastern Europe and Africa.

Immigration officials were careful to discourage any notion that the
hurricane-related change, the details of which are still being worked out, would
mean an open invitation to people from those countries to stay in the United
States permanently.

The goal of the change is to avoid further suffering by forcing people to return
to homelands where destruction, poverty and threat of disease await them, the
agency said.

The most likely vehicle for extending the stays of people who might otherwise
face deportation is a provision of law known as "temporary protected status,"
which allows the Attorney General to determine that foreign nationals can remain
in this country because of dangers in their homelands due to conflict or
environmental disaster.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 12, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Effort to Bulk Up Skinny Son Puts a Minister in Legal Peril

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 871 words


The Rev. Frank Almonte, a well-known Hispanic television evangelist from Corona,
Queens, said he thought he was only helping his 12-year-old son when he packed
three jars of "appetite enhancer" pills into his suitcase on a recent trip home
from his native Dominican Republic.

But instead of helping his skinny son put on a few pounds, the pills, which are
available from pharmacists in the Dominican Republic, landed Mr. Almonte in a
Federal prison in Pennsylvania for 10 days. He was arrested at John F. Kennedy
International Airport and charged with bringing a controlled substance --
steroids -- into the country. Mr. Almonte, a legal immigrant who has lived in
Queens for 22 years and whose three children are all American citizens, faces up
to seven years in prison if convicted of criminal drug charges and could be
deported.

Yesterday, more than 1,000 of Mr. Almonte's parishioners and admirers from
across the city rallied outside the Queens County Courthouse to denounce the
Pentecostal minister's treatment at the hands of local and Federal authorities.
They called his plight a symbol of the precarious status of hundreds of
thousands of Hispanic immigrants in the area, and denounced tough new
immigration laws, enacted to fight terrorism, that they said were too broad and
had actually punished some innocent immigrants.

At a hearing before Justice Lee Cross of the State Supreme Court in Queens, Mr.
Almonte's lawyers asked that the criminal drug charges against him be dropped
and said that the pills had been prescribed by a pediatrician in the Dominican
Republic for Mr. Almonte's son Joel. A second hearing has been set for next
month. No date has been set yet on Mr. Almonte's deportation case.

Mr. Almonte, who has been waiting for an immigration interview to become a
citizen since 1997, his lawyer said, was returning from an evangelizing mission
to Santo Domingo when he was arrested at Kennedy Airport on Jan. 29. He was
released by local officials on $1 bail because he had been charged with a
relatively low-level drug violation, but he was taken into Federal custody under
the 1996 immigration law that allows for the detention and deportation of any
legal immigrant who has been charged with or convicted of a drug crime.

Federal immigration officials would not discuss Mr. Almonte's case, but said
that legal immigrants held under similar circumstances are routinely released as
soon as they file a parole request. Mr. Almonte's supporters said they moved as
quickly as possible to get him out of prison, but that it took time to gather
the 124 signed affidavits that they felt would be needed to secure Mr. Almonte's
release.

Mr. Almonte is pastor of the Adonai Christian Center, a church of more than
1,000 parishioners in Corona, but he is familiar to many Hispanic people because
he also preaches on local Hispanic radio and cable television shows.

"He is a very well-known reverend among all churches and he is definitely
innocent of what he's accused of," said Maria Canales, an 18-year-old immigrant
from Honduras who said she heard about Mr. Almonte's case on Radio Vision
Cristiana, a Spanish-language Christian radio station.

Ms. Canales said she came to the rally with a group of friends from her church
in Bushwick because "Frank Almonte is our brother and we're representing the
church of God to come out and support him."

Edward Juarez, president of International Immigrants Foundation, an organization
that helps immigrants become citizens, called Mr. Almonte's treatment "a symbol
of discrimination and anti-immigrant feeling."

He called for the repeal of the 1996 immigration law, which stiffened penalties
against immigrants accused of drug offenses but made no differentiation between
illicit drugs like heroin and cocaine and drugs like Anabolex, a steroid that is
manufactured and sold in the Dominican Republic, but which is deemed illegal in
the United States.

Many Dominican parents routinely give Anabolex to their children to get them to
eat more, Mr. Juarez said. Mr. Almonte's son is 5 feet 5 inches tall and weighs
110 pounds, Mr. Juarez said.

The crowd waited patiently outside the courthouse as Mr. Almonte's lawyer, Mel
A. Sachs, laid out his case in the courtroom. They listened to prominent
speakers, including State Assemblyman Ruben Diaz Jr., sang hymns and shouted
"Gloria a Dios!" and "Christo, Christo!"

They roared with excitement when Mr. Almonte stepped out of the courthouse with
his lawyer. Mr. Almonte said just a few words of thanks to the people, but Mr.
Sachs spoke at length about Mr. Almonte's innocence and the need to fight to
change the immigration law.

"Mr. Almonte is a man of peace, a man who the community needs and relies upon,"
Mr. Sachs said. "He was given these pills by a pediatrician for his child and he
had every reason to believe he could come into the country with these tablets."

Brian Valiente, one of Mr. Almonte's parishioners, said that he and his fellow
church members were devastated when they learned that Mr. Almonte had been
imprisoned. "He is not just a great pastor, he's a wonderful friend," Mr.
Valiente said. "And we were shocked that they treated him like he was a common
criminal."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Frank Almonte, left, with his son Joel, and his lawyer,
Mel Sachs. Arrested on charges of bringing illegal drugs into the United States,
Mr. Almonte said a doctor in the Dominican Republic prescribed the pills. (Nancy
Siesel/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 21, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

IN BRIEF;
Hispanic Board

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 6; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 359 words


Jorge E. Vargas, the interim director of the county's Office of Affirmative
Action, has been appointed County Executive Andrew J. Spano's liaison to
Westchester's Hispanic Advisory Board. Mr. Spano also named Robin Bikkal, a
White Plains immigration lawyer, as the chairwoman of the advisory panel,
replacing Luis Andrew Penichet.

Ms. Bikkal, 41, the past president of the nonprofit Westchester Hispanic
Coalition, said the group would hold a series of informational meetings in the
Hispanic community. Then public comments from the forums will be included in a
report recommending ways to improve the quality of life for Hispanic residents.

The County Executive's office said the report is expected to include suggestions
for training more bilingual personnel, encouraging the hiring of Hispanic
employees at managerial levels and revising policies that affect immigrants in
the County Department of Social Services.

The following new members were appointed to the advisory board: Isabel Villar,
director and founder of Centro Hispano, an immigrant aid group based in White
Plains; Harry Pino, a White Plains police officer and president of the
Westchester Hispanic Law Enforcement Association; Herbert Padilla, chairman of
the Hispanic Society of Financial Representatives; Graciela Heymann, executive
director of the Westchester Hispanic Coalition; Anita Delgado, a White Plains
lawyer and member of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, and Carlos
Bernard, a Pleasantville businessman and past president of the Westchester
Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. Also appointed were Armando Molina, district
representative for Congressman Eliot L. Engel; John Albert Rivera, associate
director for Leake and Watts, a children's service agency in Yonkers; Rochelle
Rospigliosi, a Hispanic liaison with the White Plains Public Library; Martha
Lopez, assistant director with the Washingtonville Housing Alliance in
Mamaroneck, and Lucia Alcantra-Vieira, staff member of the State University of
New York's North Bronx Career Counseling and Outreach Center.

Mr. Spano may make additional appointments since the board can have up to 21
members.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 23, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Ex-Ukraine Premier, Accused of Corruption, Detained by U.S.

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 695 words

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Feb. 22


Ukraine's former Prime Minister, the target of corruption inquiries there and in
Switzerland, is being held by American Customs agents after he tried to enter
the United States on a tourist visa, American officials said today.

Federal immigration agents detained the former Prime Minister, Pavlo Lazarenko,
at Kennedy Airport in New York on Friday, said the spokesman for the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, Russell Bergeron. American and Ukrainian officials
had previously refused to comment on a report from Moscow that he had been
detained.

Mr. Bergeron said Mr. Lazarenko held an expired diplomatic passport and a valid
tourist visa. But he was detained after immigration officials interviewed him
and concluded that he had not come to the country merely for a casual visit, as
the rules governing visitor visas require.

Swiss officials arrested Mr. Lazarenko in December as he crossed the Swiss
border for what he said was a meeting on legal matters. They charged him with
laundering millions of dollars through numbered bank accounts there, and
released him on bail.

He left Ukraine on Wednesday, two days before Parliament voted to strip him of
immunity from prosecution.

He told Parliament in a written statement last week that he was going to Greece
for treatment of a stress-related heart ailment.

It was not clear today whether Mr. Lazarenko arrived in New York on a flight
from Greece or from some other country. His family apparently was not traveling
with him.

By many accounts, all of which he denies, he made millions of dollars in the
last decade through schemes ranging from the sale of overpriced goods to the
Government to a complex deal involving the granting of monopoly franchises to
natural-gas suppliers.

President Leonid Kuchma appointed Mr. Lazarenko Prime Minister in mid-1996 but
removed him less than a year later as reports of corruption began to taint his
administration. Mr. Lazarenko later took a seat in Parliament, and the two men
have since become bitter political enemies as well as opponents in this year's
presidential election.

On Saturday, after Parliament withdrew Mr. Lazarenko's immunity, Ukrainian
prosecutors issued a warrant for his arrest on charges of embezzlement and
misuse of Government funds.

What will happen to Mr. Lazarenko next is anything but clear.

American immigration officials are reviewing the circumstances of his attempt to
enter the United States to determine whether he is entitled to entry or should
be expelled. That process, "expedited removal," is supposed to be rapid but
could easily be tied up by legal challenges, particularly if he seeks asylum in
the United States.

Mr. Lazarenko has contended repeatedly that he is a victim of political
persecution by the Kuchma Government and that the criminal investigations in
Switzerland and Ukraine are part of a plot to destroy him.

If the United States ultimately decides to expel Mr. Lazarenko, he has a number
of options. Although Ukraine could seek his return for prosecution, it is
unlikely to succeed because the United States and Ukraine do not have an
extradition treaty. He cannot be repatriated against his will unless he is
legally expelled from the United States and no other country will accept him.

"It should not be presumed that if he's found to be removable, he will be sent
to Ukraine," Mr. Bergeron said. "It's far too early in the process to judge what
the final outcome of this might be."

The United States and Switzerland do have an extradition treaty, but it is not
clear whether the Swiss seek his return. The Swiss hold $3 million in bail as
insurance for Mr. Lazarenko's return for a trial.

In Ukraine, Mr. Lazarenko is politically unpopular, but he has gained a sort of
celebrity for his supposed wealth and his undeniably brazen nature. He has a
large private office studded with photographs of his visits with world leaders,
including President Clinton.

But by the financial disclosure statements he filed while Prime Minister, he is
an ascetic, earning only about $2,600 in 1997, driving an inexpensive car and
owning no property beyond a small walk-up apartment.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 27, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
The Quality Of Mercy

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 703 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


Cyrus Atefi, as I shall call him, was brought to this country from Iran in 1978,
when he was a few months old. His father had been a bureaucrat in the Shah's
intelligence agency, Savak, so the family fled after the Islamic revolution. The
parents, two older children and Cyrus were given political asylum in the United
States.

Three years later Cyrus's parents were divorced. His mother worked two jobs to
support the children. As a teen-ager, Cyrus went downhill, cutting school,
eventually dropping out, using methamphetamines.

In 1997 Cyrus was charged with possession of methamphetamines for sale. (He had
bought some for himself and four friends.) He got the lowest possible sentence,
a year on work furlough, and was released for good behavior after six months. He
straightened out, went off drugs, worked full time and planned to head for
dental school.

Last fall agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service went to Cyrus's
place of work and took him away. The reason was that a 1996 law, the Illegal
Immigration Act, defined his drug offense as an "aggravated felony" despite the
low sentence, and made him deportable. Under the act his detention is also
mandatory. He is being held for deportation to Iran.

If Cyrus is deported to Iran, he is likely to be arrested and tortured. His
uncle, who stayed in Iran, was tortured and executed by the Islamic regime.

The case of Cyrus Atefi came to mind when I read about efforts being made by
Representative Bill McCollum, Republican of Florida, to help another person
targeted under the 1996 law. He is Robert A. Broley, whose father is treasurer
of the Orange County, Florida, Republican executive committee.

Mr. Broley, who is 32 years old, is a former drug addict who served four years
in a Florida prison on 13 felony charges of theft and fraud. When he got out of
prison, last December, he was deported to his native Canada.

Representative McCollum has introduced a private bill that would relieve Mr.
Broley of the 1996 act's consequences and allow him back into the United States.
It had nothing to do with the political connection, the Congressman said; he
hardly knew Mr. Broley's father.

Mr. McCollum strongly supported the Draconian 1996 immigration legislation. And
he seemed icily unforgiving as one of the Republican impeachment managers in the
Senate trial of President Clinton. So some in Florida have seen his sponsorship
of a private relief bill for Mr. Broley as hypocritical.

But it could be something else. Congressman McCollum may be moved by the human
consequences of the 1996 law now that he sees them. It is easy to be for harsh
measures in the abstract. It is not so easy when you see the result in shattered
lives.

"I don't believe," Mr. McCollum told The Orlando Sentinel, "that somebody like
Broley should be treated differently than anyone else simply because his parents
are involved in local politics. I think his case should be judged on the
merits."

Exactly. But judgment on the merits -- mercy on the merits -- is needed not only
for Robert Broley. Thousands of people have been deported or are awaiting
deportation because of criminal offenses much less serious than his.

Deborah Aaron, who came to this country from Britain, has been married to an
American for 22 years. She now faces deportation, and separation from her
family, because at the age of 20, in London, she was fined 10 pounds (about $16)
for a minor drug violation. She has tried to get members of Congress to
introduce a private bill for her. They responded with sympathy but said they
could not do so when drugs were involved.

Or think about Cyrus Atefi. He was younger than Robert Broley -- an infant --
when he came here. His crime was much less serious. And the I.N.S. wants to
deport him not to Canada but to Iran.

What is needed is a regular procedure, in law, to waive deportation of deserving
individuals when it would cause extreme hardship. That used to exist. The 1996
act seemed to have struck it out. But the Supreme Court has just indicated that
the agency can call off a deportation "for humanitarian reasons." One way or
another, there must an escape valve. Without it, we have a system of random
cruelty.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 9, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Court Leaves Intact Rights for Immigrants Facing Deportation

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1182 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 8


The Supreme Court today left intact a crazy quilt of legal protections that are
available to immigrants facing deportation orders.

In New York and other parts of the country covered by some appellate court
rulings, immigrants with criminal records are allowed to appeal some deportation
orders to judges. In other parts of the country, in different appellate
circuits, those immigrants have no such right.

The Clinton Administration had asked for a prompt review, arguing for a
definitive answer supporting its view that the 1996 law allowed deportation,
without judicial review, of noncitizens who had committed drug offenses or other
crimes, even some that were minor and long ago.

The Courts of Appeal in three Federal circuits have ruled either that Congress
did not or, as a constitutional matter, could not strip the Federal courts of
jurisdiction to hear these cases and, further, that the harsh provisions should
not apply to cases that were in the pipeline when the new law took effect.

The Court today left intact those rulings from two of the circuits, covering
seven states in the Northeast -- Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New
Hampshire, New York, Rhode Island and Vermont. At the same time, it vacated a
ruling from the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San
Francisco, sending the case back for further consideration.

In the pipeline are thousands of cases involving the category of immigrants
known as "criminal aliens." These are not illegal aliens in the usual sense, in
that they typically entered the country legally and have been living as lawful
permanent residents, often with spouses or children who are United States
citizens. But Congress has decreed that people in this category have forfeited
their right to remain here if they committed any drug offense or any of a list
of other crimes.

Congress left the retroactive effect of this provision unclear, and the Board of
Immigration Appeals, the top administrative review body in the immigration
system, ruled that it should not be applied retroactively.

Attorney General Janet Reno exercised her power to overturn that ruling and, in
a controversial executive decision in February 1997, declared that the new
treatment for criminal aliens should apply to all deportation cases then in the
pipeline as well as to crimes that a noncitizen had committed in the past, even
if the crime had not become the occasion for a deportation proceeding.

Further, the Administration has taken the position that the Attorney General's
ruling on retroactivity, the Soriano decision, is itself unreviewable in any
Federal court. A growing list of lower Federal courts has rejected that
position, although a few courts have accepted it. In all three of the cases
before the Supreme Court today, the lower courts had ruled that the Soriano
decision could not be insulated from judicial review and that immigrants were
entitled to challenge deportation orders through petitions for writs of habeas
corpus in Federal District Court.

Filing appeals in all three cases, the Administration urged the Justices to use
at least one of the cases as a vehicle for the range of procedural and
substantive issues presented. As a practical matter, the Court's denial of
review in cases from the United States Courts of Appeals for the First and
Second Circuits, in Boston and New York, means that within the seven states of
those two circuits, the 1996 law no longer has the retroactive effect and
immigrants facing deportation can be heard by a Federal district judge.

This was good news to lawyers representing immigrants.

"It's a vindication of the right to judicial review," said Lucas Guttentag,
director of the immigrants' rights project of the American Civil Liberties
Union, who was involved in all of today's cases.

Mr. Guttentag acknowledged that the Court's denial of review was not a ruling on
the merits of the cases, and that the Justices remained free to take up a
subsequent case that presented the same issues. But he predicted that the
Court's action would add momentum to the trend against the Administration in the
lower courts.

At the Justice Department, a spokeswoman said lawyers there "need to review
these orders and how they fit together before commenting."

Reno v. Navas, No. 98-996, the New York case in which review was denied today,
was a consolidated appeal of five cases. Saul Navas, a native of Panama who
entered the United States as a legal immigrant in 1987, was convicted in the New
York courts in 1995 of robbery and possession of stolen property, rendering him
deportable even under the prior immigration law.

Mr. Navas appealed to an immigration judge, as was his right under the old law,
and won relief from deportation. But his case was still pending in 1997 when,
under the Attorney General's retroactive application of the new law, his relief
from deportation was canceled and he was ordered deported. A Federal district
judge, rejecting the Government's view that habeas corpus jurisdiction no longer
applied, ordered Mr. Navas released, in a decision that the Second Circuit
upheld while also rejecting the Attorney General's view on retroactivity.

In the First Circuit case, Reno v. Goncalves, No. 98-835, the immigrant, Raul
Goncalves, legally entered the United States from Portugal with his parents at
the age of 3. Several convictions for theft placed him in deportation
proceedings in 1990. His appeal was still pending in 1997 when he was found
ineligible for relief under the new law. The First Circuit ruled that the law
should not be applied retroactively and that under a proper interpretation of
the new law, Mr. Goncalves could still seek habeas corpus review in Federal
District Court.

The Ninth Circuit, in Immigration and Naturalization Service v. Magana-Pizano,
No. 98-836, took a different approach, reaching a constitutional issue that the
other two courts had avoided. Unlike the others, the Ninth Circuit ruled that
Congress actually had eliminated judicial review. But because Congress could not
constitutionally do so, the Appeals Court said, the Federal District Courts
retained their habeas corpus jurisdiction nonetheless.

The immigrant in that case, Daniel Magana-Pizano, entered the country legally
from Mexico, as a 5-year-old accompanying his parents. In 1995, Mr.
Magana-Pizano pleaded guilty to a single misdemeanor drug offense, thus becoming
eligible for deportation. His appeals were cut off under retroactive application
of the new law before the Ninth Circuit ruled that he was entitled to proceed
through a petition for habeas corpus.

One possible explanation for why the Justices vacated that decision today,
rather than denying review as they did in the other two cases, was the Court's
general aversion to constitutional rulings when the same result can be achieved
through statutory interpretation. The Court might have wanted to give the Ninth
Circuit a chance to reconsider its view of the statute and find that Congress
had not intended to eliminate judicial review in the first place.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 9, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Court Leaves Intact Immigrants' Rights

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 118 words


The Supreme Court yesterday left intact legal protections that are available to
immigrants facing deportation orders.

In New York and other parts of the country covered by some appellate court
rulings, immigrants with criminal records are allowed to appeal some deportation
orders to judges. In other parts of the country, in different appellate
circuits, those immigrants have no such right.

The Clinton Administration had asked for a prompt review, arguing for a
definitive answer supporting its view that the 1996 law allowed deportation,
without judicial review, of noncitizens who had committed drug offenses or other
crimes, even some that were minor and long ago.

Article, page A15.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 5, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE U.S. HAVEN;
Albanians And Serbs Seek to Halt Deportation

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 772 words


Even as NATO forces press the war against Yugoslavia, there are Serbs across the
United States fighting deportation on the ground that they do not want to be
returned home to face conscription into a military engaged in an ethnic purge.

In addition, as the Serbian province of Kosovo endures violent upheaval, with
hundreds of thousands of ethnic Albanian refugees fleeing, the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service is pressing ahead with deportation cases
for Kosovo Albanians.

Lawyers or the Serbs say that they are not always getting a sympathetic ear from
judges, with some implying that the men are shirkers for trying to avoid
military service.

"It is ridiculous to think that we might send someone back to Yugoslavia who is
immediately going to be part of the military machine there," said Donald R.
Sherinian, an immigration lawyer in Lake Forest, Calif., who has a Serbian
client who faces a hearing on May 3.

The immigration service will not say how many cases are pending, but in 1998, it
granted asylum to 524 people from Yugoslavia, 49 percent of the requests. In
addition, Richard L. Kenney, a spokesman for the immigration courts, said that
in 1998, it handled 453 cases of people from Yugoslavia, some of which may have
included more than one person. Of those, asylum was granted in 156 cases, denied
in 127, and the other cases were closed in other ways.

"We came here to survive," said Vlora Jakupi, a Kosovo ethnic Albanian native
who is six months pregnant. Her husband, Valdet, has been in the Elizabeth
Detention Facility in Elizabeth, N.J., for a month since they arrived with fake
passports. Mrs. Jakupi was held overnight but released because she is pregnant
and staying with her sister.

Their lawyer, Claude L. Maratea, said Mr. Jakupi had a hearing with an
immigration officer on Thursday to establish whether he had "credible fear" of
the consequences of returning. Mrs. Jakupi got word Friday that most of her
relatives had fled to Albania or Montenegro.

The immigration agency will not comment on individual cases. Last June, the
Justice Department issued a one-year order giving anyone from Kosovo the right
to stay in this country for a year because of conditions at home, said Barbara
Francis, a spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. But it
does not cover anyone who arrived after it was issued.

"People have to have a credible story and we have to determine who they are,"
said Ms. Francis, acknowledging that refugees often arrive with no possessions
or documents. "Asylum is granted on a case-by-case basis, story by story."

Serbs seeking asylum feel particularly vulnerable because the United States is
now in a conflict involving their country. If they go back, not only are they
likely to be drafted, said Mark S. Kocol, a Chicago immigration lawyer who is
defending five young Serbian men, but they will probably be singled out because
they are coming from America.

Under United Nations guidelines, countries have the right to call up their
citizens for the army, and facing such a draft is not sufficient grounds for
asylum.

The only exceptions are if an asylum seeker faces capital punishment if he is
deported and convicted of draft evasion or if he would have to join a military
known for human rights violations.

The immigration courts, run by the Justice Department's Executive Office for
Immigration Review, demand that each asylum seeker prove that he will be
drafted. While there have been widespread press reports of Yugoslavian
conscription, most of the men fighting deportation do not have individual
notices.

Lawyers representing Serbs said most of their clients had been here for some
time and were seeking permission to stay. But some of the Kosovo Albanians were
caught trying to enter the country without proper documents and are in
detention.

Raymond P. D'Uva, an immigration lawyer, said a 19-year-old client from Kosovo
was denied asylum on March 19. He said his client is distraught because he has
no way of finding out the fate of the rest of his family. "Reports from his
town, Mitrovica, say all the Albanian inhabitants are gone," Mr. D'Uva said.

Another lawyer, Victor V. Yee said a Kosovo refugee held in Elizabeth, Afrim
Karaqica, 34, tried to enter the United States with a false passport in
December, hoping to get his wife and three daughters in later.

"I don't know what happened to my family," Mr. Karaqica said in a statement.
"I'm safe here, but I can't eat or sleep because I think about them all the
time. I came to the U.S. to survive, but the I.N.S. arrested me."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 6, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Service Blocks Judge's Order to Release a Palestinian

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 409 words


A Palestinian man who Federal officials have been trying to deport for the past
year was ordered released by an immigration judge who said the Government had
failed to prove that he had any links to terrorist organizations, the
authorities said yesterday.

But before the man, Hany Kiareldeen, could be freed from a New Jersey jail on
$1,500 bond, immigration authorities appealed the decision on Friday and blocked
his release.

Throughout his yearlong detention, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
has maintained that Mr. Kiareldeen associated with those convicted of bombing
the World Trade Center and that he had once threatened to assassinate Attorney
General Janet Reno.

Mr. Kiareldeen's lawyers said that his ex-wife, Amal Mohamed, was the source of
the allegations, which they said are baseless. They said that Mrs. Mohamed was
bitter over the couple's divorce and motivated by vengeance. The authorities
have refused to disclose details of the accusations, citing national security
reasons.

On Friday, an immigration judge ruled that Mr. Kiareldeen was not a national
security risk and ordered his release. Calling the evidence "meager," the judge,
Daniel Meisner, said that the Government had failed to prove any links between
Mr. Kiareldeen and the terrorists behind the Trade Center bombing.

In his decision, the judge cited a recent immigration hearing in which Federal
officials failed to present a single witness. During the hearing, Dr. Laurie
Mylorie, an expert on the bombing, testified for the defendant, saying that Mr.
Kiareldeen's telephone records did not link him to any of the four defendants
convicted in the Trade Center attack.

A native of Gaza, Mr. Kiareldeen, 31, came to the United States in 1990 to study
mechanical engineering. He was arrested in March 1998, one of two dozen people
of Arab descent who are being detained largely on the basis of secret
information from unidentified informers. His lawyer, Houeida Saad, said she
would file a motion today to expedite his release. "Given that they haven't
presented any evidence, we don't understand why the I.N.S. won't back off," she
said. "This man has been needlessly incarcerated for a year in what is
essentially a family law matter."

A spokesman for the immigration service, Russ Bergeron, said the agency would
continue to press for Mr. Kiareldeen's deportation. "We believe the judge erred
in his interpretation of the law," he said.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 6, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Boosts Our Economy

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 130 words



To the Editor:

In denying individuals an opportunity to plead their cases before an immigration
judge, the Government ignores the devastating effect the deportation of a loved
one has on the family of the deportee (Week in Review, April 4). My husband, a
legal permanent resident, was convicted of a white-collar crime last year, his
first conviction, and he faces deportation. It makes no difference that if I, a
United States citizen, choose to follow him, I must leave my elderly, disabled
mother behind.

Before April 1996, the immigration laws regarding criminal immigrants were tough
but fair.

I hope Congress sees its way back to the pre-1996 laws, if not in time to save
my family, then to save someone else's.

MELANIE CARROLL
New York, April 5, 1999

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 17, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Immigration Service Is Sued Over How It Treats the Disabled

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 331 words


The Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service was accused in a lawsuit
yesterday of arbitrarily rejecting the applications of disabled immigrants who
seek exemptions from the English language and civics parts of the citizenship
exam.

The class action suit asked the Federal District Court in Manhattan to require
the agency to follow its own published guidelines for evaluating disability
waivers and reconsider all the applications it rejected over the last two years.

Immigration officials, the lawsuit added, are ignoring the guidelines and
second-guessing the immigrants' own doctors.

Under a 1994 law, immigration officers are required to accommodate legal
immigrants who are disabled and whose doctors attest that their disabilities
prevent them from demonstrating an understanding of English and civics.

Advocates for immigrants have complained for years about the way the agency
handles medical waivers. A similar class action lawsuit was filed last year in
Florida.

Lawyers in New York City have reported cases in which immigration officers had
scolded disabled applicants for asking for waivers, rejected applications
without seeming to read them, and misled immigrants on how to apply for waivers.

Immigration officials in Washington recently acknowledged that they have had
difficulty administering the waivers and have repeatedly revised policy
guidelines for field workers who handle applications.

The latest I.N.S. guidelines for its field workers require them to contact an
immigrant's doctor if they have questions about the application. The guidelines
also caution them against second-guessing the doctor and oblige them to give a
reason in writing for denying an application.

"If they would follow their own policies, we'd find our clients are being fairly
treated," said Constance P. Carden, a lawyer for the New York Legal Assistance
Group in Manhattan, which filed the lawsuit with the Hudson Valley Poverty Law
Center in White Plains, N.Y.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 26, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Lawmakers Want an Asylum Rule for Sex-Based Persecution

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 418 words


Senator Charles E. Schumer and Representative Carolyn B. Maloney said yesterday
that the case of a 29-year-old woman from Ghana, who says she fled to the United
States because she feared that her tribe's leaders were going to cut her
genitals, demonstrated the need to turn immigration guidelines on sex-based
persecution into binding regulations or laws.

The guidelines, introduced by the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
1995, advise asylum officers that certain forms of sex-based persecution can be
grounds for asylum. Other guidelines cover persecution based on race, religion,
nationality, political opinion or membership in a particular social group.

However, because guidelines are not binding, they are often disregarded, the
Democratic legislators said.

They pointed to the case of Adelaide Abankwah, who has been held for two years
at the Wackenhut Detention Center in Queens while she awaits final judgment on
her asylum petition. Ms. Abankwah has been at the center longer than any other
detainee.

Ms. Abankwah said she fled her village because she had lost her virginity in
violation of the customs of her tribe and she was afraid tribal elders were
going to cut her genitals as punishment. An immigration judge and the Board of
Immigration Review have denied Ms. Abankwah's petition, saying that while her
fear of returning home is genuine, she has not proved that she would be
subjected to cutting.

"The problem is that the guidelines are good, but they're not mandatory," Mr.
Schumer said at a news conference at Federal Plaza in Manhattan.

He urged the Justice Department to turn the sex-based guidelines into binding
regulations.

Ms. Maloney said she would reintroduce her bill that would turn the sex-based
guidelines into law. The measure failed to get out of committee last year.

The two lawmakers were joined by about a dozen supporters of Ms. Abankwah, among
them Gloria Steinem. Some wore T-shirts with Ms. Abankwah's picture and the
words, "Free Adelaide Now!"

"There is no length that we would not go to free Adelaide, " Ms. Steinem said.
"We have met her, and there is a human bond between us."

Ms. Abankwah's case is scheduled to be heard on May 3 by the United States Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Manhattan.

Through letters and telephone calls, Ms. Maloney and Mr. Schumer have urged the
Justice Department to drop its objections to her petition.  They have also asked
that Ms. Abankwah be released while she awaits a final judgment.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 4, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Court Restricts Refugee Status for Criminals

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1155 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 3


Foreigners who have committed serious crimes in their home countries are
ineligible for refugee status here regardless of the risk of persecution they
face if deported, the Supreme Court ruled unanimously today.

The decision adopted the Clinton Administration's interpretation of how a
would-be refugee's criminal past should be evaluated by immigration officials.
The Justices rebuked a Federal appeals court for having failed to give adequate
deference to the Attorney General's view of the matter by insisting that the
severity of the crime be balanced against the likely danger the foreigner faced
if returned home.

The case before the Court involved immigration officials' efforts to deport a
former student leader in Guatemala who had led demonstrations that included
forcing passengers off buses and then burning the empty buses to protest rising
fares. The Guatemalan, Juan Anibal Aguirre-Aguirre, argued in seeking asylum and
a "withholding of deportation," a form of administrative relief, that his
actions were political and not criminal.

Whether immigration officials properly rejected his political defense was a
second important issue in the case, with the Justices also ruling that the lower
court had failed to defer to administrative judgment that the actions were
criminal.

A United Nations treaty on refugees, which the United States ratified in 1968,
requires balancing the crime against the likelihood and severity of persecution,
under an official interpretation contained in a handbook issued by the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.

"The U.N. Handbook may be a useful interpretative aid, but it is not binding" on
the Attorney General, immigration officials, or the Federal courts, Justice
Anthony M. Kennedy wrote for the Court today.

The United Nations High Commissioner filed a brief in the case on Mr. Aguirre's
behalf, telling the Court that its analysis would be highly influential on how
the more than 100 other countries that have signed the treaty would interpret
their obligations to refugees.

Mr. Aguirre entered the United States illegally in 1993. The law in effect when
deportation proceedings began against him the next year made a foreigner who
asserted a fear of persecution at home ineligible for the administrative relief
of a "withholding of deportation" if "there are serious reasons for considering
that the alien has committed a serious nonpolitical crime outside the United
States."

"As a matter of plain language," Justice Kennedy said today, "it is not obvious
that an already-completed crime is somehow rendered less serious by considering
the further circumstance that the alien may be subject to persecution if
returned to his home country."

A 1996 revision of Federal immigration law made the same principle applicable to
asylum, barring asylum once it was determined that the asylum-seeker had
committed a "serious nonpolitical crime." Previously, the Attorney General had
discretion to grant asylum regardless of an applicant's criminal past. Asylum is
a broader form of relief than withholding of deportation, allowing a successful
applicant not only to avoid being sent home but to apply for permanent residency
after one year. Because of the change in 1996 that placed the two on the same
footing, the decision today, Immigration and Naturalization Service v. Aguirre,
No. 97-1754, will affect future refugee cases as well as those governed by the
old law.

In this case, an immigration judge found that Mr. Aguirre would probably face
persecution for his political activities if returned to Guatelama and granted
him both a withholding of deportation and asylum. The Board of Immigration
Appeals overturned the judgment and ordered Mr. Aguirre deported, finding that
although his actions and those of his fellow students were politically
motivated, "those goals were outweighed by their criminal strategy."

The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, then
overturned the appeal board's ruling in the 1997 ruling that the Justices set
aside today.

Justice Kennedy's opinion was broadly critical of the Ninth Circuit's decision,
finding it erroneous not only for requiring immigration officials to assess the
risk of persecution but also for second-guessing the officials' judgment as to
whether a crime was political or nonpolitical.

"Judicial deference to the executive branch is especially appropriate in the
immigration context," Justice Kennedy said.

He added: "A decision by the Attorney General to deem certain violent offenses
committed in another country as political in nature, and to allow the
perpetrators to remain in the United States, may affect our relations with that
country or its neighbors. The judiciary is not well positioned to shoulder
primary responsibility for assessing the likelihood and importance of such
diplomatic repercussions."

The Court identified what it saw as two principal errors in the Ninth Circuit's
approach to distinguishing political from nonpolitical crimes. First, Justice
Kennedy said, the appeals court mistakenly held that to be a "serious
nonpolitical crime," the act had to be "atrocious." The second error, he said,
was to require consideration of the political objectives and of whether the
criminal acts were proportionate to them.

Justice Kennedy said the Board of Immigration Appeals had not yet arrived at a
"comprehensive definition" of how the nonpolitical crimes provision was supposed
to work.

"Full elaboration of that standard should await further cases," he said.

In a second, unrelated case today, the Court agreed to resolve a longstanding
ambiguity in criminal law, over whether a person's "sudden and unprovoked
flight" from a police officer is sufficiently suspicious to justify the officer
in stopping the person and conducting a pat-down search.

In this case, Illinois v. Wardlow, No. 98-1036, the Illinois Supreme Court found
that a Chicago police officer was not justified in chasing and searching a man
who had been standing in front of an apartment building before bolting at the
sight of four police cars that converged on the neighborhood as part of an
anti-drug operation. The man, Sam Wardlow, was carrying a parcel that proved to
contain a loaded revolver.

The question of what behavior provides enough evidence for a brief,
investigatory stop has divided the state and lower Federal courts for years.
Most courts have agreed with the Illinois court that flight alone is
insufficient. In its appeal, Illinois said its high court had created an
"untenable state of affairs" under which the police must "shrug their shoulders
and helplessly stand watching" while people run from them.

But "flight is an ambiguous act which does not alone indicate criminal
activity," the Cook County Public Defender's office told the Justices in trying
unsuccessfully to persuade them not to hear the state's appeal.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 15, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Officials Say 25 Kosovars Arrived Under False Names

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 467 words

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, May 14


About two dozen Kosovar refugees at Fort Dix in New Jersey appear to have
violated immigration law by entering the United States under assumed names,
officials said today.

The growing number of cases, up from three just a few days ago, could lead the
United States Immigration and Naturalization Service to revise some of its
practices while dealing with an exodus of refugees from Yugoslavia that is
expected to quickly swell to 20,000.

"We're still really refining our own procedures," said Amy Otten, an immigration
service spokeswoman. "This is a project that we, as a nation, have never
undertaken before." She spoke at Fort Dix, a sprawling Army Reserve training
camp 30 miles east of Philadelphia that has been converted into a processing
center for thousands of ethnic Albanians.

As many as 25 refugees with doctored identities have been discovered among 1,755
ethnic Albanians flown to nearby McGuire Air Force Base from Macedonia.

Four have been jailed at county detention centers in eastern Pennsylvania, where
they awaited deportation hearings. They were detained after United States
officials realized they were not the people they had claimed to be while
boarding a New Jersey-bound jet in Macedonia.

"The situation is that these people don't seem to match their documents, though
we're still checking," Ms. Otten said.

Under standard procedure, they would be expelled from the government's generous
resettlement program for refugees, designated as asylum seekers and remain
behind bars for weeks while awaiting hearings before immigration judges with the
power to deport them.

The I.N.S. quickly came under fire from the human rights watchdog Amnesty
International for stripping the four Albanians of their refugee status and
holding them behind bars.

Amnesty called on the Government to depart from usual procedures and return the
detainees to Fort Dix.

Jodi Longo, Amnesty director for the Mid-Atlantic region, said it was
distressing that refugees "who have gone through the experiences they have" were
behind bars.

Two ethnic Albanian men and a woman, all in their early 20's, were jailed at
county prisons this week, while a 17-year-old girl was held at a juvenile
detention center.

"At the moment, these cases are being handled in an arbitrary way, even though
they are part of a system that is new for the U.S. government," Ms. Longo said.
"This situation demands flexibility.".

Amnesty International, which has long criticized the immigration service for
housing detainees at prisons, said jails were overcrowded, lacked adequate
medical services and exposed detainees to the general criminal population.

An I.N.S. official denied the charges, saying the Kosovo detainees were safe
from other prisoners and were well cared for in clean and orderly centers.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 18, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Releases Jailed Refugees and Will Let Them in U.S.

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 541 words


Four Kosovar refugees, who had been sent to jails in Pennsylvania for having
misled immigration officials in Macedonia in order to reach the United States,
have been released and sent back to the refugee camp at Fort Dix, N.J., where
they will remain eligible for residency in the United States, a spokesman for
the Immigration and Naturalization Service said yesterday.

The unexpected reversal by the I.N.S. came after the agency drew sharp criticism
for having sent the four refugees, one of them a minor, to jails and detention
centers in York, Carbon and Berks Counties. Detention in the county jails was
the first step in what would have been their forced return to the Balkans
through what the I.N.S. calls an "expedited removal process," an immigration
spokesman said, though the four did not have homes to return to.

"The field folks and everyone realized very quickly that we had to work out a
more appropriate process," said Mike Gilhooly, a spokesman for the I.N.S. He
said the four were all legitimate refugees with no criminal records, but had
entered the United States without proper documentation. They were released on
Saturday.

Resettlement officials said that in the crowded refugee camps in Macedonia,
rumors were circulating that the United States would give preference to
resettling intact families, so some people who had lost touch with their
relatives in the confusion of fleeing Kosovo might have patched together ersatz
families. Others may have lied about their ages because the United States did
not intend to admit unaccompanied minors.

Immigration officials have so far found that 33 of the 2,627 Kosovar Albanians
at Fort Dix -- slightly more than 1 percent -- entered the country with improper
documentation.

Mr. Gilhooly said today that the immigration agency had sent only the first four
to county jails, and had moved to find other solutions well before the criticism
late last week.

"We'll look at these small number of cases and determine what additional steps
are needed to complete the resettlement of these people in the United States,"
Mr. Gilhooly said. He said the same procedure would apply to any similar
problems that arise. "We don't intend to place anyone into the expedited removal
process, unless it turns out that they're not refugees, or they pose some threat
to the public," he said.

William F. Schulz, the executive director of Amnesty International U.S.A., said
that if the I.N.S. no longer planned to jail any Kosovar refugees, "then
naturally we commend them for that." But he said the agency's reversal only
underscored "how utterly inappropriate the general practice is." The human
rights organization has criticized the I.N.S. severely for sending both the
Kosovars and foreigners who seek political asylum to county jails, where Mr.
Schulz said they are at times mixed with the general criminal population.

Mr. Gilhooly said that only foreigners who claim asylum as a last resort on the
verge of deportation are sent to county jails. He said the I.N.S. did not have
an estimate of how many people fit into that category. He added that the
I.N.S.'s latest decision applies only to the Kosovar Albanians, whose inability
to return home is not a matter of dispute.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 19, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Law Limiting Medicaid for Needy Immigrants Is Overturned

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 467 words


A state judge has struck down a law that has denied Medicaid benefits to
thousands of needy legal immigrants in New York.

The state law, passed in 1997, barred most poor immigrants who arrived after
Aug. 4, 1996, from receiving Medicaid coverage for nonemergency illnesses for
five years.

The law, however, granted exemptions for immigrants living in nursing homes or
suffering from AIDS as of September 1997, while denying coverage to other sickly
newcomers.

Calling that distinction arbitrary, Justice Sheila Abdus-Salaam of State Supreme
Court in Manhattan said the rules violated the equal protection statutes of the
Federal and state constitutions. States cannot choose which poor people will
receive aid, she said, ruling that the law "discriminates against many legal
immigrants and places vital public assistance benefits beyond their reach."

In her opinion, which was released on Monday, Judge Abdus-Salaam said the law
also violated a state statute that requires New York to provide aid and support
to the needy.

Advocates for the poor called the ruling a victory for immigrants, citing the
cases of people who were denied Medicaid coverage while suffering from kidney
failure, paralysis and other ailments. The advocates said the decision makes
thousands of legal immigrants eligible for Medicaid for the first time since
1997.

State officials, who had argued that providing health care to all immigrants
would lead to reductions in Medicaid benefits to United States citizens, said
they had not yet decided whether to appeal.

"We're in the process of reviewing the decision and beyond that we really can't
speculate," John Signor, a spokesman for the state's Department of Health, said
yesterday.

New York enacted the statute in response to the Federal welfare law, which
barred the use of Federal funds for Medicaid benefits for legal immigrants.
State officials said it would cost New York more than $33 million to cover the
bills of the estimated 100,000 needy immigrants eligible for Medicaid.

"To meet this financial burden, the state would have had little choice but to
allocate monies from other social service programs, reduce benefits to all
Medicaid recipients, or otherwise increase revenues through taxes, fees and
assessments," lawyers for the state argued in court papers.

But Judge Abdus-Salaam ruled that the United States Supreme Court had already
barred states from using limited finances as a rationale for discriminating
among equal classes of people.

Advocates echoed that assessment. "The state is not able to pick and choose
among its favorite immigrants," said Elisabeth Benjamin, a lawyer for the Legal
Aid Society, which filed the lawsuit against the state last October. "The state
must treat all immigrants and all state residents equally."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 21, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

New Protection for Refugees From Right-Wing Oppression

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 709 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 20


Reversing decades-old cold war policy, the Federal Government announced today
that hundreds of thousands of immigrants who fled repression from right-wing
governments will now be eligible for many of the same protections from
deportation that had been reserved for immigrants from left-wing or Communist
countries.

The rule mainly affects about 240,000 immigrants from El Salvador and Guatemala,
who fled the repressive governments and civil wars in those countries in the
1980's and have been living in the United States in legal limbo ever since.
Under the new rule, which takes effect on June 21, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service will more easily presume that these people would be
subject to "extreme hardship" if they returned.

As a result, their applications for legal residency will be streamlined, and
they cannot be deported while that process is under way. Previously, under a law
passed in 1997, protections of this sort had been available only to immigrants
from Nicaragua, who argued that they had been victims of the former Marxist
Sandinista Government, and from Communist Cuba.

Until the 1990's, the United States had backed, even propped up, the right-wing
Governments in Guatemala and El Salvador, despite horrific human rights abuses
in those countries.

The Guatemalans and Salvadorans came to this country "seeking refuge from civil
war and turmoil," Doris M. Meissner, the Commissioner of Immigration and
Naturalization, said today at a news conference. "They have put down deep roots
and are making a significant contribution to society. They've spent decades in
legal limbo, but this gives them permanent relief from deportation or removal."

Central American immigrant organizations had long lobbied the United States
Government to make the change. Most of the immigrants, and their political
allies, are in California and Florida, important states for the Democrats.

But those in Congress who are more conservative on immigration issues had
expressed fear that the blanket amnesty would grant legal status to criminals
and others who are unsuitable for citizenship.

To address those polar concerns, Mrs. Meissner noted that while the immigrants
in question would receive special handling, each would also have to sit for an
interview with an asylum officer. The agency will maintain the right to contest
the application and send the immigrant to court. And, Mrs. Meissner noted, the
review process for all of them would take several years, adding that "while the
review process is under way, these people are safe and able to stay in the
country."

Mrs. Meissner specifically noted that the new rule "will not result in people
getting any benefit that they would not otherwise have received, under a much
longer and more complex and difficult process."

The National Immigration Forum, which lobbies on behalf of immigrants, said, "If
implemented properly, this program could provide a measure of justice to a
defined group of hard-working, long-established refugees" who have been "treated
unfairly for almost two decades."

In a statement, Representative Lamar Smith, the Texas Republican who is chairman
of the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, criticized the new rule,
saying: "Amnesty rewards those who break the law and encourages more illegal
immigration. It is a slap in the face to all those who patiently waited their
turn to come to the U.S."

The new regulation amends a 1997 law that awarded amnesty to 155,000 Nicaraguans
and Cubans but gave less generous relief to the Salvadorans and Guatemalans.

Under the rule applied today, those in the new group will be spared the need to
appear before an immigration judge, where they would have to prove they had
lived in this country continuously for the last seven years and would be victims
of "extreme hardship" if they returned home.

In effect, they will be presumed to be eligible for legal residency unless the
immigration service can find grounds to deny it.

Mrs. Meissner said about 190,000 Salvadorans and 50,000 Guatemalans were covered
under the new rule. In addition, the immigration service said, about 10,000
people who fled Eastern European countries that had been part of the Soviet
Union will also be covered.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Doris M. Meissner (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)


                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 28, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Accuses 3 of Smuggling Mexican Babies

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1385 words

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., May 27


Federal prosecutors today accused two Long Island women and a prominent lawyer
near the Arizona-Mexico border of running a baby-smuggling ring in which at
least 17 Mexican infants were illegally sold to unwitting adoptive parents in
the New York area for $20,000 or more.

According to prosecutors, the Long Island women, Arlene Lieberman and Arlene
Reingold, lured desperate would-be parents with promises of safe, easy, legal
adoptions.

But the adoptions turned out to be anything but legal, prosecutors say. The
lawyer, Mario Reyes, forged birth certificates and consent forms, bribed Mexican
officials to look the other way, and still ultimately failed to receive the
necessary approvals from United States immigration officials, the authorities
said.

A spokesman for the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service said
today that the children would be allowed to remain with their adoptive parents
and that the Government would work to legalize their status.

Ms. Lieberman, 48, and Ms. Reingold, 46, who live a few doors from each other in
a middle-class neighborhood in Medford, in Suffolk County, were arrested this
morning at their homes, according to the United States Attorney's office in
Brooklyn. Mr. Reyes, 40, a dual citizen who practices law in Agua Prieta,
Mexico, less than 100 feet from the border with Douglas, Ariz., was arrested at
his home in Douglas on Wednesday.

The three are charged with conspiring to violate various immigration laws and to
commit mail and wire fraud. They face maximum prison sentences of up to 10 years
for each child smuggled into the United States. Their lawyers could not be
reached.

The three defendants implicated themselves in separate interviews with Federal
investigators earlier this month, according to the affidavit.

Mr. Reyes, the affidavit said, admitted on May 3 that most of the 17 Mexican
children had been smuggled illegally into the United States. He described hiring
professional smugglers, who in turn used women to pose as the children's mothers
during border crossings. And he described a variety of frauds he used to obtain
Mexican birth certificates for the children.

Mr. Reyes also said he had arranged for 10 to 20 Mexican infants and children to
be smuggled illegally in the last three or four years, almost all of them to New
York, where, he said, he had dealt exclusively with Ms. Lieberman and Ms.
Reingold, the affidavit said.

The two women, interviewed on May 7, said they had escorted a number of babies
to New York and had brought their husbands with them at times. They said they
had worked with Mr. Reyes for about 10 years, but there was no indication in the
affidavit about how their relationship with him began.

Prosecutors have not yet determined whether the 17 children from Mexico had been
turned over for adoption voluntarily, sold by one or both of their parents or
even kidnapped. Selling children is a crime in Mexico.

Attorney General Eliot L. Spitzer filed a civil lawsuit today against Mr. Reyes,
the two women and their husbands, and their company, International Adoption
Consultants, seeking to bar them permanently from the business of adoption
placements.

Federal and state court papers assert that Ms. Lieberman and Ms.  Reingold went
into business in 1990 under the name Stork International, ostensibly to provide
information and referrals only. But after state officials received complaints
that they were running an unlicensed adoption agency, the two formed a second
company, Adoption Choice, in 1992, and then a third, International Adoption
Consultants, in 1996.

The companies were never licensed as adoption agencies, yet prosecutors say they
continued to place children with adoptive parents.

Ms. Lieberman and Ms. Reingold have assisted in more than 500 international
adoptions since 1990, according to a 66-page affidavit released by the United
States Attorney's office in Brooklyn. Not all of the children adopted through
the agencies were smuggled, however.

Before making contact with Mr. Reyes and focusing on Mexican children, the two
women brokered adoptions of children from Guatemala, Paraguay and other
countries, in accordance with Immigration and Naturalization Service rules, the
Federal court papers say.

Only the placements of the 17 babies smuggled from Mexico are under Federal
scrutiny. In those cases, according to the Federal affidavit, the three charged
would-be parents as much as $22,000, plus thousands more in consulting fees,
travel and translation expenses.

One parent told investigators that he had asked for a reduction in the fee, but
was told by one of the women that Mr. Reyes had responded, "I am not Monty Hall
and this is not 'Let's Make a Deal.' "

Another parent attempting to adopt a baby recounted how the girl had arrived in
New York gravely ill, the apparent victim of sexual abuse and malnutrition: "Her
eyes did not focus, she smelled terribly, her stomach was markedly distended and
she appeared to have no neck," she said, according tothe affidavit.

"The girl's behavior was also troubling: she licked the walls and woke up from
sleep screaming."

The distraught adoptive parent called Ms. Reingold, "who said that there was
nothing wrong with the girl: all she needed was a little love and good food,"
the affidavit said.

Several of the adoptive parents, who the authorities say were duped by the three
defendants, said they had been emotionally devastated by the experience. Rosalie
Liberto of Miller Place, N.Y., who adopted a daughter, Gabriel, in July 1997,
said she did not learn that her daughter, now 5 1/2, had entered the country
illegally until nearly a year later. "We about died," she said in the affidavit.

"We were petrified that the Government would take her away from us," she said.

Mark Thorne, a spokesman for the I.N.S., said that as long as the children had
not been kidnapped in Mexico, the agency had "no intention of removing the
children, who are innocent victims and who were sold to the defendants.

"We will work with the United States Attorney's office and the individual
attorneys of parents involved to see that these children's status is
legitimized."

But some parents said they remained fearful that the origins of their adopted
children could change things -- if it turned out, for example, that the children
had been kidnapped. "Our biggest fear is that something's going to happen to
make us lose her," said Sara Kruchkow, 46, of Flushing, Queens, over the
telephone tonight as her daughter Maria Soledad, now 3, murmured to her in the
background.

The Mexican border region may have been the source for some of the children.
Clustered around border towns are dozens of assembly plants, called
maquiladoras, in which most of the workers are young, single Mexican women. A
recent investigation by the United States Labor Department found that some
plants actively discouraged their employees from having children, routinely
subjected women applicants to pregnancy tests, and denied them jobs if the tests
were positive.

The smuggling ring was first revealed in Mexico last October, according to the
Federal affidavit, when a newspaper there reported that Mr. Reyes was under
investigation in connection with trafficking in babies and possibly selling body
parts. American authorities soon began their own inquiry, and in December, an
undercover immigration agent posed as a prospective parent and asked Mr. Reyes
for help in adopting a Mexican child; he responded by quoting a $20,000 fee, the
affidavit said.

Mr. Reyes, a well-known citizen in Douglas who ran for the City Council there
last year, is a prominent member of the Lions' Club and plays on its softball
team, several of his neighbors said.

Neighbors of the two women defendants said they often saw them walking back and
forth between their houses on Blackpine Drive in Medford. Gerta LaGreca said
Mrs. Reingold and her husband, Dennis, had lived there for decades and had
adopted a South American child some years ago. She said she thought highly of
the couple.

"I can't complain," she said. "You need help and Dennis and Arlene are the first
to help you."

The shades were drawn at the Liebermans' ranch house and a car in the driveway
was bathed in pollen as if it had not been driven in days.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map shows locations of Douglas and Agua Prieta: A lawyer accused of
baby smuggling practices in a border town. (pg. B5)


                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 2, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Charles Gordon, 93, I.N.S. Counsel

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO

SECTION: Section 1; Page 58; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 350 words


Charles Gordon, a son of immigrants who became the general counsel of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and the founding author of the 20-volume
treatise Immigration Law and Procedure, died on Wednesday at Bay Medical Center
in Panama City, Fla. He was 93 and lived in Potomac, Md., and Panama City.

Mr. Gordon was a seminal figure in modern immigration law. "Immigration Law and
Procedure," which he published starting in 1959, is the principal reference in
the field, widely cited in court opinions and scholarly articles. He continued
to publish supplements and updates to it until he was 88.

"Before him, there was really no complete guide," said a longtime friend,
Maurice A. Roberts, retired chairman of the Board of Immigration Appeals at the
Justice Department.

Mr. Gordon was born on Oct. 12, 1905, in New York City, the son of immigrants
from Eastern Europe. He attended the City College of New York and graduated from
New York University Law School in 1927.

He spent several years in private practice before joining the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in 1939. He stayed for 35 years, rising to general
counsel in 1966.

While at the immigration agency, Mr. Gordon argued eight cases before the
Supreme Court. "He was known as a liberal and someone in favor of a more open,
fairer immigration policy," Mr. Roberts said, but sometimes he had to argue
positions with which he disagreed.

In one such instance, three decades ago, Mr. Gordon lost the case of Afroyim v.
Rusk, in which the Supreme Court ruled that a naturalized citizen cannot lose
his citizenship against his will by voting in a foreign election.

After leaving the agency in 1974, Mr. Gordon went into private practice and
founded a Washington law firm, Gordon & Bryant. During those years, he filed
lawsuits challenging the interdiction of Haitian refugees at sea and
restrictions on Iranian citizens during the Iran hostage crisis. He retired in
1993.

He is survived by his wife, Anne; a son, Michael Gordon of Potomac; a daughter,
Ellen Gittel Gordon of Los Angeles, and two grandchildren.

http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Charles Gordon

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 25, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Damage in Central America Stirs Debate on Immigrants

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 779 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 24


The devastation wrought by Hurricane Mitch in Central America has kicked up a
political and policy storm over the Clinton Administration's policy toward
illegal immigrants and refugees from that region.

This month the Immigration and Naturalization Service said that because of the
devastation left by the hurricane, people from El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras
and Nicaragua who are in the United States illegally and are detained by the
I.N.S. will not face deportation proceedings until Jan. 7, 1999.

"That was the most tangible, concrete, rapid action that we could take to help
these governments cope with this disaster," said Andrew Lluberes, an I.N.S.
spokesman. "The last thing that they needed was to have people deported back to
their countries."

The Administration is also considering granting temporary protective status to
refugees and illegal aliens from the four Central American nations that bore the
brunt of the storm: Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador and Nicaragua. That
designation would allow such people to avoid deportation and work legally in the
United States.

Leaders of immigrant rights organizations also called upon the Justice
Department today to ease the standards under which some refugees and
undocumented workers who arrived in the United States from El Salvador or
Guatemala before fall 1990 can avoid being deported altogether.

"This is absolutely the wrong time to begin a massive deportation to this
region," said Raul Yzaguirre, president of the National Council of La Raza, a
Hispanic organization.

The seemingly mixed message on the issue of Central American immigrants puts
policy makers in a quandary: obeying the law regarding illegal immigrants and
deporting people to the devastated economies of Central America could exacerbate
a terrible situation there.

"There is a double-edged problem here for those countries with the immigrants,"
Hillary Rodham Clinton said today at a briefing on her trip to the region. "One
is, they cannot accommodate people at this time. There's literally nowhere for
people to live or be put. They also would collapse completely, in some cases,
without the funds coming in from the people who are working and sending, in some
cases, in at least one of the countries, up to $1 billion a year, which is a
huge part of their gross domestic product."

Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas, chairman of the House
subcommittee on immigration, said he expected that refugees from Honduras, which
sustained the most damage and loss of life, to be given temporary protected
status. But, Mr. Smith said, the Administration should be careful not to provoke
a rush of illegal immigration of Central Americans seeking to escape the chaos
following the hurricane.

"The worst thing we can do is precipitate an immigration emergency by signaling
that individuals currently in Central America should abandon their countries in
their countries' time of greatest need," said Mr. Smith, the leading
Congressional advocate of reduced immigration.

At the moment, the policy toward Central American refugees is being played out
over regulations governing how a group of about 260,000 Guatemalans and
Salvadorans can apply to become permanent residents. The group is part of a wave
of refugees who fled as their countries became mired in civil wars in the
1980's.

Immigrant rights groups have long accused the Federal Government of a double
standard, saying these refugees were deported because Washington supported their
governments while others from countries with Communist governments, like Cuba
and Nicaragua, were accepted.

Last year, Congress passed legislation that set up two separate procedures.
People from Cuba and Nicaragua who arrived in the United States before December
1995 were automatically given amnesty from deportation. Salvadorans and
Guatemalans, and some Eastern Europeans, have to prove to immigration
authorities that they are of sound moral character and that deporting them would
cause them extreme hardship.

Immigration rights advocates today complained that the new regulations do not
offer a blanket determination that anyone deported to Central America would
automatically suffer extreme hardship because of the hurricane.

"After Mitch, it is hard to believe that the Administration proposes that each
individual prove that he will suffer extreme hardship," said Frank Sharry,
executive director of the National Immigration Forum, an immigrant rights group.

Mr. Lluberes said hearing officers would be trained on the impact of the
hurricane, although the law required that hardship findings must be determined
on a case-by-case basis.


LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 2, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrant Workers Being Fired in I.N.S. Tactic

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1588 words

DATELINE: YAKIMA, Wash.


When Federal immigration agents came to the fruit-packing warehouses here in
central Washington, there were no sudden raids, no emergency deportation
hearings, no buses waiting to take hundreds of illegal immigrant workers back to
the Mexican border, more than a thousand miles away.

When the investigators left, though, there was chaos in the Yakima Valley. More
than 560 people were dismissed, under orders from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, because they possessed forged or otherwise improper work
documents.

The dismissals, which began in February, are part of a stepped-up enforcement
strategy against illegal immigration that expands on what the agency calls its
"interior enforcement program."

As it has done in some places on a much smaller scale, the agency is auditing
workers' documentation in industries across the country, from the farmlands and
fruit-packing plants here in the Northwest to beef-packing plants in the Midwest
to hotels of South Florida. Less expensive and less cumbersome than deportation
of illegal immigrants found in the workplace, the auditing approach is an effort
to cut them off from the goal that brought them to this country: work.

"We are trying to send a message," said Doris M. Meissner, the immigration
commissioner. "The intent is to really change the dynamics, change the climate,
and change the decision-making process of these migrants."

But with 5.5 million people living illegally in the country, it may take a long
time to send that message. And even the immigration agency concedes that the
policy is creating wrenching dilemmas for the immigrants, many of whom have
quietly held their jobs for years, settled in homes and have children who were
born in the United States and thus are American citizens. In many cases, the
children have never even been to Mexico, from which most of the workers come.

"This is a nightmare for so many of us," said Mireya Chavez, who was recently
dismissed after working for nine years in the Yakima Valley, cutting asparagus,
picking apples and packing in the warehouses -- all the time as an illegal
resident -- though her two sons, 7 and 5 years old, are American citizens.

"I'm not looking for help from anyone," Ms. Chavez said. "I just want a job."

The dismissals have created widespread resentment in Yakima -- not just among
the workers but also among the warehouse owners and local officials, who are
wondering how to deal with the effects of a Federal action that has thrown
hundreds of people out of work. Though the workers are entitled to few
government benefits, they can seek them for their children.

"They're still here, and they still have basic needs," said Steve Hill, the
director of community services for Yakima County. "How do they pay their rent?
Where do they get their food?"

Pat Brown, a program manager for the local office of the State Department of
Social and Health Services, said: "People don't seem to be saying, 'Well, if it
isn't O.K. for me to work here, then I'm going back home.' They seem to be
saying, as a group, 'We're staying here. This is home.' "

Coming in the off-season for growing and picking, the dismissals have not had a
major impact on production. Besides, the growers and warehouse owners said that
there had been no shortage of applicants for the jobs. Many did say they were
bothered at being told to let go of good workers.

"The whole thing is an extremely frustrating situation," said Dick Keller,
president of Northwestern Fruit and Produce, who was recently told to dismiss 87
workers from his warehouse. "From the standpoint of the immigration agents I
guess they get it all the way from D.C., from the President on down. They're
told to get out and get something done. Now they've done something, but it's not
curing the problem, and it's creating a lot of disruption for a lot of people."

The audits and firings in nonborder states are not new, but under the policy
shift, they will occur on a much broader basis than ever before, said Mrs.
Meissner, the immigration commissioner. While the intent of the expanded
strategy is clear, the impact remains to be seen. Some of the dismissed workers
here say they will simply look for a new job and take their chances on being
caught again.

Agricultural work has long been readily available to just about any migrant in
Yakima, and the huge pool of willing workers has kept wages low. Employers are
required to check documents, but forged employment or Social Security cards are
readily available. In one raid on a warehouse last November in Los Angeles, the
immigration service found boxes with two million fake identification documents.

"If they ever really go after the farm workers, then the whole agricultural
industry is in deep trouble," said David Carlson, who owns 2,200 acres of
orchards in Wapato, outside Yakima, and a small packing house that was recently
told to fire 9 of its 45 workers.

"A lot of people say the industry shouldn't be employing people who aren't
legal," Mr. Carlson added. "On the other hand, everybody sure seems to like
inexpensive food at the grocery store."

And in many ways, the continued prevalence of illegal workers demonstrates what
immigration experts say has been the colossal failure of the landmark
immigration law passed by Congress in 1986. That measure granted amnesty to
about three million illegal workers, but was intended to stem illegal
immigration with tough new sanctions against employers, including fines and
prison terms.

But the number of people living illegally in the country is growing by about
275,000 a year, according to the immigration service. Employers rarely face
sanctions, as long as they can show that they checked the documents presented to
them.

"It is something you cannot stop, because the conditions that we come from are
so difficult," said Teresa Mendoza, 26, who recently was fired from her packing
job and who has two children, one 5 years old and another 9 months, who are
American citizens. "I am fighting for my dream for them, and I want to work. I
don't want welfare. I have two hands and two legs, and I want to work. What kind
of bad crime am I committing?"

Ms. Mendoza's crime is that she is here illegally, having overstayed her tourist
visa. But immigrants' advocates insist that people like her are really the
victims of a system that almost seems to beg them to come here seeking jobs.

"The number of undocumented workers in this region has been common knowledge to
all for many, many years," said Hector Franco, executive director of Asociacion
de Barrios Hispanos, a Yakima group. "It's totally inhuman to come in now and
treat them like this."

Nearly 1,500 people attended a rally here a few weeks ago, demanding amnesty for
the fired workers, and many political leaders, including Gov. Gary Locke, a
Democrat, have spoken up at least partly in their defense.

"I'm very concerned about the actions of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service in terms of disruption of people, the families who have been depending
on these jobs," Mr. Locke said recently at a news conference in Olympia.

He also said there must be some better system of screening applicants.

The agency has been developing such procedures, it said, and has created a much
more more forgery-resistant version of the "green card," which authorizes
noncitizens to work. But with the agency already contending with record numbers
of citizenship applications, there appears to be little political will for any
new amnesty program; and many immigration officials say such an approach would
send the wrong message to people who are trying to legally obtain citizenship.

Russ Bergeron, a spokesman for the immigration service, said it was mindful of
the suffering caused by the firings, was simply trying to fulfill its
obligation.

"One of the reasons why there is so much controversy when something like this
occurs is that over the past decades, there has been a significant erosion of
respect for Federal immigration law," Mr. Bergeron said. "It is to the point
where individuals and certain business interests and other special interests
have adopted an attitude that it is their right to violate these laws, and that
the Federal Government is conducting some sort of persecution for simply now
enforcing what is the law of the land."

The agency says its "interior enforcement strategy" is aimed at industries that
often are nowhere near the Mexico border, where the ranks of Border Patrol have
been sharply increased as part of the more traditional approach toward stopping
illegal immigration. But even effective border actions can not stop all illegal
immigration: nearly half of all illegal immigrants enter the country legally,
then overstay their visas.

In the fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30, the immigration service said the
audits forced the firing of 44,474 illegal workers. That is only a fraction of
the 1.5 million apprehensions at the border.

Here in Yakima, there is considerable skepticism that the audits will put any
serious dent in the numbers of illegal workers, who remain in such large supply
because not employing them would simply drive up the cost of food.

"They have to pay a lot more for the American people," said a dismissed worker
named Olga, who would not give her last name because she was afraid that she and
her husband, also recently fired, could be subjected to further action. "They
can pay $5.50 an hour to us, while they would have to pay maybe $10 to the
others."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: "This is a nightmare for so many of us," said Mireya Chavez, one
of more than 560 illegal immigrants dimissed in Washington State under orders of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service. She has worked for nine years in
Yakima Valley and has two sons who are American citizens. (Jackie Johnston for
The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 18, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

In Ruse at Border, Borrowed Children Ease Illegal Passage

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1181 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, Tex., June 16


Agent Griselda Vidrio had just wandered into the United States Border Patrol's
processing center after several hours patrolling the weed-girded Rio Grande when
she caught sight of the young Honduran couple and the 7-month-old baby in their
arms.

"You know how it is with a baby, you see one and you go up to them," Ms. Vidrio
said. "The baby looked at me and smiled and something struck me. I knew that
baby. I had held it in my arms. I thought, 'No, this baby has already been
here.' "

Ms. Vidrio's flash of memory on March 31 led to the uncovering of a smuggling
network that, American officials say, was doing something the authorities
suspect is occurring with increasing frequency along the border -- using infants
and young children, perhaps kidnapped, perhaps "rented" from impoverished
parents, as human props to bamboozle border agents.

The ruse is just the latest wrinkle in the game of cat-and-mouse between border
agents and smugglers of illegal immigrants, a game that has only intensified
after recent Federal crackdowns and a sharp rise in the number of agents on the
border.

Smugglers, it seems, have discovered an inadvertent loophole on the United
States border. If illegal immigrants are taken in custody and claim to be a
family, especially with babies or young children, they are simply cut loose and
asked to report for a later court date, as there are no facilities for housing
families on the border and agents say they do not want to split up families.

The practice of letting families go began several years ago, but it has become
more frequent since thousands of Central Americans began trying to get into the
United States in in the wake of Hurricane Mitch, which ravaged large portions of
Central America last fall.

"The reality is that most of them don't show up for their court date, but we do
it for humanitarian reasons, because we don't have the facilities and it's
better than breaking up the family, especially one that's already suffered
something like Hurricane Mitch," said Fernando Quiroja, who initially
spearheaded the baby investigation in Brownsville until it was transferred to
the Federal antismuggling unit in Houston.

This latest, particularly ugly wrinkle in the battle between smugglers and
border agents picked up steam after a recent United States crackdown along the
border in which the number of agents in some stations grew threefold in number.
In Brownsville, the 18-month-old Operation Rio Grande, intended to monitor the
entire river front in the Brownsville area, has increased the size of the
locally based force to more than 350. When Mr. Quiroja first joined the
Brownsville station a dozen years ago, there were fewer than 50.

"The Border Patrol is without doubt a more formidable presence around here,"
said Ivan Welker, Brownsville's assistant city manager. "Back before Operation
Rio Grande, down at the municipal golf course near the border, golfers would
routinely see groups of people who had crossed the river coming out of the trees
and trotting across the golf course. You'd always be seeing groups of people
downtown who looked like maybe they didn't belong in downtown Brownsville. Now,
you don't see that."

The crackdown has made the already dangerous business of smuggling that much
more desperate. By last summer, when South Texas and much of the nation was
caught in a vicious drought and heat wave, border agents received gruesome
evidence of the desperate lengths smugglers were prepared to go, in the form of
the corpses of dozens of illegal immigrants who had been led across the border
in increasingly remote areas and died from heat and lack of water.

In Brownsville, illegal immigrants arrested in the last year have reported that
the price of being taken across the border has risen to an average of $1,400 to
$1,800 a day, up from $300 to $500 a few years ago. And that is for Mexicans
coming across. Those traveling from farther away, like victims of Hurricane
Mitch, must often pay much more.

Border agents found more cases involving the use of unexpected and expensive
modes of transportation, including planes chartered out of Brownsville's
airport. A new route sprang up to bring illegal immigrants up the gulf coast
from Mexico using a network of boats and ferries that connected northern Mexico
with Corpus Christi.

All along the border, from El Paso to the Rio Grande's mouth near Brownsville,
border agents have seen smugglers make increasing use of the 18-wheel
semi-trailers that are moving back and forth across the border by the thousands
since passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement.

"You can't search every semi," Mr. Quiroja said. "You'd back up the whole
border, and they know that. So they corrupt a few individual truck drivers."

In a recent typical case, a truck was found with 101 illegal immigrants hidden
in its trailer.

"In cases like that, a driver might make $100 to $500 a head," Mr. Quiroja said.
"Do the math: That's $10,000 to $50,000, a lot of money. And the smugglers are
probably keeping $1,000 a head."

The mud-streaked infant that led to the discovery of the smuggling network, Ms.
Vidrio recalled, made the agent suspicious when she spotted a turquoise and red
beaded bracelet on the girl's right wrist. This triggered the memory of another
recent illegal immigrant from Honduras, a man claiming he had been left alone
with this very same infant when his wife was killed in Hurricane Mitch.

The agent peppered the young couple with questions. In short order, the scheme
unraveled.

The woman admitted, border officials said, that she had given $1,000 to a
smuggler in Matamoros, just across from Brownsville. The man had paid $1,050.
They were both Honduran, but had not known one another before they met at the
smuggler's safe house that day.

They were given the baby, which they had never seen before, and told to swim
across the Rio Grande just upstream from Brownsville and immediately give
themselves up to border agents. They were to tell officials that they were a
family. Once given their court date and released, they were to travel by bus to
Houston and call the smuggler's accomplice from the bus station.

Instead, it was Federal agents who called the number from the Houston bus
station. They arrested two men who arrived in response to the call, both of whom
were identified by the illegal immigrants, now material witnesses in the Federal
investigation, as among the smugglers they had seen in Matamoros.

The investigation led to a Houston apartment where another woman was taken into
custody. And two days later, the couple who apparently are the real parents of
the infant walked into a Houston police station to report their child kidnapped.

The couple were taken into custody, and Federal officials suspect they had
rented the baby several times to the smugglers, probably for as little as a few
hundred dollars. The baby is now with Child Protective Services in Brownsville.

A Federal grand jury has been hearing the case in Houston and was expected to
hand up indictments as early as next week.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 29, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
4 Accused of Smuggling Immigrants From India

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 240 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


An immigrant smuggling ring enrolled its clients in intensive music and dance
lessons so they could get visas as members of folk groups from India and then
stay in the United States after the groups left, Federal officials said
yesterday.

In at least four cases from 1994 to 1997, Indians paid up to $20,000 each to be
smuggled into the United States as members of legitimate groups that performed
at schools and cultural festivals, said Holly Kulka, an assistant United States
attorney.

The smuggled immigrants did not actually perform, but the lessons helped them
pass random interviews by United States Embassy officials in Bombay who issued
them visas, Ms. Kulka said.

Officials said members of the ring also ran an unlicensed business that bought
gold in the United States and sold it at a profit in India, skirting that
country's limits on gold imports.

Federal indictments were unsealed yesterday against Ajay and Ramanik Patel, a
father and son in Colonia; Kanubhai Patel of Belleville and Hasmukh Patel, who
is believed to be in India, where he coordinated operations, Ms. Kulka said.

All but Hasmukh Patel were arrested yesterday, Ms. Kulka said. She said Kanubhai
Patel, the only one not indicted on charges related to the gold business, was
freed after posting $100,000 bail yesterday in Federal District Court in Newark.

Kanubhai Patel's lawyer, Lawrence Lustberg, said his client was "completely
innocent."

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 19, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Crew Member Admits to Role in Smuggling Chinese Immigrants

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 755 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Aug. 18


Intensifying their investigation of the smuggling of Chinese immigrants into the
United States, a Federal prosecutor said today that one of the crew members of a
smuggling ship that ran aground in New Jersey had pleaded guilty to conspiracy
charges and that another was expected to plead guilty later this week.

At the same time, the prosecutor, Carolyn A. Murray, an assistant United States
attorney in New Jersey, said that the 23 Chinese immigrants who arrived aboard
that smuggling ship and have since been detained by the authorities as witnesses
in the Federal investigation would probably be released on bond soon. Beginning
next week, the Federal Government plans to take depositions from some of the 23
in a process that should take several weeks, and at its conclusion, will allow
the immigrants to be released.

"The whole purpose of the depositions is to keep the amount of time they spend
in custody as witnesses to a minimum," Ms. Murray said after a meeting with
defense lawyers before Judge Dickinson R. Debevoise in Federal District Court
here. So far, the illegal immigrants have been held for more than two months.

Today's proceeding was not a formal hearing; it was more a matter of legal
necessity to coordinate schedules and logistics as the summer winds down. Even
so, the conference hinted at how the Government is proceeding with its
investigation into the smuggling of illegal immigrants, and what lies ahead for
the principal players involved.

The Federal Government is investigating the events surrounding the evening of
May 30, when a power boat carrying the illegal immigrants ran aground in a soupy
fog in the affluent town of Bay Head, N.J., some eight miles north of the
intended destination, Belmar, N.J.

The case attracted additional attention, no doubt, because of its parallels with
the case of Golden Venture, a larger ship that was carrying 286 illegal Chinese
immigrants when it came to a halt in Queens in 1993.

Last month, the Federal Government indicted six men in a conspiracy to smuggle
the 23 Chinese men into the United States. The six were accused of participating
in an international smuggling operation that solicited as much as $40,000 apiece
from anyone interested in leaving Fujian province in southern China for the
United States.

Five of the six are being held without bail in New Jersey jails; the other,
Charng Seon Choi, is still at large. One man facing smuggling charges, Kim Jong
Che, has said that he was born in Korea but lives in Venezuela, while the
backgrounds and residences of the other defendants remain unclear.

But last week, another of the six, Cho Yang Nam, pleaded guilty to one
conspiracy charge, acknowledging that he plotted with unnamed others to smuggle
the Chinese immigrants, according to court documents. He has since agreed to
cooperate with investigators, which could pare his sentence from its maximum of
10 years in jail and a $250,000 fine, the documents show.

Mr. Cho's guilty plea was not disclosed until today, however, because of case
strategy, Ms. Murray said. Another man accused of smuggling, Nam Jick Cho of
Bayside, Queens, may plead guilty this week, she said.

Neither of the Chos -- who prosecutors say are not believed to be related --
appeared in court today. But the other three accused men in custody -- Mr. Che,
Piao Zhen Jia and Jiang Yong Zhu -- did show up in the courtroom, looking
stone-faced while listening to a translator. The trial is scheduled to being on
Nov. 17.

As for the illegal immigrants, they were first held in an Immigration and
Naturalization Service detention center in Elizabeth, N.J. Most were released in
mid-July on bond by two immigration judges, only to be immediately rearrested by
Federal authorities as witnesses in the Federal investigation.

For now, the 23 men remain in Government custody, most in the Passaic County
Jail. But some of the men were briefly reunited last month with several
relatives who appeared in immigration court in Elizabeth to offer testimony to
support the men's release on bond.

Within a week or so, Federal prosecutors are expected to whittle the list of 23
to about 10 or so men from whom they plan to take videotaped depositions.

Those who are not deposed presumably will be released immediately; those who are
formally questioned will be released after their depositions, assuming no
further legal complications, Ms. Murray said.

Of course, the men still face deportation hearings by the I.N.S. But most have
filed for political asylum.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 5, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Four Crewmen Charged In Immigrant Smuggling

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 206 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


The four remaining crew members of a ship suspected of ferrying illegal Chinese
immigrants to the United States were indicted yesterday in Federal court in
Newark on conspiracy charges.

The crewmen of the ship, the Oriental I, were charged in an investigation into
an international smuggling operation that came to light in May when a powerboat
launched from the ship ran aground with 23 Chinese men in heavy fog off the New
Jersey coast.

In a guilty plea entered last month, one of the operation's top organizers said
the Oriental I had transported at least 100 people on as many as five trips from
South America and the Bahamas over a year and a half.

The crewmen, all Venezuelans, were taken into custody in the Bahamas in June
when the United States Coast Guard seized their vessel, said Patty Shwartz, an
assistant United States attorney. The men -- Wilfredo Deffi, 41; Jesus Del
Carmen Rumion, 27; Guillermo Ramirez, 23, and Carlos Yendez-Pastor, 43 -- were
returned to their country in July at the request of the Venezuelan Government to
face charges related to the smuggling operation, Ms. Shwartz said.

Ms. Shwartz refused to comment on Government efforts to have the four men
extradited to the United States.


LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 21, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Breaks a Huge Alien-Smuggling Ring

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1050 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 20


Federal agents have cracked an international ring that made hundreds of millions
of dollars smuggling thousands of Indians and other Asians into the United
States over the last three years, the Government announced today.

The smugglers filled orders from small businesses looking for workers, the
Government said. The businesses or the immigrants' families typically paid
$20,000 or more for each of those smuggled, who made "long, grueling trips
fraught with danger" that often took months, said Paul E. Coggins, the United
States Attorney in Dallas, who is the lead prosecutor in the case.

Once in the United States, some immigrants were kept as virtual captives by
employers or the smugglers until the debt was paid, the officials said.

"This is the largest alien smuggling organization ever dismantled in United
States history," Attorney General Janet Reno said here at a news conference
where she was joined by Mr. Coggins and Doris M. Meissner, Commissioner of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

In three indictments unsealed in Dallas today, 31 people were charged with
bringing illegal aliens into the United States, transporting them within the
United States, conspiracy and money laundering.

Twenty-one of those indicted, including two of the three men identified as
leaders of the ring, were seized in arrests that began last Saturday and lasted
through Thursday, in the Bahamas, Puerto Rico and several cities across the
United States. The rest are at large.

The ring brought about 300 people a month, and as many as 12,000 over three
years, into the United States, Ms. Meissner said. Some of those undocumented
workers, almost all adult men, have been found and are being held as witnesses,
officials said.

This, the officials said, is how the smuggling operation worked:

The ring leaders solicited orders from families in the United States and
employers who were prepared to pay for illegal aliens. The people they helped
bring to the United States were mostly Indians, but some were from Pakistan,
Syria or Afghanistan. In many cases, they were provided false passports and
other documents.

From India, the people were taken to Moscow and then to Cuba. The officials did
not explain why such a circuitous route had been used, but from Cuba, they said,
some workers were taken to the Bahamas and then to Miami. Others were taken from
Cuba to Ecuador and then to Miami or across the Mexican border into the United
States.

They arrived by air, land and sea. Most ended up on the East Coast, but some
have been identified in 38 states.

The money raised from the smuggling enterprise, the authorities said, was
shipped from the United States to India through Canada, Dubai and the United
Arab Emirates. Ms. Meissner estimated that the ring had collected about $220
million over three years.

One of the secret houses where immigrants were held in virtual captivity was in
Miami, the authorities said, and another was in northern New Jersey. Indeed, for
a period beginning in May, four members of the ring held 22 illegal aliens at
the New Jersey house until a smuggling fee of $14,000 was paid for each,
according to a separate Federal indictment that was unsealed in Newark today.

This indictment did not disclose the location of the New Jersey house, but it
said some of the four suspects' illegal planning and acts had taken place in
Hudson County, right across the Hudson River from Manhattan.

Only one of the four has been arrested. He was identified as Pankaj Brahmbhatt
of Union City, N.J. The three at large were identified as Manish Patel, Nilesh
Mistry and Amrish Patel, all of Jersey City. The indictment, announced by the
United States Attorney for New Jersey, Faith S. Hochberg, charged all of them
with conspiracy and harboring illegal aliens.

The officials in Washington declined to say what kind of businesses had sought
the immigrants. They said that the investigation was still under way and that
they expected to arrest the owners of some of these businesses.

But one immigration official, speaking only on the condition that he not be
otherwise identified, said the businesses were primarily in the service
industries, especially fast food. He said the smuggling appeared to have been
arranged by fast-food restaurant owners and franchisees rather than by larger
corporations.

"There is no indication," he said, "that any parent companies were aware of or
involved in that type of activity."

As Mr. Coggins described it, the investigation, called Operation Seek and Keep,
began about a year ago, when some of the smuggled immigrants were arrested in
Dallas. With ample highways and one of the nation's largest airports, Dallas had
become a major trans-shipment point.

"All the same factors that make Dallas a great city of legitimate trade make
Dallas a great city for illegitimate trade," he said. "It's a lot like a drug
cartel, except they substituted people for drugs."

He said the indictments would spin off hundreds of other investigations into the
businesses that had employed the workers.

"Operation Seek and Keep," Ms. Meissner said, "is an important landmark in the
Administration's goal of protecting authorized workers in the United States and
putting unscrupulous employers out of business."

Still, the 300 illegal immigrants a month brought in by the smuggling ring are a
tiny fraction of the number that illegally cross the Mexican border into the
United States every week.

The ring involved three overlapping but competing cartels, the officials said.
They said that the head of one of these organizations, Nick Diaz, who is also
known as Nitin Shettie, was arrested in the Bahamas last Saturday and was in
custody in Miami. He was said to be 30 years old and a resident of the Bahamas
and Ecuador.

Another man said to be a top leader, Navtej Pall Singh Sandhu, was arrested in
San Juan, P.R., on Wednesday. He was said to be 40 years old and a resident of
London.

The man described as the leader of the third organization was identified as
Niranjan Maan Singh, who was said to be 58 years old and at large in India.

Other arrests were made in New York, at La Guardia Airport and on Staten Island;
in North Bergen, Somerset and Perth Amboy, N.J., and in Florida, California,
Texas and Pennsylvania.


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the news conference yesterday, Mike McMahon, a Federal agent,
discussed this Bahamian Government videotape of aliens seized in a raid last
month while waiting to be smuggled into the United States. (Paul Hosefros/The
New York Times)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 3, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
2 Men Are Convicted Of Smuggling Immigrants

SECTION: Section B;  Page 14;  Column 6;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 194 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


Two men were convicted of immigrant smuggling and conspiracy charges yesterday,
six months after they ran aground in Bay Head on a powerboat carrying 23 illegal
Chinese immigrants.

The two men, Kim Jong Che, the skipper of the Oops II, and Jiang Yong Zhu, the
engineer, face a minimum of three years in a Federal prison when sentenced on
Feb. 22, said Vaughn L. McKoy, an assistant United States attorney. The cook on
board, Piao Zhen Jia, was acquitted, Mr. McKoy said.

Mr. Jia will be deported to China as soon as travel arrangements can be made,
said Lynn Durko, a spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
The other two, who are being held at the Passaic County Jail, will be deported
to China after serving their sentences.

Andrew Samson, a lawyer for Jiang Yong Zhu, said his client was merely a
mechanic on the boat and was unaware of any smuggling operation. Mr. Samson said
his client and Kim Jong Che would likely appeal the verdict based on
inflammatory remarks by one of the passengers, who said on the witness stand
that he did not want to answer any more questions for fear of reprisals against
his family in China.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 11, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Ring Is Cracked in Smuggling Of Illegal Chinese Immigrants

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 930 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 10


American and Canadian authorities announced today that they had broken up a
sophisticated ring that smuggled Chinese immigrants into the United States, and
ultimately to New York City, through a Mohawk reservation along the border.

The authorities said the ring, made up primarily of Chinese citizens and members
of the Mohawk tribe, transported more than 3,600 Chinese immigrants across the
lightly patrolled border along the St. Lawrence River and into upstate New York
during the last two years. Officials said 47 people had been indicted for
conspiracy to smuggle immigrants into the United States. Of those, 35 have been
arrested.

"This is the first large-scale alien smuggling operation we have encountered on
the northern border," Doris Meissner, the Commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said in announcing the indictments.

Only about a dozen of the immigrants who were smuggled in have been taken into
custody. Officials said the immigrants, primarily young men from Fujian
Province, paid as much as $47,000 for the journey from China.

Ms. Meissner said she had no information on any specific companies or types of
businesses that the illegal immigrants were working in once they made it to New
York City.

The breakup of the ring comes three weeks after Attorney General Janet Reno
announced the cracking of the largest immigrant smuggling ring to be dismantled
in the nation -- an operation that brought in more than 12,000 people, mainly
Indians, Pakistanis, Syrians and Afghans during the last three years.

Today's announcement highlighted the extent to which the 28-square-mile Indian
reservation that straddles two Canadian provinces and one American state has
become a haven for smugglers. The foggy creeks and wooded islands of the Indian
territory, which is known as the St. Regis Mohawk Reservation on the American
side, and the Akwesasne Indian Territory in Canada, have long been used to
spirit gasoline, cigarettes, tobacco and drugs between the two countries.

In recent years, more and more of the contraband has been human.

"The geography of the Akwesasne is perfect for smuggling," said Thomas J.
Maroney, the United States Attorney for the Northern District of New York. "It's
in Canada. It's in the United States. It's in Ontario. It's in Quebec. A look at
a map shows you how easy it is to use the place as a vehicle for smuggling. It
isn't just aliens, though that's what we're involved with here. There have been
cases of alcohol and tobacco going north and drugs going both ways."

Officials with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police said the investigation into the
smuggling ring began with a tip received 18 months ago. But the transport of
illegal immigrants across the Mohawk land was widely known in the reservation
and surrounding territories.

Last year, a Pakistani woman drowned when a smuggler's rickety boat capsized in
rough waters between Cornwall Island, part of the Indian territory in Canada,
and the American mainland. Residents of the reservation say they are used to
seeing Asian people traveling across their land at all hours of the day or
night, easily evading the 40-officer tribal police force.

"You go outside and it's not uncommon to see people of a different color going
through," said Joyce Mitchell, a spokeswoman for the Mohawk National Council of
Chiefs.

Last year, Canadian police officers broke up a smaller immigrant-smuggling ring
that was importing Chinese, sending some into the United States through the
Mohawk reservation but keeping most of them in Canada. The tip Canadian
officials received involved information that not all the top people in that ring
had been captured and that a similar and larger operation was still going on.
Today's announcement involved the cracking of that second syndicate.

The authorities said the ring transported immigrants through Hong Kong and
Taipei and through a number of intermediate countries, including Germany,
Brazil, Morocco, France, Greenland and Cuba. Once arriving in Toronto or
Vancouver in British Columbia, the immigrants took advantage of Canada's
relatively liberal refugee laws, gaining entry by claiming to be refugees
fleeing persecution in China.

Last year, 24,852 individuals applied to Canada's Immigration and Refugee Board
for asylum. The board, a quasi-governmental body approved 10,042. But officials
say it can take up to 12 months to get a hearing on one's refugee claim. In the
interim, there are no restrictions on the applicant's freedom. Officials could
not say how many of those whose claims were rejected had been removed from
Canada.

In contrast, individuals who show up in the United States seeking asylum are
incarcerated while awaiting a hearing on their claim.

Canadian police officials said that while awaiting a hearing on their claim for
refugee status, the immigrants who had been brought to Canada by the smuggling
ring melted into the large Asian population in Toronto and Vancouver.
Eventually, they were driven to Cornwall Island, Ontario, in the St. Lawrence
River about 50 miles southwest of Montreal. The island is part of Mohawk land.

Smugglers then moved the immigrants by boat to the Mohawk reservation in upstate
New York, officials said, or to a swatch of Indian territory in Quebec on the
south bank of the St. Lawrence, where they can easily cross into the United
States.

As a result of an agreement the tribe has with the United States and Canadian
Governments, there are no border controls between the part of the reservation in
Quebec and the part in New York.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of New York State highlighting St. Regis/Akwesane Indian
Reservation; Immigrants were smuggled on a route going through an Indian
reservation.

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 29, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

82 Smuggled Immigrants in a 3-Day Period, a Record, Are Seized in Florida

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 678 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 28


Eighty-two illegal immigrants from Cuba, Haiti and Jamaica were dropped off at
eight places between Key West and West Palm Beach over the last three days in a
flurry of smuggling that takes a page from the drug trafficking in the seas off
South Florida, Federal officials said today.

United States Border Patrol officials said organized immigrant smugglers using
high-powered speedboats were believed to be involved in all but one of the
incidents, the highest number of landings the Border Patrol has seen in a
72-hour period. They said the boats, which have been used increasingly in the
past year, take smaller groups of people and require more landings than larger
vessels, but can go faster and blend in better to elude law enforcement.

"The biggest benefit is that they can more or less disguise themselves in the
general boating population," said Keith A. Roberts, a spokesman for the Border
Patrol here.

Such speedboats are a staple of cocaine smuggling. They rendezvous with
airplanes to pick up drugs that have been airdropped, and also make delivery
runs between Bahamian islands like Bimini to ports and marinas along Florida's
east coast.

Federal officials said some of the immigrant smugglers, who sometimes use the
Bahamas by having their human cargo dropped off there by larger boats for pickup
by speedboats, use drug trafficking methods because they often smuggle drugs,
too. Of 21 pending Federal prosecutions of immigrant smugglers in South Florida,
Mr. Roberts said, at least 6 cases involve defendants also connected to drug
trafficking.

Although the Border Patrol, which handles the illegal immigrants who make it to
shore, had no year-end figures available, the United States Coast Guard, which
handles those caught at sea, reports a doubling in the number of immigrant
interceptions from last year. So far in 1998, 998 Cubans and 1,345 Haitians have
been intercepted at sea, compared with 406 Cubans and 587 Haitians in 1997.

A Coast Guard spokesman, Petty Officer Jeff Murphy, said one theory for the
rise, which was registered mostly in the second half of the year, is that
because of hurricane destruction in the Caribbean this year, "more and more
people might be willing to risk it all" and leave for the United States.

Still, the numbers are far below their crisis proportions in 1994, when more
than 37,000 Cubans and 24,000 Haitians crossed the Florida Straits.

Since then, the United States, which used to welcome everyone escaping Fidel
Castro's Cuba, has begun repatriating Cubans found at sea, just like Haitians
and others. But those who make it to land are less likely to be deported, and
many Cubans still attempt the crossing. Increasingly, however, they have
resorted to smugglers with boats better equipped for the journey.

"In 1994, it was anything that would float," Officer Murphy said. "We're seeing
more and more sophistication in their approach."

But the smuggling fee -- which Border Patrol officials said averages about
$1,500 but can reach $8,000 or higher -- does not guarantee a safe passage.
Earlier this month a speedboat carrying 21 Cuban immigrants capsized near the
Florida Keys and 14 people drowned. Two men, both of Cuban descent, have been
charged with immigrant smuggling.

Among the 82 illegal immigrants detained over the weekend were 46 Cubans, 30
Haitians and 6 Jamaicans, including 12 minors, officials said. The latest to
arrive were two groups found early today in Miami-Dade County. One group of 18
Cubans landed in Miami Beach's trendy South Beach section, while 7 others made
it to Key Biscayne.

Mr. Roberts said one factor contributing to the high number of incidents this
month was that organized smugglers traditionally -- and erroneously -- assume
that American borders are lightly staffed during the holiday season.

He also said that better coordination with local law-enforcement offices had led
to more reports of suspicious activity from boaters and people walking along the
beaches.

"There seems to be an overall heightened awareness," he said.


LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 15, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
4 Charged in Deaths Of Immigrants in Storm

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 84 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, April 14


Four men accused of smuggling immigrants into the country during a surprise
snowstorm east of here that left eight people dead were charged today in two of
the deaths.

The men, all Mexicans, were indicted on charges of immigrant smuggling resulting
in death, which carries a maximum life sentence, and smuggling an immigrant for
financial gain. The defendants are accused of smuggling two of eight immigrants
who died of hypothermia earlier this month after getting caught in the
mountains.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 27, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
2 Sentenced to Prison For Immigrant Smuggling

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 184 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


Eleven months after 23 Chinese men washed ashore in Bay Head in a wayward
attempt at immigrant smuggling, the captain and mechanic of a ship that carried
the men to New Jersey received Federal prison terms yesterday.

The captain, Kim Jong Che, 38, of Korea, received a 3-year-and-10-month term,
while the mechanic, Jiang Young Zhu, 32, of China, got three years and one
month, said Carolyn A. Murray, an assistant United States attorney. Judge
Dickinson R. Debevoise sentenced the men in United States District Court in
Newark. A third man, Cho Young Man, 37, of Korea, a deckhand on the ship who
testified for the Government, was sentenced to time served, Ms. Murray said.

The ship, the Oriental I, transported the men from Venezuela to New Jersey,
where they were loaded offshore onto a smaller vessel, the Oops II, which ran
aground 12 miles south of its intended destination, Belmar, Ms. Murray said. The
would-be immigrants are in the custody of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, and most are seeking asylum, she said. The captain of the Oops II
remains at large, she said.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 25, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Judge Denies Food Stamps To Able-Bodied Immigrants

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 650 words


Advocates for the poor, who had hoped to force New York State officials to
provide food stamps to thousands of able-bodied legal immigrants, lost a lawsuit
this week when a judge upheld the state's denial of such assistance.

Justice Harold Tompkins of State Supreme Court in Manhattan said state officials
acted reasonably when they decided to provide food stamps only to legal
immigrants who are at least 60 years old, or younger than 18, or disabled. The
state program was created last year to help legal immigrants who were denied
federally financed food stamps under the Federal welfare law of 1996.

The state's policy "targets the limited funds available to the assistance of
those most likely to need help, that is, the elderly, the infirm and minors,"
Justice Tompkins wrote in his decision, which was signed on Monday.

"Focusing benefits on those categories of persons most likely to need assistance
is well within the Legislature's authority as having a reasonable basis," the
justice wrote.

Helen Lee, a lawyer for the Legal Aid Society, which filed the lawsuit against
the state in August in partnership with lawyers at the Welfare Law Center, said
the advocacy groups would appeal the justice's ruling.

The decision marks the second legal defeat for advocates who have been trying to
restore benefits that were denied legal immigrants under the Federal welfare
law. Last year, advocates lost a similar suit against the Federal Government
when a judge ruled that Federal officials, who control immigration, had the
right to deny benefits like food stamps to legal immigrants.

In the case decided this week, the lawyers sued the state on behalf of people
affected by the state's policy, claiming officials violated equal-protection
provisions of the Federal and State Constitutions when they denied food stamps
to more than 31,000 impoverished, able-bodied immigrants between the ages of 18
and 59. Those provisions, the lawyers said, did not allow state officials to
choose which poor people would receive aid.

New York's Constitution also requires the state to provide for the needy, and
the plaintiffs' lawyers charged that the food stamp denial also violated that
legal obligation, leaving many people struggling to survive.

Justice Tompkins did not address the state's constitutional obligation to
provide for the needy, however. Instead, he cited Federal rulings that found
that reasonable policies do not "offend the Constitution simply because the
classification is not made with mathematical nicety or because in practice it
results in some inequality."

He said the lawyers for the poor had failed to prove that the state's policy
lacked a rational basis.

The plaintiffs in the lawsuit included Geraldo Alvarino, who said in legal
papers that he ate only one meal a day, and Francisco Santos of Catskill, N.Y.,
who said he relied on food pantries.

"The Court is sympathetic to the plight of the plaintiffs and their real need,"
Justice Tompkins wrote. "However, it cannot ignore the settled principles of
law."

"We're very disappointed," Ms. Lee, the Legal Aid Society lawyer, said
yesterday. "We believe the decision is wrong. And as a result, more people are
going to go hungry than need to."

John B. Madden, a spokesman for the state's Office of Temporary and Disability
Assistance, which runs the food-stamp program, said state officials were pleased
with the judge's decision.

"New York State is doing more than most states and more than the Federal
Government requires on this issue," Mr. Madden said.

About a dozen states created food-stamp programs for poor legal immigrants who
are not naturalized citizens in response to the Federal welfare law. Some of
those states, including New York, restricted participation.

The New York lawsuit appears to be the first in the nation to challenge
restrictions on a state food-stamp program for immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 26, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Terence Neilan

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 959 words



THE AMERICAS

MEXICO: 4 MORE AMERICANS OUSTED -- Immigration authorities have ordered four
more Americans to leave and not return for two years, accusing them of violating
tourist visas by taking part in a political march in Chiapas state. Two of them,
Jeanne Marie Simonelli, 51, a professor at the State University of New York at
Oneonta, and Katherine O'Donnell, 47, of Hartwick College, also in Oneonta,
denied that they had joined the march and said they would try to reverse the
orders.   Julia Preston (NYT)

MEXICO: GOVERNOR INTERROGATED -- The Governor of Quintana Roo, Mario Villanueva
Madrid, was questioned at the governor's palace for 10 hours by Mexico's special
prosecutor for drug crimes, Mariano Herran Salvatti. The governor is a target of
an investigation into cocaine trafficking through the Yucatan peninsula.   Sam
Dillon (NYT)


MEXICO: ESCAPEE EXTRADITED -- Mexico has extradited to the U.S. a Mexican
citizen who escaped in 1995 from a federal prison in California, where he was
serving a prison sentence for drug crimes. Defense lawyers sought to keep Tirso
Angel Robles in Mexico, challenging the U.S.-Mexico extradition treaty, but a
judge ruled against them and Mr. Robles was handed over to marshals in Dallas.
   Sam Dillon (NYT)

GUATEMALA: JUDGE QUITS BISHOP'S CASE -- A judge presiding over an investigation
into the killing in 1998 of Bishop Juan Gerardi has resigned, saying he received
threatening phone calls. Judge Henry Monroy, left, became the second judge in
less than three months to quit the case of Bishop Gerardi, who was slain after
filing a report blaming the military and pro-Government death squads for most of
the human rights violations in Guatemala's 36-year civil war, which ended in
1996.   (AP)

HAITI: NEW GOVERNMENT FORMED -- President Rene Preval created a 15-member
Cabinet by decree in a move intended to end nearly two years of political
impasse. The new Government will be able to organize elections in a country
where allegations of fraud have prompted most parties to boycott the electoral
process. Mr. Preval dissolved Parliament on Jan. 11.   (AP)

EUROPE

NORTHERN IRELAND: PEACE MOVE BY PREMIERS -- Prime Ministers Tony Blair of
Britain and Bertie Ahern of Ireland are expected to intervene in the dispute
over disarmament of the I.R.A. The Irish Foreign Minister, David Andrews, said
the two leaders would travel to Belfast next week to work on a compromise in the
dispute, which is delaying the transfer of home-rule powers from London to the
new Northern Ireland Assembly.   James F. Clarity (NYT)

SWITZERLAND: BANK'S HOLOCAUST STUDY -- A study by the Swiss National Bank said
its officials ignored Allied warnings that they were buying looted Nazi gold and
continued as Hitler's biggest gold purchaser. The report said the bank's
directors "misjudged the political, legal and moral aspects" of its
transactions. Although the bank has contributed about $70 million to needy
Holocaust survivors, it has refused to help finance the $1.25 billion settlement
agreed to by the largest Swiss banks.   Elizabeth Olson (NYT)

GERMANY: EXTREMISM ON RISE -- The Government said right-wing extremism is on the
rise and reaching more people through the use of the Internet and skinhead rock
groups that perform songs with racist lyrics. Germany's anti-extremist watchdog
group, the Office for the Protection of the Constitution, said the number of
far-right supporters had increased 11 percent in 1998 to 53,600, including 8,200
people described as violent, an increase from 7,600 in 1997.   (Reuters)

ASIA

INDIA: CURBS ON PAKISTANIS EASED -- India has eased visa restrictions for seven
categories of Pakistanis, including members of Parliament, provincial
legislators, editors, judges and cricket and field hockey players. Multiple
entry visas will be granted, and visa holders will be excused from the customary
requirement of reporting to the police.   Barry Bearak (NYT)

PHILIPPINES: TROOP PULLOUT -- The military began withdrawing troops after
Communist guerrillas ordered a cease-fire so that a captured army general and
four other officers can be released to the Government. Though the Communist
insurgency has faded, it continues to conduct small raids.   Seth Mydans (NYT)

PAKISTAN: ACTIVIST RETURNS AWARD -- Pakistan's most respected human rights
activist, Abdul Sattar Edhi, 72, said he would return a top national civil award
in disgust at the poverty and hunger in his country. Mr. Edhi was awarded the
Nishan-i-Imtiaz in 1982 for his services to society through the creation of the
Edhi Welfare Trust.    (Agence France-Presse)

AFRICA

ALGERIA: PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN -- Algeria's seven presidential candidates opened
a three-week campaign for the April 15 election, all promising to pull the
country out of seven years of civil strife, and rescue the economy.   (Reuters)

SIERRA LEONE: DEATH TOLL GROWS -- At least 6,350 people killed in fighting in
January in Freetown, Sierra Leone, have been buried in mass graves, the
authorities said. In February the U.N. put the figure at 5,000 in a report on
fighting between rebels and West African forces defending the Government. A
Health Ministry official said the higher figure followed the exhumation and
reburial of bodies from makeshift graves.   (Reuters)

MIDDLE EAST

IRAQ, SYRIA: NEW TIES -- Iraq and Syria, which broke off diplomatic relations in
1980 at the start of the Iran-Iraq war, are taking steps toward normalization by
opening interest sections at the Algerian embassies in each other's capitals,
diplomats in Baghdad said.   (Agence France-Presse)

 Compiled by Terence Neilan


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 11, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

INSIDE

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 212 words



Army Indicts Retired General
David R. E. Hale is accused of having sexual relationships with the wives of
four officers when they were under his command. Page A15.


Arrests in Alien Smuggling
A smuggling ring brought in Chinese immigrants through a Mohawk reservation on
the border between Canada and New York, the authorities said. Page B1.

Execution Is Delayed
The United States Supreme Court delayed Texas' execution of a Canadian who had
been denied the right to speak with consular officials when he was arrested.
Page A12.

Threat to Israel Voted Down
The Central Council of the Palestine Liberation Organization ratified amendments
to the group's charter that nullify clauses calling for the destruction of
Israel. Page A6.

Russian Budget Presented
The Government unveiled its 1999 spending plan to halt Russia's economic tumble,
but it was widely criticized as overly optimistic. Page A3.

Guilt in Bosnia Rape Case
A United Nations war crimes tribunal convicted a Bosnian Croat paramilitary
chief for allowing a subordinate to rape a Muslim. Page A10.

Stadium Deal Could Change
Governor Rowland of Connecticut said parts of a stadium deal with the Patriots
were too generous and that he would seek changes. Page B1.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hirschfeld Denies Charges -- "I never hired nobody to kill him,"
said Abe Hirschfeld, the real estate magnate, to accusations he plotted against
a business partner. Page B1.

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 21, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

2 Arrested as Cuban Refugee Rescue Ends

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 18;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 513 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 20


Coast Guard rescue teams looking for 6 people missing since a speedboat carrying
21 Cuban refugees capsized have called off the search and charged two men with
alien smuggling.

The two men were among the nine passengers who survived the capsizing on
Thursday night and clung to the boat's hull for more than 10 hours before being
spotted by a Greek freighter on Friday morning. They were arrested that night.

The Coast Guard recovered the bodies of 8 of the 23 people aboard, but the
search for the 6 missing was suspended Saturday evening. "We don't have hope of
recovering the bodies," said a Coast Guard spokesman, Paul Henley.

Both men charged, Francisco Gomez, 34, who owned the boat, and Pedro Guevara,
32, are natives of Cuba who live in Florida. Border Patrol officials said they
had been investigating Mr. Guevara for previous smuggling incidents.

The survivors included a 4-year-old and a 9-year-old. Three survivors were Mr.
Guevara's relatives, said Dan Geoghegan, the assistant chief of the Border
Patrol in Miami.

Although the smuggling of aliens, a Federal crime, normally carries a maximum
penalty of three years in prison for each person smuggled, both men could face
the death penalty, which is allowed in cases in which lives are lost.

The boat, a 30-foot Scarab, flipped over near the northern Florida Keys,
possibly because of engine trouble and overcrowding, the Coast Guard said.
Border Patrol officials said it had departed from Tavernier, in the middle Keys,
picked up the refugees and was headed back to Florida. The officials were not
sure whether the boat had taken the passengers from Cuba or from the Bahamas, a
common starting ground for Cuban refugees wishing to enter the United States.

The incident highlighted what law-enforcement agents say is an increase in the
smuggling of aliens in the three years since President Clinton, acting on an
agreement with the Government of Fidel Castro, ordered the repatriation of
Cubans trying to enter Florida by sea. The President's mandate, enacted in 1995,
reversed a 35-year policy that had welcomed such refugees to American shores.

For years, most Cubans who wanted to come to the United States were forced to
use small rafts in a journey fraught with danger and deprivation. Thousands are
thought to have died in the unpredictable waters of the Florida Straits and only
a few, like well-known baseball players, received widespread attention. Since
1995, however, more Cubans have been resorting to smugglers, who own boats that
are better equipped for the journey.

"We don't see many genuine rafters anymore because of the interdiction policy,"
Mr. Geoghegan said. "If you use a faster boat, there is less chance of being
intercepted."

For smugglers, the route from Cuba to Florida has become profitable. In an
incident in early summer, Mr. Geoghegan recalled, Border Patrol officials found
that smugglers were charging immigrants $9,000 apiece for the trip. It was not
clear how much money Mr. Gomez and Mr. Guevara were thought to have charged the
refugees on the Scarab.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hearses leaving the Coast Guard station at Miami Beach, carrying
the bodies of Cuban refugees who drowned when their boat capsized in the Florida
Keys on Thursday night. Six people remained missing yesterday. (Associated
Press)


                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 13, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

IN BRIEF;
Motor Vehicle Scheme

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 7; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 371 words


After a 15-month investigation, two Department of Motor Vehicle clerks in
Yonkers, the owner of a Bronx driving school, a New York City correction officer
and another man have been arrested on charges they issued false documents to
illegal aliens and others in exchange for cash.

It is charged that they were involved in an operation to provide false
identification like a driver's license to illegal immigrants, among others. They
allegedly filled out paperwork for the people and directed them to a clerk
inside the Yonkers motor vehicles office who endorsed the paperwork and issued
the documents. The three men allegedly gave the clerks a percentage of the fees
collected.

The documents were used to operate motor vehicles, obtain credit cards and open
bank accounts.

Westchester County District Attorney Jeanine Pirro and Police Commissioner
Joseph Cassino of Yonkers identified the two clerks from the Yonkers Motor
Vehicles office as Joseph Corsino, 40, of the Bronx, and Wayne Sept, 35, of
Brooklyn. The police also arrested Jose Romero, 33, the operator of the driving
school in the Bronx, and Omololu Osibodu, 32, of Brooklyn.

Mr. Corsino and Mr. Romero were charged with offering a false instrument for
filing, a Class B felony, which carries a maximum sentence of up to four years
in prison. Mr. Sept and Mr. Osibodu were charged with receiving a bribe, a Class
D felony, which carries a maximum sentence of seven years in prison.

Also arrested was Toby Singletary, 27, of Queens, a clerk in the Yonkers office
in 1998 when she is alleged to have taken part in the operation. Before her
arrest she was hired by the New York City Department of Corrections. She was
also charged with receiving a bribe.

During the investigation, the police used undercover agents, Mrs. Pirro's office
said, adding that the operation appears to have been increasingly lucrative. The
price for a false license or nondriver identification card ranged from $800 in
early 1998 to more than $1,700 recently.

The New York State Department of Motor Vehicles Inspector General's Office and
the State Police, along with the New York City Police Department and the United
States Department of State joined in the investigation.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 4, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Legal Immigrants, Too, Lack Care

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 153 words



To the Editor:

You suggest (front page, July 1) that noncitizens who are ineligible for
government entitlements are "probably illegal immigrants." Unfortunately,
illegal immigrants are not the only group of noncitizens who are barred from
receiving government entitlements; there are hundreds of thousands of immigrants
lawfully residing in the United States who have been denied access to
entitlement programs on the basis of their immigration status.

That these legal immigrants are refused adequate health care because of their
immigration status and are consequently forced to rely on emergency rooms is a
scandal. Perhaps we would not need to be so concerned about the overcrowding of
emergency rooms, and medical immigrants would not pose such a burden, if
immigrants lawfully residing in the United States had access to Medicaid.

MAGGIE RUSSELL
Brooklyn, July 1, 1999






http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 14, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

7 Die in California Desert, Probably Left by Smuggler

BYLINE: By DON TERRY

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 565 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 13


In an oven-hot patch of desert just north of the Mexico border, the bodies of
seven people were found today, apparently the victims of the heat and their
dreams for a better life.

The authorities said it appeared that the group had illegally crossed into the
United States from Mexico and had been abandoned by smugglers in one of the
worst cases of death along the border in years.

"Typically, what we find is one or two people dead from the heat at one time,"
said Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. "But I can't recall a group this large dying from the heat."

Mr. Strassberger said the five men, a woman and a teen-age boy had been dead at
least three days when their bodies were discovered about 90 miles east of San
Diego and about 35 miles north of the Mexico border in a stretch of desert where
temperatures on a cool day hover above 100 degrees. They were about seven miles
west of Highway 86.

"It's a tough area for the agents to work in," he said, "so you can imagine what
it's like for someone trying to sneak in."

The bodies showed no signs of foul play, but the authorities are searching for
their smugglers, who could be sent to prison for life if captured and convicted
of bringing the undocumented immigrants across the border and then leaving them
to die.

The bodies were found after a farm worker stopped at a border checkpoint at the
intersection of Highways 78 and 86 at 8 A.M. and reported seeing several people
possibly in distress a few miles away. The worker drew a map for the border
patrol agents, who then called for a search plane.

Six of the bodies were under a salt cedar tree about 250 yards from a bumpy dirt
track called Pole Line Road; the seventh was about 20 feet away. There were no
water bottles around, leading immigration officials to speculate that a smuggler
had dropped the people off to wait for a connecting ride.

"It appears they just waited and waited until it was too late," Mr. Strassberger
said.

Luis Herrera-Lass, counsel general for the Mexican consulate in San Diego, said:
"This is a very unusual case. We haven't in recent times had seven people die at
one time."

The usual scenario for multiple deaths of immigrants is car accidents, Mr.
Herrera-Lass said.

Still, in July 1987, the bodies of 18 illegal immigrants were found inside a
locked steel-walled boxcar near Sierra Blanca, Tex. The authorities called it a
bungled smuggling attempt.

Before today, California authorities said seven people had died from the heat
since last January and 29, including a man found today, had drowned. Along the
nation's border with Mexico, 80 illegal immigrants have died from heat this
year, 23 in California and Arizona and 57 in Texas and New Mexico.

They have died despite an extensive news campaign on both sides of the border
warning of the dangers from crooked smugglers, rivers and the sun.

On Wednesday, a man was found dead in the desert, seven miles west of where
today's bodies were found.

A few years ago, smugglers were charging a couple of hundred dollars. These
days, Mr. Strassberger said, the price can be exceed $1,200 a person.

"We can get the word out about how dangerous it is," he said, "but everyone
seems to believe ending up dead or hurt is something that is going to happen to
the other guy. They all say the same thing, 'I'll get through.' "


LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Seven people, apparently illegal aliens, died in a hot patch of
California desert. United States Border Patrol vehicles removed the bodies
yesterday. (Associated Press)

Map showing the location of where the bodies were discovered


                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 7, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Rights Case Lawyers Seek to Bill State

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 132 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 6


Dozens of lawyers who successfully fought to block Proposition 187, the
anti-illegal immigration measure, want to bill the state for $3.1 million in
legal costs.

Court records show that 31 lawyers from several civil rights groups have asked a
Federal judge to approve the bills for their fight against the measure, which
California voters approved in 1994.

Proposition 187 sought to ban illegal immigrants from receiving public education
and most government social services. Five lawsuits against the proposition were
consolidated in Federal court. In November, a judge ruled most provisions of the
measure conflicted with Federal immigration laws. The ruling currently is being
appealed.

Federal law allows lawyers who successfully argue civil rights cases to recover
legal fees.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 13, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Train Kills 6 Mexicans As They Slept on Tracks

BYLINE: By BARBARA WHITAKER

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 785 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Oct. 12


Six people believed to be illegal immigrants from Mexico were fatally hit early
today by a freight train as they slept on a desolate stretch of tracks in
southern Texas. Officials said they believed the immigrants might have been
victims of a superstition that the rails would keep them safe from snakes.

"There's a myth that if you sleep between the rails that snakes will not get
you," said Mark Davis, a spokesman for Union Pacific. "You go down the railroad
tracks, you'll see snakes cut in half."

Mr. Davis said the driver of the train blew the whistle repeatedly when he
noticed the people on the tracks. Although a couple of the victims raised their
heads, no one got off the tracks. Mr. Davis said he was uncertain how far the
train was from the victims when the driver saw them. But, he added, that it
would have taken a mile to stop the 105-car train, which was traveling between
45 and 49 miles per hour.

The vast ranchlands of South Texas that stretch between the Rio Grande and San
Antonio are among the most remote in the state, mile after mile of mesquite,
prickly pear, citrus farms and grazing lands that are a prime avenue for illegal
immigrants trying to make their way from the Mexican border to San Antonio or
Houston.

While illegal immigrants have been killed while sleeping on railroad tracks
before, never have so many been killed in one accident, said Fred Borrego,
patrol agent in charge of the United States Border Patrol in Kingsville. Between
2,000 and 3,000 illegal immigrants pass through his 2,600-square-mile patrol
area each month, he said.

The most recent victims, who were badly mutilated, have not been identified.
They were taken to Corpus Christi where the authorities will try to use
fingerprints to determine their identity.

Mr. Borrego had another possible explanation for the accident.

"Another theory I've been told is that in Mexico the trains don't run at night,"
Mr. Borrego said. "They say they sleep up there because they feel a lot safer."

Although it seems implausible that people could sleep with the noise of a train
running toward them, Mr. Davis said, "a train operating when you're in front of
it is very, very quiet."

The engine noise is primarily to the side, he said, and there is very little
friction on the rail itself.

"I know it's hard to believe," Mr. Borrego said. "I've experienced this myself."

But, officials in the Kenedy County Sheriff's Office, speculated that the hard
traveling conditions confronted by the immigrants could also have played a role.
The terrain in the area is very rugged, with most of it being brush covered.

"You think, 'I'd never fall asleep there' or 'Why wouldn't they wake up?' " said
Hopy Alines, a secretary in the sheriff's office. "But it just doesn't happen.
These people travel three, four and five days without eating, without sleeping.
They're just completely exhausted and they don't wake up."

Generally the illegal immigrants traveling through the county go unnoticed aside
from the trail of odds and ends they leave behind, Ms. Alines said. "You'll see
empty bottles, sometimes bags of clothes," she said. "We get a lot of calls
where they break in and all they ever take is food and water."

It is generally when people get sick or have problems that officials hear
stories like the ones about people sleeping on the tracks.

Mr. Davis estimated that four to six people a year are injured or killed while
sleeping on railroad tracks. In fact, he said, there have been cases where
people sleeping on tracks have been run over and survived.

"Unfortunately, or fortunately, they're intoxicated," he said.

The train, which was carrying a variety of freight like scrap paper and metal
automobile parts, was traveling from Houston to Brownsville when the accident
occurred about 3:15 A.M. near Norias, 60 miles north of Brownsville.
 Last year in Texas, Mr. Davis said, there were 38 fatalities and 80 injuries
involving what railroad officials call "trespass accidents," cases where people
were struck on or near tracks or trying to get on a railroad car.

Mr. Borrego said the last time he could remember a large group of illegal
immigrants being killed on train tracks was in 1983 or 1984 when 14 people were
killed trying to cross a railroad trestle.

Border Patrol officials along with Union Pacific officials caution illegal
immigrants about sleeping on railroad tracks as part of general warnings they
give illegal immigrants when they are caught at the border.

"Sometimes they don't get the word," Mr. Borrego said. "The conditions out here
are rigid. You've got cactus, mesquite. It's no fun walking through the
territory. They run out of water, they get bit by snakes."

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of Texas shows location of Norias: Six people were run over by a
freight train near Norias, Tex.


                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 27, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
West New York Police Named in More Charges

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 198 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


New charges yesterday involving police corruption in West New York accused
officers of extorting payments 125 times from people they believed were illegal
immigrants in return for not charging them with petty offenses.

The new Federal indictment also raised to $800,000, from $600,000, the amount
that prosecutors say the officers got from various rackets, including protecting
illegal gambling, illicit liquor sales and prostitution from 1989 to last year.

Five officers have been accused in the superseding indictment, including one who
had not been named in the original indictment in January. A total of 31 people
have now been charged in what prosecutors believe is the largest case of police
corruption ever exposed in New Jersey. To date, 21 people have pleaded guilty,
including the former police chief and seven other officers.

The victims described in the new charges were chosen by at least two of the
officers charged yesterday because they spoke little or no English and were
believed to be illegal immigrants who would be unlikely to complain, said United
States Attorney Faith S. Hochberg. Most had been stopped for offenses like
public drunkenness, she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 23, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Scope of Smuggling Ring Stuns an Enclave

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 818 words

DATELINE: ISELIN, N.J., Nov. 22


On a crisp November Sunday, Oak Tree Road here was the picture of a thriving
South Asian immigrant enclave. The windows of gold jewelers sparkled with
22-karat necklaces. Shoppers went in and out of the markets, arms loaded with
sacks of vegetables and spices from home.

But today, just under the sunny surface was a palpable sense of anxiety.

By indicting 31 people worldwide last week, in an international smuggling
operation that brought thousands of illegal immigrant workers from the Indian
subcontinent, Federal law enforcement officials struck at a ring that brought in
a constant supply of cheap, often illegal, labor. The supply from that ring,
merchants in Iselin say, helps drive this thriving ethnic enclave.

Today, just days after an unpleasant secret in their community had been exposed,
business owners up and down Oak Tree Road expressed fear about the prospect of
immigration raids and increased scrutiny by Federal authorities. Several
merchants said they were aware of businesses along the strip that relied on
illegal immigrant help.

None of the merchants along Oak Tree Road would allow their names to be used.
But they said they worried that the arrests in connection with the smuggling
ring -- which Federal agents say was headed by a man based in the Bahamas named
Nitin Shettie, also known as Nick Diaz -- would lead its members to report on
other smugglers and the business owners who rely on them to bring in workers.
"You can call it jealousy," said a shopkeeper, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity, "or you can call it competition."

The owner of one restaurant here said today that the New Jersey men who were
indicted last week were known smugglers, but that their organization was only
one of many that shopkeepers could turn to if they needed extra workers.

Four months ago, the merchants pointed out, two of Iselin's most prominent shop
owners were arrested on charges of immigrant smuggling and money laundering.

The ring uncovered last week came to the attention of immigration authorities
several months ago when one of the deals went awry, according to a lawyer
representing two of the smuggled immigrants.

The lawyer, Suresh Dalal of Woodbridge, N.J., said that five illegal immigrants
were arrested by immigration authorities in Miami on their way from the Bahamas
to New Jersey. Their smugglers bailed them out at $5,000 apiece, and, once the
immigrants were in New Jersey, tacked the penalty onto their $20,000 smuggling
fee. Mr. Dalal said the financial dispute that followed ultimately led one of
the illegal immigrants to tip off the Federal authorities.

Mr. Dalal, who represents two men from the western Indian state of Gujarat, said
his clients had been flown to the Bahamas, where they boarded a ship to Miami
with more than 20 others from the subcontinent. They were taken to a house in
Jersey City, where they stayed for a day or two until a friend or an employer
paid the smuggling fees.

Most of them, he said, found work at Indian shops in New Jersey.

Federal officials involved in the investigation said they were approached a year
ago by an immigrant in Dallas who detailed the smuggling operation. Several
investigations then appeared to coalesce, immigration agents in Dallas said.

On Friday, officials with the United States Attorney's Offices in Texas and New
Jersey unsealed indictments in what Federal authorities described as the largest
immigrant smuggling ring ever uncovered in the United States. Of those indicted,
10 are still at large, according to the United States Attorney's office.

Neither the smuggling patterns nor its routes are new.

At least since the 1980's, illegal immigrants from India, Bangladesh and
Pakistan have flown first to Europe, which is usually easier than going directly
to the United States. From there, they have traveled to Latin America or the
Caribbean, and either walked across the Mexican border or sailed near Miami,
sometimes swimming to shore.

For years, they have put themselves in the hands of smugglers who, for a hefty
fee, acted as their travel agents. And they have been easily absorbed in the
thriving enclave economy.

What made this smuggling operation stand out, immigration officials said, was
the vast number of employers who had tapped into it in search of workers. Mr.
Bergeron said most other smuggling rings are connected to only a few employers.

In New Jersey's Indian community, it was the scope of the ring that came as a
surprise. In three years, Federal officials said, it smuggled into the United
States as many as 12,000 illegal immigrants, mostly from India, but also from
Pakistan, Afghanistan and Syria.

"I've seen nothing like this, nothing of this magnitude," said Rohit Vyas, the
news director of TV Asia, a cable station catering to the area's South Asians.
"I think the community better start looking at itself a little more closely."

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Last week's indictments in an immigrant smuggling case have
worried many South Asian merchants along Oak Tree Road in Iselin, N.J. They
expressed fears about the prospect of more scrutiny by the authorities. (Dith
Pran/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 10, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Deserve Deportation, Not Help

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 15; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 173 words


"Immigrants Find the Island a Mixed Blessing" Dec. 27 described the effects of
illegal aliens on the life of Long Island. Many people interviewed work in
construction or factories. Many have their children with them. Many are paid
below minimum wage and pay no taxes.

These people knowingly broke the law to enter this country. They are taking jobs
that displace American citizens, many as entry-level jobs that affect American
minorities. While paying little or no taxes they strain our medical system, and
their children often require expensive bilingual and special education.

A recent report by the National Academy of Sciences states that illegal
immigrants have depressed the earnings of lower-class American workers, cost
American citizens taxes and add to the overcrowding and costs of education.

We must vigorously enforce our laws by identifying and deporting illegal aliens.
Not to do so is to betray and hurt our fellow citizens and immigrants who
legally enter this country.

ROBERT F. LA PORTA
Dix Hills

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 14, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

A Silicon Wall Rises on the Border

BYLINE: By VERNE G. KOPYTOFF

SECTION: Section G;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Circuits

LENGTH: 2161 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


FROM a hillside overlooking the border with Mexico, you can see the many
obstacles that illegal aliens and drug smugglers must navigate to enter the
United States. There is a steel fence cutting across miles of scrub, stadium
lights that illuminate the night and hundreds of Government agents posted in
vans and inspection booths.

But increasingly, the border is being fortified with yet another line of defense
that even the fastest sprinter may have trouble eluding. Whether using stealth
or crossing legally by car, citizens and noncitizens alike must now overcome a
barrier of computer chips, copper wires, video monitors and camera lenses.

To bolster its effort to stop lawbreakers from entering the country and to speed
along the law-abiding, who sometimes wait for hours to cross the border with a
truck or car, the Government is enlisting the help of technology. Within the
first moments of entering the United States, most travelers become the focus of
electronic scrutiny.

"We are clearly coming into the 20th century just in time," said Doris Meissner,
Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Nowhere is that more true than here in San Diego, where thousands of people
cross the border, legally and illegally, each day. The Federal agencies that
oversee the frontier have installed an array of gadgets that can, for example,
find hidden compartments where drugs may be stashed, scan license plates to see
if a car is stolen and help law enforcement agents see people concealed in the
bushes.

The investment in border technology is part of a larger effort to control the
nation's frontier with an infusion of personnel, fences and aircraft. While
critics say that the buildup has merely shifted the stream of illegal traffic
from urban areas like San Diego to more remote locations, officials say that
they are gaining the upper hand.

But some supporters of immigrants rights complain that electronic deterrents are
intrusive and not very neighborly. Some question whether it is necessary to
"militarize" a border shared with a friendly nation.

Among the most sophisticated systems on the border is one at the Otay Mesa
crossing, a bustling port of entry on the outskirts of this seaside city.
Frequent commuters can avoid long car lines of up to two hours by using what is
called an automated driving lane. It is the difference between traveling first
class and suffering in steerage.

Cars in the program are equipped with transponders that emit a sort of radio
fingerprint. As a car approaches the border, the license plate number, along
with the names of the authorized occupants and their photographs, appear on a
monitor inside the inspector's booth. Inspectors compare these images with the
faces inside the cars to see if there are any impostors.

Leaning outside her booth into the car fumes on a recent afternoon, Christine
Aranita, an I.N.S. inspector, found people who had shaved their beards or gained
weight, but nothing out of the ordinary.

As drivers swiped an identity card through a machine, she asked if they had
brought anything with them from Mexico and, when told no, wished them a good
day.  A few people chosen at random were referred to the inspection area by the
computer as a precaution against smuggling, but most quickly continued on their
way.

"In the other lanes, you have to check the immigration documents and make sure
that they actually belong to them because we have a lot of fraud," Ms. Aranita
said. "The good thing about the automated lane is that they've already gone
through a background check, so it's much faster. We already know who they are."

The goal of the automatic lane is to allow inspectors to dispatch low-risk
travelers quickly and spend more time with the others. As it is, inspectors in
the regular lanes typically spend less than a minute to question each person and
examine the person's documents.

Olga Gomez, one of 3,300 people authorized to use the automated lane, was
enthusiastic about the program. "Waiting in line used to be horrible" when
commuting between her home in San Diego and her job at a furniture factory in
Tijuana, Mexico, she said. Now she crosses the border in about 40 seconds and
thinks nothing of the $129 annual fee to participate in the program.

"Believe me, I pay that with a happy face," said Ms. Gomez, who was having her
fingerprints scanned by a computer in the port office to renew her identity
card.

Some remote ports of entry along the Canadian border use other kinds of
technology that allow people to cross even after everyone who works there has
gone home for the day. At a crossing in Scobey, Mont., for example, residents
can speak into a microphone connected to a computer that analyzes their voices
and lets those it recognizes pass.

In the Northeast, there are several isolated border crossings where inspectors
can work via video camera from dozens of miles away. Travelers must hold up
their identity documents and sometimes open their trunks for a camera so the
images can be transmitted back to inspectors watching live on a television
screen.

Cameras also play a role at Otay Mesa, where they scan the license plate number
of every passing car so a computer can check it against those on a criminal
lookout list. If the computer finds a problem, it alerts the inspector with a
loud beep.

Keeping reliable files on illegal aliens, who often use fraudulent documents or
carry no identification, is almost as easy. Using digitized fingerprints, a
computer system can determine whether an alien has been caught before and is
wanted by the police.

A Mexican woman who identified herself as Patricia was looking glum as an
inspector entered her fingerprints and digital photograph into the database. She
had tried to fool inspectors by using someone else's United States birth
certificate and would now be deported and prohibited from legally entering the
country for five years.

"Before it was like, 'Do I know you?' " said Rick Perez, an immigration agency
supervisor at Otay Mesa. "Unless you recognized the person, you would never know
whether they had been apprehended before."

It used to be difficult enough just to determine whether someone crossing the
border was carrying authentic documents. But the agency has recently started
phasing in cards that include holograms, magnetic stripes and digital
photographs, which make them more difficult to forge.

Layered defense is also the theme in inspecting trucks, which for years have
been used to smuggle everything from Cuban cigars to cocaine, from humans to
puffer fish. If the sheer number of different gadgets is any measure of official
resolve to thwart illegality, truckers should beware.

"We don't rely on any one piece of technology," said Ray Mintz, director of
applied technology for the United States Customs Service, which oversees vehicle
inspections. "Every truck, every car, every container that comes in the country
will run the gamut of three or four different securities."

Those include X-ray machines that are big enough to drive a truck through and
fiber optic cameras that look into hard-to-reach places like gas tanks. One
instrument can determine whether the liquid inside a glass jar may contain
dissolved drugs. Another, built into a lane in El Paso, alerts inspectors when a
passing truck is carrying radioactive material.

Such technology is intended to make inspections faster and more thorough.
Searching by hand would require dismantling truck walls, rifling through tons of
cargo and, in many cases, destroying the contents because narcotics are often
embedded in items like plaster statues and toilet bowls.

Border authorities still use low-technology deterrents like dogs to look for
hidden drugs and money. Though often successful at their job, dogs are somewhat
limited in that they need frequent breaks, are too small to get their noses into
high places like tractor-trailer ceilings and are incapable of sniffing inside
liquid-filled containers.

"We're trying to force the smugglers to more complicated and expensive methods
that may make them more vulnerable," Mr. Mintz said. "I'm not trying to say that
we will capture three times as much drugs because, frankly, the smugglers will
stop coming. They'll try somewhere else."

Indeed, faced with this ensemble of deterrents at the ports, many would-be
illegal immigrants and smugglers opt for what they believe is an easier road,
through the ravines and pastures along the border fence. But these dirt paths
are not always as primitive as they may seem.

That was clear one night as Carlos Vaca, a Border Patrol agent, sat in his
unmarked van on a hillside overlooking the frontier and listened to a radio
dispatcher announce the locations of buried ground sensors that had detected
movement. Every few minutes, he maneuvered a thermal scope, which can see heat
sources in the dark, in the direction of the sensor hits. All that appeared in
shades of green on his video monitor, though, was a dog loping down a trail and
a colleague's truck driving by.

Of course, technology has also been used against the Government. Agents have
found smugglers carrying night vision goggles and radio scanners that, before
encryption technology, could monitor law enforcement radio traffic.

"Clearly, we are going to have to stay one step ahead," said Ron Collison, who
heads the technology program for the I.N.S.  "We're using things that can be
bought on the open market for the right price."

The enthusiasm for electronic deterrents is not held by everyone. Roberto
Martinez, director of the border project of the American Friends Service
Committee, said that technologies like cameras and ground sensors were creating
an "increasingly militaristic frontier" and "making it more intrusive to U.S.
citizens and legal residents."

Nearly everyone agrees that technology is not the only answer to protecting the
border. Though electronics are proving to be increasingly effective, Demetrios
G. Papademetriou, co-director of the migration policy program for the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace, based in Washington, said that the equipment
was sometimes flawed and unequally distributed and had obviously yet to stop the
thousands of illegal migrants and tons of drugs from flowing across the border
each year.

"Technology will help you, but it will not do the job for you," Mr.
Papademetriou said. "You still need someone to go out and pick up the illegal
aliens and stop the smugglers."

The Technology
Electronic Dogs Guard Airports

IT does not bark, wag its tail or scratch when sniffing for drugs and explosives
at the nation's airports and border crossings. Rather, this device flashes a red
light when it detects contraband and, on a display screen, tells what kind.

Call them electronic dogs. These suitcase-size instruments are increasingly
being used to stop drug smugglers from entering the country and terrorists from
blowing up airplanes. They check for prohibited materials without tiring or
drooling and without pawing at the public.

More properly called particle detectors, or trace detectors, these devices are
perhaps best known from their use in airports. They work on the principle that
explosives, and the people who handle them, leave traces of the stuff on much of
what they come in contact with.

"The word on the street was that canines were 100 times better than the
detectors," said Tony Fainberg, director of civilian aviation policy for the
Federal Aviation Administration. "But now we believe that the detectors are
about equal and, in some cases, better."

The agency's detectors, which are set to search only for explosives, are located
inside airport terminals next to the X-ray machines. To use the devices,
security guards usually wipe the handles of carry-on luggage with a piece of
cloth to pick up microscopic particles.

Each cloth is then placed inside the detector and heated to make the particles
that were absorbed turn to vapor. Within seconds, the instrument can tell
whether that vapor contains any traces of a dangerous substance.

Some detectors rely on a different method to operate: security guards use a tiny
vacuum cleaner to suck in the air around baggage.

Since 1997, the F.A.A. has installed 327 trace detectors at the nation's
airports. Mr. Fainberg said the goal was to have detectors at every terminal.
Part of the reason for using this technology, he said, is that explosives do not
always show up on X-ray machines.

So far, the F.A.A. has yet to find any actual bombs using the detectors, said
Rebecca Trexler, a spokeswoman for the agency. She said the technology served as
a deterrent and was in place just in case someone did try to smuggle explosives
aboard a plane.

Other agencies, like the Customs Service and the Coast Guard, use particle
detectors to search for drugs as well as explosives, often by wiping steering
wheels, travel documents and door handles.   VERNE G. KOPYTOFF


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: MILES TO COVER -- Technology is helping the Border Patrol do its
job.

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 31, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
West New York Officer Admits Extortion

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 99 words

DATELINE: CAMDEN


An officer on the West New York force admitted on Friday that he and other
officers extorted payments from people they believed were illegal immigrants in
return for not charging them with petty offenses.

Federal prosecutors say West New York officers improperly took in $800,000,
chiefly by providing protection to illegal gambling, illicit liquor sales and
prostitution operations from 1989 to 1997. About two dozen people have pleaded
guilty.

The officer in the latest case, Raymond Sancho, 31, of Ridgefield Park, pleaded
guilty to conspiracy. He faces up to 20 years in prison.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 7, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

162 People Arrested As Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 244 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Feb. 6


The United States Border Patrol has arrested 162 illegal immigrants who had been
smuggled across the Mexico border and were living together in a four-bedroom
house with no working bathrooms or furniture.

"The conditions were deplorable and dirty," said Bill Strassberger, a spokesman
for the western division of the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service.
"There was trash everywhere, only mattresses on the floor, no furniture. The
sinks and tubs were overrunning and unusable."

The border patrol division in Chula Vista, Calif., received an anonymous tip on
Friday that there was a large group of illegal immigrants living in the
1,500-square-foot home, Mr. Strassberger said.

Agents found two men in the backyard of the home and questioned them. After
determining that they were illegal immigrants, the agents went inside the house
and found the others. Ten were women.

Mr. Strassberger said smugglers often used "drop houses" to store people while
they waited for money or to move the immigrants to their final destination.

"We always see numbers in the double digits, but nothing like this in a long
time in San Diego," he said.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is investigating who owns the house
and how long it had been used by smugglers.

The immigrants were booked at the Chula Vista border station, and most were
returned to Mexico. A few were Brazilian residents, and they will be jailed
until their deportation.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 11, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Tough Controls Blamed for More Deaths on Border

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 397 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Feb. 10


An international human rights complaint filed today asserts that United States
border policies have brought about hundreds of deaths of illegal immigrants who
cross the border in the desert mountains of California, where they freeze or die
of thirst.

The complaint argues that newly erected fences as well as more vigorous
enforcement by the Border Patrol have led illegal immigrants to take dangerous
routes through treacherous mountain passes and sizzling deserts, away from
border cities.

A result has been a surge in immigrants' deaths, the complaint says. Mexican
diplomats have documented the deaths of 360 immigrants along the California
border since 1994, when the United States started a crackdown, says the
complaint by the American Civil Liberties Union and other American and Mexican
rights groups.

"The United States has abused its right to guard its borders with a strategy
that puts migrants in mortal danger by forcing them into mountains and deserts,"
Claudia Smith, a lawyer with California Rural Legal Assistance, a co-signer of
the complaint, said in a news session here today.

The complaint was lodged in Washington before the Organization of American
States, which will seek a response from the United States and issue
recommendations this year. O.A.S. rights recommendations are nonbinding, but
carry moral weight.

United States border tactics adopted since 1994 have aimed to prevent illegal
immigrants from crossing the frontier near cities like San Diego, where they
have annoyed suburban Americans by running through backyards and hiding from
border agents in shopping centers.

It appears undisputed that hundreds of migrant workers are freezing in the
mountains, drowning in border rivers and canals and perishing of thirst in
desert treks. A Texas study in 1997 found that 1,185 people died from 1994 to
1997 while trying to cross the Southwestern border in remote areas.

A spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Nicole A. Chulick,
said the agency counted 254 migrant deaths along the 2,000-mile border last
year. The I.N.S. has begun a campaign to prevent deaths by posting warnings
along dangerous routes and by broadcasting radio announcements, Ms. Chulick
said.

Border Patrol agents, she added, have been trained to revive immigrants found
stricken with hypothermia or water deprivation.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 18, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Argentina Looks for a Way to Stem Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 609 words

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Feb. 17


With the economy slowing and street crime rising, President Carlos Saul Menem
has introduced a series of bills to Congress to stem the flow of illegal
immigration from Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru.

Congressional debate on the legislation has not yet begun, but the bills have
already created tensions between Argentina and its poorer neighbors. And they
have prompted criticism from the hierarchy of the Roman Catholic Church and
human rights groups that the Government is unleashing a xenophobic campaign to
make scapegoats out of poor, defenseless people.

But by raising an issue with widespread appeal, the ruling Justicialist party
may succeed in putting the opposition on the defensive in a presidential
election year.

The debate over the bills also highlights the growing rate of migration of
peasants and workers across borders throughout South America, raising a
potentially potent and divisive issue in not only Argentina, but also Chile,
Uruguay and Venezuela.

The new laws would impose fines up to $500,000 on individuals or companies who
employ illegal aliens. They would give the Interior Minister the power to deport
any alien sentenced to more than two years in prison. Anyone arrested for
helping foreigners enter the country illegally would be subject to prison
sentences of 5 to 20 years.

Statistics about illegal immigration here are imprecise, and the Government and
private groups disagree on the dimensions of the problem. But experts seem to
agree that the Argentina has recently seen an increase in the immigration of
poor Bolivians, Paraguayans and Peruvians, a phenomenon that dates from at least
30 years ago. Some analysts have estimated up to a million Peruvians live
outside Peru, mainly in the United States, Argentina and Chile.

According to the latest Argentine census figures, the number of Paraguayans here
increased, from 154,000 in 1960 to 250,000 in 1991. In that period, the number
of Peruvians increased, from 5,100 to 16,000. Experts say the trend is
accelerating as the regional economy slows in response to the Asian and
Brazilian financial crises.

In the northern provinces, migrants frequently do backbreaking work like picking
cotton and strawberries. In the cities they shine shoes and do other odd jobs.
The alien migrants are rarely unionized, and they are generally paid much less
than Argentines.

An opposition Congressman, Juan Pablo Cafiero, has called the move to tighten
immigration laws "a racist campaign." He added, "What they are trying to do is
blame our social problems on the immigrants."

According to Mr. Cafiero, the 70,000 or so immigrants in the Buenos Aires
metropolitan region make up less than 2 percent of the workforce, so they cannot
be blamed for an unemployment rate has risen slightly over the last month, after
decreasing under the previous year.  He said 2.5 percent of those found guilty
of crimes were foreigners.

In explaining the need for new measures, Hugo Franco, a senior official in
charge of immigration control, said the Government was merely interested in
"protecting legal immigration and fighting illegality."

Officials said at least 60 percent of those arrested for petty crimes in Buenos
Aires in recent months were foreigners. Critics contest that estimate and note
that foreigners make up a much smaller percentage of the prison population.

President Hugo Banzer of Bolivia has publicly expressed concerns that the new
proposals will generate anti-Bolivian feelings and asked for guarantees that the
rights of Bolivian immigrants will be respected.

"We want Argentine authorities," Mr. Banzer said, "to prevent abuses and
deportations."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 12, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Clinton and Latin Leaders Turn to Immigration

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 543 words

DATELINE: ANTIGUA, Guatemala, March 11


President Clinton and a group of Central American leaders declared today that
they would work among themselves and with the United States to reach "humane and
permanent solutions" to the problems of illegal immigration.

The declaration was issued at a one-day meeting here that focused on
reconstruction after a devastating autumn hurricane, development, trade and
immigration.

The leaders also promised to accelerate efforts to assist one another in the
economic and political transformation of the region after decades of strife and
catastrophic natural disasters.

The meeting, at the end of a four-day visit by Mr. Clinton to the subcontinent,
brought together Presidents Arnoldo Aleman of Nicaragua, Alvaro Arzu of
Guatemala, Armando Calderon Sol of El Salvador, Leonel Fernandez Reyna of the
Dominican Republic, Carlos Roberto Flores of Honduras and Miguel Angel Rodriguez
Echeverria of Costa Rica, as well as Prime Minister Said Wilbert Musa of Belize.

They met at the Casa Santo Domingo, a hotel built around the ruins of a church
and monastery built by Dominicans in the 16th century and largely destroyed by
earthquakes in 1717 and 1773. This picturesque colonial town, in a valley formed
by three volcanoes, was the capital of all of Central America until the 18th
century.

At the opening of the session, Mr. Clinton noted that he was the first American
President to visit Guatemala since Lyndon B. Johnson stopped briefly at the
Guatemala City airport in the 60's. "This visit is long overdue," Mr. Clinton
said. "More importantly, this moment in history is long overdue."

The Administration announced four small initiatives to foster growth and
reconciliation. The Administration will provide $25 million to bolster the
Guatemalan peace accord of 1996, including money for schools, small-business
development, courts and local governments.

The Administration also plans to grant $25 million for environmental protection
throughout the region, $11 million for disaster response and $8.2 million to
eliminate child labor.

The meeting was marred by Mr. Clinton's inability to deliver a much larger
package of hurricane relief, totaling $956 million, that has been held up by a
dispute with Congress.

Central American leaders and a few protesters in El Salvador and Guatemala
complained that United States immigration policy discriminated against some
political refugees from the region.

Mr. Calderon Sol told Mr. Clinton on Wednesday that he did not feel that United
States policy was justified, because refugees from El Salvador and Guatemala did
not have the same rights to settle in the United States as those from Cuba and
Nicaragua.

The United States is preparing to deport 1,000 Salvadorans who fled the
devastation of Hurricane Mitch, while Washington seeks a way to let El
Salvadoran political refugees remain in the United States.


                             --------------------


Hurricane Aid Gains in House

WASHINGTON, March 11 (AP) -- Ignoring a White House threat of a veto, the House
Appropriations Committee approved today a $1.3 billion measure that would offer
hurricane relief for Central America. The bill passed on a voice vote after
Republicans had included cuts in foreign aid and other programs.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Antigua, from left, Carlos Roberto Flores, Honduras; Miguel
Angel Rodriguez, Costa Rica; Mr. Clinton; Alvaro Arzu, Guatemala; Armando
Calderon Sol, El Salvador, and Leonel Fernandez, Dominican Republic. (Reuters)


                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 28, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The Invisible Children of Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1761 words

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS


SPURNED by caseworkers at the County Department of Social Services and
threatened with deportation, Luisa L., an illegal Mexican immigrant, worries
where to turn next. Eleven years after arriving in the United States with the
hope of work and a promising future, she spends her days performing odd jobs and
struggling to feed and clothe her three American-born children.

Like other illegal immigrants -- uncounted and invisible except in their covert
world -- Mrs. L.'s life in recent years has often been marked by fear and
poverty.

Although her children are eligible for public benefits because they were born in
the United States, Mrs. L. said she has been unable to obtain either food stamps
or Medicaid for them. When she applied, she said, county Social Service workers
threatened to report her illegal status to the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service -- in effect sending her away empty-handed.

"I would never ask for help for myself," said the petite, dark-haired woman,
"but it has been a struggle for us, and my children need help." To augment her
husband's earnings as a kitchen worker -- he too is an illegal immigrant -- she
occasionally cares for neighbors' and friends' children in the family's tiny
apartment on the west side of this city.

The 30-year-old woman agreed to be interviewed only on the condition that her
full name not be used. She said she feared that immigration authorities would
track her down otherwise.

In nearly every respect, life in this country -- with its unrelenting financial
struggle -- has been the antithesis of what she had thought it would be. What
troubles her most, however, she said recently through an interpreter, is that
her children -- her hope for the future -- are being discriminated against.

Many of the American-born offspring of illegal immigrants have become part of a
growing subclass of citizens, said Harold Lasso, housing director for the
Westchester Hispanic Coalition, a nonprofit social services organization for
immigrants here. Mr. Lasso described the children as living in "a type of exile"
-- often suffering from hunger and a lack of medical services because of their
parents' illegal status.  "The parents aren't looking for a free ride," Mr.
Lasso said, "but sometimes they have no choice but to seek help."

He also said that in addition to going without food and medical care, some of
the children of illegal immigrants have been unable to attend school because
administrators demand proof of residency. Often, when new immigrants first
settle here, they rent rooms and are unable to produce a utility bill or a
lease. And until the Hispanic Coalition or another advocacy group steps in,
their children often remain at home. "I've known of children not being educated
for months," Mr. Lasso said.

On the east side of this city, Carmen A. told a similar story of an immigrant
experience. Ms. A. came to the United States without a passport, visa or entry
permit, working for a decade without a raise as a domestic employee for a
married couple who promised to sponsor her application for residency. "I was
desperate to get legal status, and they offered to help me," she said. "My story
wasn't unusual."

But when Ms. A.'s immigration lawyer told her employers that they should pay her
minimum wages and deduct taxes, they balked. Their solution, Ms. A. explained,
was to continue paying her $120 a week in cash for full-time employment and
having her report income of $250 a week and paying taxes on that amount.

"In essence, I was earning nothing, but what could I do?" she said.  "Sometimes
I would cry and call my lawyer, who told me my only alternative was to leave the
job. But if I did, I would lose everything."

Ms. A., who agreed to be interviewed on the condition that her full name not be
used, eventually got legal papers with the couple's help, although she no longer
works for them.

There have, however, been other problems since then. When Ms. A.'s son was 2,
she sought Federal day-care aid for him. But to be eligible for such assistance,
she needed proof of her income, which her subsequent employer refused to
provide. That employment agreement was a cash-only deal, she explained, and the
employer had not filed related tax information.

With day care costing $195 a week and Ms. A earning $315 as a domestic employee,
she has not been able to afford to enroll the child in a preschool program.
Besides freeing her to work more, day care would have helped the child develop
skills along with his English-speaking peers.

Ms. A's case, Hispanic leaders said, provides yet another example of the ways
vulnerable immigrants have been discriminated against not only by the Government
but also by their American employers -- and how the children suffer as a result.

Both Mrs. L. and Ms. A. said they hoped that their stories would help other
immigrants experiencing difficulty.

Mr. Lasso said that he has on several occasions accompanied women to the County
Department of Social Services, where he witnessed their being threatened with
deportation. "Once they said they were not citizens, they were not treated
well," Mr. Lasso said.

Westchester officials say that caseworkers are only following state law, which
requires counties to ascertain the parents' immigration status. "Our intent is
not to detect illegal aliens but to insure the integrity of the system," said
Jack Madden, a spokesman for the State Office of Temporary and Disability
Assistance. "First of all, we need to insure that the individual is not seeking
to avoid work requirements, alcohol or drug screening or income guidelines." Mr.
Madden said that illegal alien status per se did not preclude the state's
providing benefits to their children who were born here. That means that illegal
aliens can get their children's benefits but only if they disclose their
immigration status.

But Robin Bikkal, a White Plains immigration lawyer and the chairwoman of the
Westchester Hispanic Advisory Board, said that laws requiring families to admit
they lack proper documentation "scare the immigrants away and don't really
permit them to apply."

She continued: "All of these children who were born in the U.S. are being denied
services that another child born at the same time and the same place with the
same or similar needs would be fully entitled to. It's a terrible situation."

The county said it would investigate whether actual threats of deportation had
been made.

Robert Graziano, director of the Hudson Valley Poverty Law Center at Pace
University in White Plains, said he was investigating why "the county and the
state feel compelled to gather information on the parents." The law center
serves immigrants who are not eligible for assistance from Legal Services and
certain other organizations because of their alien status. "We're waiting for
answers that make sense," Mr. Graziano said.

At the offices of the National Immigration Law Center in Washington, a nonprofit
public interest law firm, Joshua Bernstein, a policy analyst, reported that
Federal law requires states to ask about immigration status only when the
applicants are seeking public benefits for themselves. New York and some other
states -- although not all -- have adopted their own requirements, which in
essence "deprive U.S.-born children of benefits they are entitled to," the
policy analyst said.

"If a parent is applying for benefits for a child, the immigration status should
not be relevant," Mr. Bernstein said.

Graciela Heymann, the executive director of the Westchester Hispanic Coalition,
also criticized the state and county laws. "Such list gathering has a tremendous
chilling effect when undocumented immigrants run the risk of having their names
given to immigration authorities," she said.

Nationally, it is estimated that nearly 25 percent of immigrants who have not
become citizens are in the United States illegally, a figure that most likely
approximates the percentage in Westchester. In 1990, census figures showed that
there were 86,194 people of Hispanic origin living in Westchester, up from
45,566 in 1980.

It is not known, however, how many illegal immigrants live in the county,
although the overwhelming majority of them are of Hispanic origin.

Putting aside the concern of residents' legal status, officials in County
Executive Andrew J. Spano's office said they were similarly concerned that
Westchester is spawning a subclass of American citizens.

"We're caught in a very difficult situation," Susan Tolchin, a spokeswoman for
the County Executive, said. "The Federal Government is telling us one thing, and
the state is saying something else." She said that the issue has been referred
to the county's legal department, which will determine if there is a way to
circumvent or override state requirements.

New York City by a city regulation does not require parents to reveal their
immigration status when seeking benefits for their American-born children, James
Whelan, a spokesman for the city's Department of Social Services and Human
Resources Administration, said.

Some progress has been made since Hispanic leaders first brought the situation
to the county's attention several weeks ago. Dennis Packard, the Deputy
Commissioner for the Department of Social Services, said "it was recently made
clear" to social workers that when a parent was not requesting cash assistance
but only food stamps and Medicaid for their American-born children, the
immigration status of the adults was irrelevant, according to state law.  But if
the parents seek cash assistance, which the children are also entitled to, they
must reveal their status, under state requirements.

Mr. Packard said that since some Hispanic parents and officials had complained
about the rude way in which clients had been treated by caseworkers, the
department had "redesigned how we greet our customers when they walk in."

Meanwhile, members of the Westchester Hispanic Coalition, the County Hispanic
Advisory Board, the Board of Legislators and the Hudson Valley Poverty Law
Center at Pace said they were seeking changes in state law.

"There's going to be no dodging of this issue," said County Legislator Clinton
I. Young Jr., Democrat of Mount Vernon and chairman of the Board of Legislators'
Committee on Minority Affairs. He said he first learned of the problem several
weeks ago and would be meeting with the County Executive's office and the Social
Services Department.  "We're trying to find a solution. No doubt this is
extremely scary for these women."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: American-born children of illegal immigrants are entitled to
health care but their mothers are often afraid to apply, fearing deportation.
Above, a White Plains resident at her son's crib. (Rebecca Cooney for The New
York Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 29, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Crash Kills Border Agent And 3 Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;  Page 17;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 168 words

DATELINE: SAN YSIDRO, Calif., March 28


A Border Patrol agent and three illegal immigrants died on Saturday when the
agent's vehicle rolled 1,200 feet down an embankment from a dirt mountain road
near the Mexican border.

Four other illegal immigrants were injured and taken by helicopter to hospitals.

The authorities learned of the accident about 7 A.M. when three of the injured
passengers climbed back up the embankment and waved down another agent, a Border
Patrol spokesman, Mario Villareal, said.

The second agent found the accident site, about a mile north of the border,
after hiking down the steep hillside. The terrain made a rescue difficult, Mr.
Villareal said.

The authorities speculated that the agent who had been driving the immigrants
had failed to negotiate a turn in his Ford Bronco in the early morning fog. They
said they believed he had taken the group, all men, into custody after they
crossed the border about 40 miles east of San Diego.

The agent was identified as Stephen M. Sullivan, 27, of San Diego.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 3, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Storm Kills 9 as They Trek From Mexico

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 848 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 2


A freak spring snowstorm trapped several dozen illegal immigrants in wilderness
mountain terrain east of San Diego overnight, leaving at least 7 people dead,
some still possibly missing and more than 50 rescued in a sprawling search
effort over slushy hillsides north of the Mexican border, immigration officials
said today.

South of the border, in the area of La Rumorosa near Tecate, the Mexican
authorities rescued more than 80 other people and recovered at least 2 bodies,
officials said.

The American authorities first learned of the immigrants' plight when a woman,
suffering in 30-degree temperatures, sought help from a rancher near Alpine,
about 40 miles east of San Diego, late Thursday night. The woman said her
husband and a female friend were lost in the storm that dumped nearly a foot and
a half of snow in higher reaches of the Cleveland National Forest along
Interstate 8.

"She was literally freezing and just looking for help," said Bill Strassberger,
a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Both the woman's
husband and her friend were later found dead, along with five others by midday
today, as rescue workers using helicopters, dogs and foot searches through steep
ravines found some three dozen survivors, many of whom were treated for
hypothermia and exposure.

Among the survivors were two sisters between ages 5 and 7, who were reunited
with an uncle who was traveling with them, officials said. Eight people remained
hospitalized early this evening.

"This is a very mountainous, treacherous area that they come through, with a lot
of peaks and valleys," Mr. Strassberger said, adding that more than one group of
immigrants was involved and that many appeared to have been abandoned by their
smugglers in the bad weather.

"Most of these people are dressed very lightly," he added, "possibly a light
jacket and sometimes just short-sleeved shirts and jeans."

Officials said would-be immigrants had increasingly sought entry routes in more
remote and dangerous areas of eastern San Diego County and neighboring Imperial
County, as stepped-up enforcement efforts have sharply slowed the flow across
the border at more traditional crossings near San Diego. Last year, more than
140 illegal immigrants died trying to cross into the two counties.

One Border Patrol agent who was on his way to join in the rescue effort, which
officials called the largest such undertaking in that region in memory, crashed
his car on a slippery road.

Even this afternoon, wet snow and occasional fog hampered search efforts
conducted from a mobile interagency command post on Japatul Road near the Viejas
Indian Reservation east of Alpine.

The last search patrols on foot and helicopters were on their way back to the
command post just before dark today, as the search was being concluded.
Temperatures had dipped into the mid-30's by 6 P.M. in the higher elevations.

Lieut. Ronald G. Vanraaphorst of the San Diego County Sheriff's Department said
that searchers believed all the illegal immigrants had been found and that
routine border patrols would resume tomorrow.

Sheriff's deputies and firefighters in Alpine said most of the victims had been
found at elevations about 3,500 feet above sea level.

Coast Guard helicopters, Border Patrol and Forest Service agents, and California
Highway Patrol officers joined forces to comb the area some 15 miles north of
the Mexican border.

"Certain areas of it is rough terrain," said Lieut. Linda Fulton of the San
Diego County Sheriff's substation at Alpine, whose deputies assisted in search
and rescue efforts. "It is mountainous and it is definitely covered with snow.
Our helicopter units did airlift some victims and some bodies, just doing a grid
search in certain areas where the victims had related their last location."

The National Weather Service reported that up to 16 inches of snow fell in area
mountains over the last two days, with temperatures falling to the low 30's
overnight.

An El Nino storm last April left three migrants dead, and a similar surprise
snowstorm in February 1997 killed seven people.

Leslie Ridgeway, a spokeswoman for Grossmont Hospital in La Mesa, said four
people had been treated for exposure, one suffering from advanced hypothermia.

Two were released in the custody of the immigration agency, Ms. Ridgeway said,
and two remained hospitalized in stable condition, treated with warm fluids and
bed rest.

Mr. Strassberger, the agency spokesman, said the survivors who were not
hospitalized "should be returned to Mexico fairly quickly, some quite possibly
today, most by tomorrow."

He said that officials might be able to identify some smugglers or guides, who
would then be referred to the United States Attorney for prosecution. In such
cases, some survivors may be kept as witnesses.

Border Patrol agents were told that there were smugglers among those who were
rescued and that the area was well known to agents as a place where immigrants
walk north from the border through steep valleys and are then picked up by
smugglers in cars or vans.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: American border agents carried a suspected illegal immigrant to
an ambulance yesterday east of San Diego. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 15, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Political Briefing;
California's Governor Is Facing Quandary

BYLINE: By B. Drummond Ayres Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 260 words


Gov. Gray Davis of California is in a political quandary.

A Democrat elected last fall with heavy Hispanic support, he must decide within
the next few days whether to appeal a Federal court decision that declared
Proposition 187 unconstitutional. That proposition, enacted in 1994 at the
strong urging of Gov. Pete Wilson, Mr. Davis's Republican predecessor, shut off
benefits to illegal immigrants.

In California, most illegal immigrants are Hispanic. They saw the measure as
unusually harsh -- as did most other Hispanic residents in the state, not the
least being those able to vote.

For years, many Hispanic-Americans voted Republican. But last fall, they voted
heavily Democratic, contributing significantly to the defeat of Dan Lungren, Mr.
Davis's Republican opponent. That vengeful switch has not been lost on Mr.
Davis, who knows as well as anyone that Hispanic residents make up more than a
third of California's population, with the percentage growing daily.

The other important figure that he must keep in mind is that Proposition 187 did
not pass with just Republican backing. It also had heavy Democratic support.

Mr. Gray also must consider whether pressing an appeal might damage California's
ties with Mexico. Trade with Mexico has become a major factor in the state's
economic well being.

Finally, there is the question of whether Mr. Davis is duty-bound as Governor to
appeal a Federal court ruling that struck down a state law. If legal experts
conclude that he must, he just might find political refuge in that conclusion.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 16, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Governor Seeks Compromise On Aid to Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1032 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 15


Punting on the most politically fraught decision of his fledgling
administration, Gov. Gray Davis announced today that he would ask a Federal
appeals court to mediate the legal fight over Proposition 187, the ballot
measure to end government services for illegal immigrants. The Governor's
cautious step could be a way to reach a negotiated settlement without rankling
his Hispanic supporters.

But lawyers for supporters and opponents of the measure said they were not sure
what compromise was possible, and they expressed both disappointment and
puzzlement at the Governor's move.

Mr. Davis faced a deadline next month on whether to appeal a Federal court
decision last year that held the measure unconstitutional, or whether to drop
the matter. In keeping with his instinctively cautious approach, the new
Governor chose a middle ground, keeping the case alive in a way intended to find
a low-key resolution.

"If this were a piece of legislation, I would veto it," Mr. Davis said. "But
it's not. It's an initiative, passed by nearly 60 percent of the voters through
a process specifically designed to go over the heads of the Legislature and the
Governor. While I believe that some of the provisions of Prop 187 are
unconstitutional, I'm a Governor, not a judge."

The case is complicated for Mr. Davis, a Democrat elected last fall on a pledge
to end divisive "wedge-issue" politics. He opposed the measure, which was
approved in 1994, but has also vowed not to interfere with the will of the
voters.

Proposition 187 has been blocked in the courts virtually since its passage,
after civil rights groups sued to overturn it, and last year, Judge Mariana R.
Pfaelzer of Federal District Court here ruled that it unconstitutionally usurped
the Federal Government's authority over immigration policy. Mr. Davis's
Republican predecessor, Pete Wilson, who had made the measure a centerpiece of
his bitter 1994 re-election campaign, appealed to the United States Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, but final arguments had yet to be filed when Mr.
Wilson left office in January.

Many of Mr. Davis's minority supporters urged him to drop the appeal and be done
with the case. But some of his advisers argued that the state constitution could
be read as requiring him to continue a legal defense of the initiative, at least
until an appellate court ruling. His advisers feared that if Mr. Davis appealed
and won, he would be in the position of having affirmed a measure he opposed.
But they also worried that if he dropped the appeal, anti-immigrant groups might
sponsor a new initiative that could re-ignite the issue, perhaps in next year's
Presidential election.

Mr. Davis took note of both arguments in his comments today, pointing out that
since Proposition 187 was passed, President Clinton's welfare overhaul of 1996
and a new Federal immigration law had essentially enshrined in Federal law many
of the provisions of the original ballot measure, particularly those allowing
the denial of welfare and medical benefits to illegal immigrants, leaving much
of the measure moot.

So Mr. Davis said he would ask the Ninth Circuit's mediation service to convene
a panel in search of a settlement, adding: "It is my hope and belief that this
well-established procedure will resolve the dispute over Proposition 187
entirely and avoid years of costly litigation."

But if the plaintiffs and proponents of the measure do not "act responsibly," he
said, "I will knock heads."

Thomas A. Saenz, a lawyer for the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational
Fund, which is co-lead counsel in the case, professed some confusion at the
Governor's decision. "It's hard to decide what he's doing, from our
perspective," Mr. Saenz said. "We are prepared to to listen to whatever the
Governor proposes, and if that's through mediation, so be it. But we have never
had any discussions with the Governor about this, and we don't know what he's
putting on the table. We believe strongly that he should drop this entire
appeal."

In his statement, Mr. Davis seemed to envision the involvement of the proponents
of Proposition 187, who have been rebuffed in past efforts to intervene in the
case. Today, a lawyer for the Pacific Legal Foundation, which represents the
measure's authors, also expressed puzzlement at Mr. Davis's proposal.

"Mediation is worthwhile if there is an area for compromise," said the lawyer,
John Findley. "I don't know what the area for compromise in this particular
litigation would be. Either the initiative is constitutional or it is not. I
don't see that the parties could compromise by agreeing that part of it is
constitutional and part of it is not."

But senior aides to the Governor said a range of options was possible. For
example, these officials said, the plaintiffs could agree to accept provisions
of Proposition 187 imposing criminal penalties for the manufacture, sale and use
of false documents to conceal a person's immigration status, provisions that the
Federal District Court let stand.

Similarly, supporters of the measure could concede that key provisions have
since been rendered moot by Federal law. They could also agree to accept the
District Court's decision that a 1982 Supreme Court ruling that barred Texas
from denying education to illegal immigrants meant similar provisions in
Proposition 187 were invalid.

But Mr. Saenz, the lawyer for the plaintiffs, said his side would never accept
the idea of inviting the proponents of Proposition 187, who have never been
parties to the suit, to a negotiating table.

"If that's what he envisions," he said of Mr. Davis, "that won't happen. We will
not agree to be involved in any formal process with someone who is not a party
to this case."

One of the state's senior Hispanic politicians, Assembly Speaker Antonio
Villaraigosa, reacted with measured disappointment to today's decision. He had
urged that the Governor drop the appeal.

"He was disappointed," said Mr. Villaraigosa's spokeswoman, Elena Stern. "It's
not what he would have done. Going the mediation route is better than a straight
appeal, but he was disappointed, and he expressed that to the Governor."



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 18, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Afraid of Husbands, and the Law;
Deportation Risk Grows for Abused Illegal Residents

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1689 words


Shy and soft-spoken, the 26-year-old Dominican woman uses pictures rather than
words to tell about the nightmare that was her marriage.

One photograph shows a ransacked apartment, the bedroom dresser pushed onto its
side, lamps, mirrors and pots of tulips shattered on the floor. Another shows
the woman battered; her mouth is swollen, her eyes are black and she has bruises
on her legs.

The photographs, she said, were secretly taken by her sister and show what
happened when her husband became angry. In his fits of rage, she said, he would
beat her and throw her out of their home in Manhattan. Then he would apologize
and ask her to return -- always with a warning that made it impossible for her
to refuse.

"He told me that if I did not come back, he would call the police and have me
deported," said the woman, who entered America illegally five years ago from the
Dominican Republic. "He would say that because he is legal, he has more rights
in this country than I do, and that he could take my son away."

Advocates for immigrants say spousal abuse has long been one of the most
critical and widespread problems endured by women who do not have legal
residency in the United States but are married to someone who does. As the
Federal Government has toughened immigration laws in recent years, it has become
increasingly difficult for these women to gain permanent residency, making
threats like those of the Dominican woman's husband more potent.

One of the most disputed changes came last year, when Congress allowed the
expiration of a provision that permitted immigrants entitled to permanent
residency to stay in this country while awaiting green cards. A green card
certifies that an immigrant is a permanent resident.

The expiration has roused immigrant advocates, particularly in New York, over
the implications for battered women.

Advocates say the loss of 245i, as the expired provision of the Immigration and
Naturalization Act was known, has already deterred battered women from seeking
permanent residency because of concerns over what could happen when they are
sent back to their native countries while their green card applications are
processed.

Leslye Orloff, the national policy director for Ayuda, a group supporting
battered immigrants, said many of the women feared that if they left the United
States, they would be exposed to suits claiming custody of their children, many
of whom were born here. Many also worry, Ms. Orloff said, that once they are
outside this country, it will be easier for United States consular officials to
challenge claims of abuse and hardship, and refuse to grant green cards -- an
irreversible decision.

"They know that they are going to be forced to make an impossible choice to
either leave the country to get their green card, and risk extreme danger for
themselves and their children," Ms. Orloff said, "or to give up their chance of
ever getting a green card, putting themselves and their children at risk for
different kinds of dangers."

Since 245i expired, groups like Ms. Orloff's have organized meetings to explore
legal strategies that have so far allowed them to keep their clients in the
United States. And members of Congress are debating whether to pass a bill
introduced in January by Representative John Conyers Jr., a Democrat from
Michigan, that would in effect re-enact 245i for battered women. Called the
Violence Against Women Restoration Act of 1999, it would allow battered
immigrant women to stay in this country while they wait for their green cards.
The Immigration and Naturalization Service also supports the measure.

"These women are in these situations through no fault of their own and our
Government should be encouraging them to get out of abusive relationships," said
Johanna Minguez, a lawyer at the Northern Manhattan Coalition for Immigrant
Rights. "But without 245i, we are forcing them to make a choice between getting
beat up, or getting removed from the country."

Before 245i expired, advocates said, roughly 400 undocumented women across the
country filed petitions for permanent residency each month. Unlike most groups
of undocumented immigrants -- as those lacking any legal documents are commonly
called -- domestic abuse victims are able to file petitions without the support
or knowledge of their spouses as long as they can show that leaving the United
States would cause extreme hardship for themselves and their children and they
can provide evidence of their abuse, like medical records, police reports and
photographs.

While 400 women is not a high number, advocates consider it significant because
immigrants are often uninformed about Federal laws or avoid filing for any kind
of protection or benefits from Federal agencies for fear of deportation.

Now, more than a year since 245i expired, fewer than 250 women a month are
filing petitions. The Immigration and Naturalization Service said there were no
reliable estimates of the total number of undocumented women living in New York
or nationally who are battered by their spouses.

Advocates say stories like the Dominican woman's, whose name is not being used
to protect her identity, are widespread among battered women in New York.

Tucked in her purse is a copy of the permanent order of protection a New York
court issued to prohibit her husband from approaching her. If she returned to
Santo Domingo, she said, she would be an open target should her husband follow
her there. "If I go home, those orders will not mean anything," she said. "The
police in the Dominican Republic will not come if I call."

Federal law prohibits immigration court officials and immigration officials from
notifying battered women's husbands about their wives' petitions for permanent
residency. The New York Times could not contact the husbands of the women
interviewed for this article. The Times did examine court documents to verify
the accuracy of the women's claims and found that all the women interviewed had
obtained court orders of protection against their husbands.

One of them, a 34-year-old native of the Dominican Republic, said she stayed in
an abusive marriage for nine years because she was afraid of losing custody of
her two daughters, who are United States citizens. She and her husband, a legal
permanent resident of the United States, met in the Dominican Republic. When
they married, she said, he promised that he would file residency petitions for
her once they arrived in New York.

But he never did. Many battered immigrants said that their spouses used their
illegal residency status to oppress them.

"He did not want me to become legal because that was his way to control me,"
said the 34-year-old woman, who left her husband a year ago and has just moved
from a women's shelter to a public housing complex in New York City. "He never
let me leave the house. He never let me take English classes. He never helped me
find a job."

"It was like being a prisoner," she added.

Officials at the Immigration and Naturalization Service point to such cases in
their support for restoring 245i. Officials said that battered women must show
in their petitions that leaving the United States would cause them extreme
hardship. It would be inconsistent, officials said, for the agency to accept
hardship claims and still force battered women to leave the country to get their
green cards.

"On the one hand, we are saying it would be an extreme hardship for these women
to leave the country," said Efren Hernandez, an assistant legal counsel at the
immigration service, "but then on another, we are forcing them to go. The I.N.S.
has always supported some kind of measure to fix that gap."

Others feel that fixing the gap would mean creating a loophole. Daniel A. Stein,
executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a
conservative group that has long supported efforts to restrict immigration, said
that if Congress allows battered women to stay in this country while waiting for
their green cards, other immigrant groups will seek similar allowances.

Mr. Stein also said that battered undocumented women should be sent back to
their homelands, where they could live in more familiar environments and get
more support from friends and relatives.

"If a person enters this country illegally or overstays a visa, showing flagrant
disregard for the laws of this country," he said, "the fact that they have
suffered abuse is a tragedy, but it does not mean that they should not be
subject to the same laws as any other undocumented immigrant."

He added, "We should not allow the woman to become a beachhead for a long chain
of family migration to the United States, which is why a lot of them came here
in the first place."

But a 31-year-old woman from Mexico said she never thought of living in America
until she met her husband, who was a citizen. And now that she has left him,
after three years of abuse, she said that she wished she could return home. But
she is afraid for her life.

She was an office clerk in Mexico when she met her husband five years ago. They
met on a picturesque cobblestone street, she said, and walked and talked for
hours. After their wedding, her husband drove her across the border illegally,
the woman said. A year later they had a son.

Then, she said, her husband's moods became erratic and violent and he began
beating her. After one beating, the woman said, she packed her suitcases and
told her husband she was going back to Mexico. He beat her and tore off her
clothes. As she lay terrified on the bed, she said, he got a knife from the
kitchen and cut apart all the clothes she had packed in her suitcases.

The Mexican woman and her son, 3, are now living in hiding in a heavily guarded
women's shelter in New York. The woman said she would love to go home. But she
is terrified that her husband will follow her.

"He has already gone to Mexico to try to talk to my family, telling them that he
wants me to come home," she said, her eyes filling with tears. "It would be
easier for him to hurt me, and maybe my family, if I go back to Mexico. I feel
safer here."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The abusive husband of a 26-year-old Dominican woman was able
to add to his threats to her because he was a legal resident and she was not.
"He would say that because he is legal, he has more rights in this country than
I do," she said. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 37); Leslye Orloff,
policy director of a group supporting battered immigrants, says mothers could be
exposed to custody suits if they leave. (Peter Yates for The New York Times)(pg.
41)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 29, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

City Policy On Immigrants Ruled Invalid

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 331 words


New York City is wrong to prohibit employees from telling the United States
Government about illegal immigrants, a Federal appeals court has ruled.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in Manhattan,
upholding a 1997 decision by a Federal District Court, said Thursday that Mayor
Rudolph W. Giuliani and the city cannot ignore sections of the Personal
Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996.

A provision of the law said that no state or city could prohibit its employees
from sending information about the status of an illegal immigrant to the
Government.

In August 1989, the Mayor at the time, Edward I. Koch, severely limited the
circumstances under which city employees could tell the Immigration and
Naturalization Service about an illegal immigrant. Mayor David N. Dinkins and
Mayor Giuliani did the same.

After the 1996 law was passed, Mayor Giuliani said he would not rescind the
executive order, and he sued the Federal Government over the provision. But
Judge John G. Koeltl of Federal District Court in Manhattan upheld the
provision.

In the ruling Thursday, the appeals court said the Federal law invalidates state
and local rules prohibiting government employees from voluntarily providing
information about illegal aliens.

City officials had said they were concerned, for example, that illegal
immigrants might be less likely to cooperate with the authorities on police
investigations if they had to worry about officers notifying the I.N.S. about
them.

Brenda Perez, a spokeswoman for the Mayor, said yesterday that officials could
not comment because they had not yet reviewed the decision.

In the ruling, the court noted that the Constitution "bars states from taking
actions that frustrate Federal laws and regulatory schemes."

The three-judge panel wrote that states do not have an "untrammeled right to
forbid all voluntary cooperation by state and local officials with particular
federal programs."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 25, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Accord Would Increase Cap on Visas for Skilled Workers

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1019 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 24


House and Senate Republican leaders reached agreement today on a bill to
increase the number of foreign computer programmers, engineers and other skilled
workers who can be admitted to the United States to fill job openings at
high-technology companies.

Under the agreement, the annual limit on the number of visas for such workers,
now 65,000, would rise to 115,000 over three years, an increase of 77 percent.

High-tech companies and their chief executives, including William H. Gates of
the Microsoft Corporation, have lobbied heavily for an increase in the quota,
saying that their industry suffers from shortages of qualified employees and
that they desperately need skilled foreign workers to help develop new products.

"This is a big victory for those who care about the critical high-tech sector of
our economy," said Senator Spencer Abraham, the Michigan Republican who is
chairman of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration. "There is probably
no more important legislation that Congress will pass this year to create jobs
and continue the enormous growth of the high-tech and computer industries."

The Republican-led Senate passed a similar bill in May by a vote of 78 to 20,
with support from many Democrats, including their floor leader, Tom Daschle of
South Dakota. But the legislation bogged down in the House, prompting Speaker
Newt Gingrich and other Republican leaders, from both chambers, to meet this
week and help work out a compromise.

Senator Abraham said the situation was urgent. The 1998 cap on the visas for the
skilled workers was reached on May 7, he said, and since then "no company,
university or nonprofit organization in America has been able to hire these
highly skilled professionals" from abroad.

Mr. Abraham said he expected the Senate and the House to approve the compromise
before lawmakers leave town for their summer recess early next month.

Representative Lamar Smith, the Texas Republican who heads the House Judiciary
Subcommittee on Immigration, had expressed skepticism that there were labor
shortages in the computer industry. But today he said, "This agreement is good
for business, good for workers, good for America."

President Clinton had threatened to veto the bill if it did not do enough to
protect American workers. But Administration officials said they welcomed
changes reflected in the compromise bill, which was written in part to address
the President's concerns.

"There has clearly been some progress in our direction," said Gene Sperling,
assistant to the President for economic policy, "but it's unclear at this point
whether things have improved enough for us to support it. We need to see the
details."

The compromise legislation would require a company to certify, before hiring a
foreign worker, that it had tried to recruit an American worker for the opening
and that it had not laid off an American to hire the foreigner. Congressional
aides said this requirement would not apply to big companies like Microsoft or
Sun Microsystems Inc., where foreign workers perform important jobs but account
for a small proportion of the work force.

Aides to Senator Abraham said the agreement also included his proposal to
provide training for unemployed American workers and college scholarships for
low-income students, so that they could pursue careers in high-tech industries.
The training and scholarships would be financed with fees to be collected from
employers who use the foreign-worker program, but the amount has not been
determined.

Whether there is in fact a shortage of high-tech workers is a hotly debated
question. An industry group, the Information Technology Association of America,
says there are 346,000 openings, amounting to 10 percent of all American jobs
for computer programmers, engineers and systems analysts.

But the Labor Department, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and several groups representing
American engineers say the high-tech industry, trying to hold down its labor
costs by hiring from abroad, has overstated the problem.

India provides by far the largest number of skilled foreign workers under the
special-visa program. Its citizens received 44 percent of the visas, known as
H-1B visas, issued in the first half of the current fiscal year.

The next largest share went to China, with 9 percent, Britain (5 percent) and
the Philippines and Canada (3 percent each). Japan, Germany, Pakistan and France
each received 2 percent of the visas, with other countries getting 28 percent.

One person who may be affected by the legislation is Valenita Videva, 26, from
Macedonia. She came to the United States in 1995 on a student visa and studied
mechanical engineering at Norwich University in Vermont. She graduated at the
top of her class and was hired by Texas Instruments Inc. after gaining a
one-year work authorization from the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

But the authorization expired on June 1, leaving Ms. Videva unable to work and
unsure whether she could stay in the country.

"I applied for an H-1B visa two months before my work permit was to expire," Ms.
Videva said in a telephone interview from the Texas Instruments office in
Attleboro, Mass. "I was told that the quota was reached for this year. Until
today it was so deadlocked, I started losing hope. It meant that I would have
packed my things and told my landlord I was going home, and that's not something
I wanted to do."

The agreement would provide 20,000 additional visas this year, for a 1998 total
of 85,000. It would raise the annual limit to 95,000 next year, 105,000 in 2000
and 115,000 in 2001.

Representative Ron Klink, a Democrat from a Pennsylvania district that has lost
tens of thousands of manufacturing jobs in the last 20 years, criticized the
agreement.

"This is a shame," Mr. Klink said. "This is a loophole for big companies to hire
cheap indentured labor. It's a huge loss to American workers, especially young
people who have made their educational decisions based on an expectation of jobs
when they get out of school. Instead, these companies will be hiring cheaper
foreigners."

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 16, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

THE BUDGET DEAL: IMMIGRATION;
Agency Gains in Deal; Haitians Do So, Too

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 723 words


In a significant shift of United States policy toward immigrants, Congressional
Republicans and the White House agreed yesterday on a budget proposal that could
benefit thousands of immigrants and the Federal agency that serves them.

The agreement lets about 49,000 Haitian refugees stay in the United States
legally, increases the number of specialized foreign workers allowed in the
country and earmarks $171 million for the Immigration and Naturalization Service
to reduce its backlog of citizenship applications (About 1.9 million people are
waiting to become citizens).

The deal, which would have seemed impossible two years ago with Congress's
anti-immigrant mood, was the result of new Senate leadership, bipartisan
alliances, heavy lobbying from advocacy groups, a coincidence of agendas among
the Congressional Black Caucus and Republican senators, as well as White House
pressure.

But negotiations that led to the agreement were not smooth. Practically all
immigration issues were hotly contested until the end, including the amount of
money earmarked for citizenship efforts.

In addition, the House did not accept a measure to grant Haitians the right to
apply for residency status until the conference committees met to produce a
compromise earlier this month.

And the wrangling over the visas for specialized high-tech workers drew the
threat of a veto from a White House concerned that there were not proper
protections for American workers.

"It was tough going all the way," said Maria Echaveste, deputy chief of staff to
the President and one of the main advisers to White House negotiators on
immigration.

Ms. Echaveste said Congress had "overreached" when it voted for measures in 1996
that restricted immigration and affected the lives of legal residents. The
current agreement, she said, would impart some balance to those laws.

None of the measures directly reverses any of the immigration laws of 1996, but
they represent the first good news that immigrants and their advocates have
received in a long time. Some advocates said the agreement is telling because it
reflects that both Democrats and Republicans are eager to please immigrants,
hoping to earn their trust and, eventually, their votes.

"It's a rare day indeed," said Frank Sharry, executive director of the National
Immigration Forum. "It's a new day when immigrants are viewed not as easy
targets, but as a powerful new constituency."

Advocates for immigrants are particularly pleased that Haitian refugees who have
been in this country since 1995 can stay permanently. They will receive the same
benefits that were granted last year to about 150,000 Nicaraguans and about
5,000 Cubans, who, like Haitians, came to the United States to escape political
turmoil.

Black Congressional leaders complained that leaving Haitians out of the bill
amounted to racial discrimination, and Florida's Senators, Connie Mack, a
Republican, and Bob Graham, a Democrat, introduced the Haitian Refugees
Immigration Fairness Act. Most Haitians who will benefit from the bill live in
South Florida. Neither Senator was available for comment yesterday, but aides
called the agreement a victory.

Negotiators from the White House and Congress also agreed to a 30-month delay to
implement a law that, as of today, would have forced border patrol officers to
track every person entering and leaving the United States from Mexico and
Canada.

The measure would have caused border delays of up to 24 hours that would have
hurt businesses and cost millions of dollars in delayed or lost trade, critics
said.

Several immigration initiatives were dropped from the final bill. As a result,
the immigration service will remain one agency and American farmers will not be
allowed to bring in tens of thousand of foreigners to work in the fields.

But the deal struck yesterday does allow the immigration agency to nearly double
the number of employment visas available for skilled foreign workers, a measure
that was sought by high-tech industries and introduced in Congress by Senator
Spencer Abraham, Republican of Michigan.

There are 65,000 of the so-called H1B visas available for skilled foreign
workers; the bill increases the number to 115,000 for the next two years and
sets the number at 107,500 in the third year.
   MIRTA OJITO


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 30, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Help Defeat L.I. Bill Banning Street Job Markets

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 721 words

DATELINE: RIVERHEAD, N.Y., June 29


To the cheers and applause of nearly 100 Latino immigrant workers and their
families, the Suffolk County Legislature rejected a bill today that would have
banned day laborers from the roadside job markets they use to find work.

"It was a solid victory for us and a wonderful way for the workers to discover
how democracy works," said the Rev. Allan B. Ramirez, of the Brookville Reformed
Church, who helped the immigrants oppose the legislation. The vote was 7 to 4,
with two abstentions.

Immigrant workers, chiefly from Central America and Mexico, have made a practice
of gathering on street corners and parking lots between 6 and 8 A.M., where they
are hired for the day by landscapers, painters and construction contractors
needing day laborers.

The bill was proposed by Legislator Joseph Caracappa of Selden chiefly as a
traffic safety measure. He and other supporters contended that the gatherings,
sometimes numbering scores of workers, created traffic hazards and disrupted the
flow of school buses and other traffic in commercial areas.

Mr. Ramirez, one of three members of the public who spoke in opposition, told
the legislators: "This is a county that has always welcomed immigrants. This
bill would basically prevent these new immigrants from getting work. They are
already the poorest of the poor. It should not be against the law to work."

The workers and some of their children arrived about 8 A.M. aboard buses
chartered by Mr. Ramirez and the Workplace Project, an advocacy center in
Hempstead, in Nassau County, that fights immigrant issues on Long Island. They
carried signs saying "Don't Outlaw Work" and "Traffic Is No Excuse for Unjust
Laws" and picketed outside the county center before attending the discussion.

One worker who spoke before the Legislature was a Mexican day laborer who
identified himself only as Antonio because he feared that he might be deported.
Through a translator, he said he needed to work to support his six children and
wife back in Mexico.

The session was also attended by about 20 supporters of the bill, some of whom
spoke in favor of the bill, saying it would improve highway safety and protect
their "quality of life." The bill had bipartisan support when it was proposed
several months ago, but was defeated by bipartisan opposition today. The
legislators had been scheduled to vote on the proposal last month, but public
opposition had grown enough to force it to be pulled off the agenda and
rewritten more narrowly.

After today's defeat, Mr. Caracappa angrily told the other legislators that if
someone was killed in a traffic accident as a result of the bill's failure,
"their blood will be on your hands." His supporters cheered.

The bill stated that commercial parking areas in the county were for "the
benefit of the public, clients, customers, members and occupants of adjoining
commercial premises." Using the areas and county roadways "for the solicitation
of employment or business in unauthorized locations results in interference with
the intended use of the parking area and roadways," the bill said.

The bill would have immediately made it unlawful to hire day laborers at
roadside locations from 5 A.M. to 11 A.M., punishable by fines of up to $1,500
and by sentences of up to three months in jail.

Those who wrote the measure believed it would pass a constitutional test, said
Paul Sabatino, chief counsel for the Legislature. Proponents were aware that the
United States Supreme Court recently struck down a Chicago antiloitering law on
the ground that it gave police too much discretion to sweep up innocent people,
Mr. Sabatino said, but the Caracappa bill was specific about the activity it
outlawed, he added.

Opponents, however, insisted that the law had nothing to do with traffic safety
and was racist in intent.

Nadia Marin-Molina, a lawyer and executive director of the Workplace Project,
said in an interview, "Such a law would tear apart families, destroy the local
economy and undermine the Constitution of the United States."
 After the vote, Mr. Ramirez said in an interview he was pleased that the
immigrants had overcome fears of speaking out in a public forum.  "Imagine how
amazing all this is to these newcomers to America," he said. "This is something
they and their children will never forget."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Outside the Suffolk Legislature building, the Rev. Allan B.
Ramirez and Latino day laborers and their families celebrated their victory
yesterday. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 16, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Train New Teachers, Don't Import Them

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 140 words



To the Editor:

Your July 11 front-page article "Low on Teachers, New York Scours Austria" says
that the board will try to secure these teachers a special classification of
visa for "research scholars." A shortage of H-1B visas, the usual classification
for high school teachers, may be the reason for this.

The effect of the shortage of H-1B visas is not limited to secondary education.
High-tech and financial companies, publishers, advertising agencies, colleges
and universities all use these visas to employ foreign professionals.

In 1990 Congress created a 65,000 annual cap on H-1B visas. In an economy as
robust as ours, this proved inadequate; the cap was reached in early May.

THEODORE RUTHIZER
New York, July 13, 1998

The writer teaches immigration law and policy at Columbia University Law School.


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 16, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The Streets Are Paved With PC's;
Wall Street and Silicon Alley Lure a New Breed of High-Tech Immigrants

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 3385 words


SOON after arriving in New York, Marjon Rivera fell into his morning routine. On
weekdays, shortly before 7 A.M., he stops at a small chapel on the corner of
Pine and William Streets, in the heart of the financial district.  Burnished
light falls through stained-glass windows. About a dozen other Wall Street
workers, dressed like Mr. Rivera in suits and ties, sit or stand facing the
altar. Mr. Rivera, 27, raised Roman Catholic in the Philippines, often stands at
the rear of the silent nave. When he's not in a rush, he kneels in the front
row. The prayers he whispers rarely vary.

"I start thanking the Lord for the previous day and the new day," he says
softly. "I pray that I don't mess up at work. I pray to Him to take care of my
family. And I pray for safe travel."

When Mr. Rivera, a computer technician, boarded a plane last April for the trip
that would take him from the tropical streets of Manila to the headquarters of
J. P. Morgan at 60 Wall Street, it seemed that earlier prayers had been heard.
For years, he had longed to work abroad. Wall Street in particular held a
mythical allure.

"I don't know why I wanted to work here so bad, but it's a status symbol if you
work overseas," said Mr. Rivera, whose parents once worked in Saudi Arabia.
"It's kind of sick, but that's the way it is."

So when he learned that computer consulting companies were recruiting high-tech
workers from the Philippines, he jumped at the chance. He sent out 10 resumes
and received an offer from a New York company that he declined to identify but
that he said promised to provide him with a visa under the controversial H-1B
program for highly skilled foreign workers, which has drawn criticism from
American labor. The offer also promised Mr. Rivera an assignment with Computer
Sciences Corporation, which helps maintain J. P. Morgan's computer networks. It
meant leaving behind, at least for a time, family, friends, even his fiancee,
Raquel Vasquez, who works at a bank in Manila.

In return, he would make $50,000 -- more than four times his salary in the
Philippines -- with the promise of a raise within a year. He would be able to
apply for a green card for himself, which carries permanent resident status, and
visas for his family and for Ms. Vasquez. And there was the prestige. "Back
home, if you're a 'techie guy' and you're working overseas, that means you're
good," he said, with just a hint of swagger.

Mr. Rivera is one of thousands of foreign workers who have arrived in New York
in the last three years, most carrying H-1B visas, in response to a huge growth
in financial services companies and their increasing reliance on information
technology. Many work as highly paid computer consultants, a far cry from the
blue-collar jobs that newly arrived immigrants in New York have traditionally
filled. For the most part, they are young, single and male. They often hold the
equivalent of a bachelor's or master's degree from their home countries. Their
tools are laptops and the latest software, and they consider languages like
Visual Basic, Cobol and C++ as useful as English, which some speak with less of
an accent than most native New Yorkers.

The city, particularly Wall Street and Silicon Alley, has emerged as a lucrative
destination for these tech-savvy immigrants. A recent Internet survey by Janet
Ruhl, a former consultant from Massachusetts and the author of "The Computer
Consultant's Guide" (John Wiley & Sons, 1997), found that the median pay rate
for freelance consultants in New York was $80 per hour, the highest in the
country.

"There's quite a bit of change on Wall Street," said Byron Yu, 49, founder of
Novax Group, a Manhattan computer consulting firm. "It has always been a United
Nations there, but now it is even more so."

One of the most palpable signs of the new immigrant presence is the boom in
ethnic restaurants in the financial district. In 1994, Inder Jeet opened Tandoor
Palace, an Indian takeout counter, on Fulton Street. It did not take long, he
said, for six other South Asian restaurateurs to follow his lead. Within two
years, he rented the space next door to Tandoor Palace, adding 45 seats and
creating a Punjabi-flavored dining hall. "Our people have come," he said.
"Business has increased a lot."

Immigration and Naturalization Service statistics show that the largest group of
immigrant consultants nationwide comes from India, which has a booming high-tech
industry of its own. Many others come from China, Russia, Israel, Pakistan and
the Philippines.

The foreign workers "have exceptionally strong technical skills, especially in
areas of high demand in this country," said Ravi Swamy, a partner in Informatic
Systems, a consulting company that has its headquarters in the Empire State
Building and recruiting offices in Bombay, Dubai and Singapore. "They usually
have a responsibility to support parents, sisters and brothers back home, and it
makes them work harder."

Every month, Mr. Rivera sends $500 to his parents and two sisters. Since the
Philippine peso has plummeted during the Asian financial crisis, he said, those
payments go a long way toward meeting his parents' daily expenses and his
younger sister's medical school tuition. He and Ms. Vasquez talk two or three
times a week, and Mr. Rivera's phone bill often tops $150 a month. He is also
saving for their wedding, planned for October in Manila. Meanwhile, halfway
around the world, he takes some comfort in being able to buy Frank Sinatra CD's,
dress shirts and, last March, a silver Mitsubishi Mirage.

"The first six months were really tough," he said. "The thing that would make us
happy is if we get good pay. That pretty much takes care of the loneliness."

The American Dollar As a Second Language

The new immigrants usually sign on as freelance contractors with computer
consulting firms, also called brokers. Some were started by other immigrants who
once worked as consultants. The brokers bill companies like Merrill Lynch, Chase
Manhattan Bank and AT&T an average hourly rate of about $110 per consultant for
short-term projects, Ms. Ruhl said, and keep 20 to 30 percent of that.

Occasionally the corporations themselves will hire the immigrant "techies"
directly as full-time in-house consultants. Those jobs pay an average of $70,000
a year, according to the Information Technology Association of America, well
above the average full-time salary of $46,000 for all jobs in New York,
according to the State Department of Labor.

"For a foreign student like myself, or immigrants who don't speak English as a
first language or who were brought up in a different culture, you can really
survive in a technical field," said Cheiko Ohashi, 25, who arrived in New York
from Tokyo six years ago and works as a Web site administrator at Chase
Manhattan in downtown Brooklyn. "This field gives us hope for reaching a higher
stage in our career."

Ms. Ohashi, who studied computer science at Mercy College in Westchester County,
signed on with Mr. Yu's company, Novax Group, last December. Her hobby, she
said, is reading computer manuals.

Like many immigrant consultants, Ms. Ohashi is also studying the risks and
rewards of opening her own business. She said she hoped to start her own
commercial Web site.

"The fact that they're here, they're already taking a big risk," said Harvi
Sachar, publisher of Silicon India, a monthly magazine run from Broad Street
that covers high-tech Indian expatriates. "Starting their own company is only
one more risk to take to try and make it big."

For Ms. Ohashi, making it on her own may happen in Japan. "Computer skills are
something that's universally wanted," she said. "If the consultants decide
they're going back to their homeland, there's a great chance of opening their
own businesses."

A Middle-Class Life Among Those Who Toil

Last March, Yichuan Li said, he moved from his basement apartment in Woodside,
Queens, where he had lived for three years, to a Flushing studio so that he
could be in the middle of a thriving Asian community. His new neighborhood held
the promise of familiar food and language, of customs shared. But Mr. Li, 26,
who came to the United States from Xiamen, China, in 1993, is aware that his
life style differs from that of most of his neighbors, who toil long hours for
little pay in restaurants and other service jobs.

Mr. Li's $90,000-a-year salary as a high-tech consultant, meanwhile, allows him
to eat nearly every meal out. When he's not working out at Bally's Total Fitness
in midtown, he gets his exercise by practicing golf swings at a driving range
near his home.

"Our cultural backgrounds are similar, but the way I live is different," he said
of his neighbors. "I'm lucky enough to get such a good job. I can go do sports a
lot. I'm interested in a lot of community events. But those people in my
neighborhood, they feel it wastes their time."

Like other foreign high-tech workers with high salaries, Mr. Li has been freed
from the constant hustle that many first-generation immigrants face. As an
office worker in Xiamen, he earned the equivalent of $40 per month. Now he has
joined the class of upwardly mobile foreign workers who can afford to buy new
cars, play the stock market and go bar hopping.

"They're exposed to a whole cultural set and media set of images," said Arjun
Appadurai, a professor at the University of Chicago who studies
transnationalism. "A single way to phrase that is the 'MTV world.' There's a
whole set of beliefs about products, about images, about life style."

But even though Mr. Li's salary allows him a middle-class life, he said he had
trouble adapting to a mainstream American workplace. He once tried his hand
selling Bibles door to door and computers at a retailer. He entered the
consulting field in 1996 when, like Ms. Ohashi, he signed on with Novax Group,
which gave him an H-1B visa and hired him as a systems engineer.  "Novax is
owned by a Taiwanese man, so they have more Asians than other places," Mr. Li
said. "And it was a technology company, so people were easier to hang out with."

But looking to work for a larger company, he joined another Manhattan broker,
Mediaserv, last September, and was assigned to help develop a new E-mail system
for NBC. Suddenly thrust into the broadcasting giant's corporate culture at
Rockefeller Center, Mr. Li said he found it "kind of difficult to get used to
such an environment." Language and popular culture were the biggest barriers.
Mr. Li rarely laughed at jokes made by his American colleagues. He didn't
recognize the names of pop singers dropped in conversation. ("I can't even
remember them today," he said with a laugh.) Every day, he walked past framed
posters of cast members of "Seinfeld" and "E.R." without knowing who they were.

"Some of the topics people talked about around here, I didn't have a clue about
them," he said. "Most of the time, I just listened."

It is a predicament that Xu Cheng, 34, who has worked as a consultant for Wall
Street firms since 1993, understands well. "For Chinese, I think a big problem
is language," said Mr. Cheng, who arrived in the United States in 1989 to pursue
a Ph.D. at the New Jersey Institute of Technology, but eventually dropped out to
pursue the big money of consulting. "A lot of people come here on student visas.
They can have some buffer time. When you first come, you feel you can't adapt to
this society. If you go to work directly, the first thing you have to do is
produce something."

Mr. Li's buffer time was spent getting a master's degree at Indiana University
of Pennsylvania and then studying computers at Baruch College downtown. Several
months after he started at NBC, he said, he began to feel more at home among his
colleagues. Although his closest friends tend to be computer consultants from
China, he said he now felt "very comfortable" on the job. Last December, he was
promoted to lead Mediaserv's E-mail project team there. He has begun working on
the side, providing technical training for employees of different companies. And
he even watched the final episode of "Seinfeld."

"People from my team, they don't treat me differently," he said. "I've
demonstrated my skills, my abilities."

An American colleague of Mr. Li, Richard Ameye, who works as a computer
technician for NBC, said that he has witnessed the recent influx of foreign
high-tech workers and that he has seen little animosity toward them. "In
computers in general, you have a lot of people coming from overseas," he said.
"That's not an issue. With computers, you end up talking the same language
anyway."

For an Entrepreneur, Opportunities Unbounded

When Kamal Singh thinks back to his boarding school days in the Punjab, in
India, he remembers one thing above all else. In each classroom, Mr. Singh said,
the teacher lectured from a podium. And nailed to each podium was a wooden
plaque inscribed with a saying from a former Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru:
"Success often comes to those who dare and act. It seldom goes to the timid."

"I get goose bumps just thinking about it," said Mr. Singh, 33, leaning over a
conference table at Maestro Technologies, the consulting company he owns on
Broad Street in the financial district. "It has really stayed with me."

For Mr. Singh, who dresses in crisp Oxford shirts and exudes energy, starting
his own business was the apotheosis of his military-style upbringing as a Sikh.
Not only did he memorize the sayings of Nehru, he said, but also ran obstacle
courses on weekends and learned the meaning of "duty, discipline and education."

"We were taught what you need to run a business from sixth or seventh grade," he
said. He came to the United States in 1987 and received his master's degree from
SUNY-Buffalo before settling in New York City.

"It was a very exciting concept for me to come here and be something," he said
of opportunities in America. "The freedom people have here, it amazes me."

In striking out on his own, Mr. Singh has also realized the goal of
entrepreneurship that many immigrant consultants dream of. He said the move came
after he got "fed up" with his former employer, Sharp Decisions, on Park Avenue.
From 1993 until last year, he said, he was assigned to Computer Sciences
Corporation, the same company as Mr. Rivera. For the first two years, he said,
Sharp kept an average of 30 percent of the $90 an hour it billed Computer
Sciences for his services, a cut that Mr. Singh said was much too high.

"I was being exploited," he said. "Then late last year, I decided enough is
enough."

The founder of Sharp Decisions, Michael Baer, said the 30 percent cut was fair.
"Kamal is quite an entrepreneur in spirit," Mr. Baer said. "We knew he would not
be happy until he was his own boss. He is not the typical personality."

In 1993, Mr. Singh started as a side business Maestro Technologies, one of New
York's first Internet service providers. He remembers squeezing computer units,
monitors and cables into a room the size of a walk-in closet on the top floor of
a ramshackle building at 29 John Street. When problems cropped up, he would
drive in at night from his apartment in Rego Park, Queens, step past homeless
people sleeping in the doorway and ride the rickety elevator to the office.

When he quit Sharp Decisions last December, he said, it seemed natural to
contract his consulting services directly through Maestro. Since January, he has
hired five more consultants: two United States citizens, two Indians and one
Russian. Three of the four employees on Maestro's Internet side are also
foreign. Mr. Singh said he valued a multi-ethnic workplace, where everyone
sometimes sat around the austere offices and shared a lunch of Indian takeout
from Tandoor Palace nearby.

"I hate it when I hear people refer to New York cabbies as mostly Indians or
Pakistanis or whatever," he said. "That's a generalization."

Companies like Maestro "understand the needs of foreign workers," said
Jacqueline Miao, 20, a Brooklyn College student from Malaysia who works as a Web
designer for Mr. Singh. "Everyone here is a foreigner in a way."

On a recent afternoon, Mr. Singh watched over Ms. Miao's shoulder as she tooled
around with a new home page design. Then he walked to the desk of Sonia Kaur,
24, from New Delhi, picked up resumes of several prospective consultants he
planned to interview and stopped at the desk of his brother-in-law Rajiv Lekhi,
30, to talk about plans for the company's Internet service.

His tasks completed, Mr. Singh paused at the door to his office and stared out
at the computers and workers scattered across the room. "It's a revolution we're
going through," he said, "and we are part of the revolution."

A Way to Get the 'Best and Brightest' -- or Just the Cheapest?

IN 1990, Congress established the H-1B visa program with the intent, as John
Fraser, a Labor Department administrator, explained last week, of attracting the
world's "best and the brightest" to domestic industries that needed temporary
access to highly skilled workers. (A provision even allows fashion models of
"distinguished merit or ability" to apply.)

A worker with an H-1B visa can stay in the United States for up to six years,
although many hope to land with an employer who will sponsor them for a green
card, which grants permanent residency.

Since its inception, the H-1B program has continued to draw heated criticism
from labor unions and managers who contend that it simply allows companies to
hire foreign workers at low wages rather than retrain domestic employees.

"We do believe there's a lot of undercutting of American workers," said the
president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s department for professional employees, Jack
Golodner.

At issue is whether there are enough qualified domestic workers to fill what the
Labor Department estimates will be 1.3 million computer industry job openings
through 2006. Computer-related H-1B applications received by the department more
than doubled from 1995 to 1997, from approximately 80,000 to 177,000.

The number of H-1B visas given out during those years also grew. In 1997, 65,000
such visas were dispensed by Sept. 1, the first time the annual cap set by
Congress was reached. When the cap was reached this year in mid-May, high-tech
companies stepped up lobbying efforts to raise it.

"The information technology industry already faces a tremendous shortfall of
workers," said Harris Miller, president of the Information Technology
Association of America, a Washington-based trade group.

But the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and other groups cite a 1996 Labor Department study that
found widespread abuse of the H-1B visa program. The study concluded that the
program did not necessarily bring in the "best and brightest" from other
countries. The department also found that about 19 percent of visa holders were
not being paid wages to which they were legally entitled. No companies or
individuals were identified.

In 1994, American International Group, a Fortune 500 insurance company with
headquarters in the financial district, laid off about 250 domestic computer
technicians. Company officials described it at the time as a positive financial
move, but some workers said it was done to allow American International to
contract out its computer work to a Michigan company, Syntel, which uses mainly
Indian workers who earn less than the laid-off technicians. In 1997, Syntel was
among the companies that had the highest number of H-1B visas granted by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"I have never had such a feeling of fear in the gut of my stomach," said a
programming analyst, Linda Kilcrease, 51, who lost her job and went on to
campaign to revise the H-1B program and keep the 65,000-visa cap.

Late last month, Republican leaders in Congress shelved a compromise bill that
would have gradually raised the cap to allow 115,000 workers to enter the United
State annually by 2001. The move came after the White House issued a veto threat
saying that the bill did not adequately protect domestic workers.

For now, foreigners with an offer from a United States company but no H-1B visa
will have to wait until at least October, the start of the next fiscal year,
before any more such visas will be granted.   EDWARD WONG

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Working overseas is "a status symbol," says Marjon Rivera,
center, of Manila. Cheiko Ohashi, from Tokyo, hopes to start her own business, a
move that Harvi Sachar calls "only one more risk" for a highly skilled
immigrant. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times); (Philip Greenberg for The New York
Times); (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. 1); For Chinese, "a big problem
is language," says Xu Cheng, a Wall Street consultant since '93. He advises
buffer time between an immigrant's arrival and first high-tech job. (Norman Y.
Lono for The New York Times); "Everyone here is a foreigner in a way," says
Jacqueline Miao, of Malaysia, who is studying at Brooklyn College and working as
a Web designer. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times); When he joined the
team developing a new E-mail system for NBC, Yichuan Li "didn't have a clue"
when his colleagues cracked jokes or talked about pop singers. (David Corio for
The New York Times); In India, Kamal Singh was "taught what you need to run a
business from sixth or seventh grade." Today, he owns an Internet service and
computer consulting provider. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times); "It has
always been a United Nations" on Wall Street," says Byron Yu, founder of a
Manhattan computer consulting firm. "But now it is even more so." (Philip
Greenberg for The New York Times); Linda Kilcrease lost her job as a programming
analyst with American International Group and went on to campaign to revise the
H-1B program. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 10); Immigrant
workers, says Ravi Swamy, "usually have a responsibility to support parents,
sisters and brothers back home." (David Corio for The New York Times)(pg. 11)

Chart: "High-Tech Help Wanted"
Drawn by the promise of high pay, foreigners are applying in droves for jobs as
computer consultants in the United States.

The five areas with the highest median pay for computer consultants.

New York City: $80/hour
San Francisco/Silicon Valley: $75/hour
Boston: $70/hour
Chicago: $68/hour
Seattle: $60/hour

Applications for visas for computer-related jobs filed under the H-1B program
for highly skilled foreign workers, and the percentage of all the applications
in that program that are computer-related.

1995: 79,900 -- 25.6%
1996: 102,400 -- 41.5%
1997: 177,000 -- 44.4%

(Sources: Real Rate Survey (www.realrates.com), U.S. Department of Labor)(pg. 1)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 28, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: EAST SIDE;
Labor Dispute At Restaurant Keeps Sizzling

BYLINE: By ADAM GERSHENSON

SECTION: Section 14; Page 6; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 445 words


The dispute between Angelo & Maxie's Steakhouse and several former employees who
said they were fired for trying to organize immigrant workers is unabated,
nearly 10 months after an employee who began the unionizing effort was
dismissed.

On March 19, a Friday night, there was a crowd at the restaurant, which is at
Park Avenue and 19th Street. Inside, diners dug into sirloins and smoked
expensive cigars. Outside, nearly 200 protesters, including labor leaders,
members of the clergy, former kitchen workers and others, called for a boycott
of the restaurant.

Regular protests at Angelo & Maxie's began a year ago. Last June, Local 100 of
the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees International Union filed a
complaint with the National Labor Relations Board that accused Angelo & Maxie's
of harassing pro-union employees and illegally firing one of the workers who had
started the union drive. An owner, Richard Wolf, denied these accusations.

After seven more kitchen workers were dismissed in February, the protests became
even more vehement. Those workers were dismissed, Mr. Wolf said, because after
discrepancies in their Social Security paperwork were discovered, they did not
provide the required information. Union officials said that was irrelevant, and
asserted that the restaurant fired the workers because they were organizing
other employees.

Thomas Walters, the president and chief executive of Chart House Enterprises, a
national chain that is buying Angelo & Maxie's, said, "My hope is to make
peace." For now, though, the two sides are at war.

A union official, Brooks Bitterman, said the main issue was working conditions.
"The treatment was inhumane," he said. "Workers complained that they were yelled
at, threatened and denied basic rights, like being able to take breaks."

Mr. Wolf disputed that, saying: "My employees are happy. If we had an election
this minute, that would be the last of Local 100."

At the protest outside the restaurant March 19, some protesters held lighted
candles in plastic cups. Others wore sandwich boards encouraging workers to join
the union. Though most of the demonstrators stood around the corner from the
entrance, on Park Avenue, four were stationed behind a barricade near the door.
"Shame on you," they shouted at arriving customers. "Have you no conscience?"

Around 7:45 P.M., during the heat of the dinner rush, an employee emerged.
"Shame on you!" he shouted, pointing his finger at the men behind the barricade.
"Have you no conscience?"

Moments later, an apparently well-fed patron emerged. He patted his stomach
contentedly and walked into the night.
   ADAM GERSHENSON


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Candlelight sets an atmosphere, for protest, outside Angelo &
Maxie's Steakhouse. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 6, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Boosts Our Economy

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 84 words



To the Editor:

You quote a fired undocumented worker as saying: "I want to work. What kind of
bad crime am I committing?" (front page, April 2). Good question. I never
understood one of the main justifications for the United States immigration laws
-- namely, that the American economy is hurt by having too many productive
workers. How absurd. Forcing employees who don't happen to have the right papers
is inhumane. It also hurts America.

STEVE FEINBERG
Brooklyn, April 3, 1999


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Carolyn Fisher)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 7, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Let Immigrants Organize for Better Wages

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 149 words



To the Editor:

Re "Immigration Boosts Our Economy" (letters, April 6):

The Immigration and Naturalization Service raids in several Yakima Valley
warehouses in Washington State where workers were organizing violated the
practice of noninterference with union campaigns. The raids occurred as
agribusiness was lobbying for new guest worker laws similar to the "bracero"
program that created horrifying conditions for Mexican migrant workers from the
1940's to the 60's.

Enacting a new guest worker program that lifts the requirement to recruit
locally would depress wages and make it harder for farm workers to organize.
Instead, we should enforce the rights of the immigrants already here to organize
for better pay and working conditions.

NIEVES NEGRETE
Granger, Wash., April 6, 1999

The writer is with the Washington Alliance for Immigrant and Refugee Justice.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 5, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Heat Making Illegal Border Crossings Deadlier

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1676 words

DATELINE: LAREDO, Tex., Aug. 1


Jesus Ortiz Garcia had been stumbling all day through the sweltering mesquite
scrublands north of the Mexican border, his lone liter of water long since
drained. But it was not until his woozy head began to throb, his feet had
blistered, his stomach had soured and he had begun to get the distinct
impression that he was going blind that he decided it might be wise to turn
himself in to the Border Patrol.

"I was losing my vision and my legs were growing weaker," Mr. Ortiz said. "I was
falling farther and farther behind my group. Finally, they just left me behind."

So Mr. Ortiz, a 21-year-old mason from just across the border, in Nuevo Laredo,
who had dreamed of making his way the 150 miles up to San Antonio to do
yardwork, stumbled into the highway checkpoint north of Laredo on Interstate 35
and became the latest statistic in the implacable heat wave that has scorched
much of the south-central United States, especially Texas, since the middle of
May and shows no signs of easing.

"He just came wandering out of the brush and he looked pretty bad," said George
Benavides, a border agent. "He kept saying, 'Agua, agua,' over and over again.
So we cooled him off, gave him Gatorade and a sandwich, and he started to come
around. He's lucky. It's been a bad year for heat deaths on the border."

Temperatures have regularly been above 100 in the Rio Grande Valley since
spring, and a severe drought has dried or fouled most of the remote ponds and
livestock tanks where illegal aliens had been finding water. For more than two
and a half months, going outside here has felt like opening the oven to check
the cookies.

Yet while most of the nation's attention has focused on the big cities farther
north, like Dallas, where the elderly and people without air-conditioning have
been dying by the dozen, the second-largest cluster of heat-related deaths has
been occurring along the 2,000-mile border with Mexico. Too many people are
carrying too little water, blindly following guides, who are called coyotes,
into the South Texas frying pan. United States border officials say that as of
last weekend at least 50 people had died of hyperthermia, or heat-related
dehydration, this year along the border's fiery scrublands and deserts between
the Gulf of Mexico and the New Mexico state line.

"These numbers should be seen as a bare minimum," said Richard Marroquin, deputy
chief patrol agent for the Laredo Sector of about 175 miles between Eagle Pass
and Falcon Lake. "They're just the ones we know about. We're often coming across
skeletons and bodies that have been out there for who knows how long, so there
are probably a lot more out there now."

Crossing the border has always been a perilous enterprise, but in a normal year
the great majority of deaths would come from drowning or train accidents. In
1997, for example, there were 23 recorded deaths related to heat and 41 to
drowning.

"This year has been really bad, and not just because of the heat," Mr. Marroquin
said. "There's not much water out there. People run through what little water
they're carrying before the first day out, so they drink bad water from stock
tanks or other places. They get sick and vomit and get diarrhea and that just
dehydrates them faster."

He recalled one death this summer in which a young woman got sick and could not
go on, so her relatives went to get help and left her sitting in the shade with
her Bible in her lap. That is how the border agents found her, several hours
later, covered by a T-shirt that she had apparently placed over her head to
shield her from the sun.

Brian McCormack, another border agent at Laredo, told of a recent incident in
which two young men left their ailing uncle beside a filthy stock pond, made
their way to the nearest road and waited 12 hours for a car to pass, then took 4
more hours to find the spot where they had left him. By the time border agents
got back to him, the uncle was long dead.

Another heat-sickened man was left in the uncertain shade of a mesquite tree
with nothing but two bottles of tequila. It was not until weeks later, when the
others in his group were captured and sent back to their village, and relatives
of the man asked what had happened to him, that his companions told their story.
The man was found under the tree next to two empty bottles of tequila -- tequila
that had probably, mercifully, hastened his death.

The heat victims have been various ages, from teen-agers to the elderly, and
they have come alone and in groups. Just recently, border agents in Laredo came
across 19 illegal immigrants who had been abandoned by their coyote and were
very ill. All survived.

"Sometimes, they'll leave the sick person behind and come out to the highway to
find help," Mr. Marroquin said. "Sometimes they'll wait until they get to San
Antonio or wherever they're going and send word back, which is usually too late.
Often, a rancher will stumble across them, or they'll go to the ranch house for
help. And sometimes, they'll just leave them there and go on, without a word."

Another factor in the rise in heat deaths this summer has been the Border
Patrol's increased vigilance along the normal, easier crossing points. Mr.
Benavides said there were 66 agents in the Laredo North office when he joined it
10 years ago, but by the end of a current hiring binge there will be 265. It is
the same story at popular crossings all along the border. This has had the
effect, in part, of forcing some smugglers to shift their activities farther and
farther from the towns, the highways and the water.

In the best of times, those who cross the Rio Grande along the brushlands
northwest of Laredo have a two-day walk to the nearest highway, where they are
to be picked up at pre-arranged locations and taken to safe houses or all the
way to San Antonio. But the stronger the border vigilance, the farther upriver
they must cross and the longer the walk to the highway. Add to this the normal
zigzagging that many coyotes take to avoid the Border Patrol's buried sensors,
and it can take four or five hard days of walking to get from the river to a
pick-up point.

"They assume they can make it in a couple of days, so they only carry a small
supply of water, a few gallons at the most," said Susan M. Macey, a geographer
at Southwest Texas State University who has studied heat-related deaths across
the United States. "Partly, they're getting misinformation. Everybody
underestimates how long it will take, and then they get out there without enough
water and five days' hard walk to anywhere where they can get some assistance.
There's just nothing out there, you know."

Someone walking through the brush needs at least a gallon of water a day to keep
going, Ms. Macey said, so a four- or five-day walk requires five gallons of
water, which is too much to carry.  And the situation is made worse, Ms. Macey
said, by the predatory nature of the smugglers.

"They're telling these people, 'You can make it, give us the money and we'll get
to you a truck,' and the next thing you know they're dying of heat prostration,"
she said.

Several sectors of the Border Patrol have brought in desert survival specialists
from the military this year to train officers on how to help those they find
still alive in the brush. All along the border, the green and white Border
Patrol vehicles have also begun to carry extra rations of water, ice, Gatorade
and sandwiches, as well as an emergency medical kit that includes intravenous
tubes to get fluids into the bodies of those too weak to swallow.

Government officials on both sides of the border have also begun a campaign of
public service announcements in the Mexican media to warn people not to try the
crossing during the heat and the drought.

The Border Patrol's policy is to prosecute smugglers but simply to transport
immigrants back across the border after they have recovered from their ordeal.

"Pretty much everything out here has a thorn on it," Mr. McCormack, the border
agent, said as he steered his four-wheel-drive patrol vehicle along a remote
path looking for tracks. He stopped at a stock pond next to a rusting windmill,
surrounded by prickly pears and partly shaded by cottonwoods.

"Most of the ones who don't make it are city people, you know," Mr. McCormack
said. "They're not used to the heat and the hard work that a lot of rural people
do. They don't really know what they're getting into."

Mr. Ortiz is one of those city people. He paid a smuggler $100 last Thursday,
and promised to pay $400 later, to take him across the border along with 12
other people. They crossed outside Laredo that night and were picked up almost
immediately and sent back to Mexico. The band just regrouped and crossed a
second time, on Friday morning.

The coyote led them into the brush about a mile from the interstate, and they
followed the line of the highway north. But Mr. Ortiz dropped out and had
stumbled back to the checkpoint by early Friday evening, having made it less
than 18 miles into the United States. Before the sun had set, he was full of ham
and Gatorade and said he wanted to be taken home.

Mr. Benavides and two other agents drove him to the main bridge in Laredo, where
he was walked to the midpoint and disappeared into the crowd.

"He'll try it again as soon as he rests up and feels better," Mr. Benavides
said. "I hope he brings more water next time."


                             --------------------


North Texas Heat Streak Ends

DALLAS, Aug. 4 (AP) -- After thunderstorms blew into North Texas late Monday
afternoon, the high temperatures here reached only 94 degrees today, ending the
29-day string of 100-degree days that had plagued North Texas.

The 29 days were the second-longest heat streak here. The record for consecutive
days of triple-digit temperatures, 42, was set in 1980.

Highs the rest of the week were forecast to be in the upper 90's.

The scorching weather has claimed 106 lives in Texas. Today, the Dallas County
medical examiner's office added two more to the list.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Juan Antonio Alvarado, cooling his head with ice from the
Border Patrol, was found near death by other immigrants in South Texas.
(Associated Press)(pg. A1); Border Patrol agents reviewed the site in Brooks
County, Tex., where a 13-year-old Mexican boy was found dead last month. The boy
had been traveling north with two cousins when he became dehydrated. (Associated
Press); Jesus Ortiz Garcia after dehydration led him to the Border Patrol. (F.
Carter Smith for The New York Times)(pg. A18)


                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 25, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Border Deaths Don't Change Mexico's View Of Crossings

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 658 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Aug. 23


The recent deaths of 10 Mexicans who were found in the California desert have
drawn attention to Mexico's longstanding position of not discouraging its
citizens from undertaking the illegal -- and increasingly dangerous -- journey
across the border.

Fernando Solis Camara, who heads Mexico's migration service, surprised officials
on both sides of the border with the answer he gave a Mexican reporter who asked
what the Government was doing to protect those who try to emigrate in the savage
heat of summer.

"At no time will we take any action that could discourage Mexicans from
emigrating to the United States," Mr. Solis said. "That is because these are
people who leave their families and their homes with the legitimate goal of
bettering their lives."

More than 90 Mexicans trying to emigrate illegally have been found dead in the
California desert near the border so far this year, according to Mexican
officials.

Mr. Solis's unusually blunt statements reopened one of the country's most
sensitive diplomatic quandaries. Millions of illegal border crossings are
virtually unimpeded on the Mexican side, while the United States Border Patrol
continues to put more money and personnel into securing the border.

Mr. Solis was not available to explain his statements, but at a recent
bill-signing ceremony here, his superior, Francisco Labastida Ochoa, minister of
the powerful Interior Department, found himself having to explain what Mr. Solis
really meant.

"When he says that immigration is not going to be impeded, it simply means that
no one is going to limit the freedom of those who seek to improve their lives by
migrating to another country," Mr. Labastida said. "This doesn't mean that we
are not bothered by what is happening or that we are not undertaking efforts to
avoid and reduce the human cost of this migration."

Mexico's Consul General in Los Angeles, Jose Angel Pescador, has been put in the
difficult spot of having to explain Mexico's position to the relatives of those
who died as well as to American officials and residents of California.

In a telephone interview from his office, Mr. Pescador said Article 11 of the
Mexican Constitution guaranteed all Mexicans freedom of movement to go where
they want, which the Government interprets as including the right to cross the
United States border illegally without being stopped by Mexican officials.

But he said the Constitution, in Article 4, also guaranteed every Mexican's
right to safety and good health.

"And besides," he said, "here in the U.S. there also are laws that give the
Border Patrol the responsibility to prevent people without documents from
entering the country."

The families of two of the Mexicans who were found dead under a cedar tree on
the American side of the border early this month have asked the consul to
investigate the dangers on the border and to identify the smugglers responsible
for leaving the illegal migrants to die.

"The death of even one Mexican crossing the border should weigh on the
conscience of both countries," Mr. Pescador said.

Recently, the United States and Mexico agreed to cooperate in a campaign to warn
Mexicans, and their families in the United States, about the dangers of crossing
the border, especially if they use the "polleros" or smugglers who are suspected
of abandoning people in the desert once they have received their payment.

Salvador Zamora, a Border Patrol agent in San Diego, said 100 new signs clearly
stating the danger of trying to cross the inhospitable areas along the border
were being erected on the American side now.

"It's not worth it," the signs say in Spanish, along with drawings to represent
the intense heat and desert conditions in the area.

Mr. Zamora said radio and television announcements would be played in American
cities, as well as in Mexico, to warn people that conditions have changed and
that crossing the border is now more difficult.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 1, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Congress Cancels a Vote to Increase Visas

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 231 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 31


One week after announcing a compromise to increase the number of visas available
for high-technology workers, Congressional leaders canceled planned votes today
on the legislation under the threat of a veto.

Although supporters of the legislation remained optimistic about the chances of
a compromise with the White House, the canceled vote dashed hopes of relieving
critical worker shortages before the fiscal year ends in September.

The White House threatened a veto on Thursday night, expressing concerns that
provisions to insure that American workers would not be replaced with cheaper
foreign labor were inadequate.

The 65,000 visas available this year for skilled foreign workers were used up in
May. Technology companies have been lobbying heavily for an immediate increase
this year, saying crucial projects, including the repair of Year 2000 computer
problems, have been delayed by the shortage of workers with the necessary
advanced computer programming and engineering skills.

Among concessions the Administration is seeking is a fee on employers who
sponsor foreign workers. The money would go into a fund to train American
workers. The White House also wants stronger language to insure that Americans
are not being laid off and then replaced with cheaper foreign labor and an
arbitration process for American workers who think they have been wrongly let
go.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 24, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

An Agreement To Increase Special Visas

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 406 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23


The White House and Congressional leaders agreed today on legislation to
increase the number of foreign workers who can get visas allowing them to fill
high-tech jobs in the United States.

The measure is supported by computer and other technology companies, but it was
opposed by labor unions, and until now the Clinton Administration had said it
would veto the bill.

Today, the White House said that it had won concessions from Congress, including
hundreds of millions of dollars for training programs for American workers, to
be paid for by fees charged for each foreign applicant who receives one of the
special visas.

"With the White House now on board, I hope we can get this law enacted very
quickly," said Senator Spencer Abraham, the Michigan Republican who is chairman
of the subcommittee on immigration of the Senate Judiciary Committee.

Under the compromise, the number of workers admitted into the United States
because of their special skills would rise from 65,000 a year to about 115,000 a
year for the next three years. This year, the annual limit was filled in May,
and there is now a backlog of tens of thousands of applicants for the visas.

House Republican leaders scheduled a vote on the bill for as early as Thursday.
The Senate passed a different version in May, but the White House said it would
veto that version.

The compromise would require some companies to attest that they had tried to
fill jobs with Americans and that they had not laid off American workers with
similar skills.

Technology companies and universities have argued that they cannot fill critical
positions without this access to foreign workers, who are often paid generous
salaries.

The agreement comes as President Clinton is planning a trip to California, where
high-tech companies have been outspoken in support of the measure.

"I believe the compromise is one which the White House should support, because
this President regularly talks about his interest in maintaining the competitive
level in Silicon Valley," said Representative David Dreier, Republican of
California, at a news conference today, before the White House announced its
support.

"This bill does have bipartisan support," said Representative Adam Smith,
Democrat of Washington. "I have a very strong record with labor and unions, and
I think this bill will help labor and help unions, because it will create jobs
here in this country."


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 10, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Farm Labor Opposes Bill On Importing More Workers

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 800 words


As part of the last-minute lobbying battle before Congress recesses, farm worker
groups and Hispanic organizations are fighting a bill that would let American
farmers bring in tens of thousands of foreign workers, a move that opponents say
would hurt farm worker wages and housing conditions.

Pushed by these organizations, the White House has threatened a veto and is
pressing Republican leaders in Congress to leave the guest worker measure out of
an omnibus appropriations bill.

Growers' organizations are lobbying to preserve the measure, asserting that a
labor shortage has left many farmers without enough workers for the harvest,
causing fruit to rot in the fields in several states. They say tougher
immigration enforcement has created a shortage of workers, while farm worker
advocates argue that the overriding reason growers are having trouble finding
workers is that they pay poverty-level wages.

Asserting that growers have concocted the notion of a labor shortage, opponents
assert that the bill will create a new bracero program, a 1950's program in
which American farmers imported Mexican workers to labor in near-peonage.

"It's a monstrous proposal," said Representative Howard L. Berman, Democrat of
California. "At a time when a number of independent studies, including ones that
Congress commissioned, show that we have a large surplus of farm workers whose
pay is at the bottom of the American work force, we are bringing in potentially
unlimited numbers of foreign guest workers to displace them."

In July, the Senate approved a bipartisan amendment, introduced by Oregon's two
Senators, Ron Wyden, a Democrat, and Gordon H. Smith, a Republican, that would
allow growers to bring in foreign workers if the growers could not obtain
sufficient workers within seven days through a Government-run registry.

The House has not approved a guest worker bill, but Senate-House conferees are
debating whether to include the Wyden-Smith amendment or a slimmed-down version
in an overall appropriations bill.

The White House is pressuring the conferees not to include any guest worker
provision. Administration officials and many conservative Republicans fear that
the bill will bring in hundreds of thousands of immigrants who will refuse to
return home once their visas expire.

John Fraser, acting administrator of the Wage and Hour Division at the
Department of Labor, said the Administration thought the bill "will increase
illegal immigration, it will reduce job opportunities for legal U.S. farm
workers, and it will undercut wages and working conditions."

Congressional negotiators said they might settle on a reduced pilot program to
admit a maximum of 100,000 guest farm workers annually.

The Wyden-Smith amendment, which was approved without committee hearings,
differs from current law in that the growers would not have to provide housing
for the guest workers. Instead, growers could provide a housing stipend.

The Senate amendment would speed the process of obtaining workers by no longer
requiring growers to advertise for domestic workers first or to receive
government certification of a labor shortage in their area.

Growers assert that the existing law, under which 20,000 guest workers were
brought in last year, is too cumbersome. They add that the proposed law would
help insure a legal work force, noting that about two-fifths of the nation's two
million farm workers are here illegally.

The current program "is not workable for agriculture either in time or in
affordability," Mr. Smith said. "So when no one uses it, workers and employers
are forced to operate in an illegal situation."

Advocates for farm workers point to a recent General Accounting Office study
showing there is no shortage of farm workers. They also note that the jobless
rate in many agricultural counties in California is more than twice the national
average.

"There is no shortage of workers," said Dolores Huerta, co-founder of the United
Farm Workers. "In some ways, this program would be even worse than the bracero
program. Back then, they had to guarantee workers housing and here they won't."

Ms. Huerta predicted that workers given housing stipends would often not be able
to find shelter because of a housing shortage in many rural areas or would crowd
20 or 25 people into a house to save money.

Growers insist that their opponents are ignoring reality.

"It's easy for them to simply stand there and say there is no shortage," said
Doug Kerr, general counsel for the Western Growers Association, whose 3,200
members account for 90 percent of the fresh fruits and vegetables produced in
California. "But if they go into the Central Valley today, they'll see grapes
and tree fruit rotting in the field because we don't have enough workers to pick
them."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 10, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Bill to Bring Technology Workers to U.S. Dies

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 320 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 9


A bill that would have increased the number of United States visas granted to
foreign high-technology workers died in the Senate today, with backers of the
bill warning its demise could have dire consequences as the computer industry
tries to deal with the year 2000 millennium bug.

Both the House and the Senate had passed earlier versions of the bill, and a
compromise with the White House had been worked out last month. But a small
number of senators were able to block a vote on the bill late today, killing any
chance of its passage this year.

Under current law, 65,000 H-1B visas are granted annually to noncitizen computer
programmers and other highly skilled professionals to work in the United States
for up to six years. The bill would have nearly doubled that, to 115,000, for
the next two years and, to 107,500, in the third year. After that, the level
would drop back to 65,000.

The bill's chief Senate sponsor, Spencer Abraham, a Republican from Michigan,
said the decision could hurt the high-technology industry and academic
institutions.

"This is a severe problem and it is especially severe at this time," said
Senator Abraham, noting that the industry is trying to resolve the millennium
bug, which may cause some computer systems to fail if internal clocks do not
recognize the year 2000.

Tom Harkin, a Democrat from Iowa who opposed the bill, said he did not think
there was a shortage of high-technology American workers now, but he was willing
to take another look at the issue next year.

"Right now it does not appear that the demand is there that they have
anticipated," Senator Harkin said.

Senator Abraham disagreed, saying the United States cannot fill the 130,000 new
information jobs a year without importing foreign workers.

High-technology companies had lobbied to increase the cap on foreign workers,
but some lawmakers with ties to organized labor opposed it.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 18, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Spending Bill Hurt by Bid on Foreign Farm Hands

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 409 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17


A proposal to ease the hiring of foreigners at harvest time is clouding
prospects for Congressional approval of a spending bill for the Commerce,
Justice and State Departments.

An amendment to the $27.4 billion spending bill is being pushed by farm-state
senators who say the process for hiring foreign farm workers, most from Mexico,
is slow and burdened by red tape. As a result, some lawmakers say, farmers face
the dilemma of seeing their crops go unharvested or hiring foreigners who lack
permission to work.

One expected result of the amendment would be more foreign workers, and
therefore pressure to keep wages low. While the amendment would require growers
to pay American farm workers the prevailing wage in a given area, critics
contend that those wages could drop if the legislation is approved.

The amendment would also require American farm workers to list themselves in a
central job registry and get their jobs through a referral from that registry.
And it would eliminate the requirement that growers provide housing for guest
workers, although farmers would have to give these workers a housing allowance.
This would mean that rural communities would have to build housing for workers.

Opponents of the measure, including labor unions, Hispanic civil rights groups
and the Labor Department, say it is an effort to hold down wages of migrant
workers by bringing in low-income Mexican field hands. The opponents also argue
that the measure weakens guarantees that American farm workers would still be
provided jobs, good housing and a decent wage. And opponents point to studies by
the General Accounting Office and private economists indicating that there is no
agricultural labor shortage.

Critics of the measure have urged the White House to threaten a veto of the
spending bill if the amendment is enacted. They hope the threat would persuade
House-Senate conferees to drop the amendment to help gain support for the
spending bill.

The amendment's chief sponsor, Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, said he
was willing to modify his bill to address some of the opponents' concerns, and
Clinton Administration officials met with him on Tuesday in an effort to work
out their differences. But a White House official, speaking on the condition of
anonymity, said that "people are still far apart."

Passage of the bill is already jeopardized because of controversy over
preparations for the 2000 census.



LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 14, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Bill to Increase Work Visas for Foreigners Gets New Lease on Life

BYLINE: By JERI CLAUSING

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 431 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 13


Congressional leaders revived legislation today that would nearly double the
number of employment visas available for skilled foreign workers.

The measure, which is sought by high-technology industries, appeared dead on
Friday night, but budget negotiators agreed today to include it in the omnibus
spending bill that Congress is trying to finish this week so it can adjourn.

"This is a big victory for the economy, which is being fueled in large part by
our high-tech industries," said the author of the legislation, Senator Spencer
Abraham, a Michigan Republican. "The legislation strikes the right balance in
safeguarding America's competitive edge and protecting U.S. jobs."

The final proposal represents a hard-fought compromise with the White House,
which had opposed Senator Abraham's original measure because of concerns that it
lacked proper protections for American workers.

Silicon Valley companies have pushed hard for the visa legislation, contending
that they cannot find enough skilled Americans to fill crucial jobs.

The industry won another victory today with the passage of the Securities
Litigation Uniform Standards Act, which is intended to protect technology and
other start-up companies from lawsuits in state courts over stock price
fluctuations. The compromise measure, now endorsed by both houses of Congress,
imposes a single national standard for such suits.

The legislation to increase the number of so-called H1-B work visas, a result of
months of wrangling with the White House, appeared to have been killed on Friday
night after Senator Tom Harkin, an Iowa Democrat, questioned the validity of the
high-technology industries' claims of worker shortages and blocked a final vote.

The final version increases from 65,000 to 115,000 the number of H1-B visas
available in each of the next two years and sets the number at 107,500 in the
third year.

It requires that if 15 percent or more of a company's work force consists of
employees on H1-B visas, it must attest that they have not replaced American
workers.

Companies hiring H1-B workers with master's degrees or higher or at salaries of
$60,000 or more would be exempt from that requirement. There are also special
exemptions for small businesses and start-up companies.

The legislation also authorizes the Labor Department to investigate suspected
abuses of the program and imposes a $500 filing fee on visa applications and
renewals. The more than $75 million raised by these fees would be used for
training and scholarship programs for United States citizens.




LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 25, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Sweating in Saipan

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 183 words



To the Editor:

Your Feb. 20 news article on the use of foreign contract workers in the Northern
Mariana Islands, a United States commonwealth, stresses that many of the workers
say they come to Saipan voluntarily and that they want to work every day. Of
course they do, but that should not override the fundamental unfairness of guest
worker programs. The conditions associated with these programs establish a power
imbalance that grants unusual control over the labor force to employers.

Given their economic motivation, guest workers generally do not wish to take
action that might cause them to be fired and deported. Consequently, most are
too afraid to challenge unfair or illegal employment practices or to organize
labor unions. In addition, they never gain the right to vote or other democratic
rights. If we need added workers in the United States, we should invite them not
as guest workers but as immigrants with the opportunity to become citizens.

BRUCE GOLDSTEIN
Washington, Feb. 24, 1999

The writer is co-executive director of the Farmworker Justice Fund.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 21, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Woman Who Feared Genital Cutting Adapts to New Freedom

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 651 words


When Adelaide Abankwah walked out of Wackenhut Detention Center in Queens on
Monday night, she was wearing the same clothes that she had on more than two
years ago when she was arrested at Kennedy International Airport. But this time,
they were practically falling off her.

Weight loss was only one of the trials Ms. Abankwah endured during two and a
half years of detention. She was arrested after she tried to enter the country
with a false passport, saying she was fleeing her country, Ghana, so she would
not have to undergo ritual genital cutting.

During two years of hearings, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
repeatedly denied her requests for asylum, saying she had not proved she would
be harmed if she returned to the African nation.

But this month, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in
Manhattan supported her petition. Her release came as abruptly as her detention
had, her lawyer, Jonathan Rauchway, said. She was told to pack her bags, and
then she was put in a waiting room.

When she finally left the center she walked out to greet some supporters who had
made her case a cause celebre in recent months. Then she was driven through the
city, where she gaped at the tall buildings, said Jessica Neuwirth, the
president of Equality Now, the group that campaigned for her release.

"All this data -- after two and a half years of being in the same room," Ms.
Neuwirth said. Ms. Abankwah, 29, was then taken to her new home in the Bronx.
She is to live there with Victoria Otumfuor, a minister from Ghana who
befriended her shortly after she was detained.

Yesterday, Ms. Abankwah was in seclusion, resting and trying to absorb her new
world. "In some ways, today is her first day in the real America," Ms. Neuwirth
said.

The immediate agenda includes some medical treatment. Ms. Neuwirth said that for
the last three weeks, Ms. Abankwah had been in pain because of a tooth needing
root canal work, and would be going to a dentist. She also has gynecological and
digestive ailments that need attention.

While Ms. Abankwah is free, she must still await a final decision on her asylum
request by the Board of Immigration Appeals. Both Mr. Rauchway and Ms. Neuwirth
expressed optimism that the board would not prevent Ms. Abankwah from remaining
in the United States, but they also said that they did not know when the board
would issue its ruling.

Ms. Neuwirth said that Ms. Abankwah, whose cause was taken up by Senator Charles
E. Schumer and Representative Carolyn Maloney, among others, was still worried
that she would be sent back to Ghana.

If she is not, her long-term plans include more schooling. In detention, Ms.
Abankwah learned English, which she can now read, write and speak, but she had
little beyond a primary school education in Ghana.

And Ms. Neuwirth said it was likely that with time, a very different personality
would emerge from the one that Ms. Abankwah, who was sometimes suicidal, showed
in prison.

Ms. Neuwirth said such a transformation occurred with Fauziya Kassindja, a woman
from Togo who was given asylum in the United States in 1996 based on her fear of
having to undergo genital cutting.

Ms. Neuwirth said that she thought she had got to know Ms. Kassindja when she
was in detention for over a year, "but I didn't really know her at all.

"What I knew was a very depressed person in detention," Ms. Neuwirth said. "Over
time I came to know the person who ran away, who has a completely different
spirit. Detention really crushes your spirit."

Ms. Kassindja frequently visited Ms. Abankwah in prison. The two share a
language -- Togo is just east of Ghana -- and an unusual experience.

Ms. Kassindja has just finished her first year at Hunter College, and Ms.
Neuwirth said she hoped an equally bright future was in store for Ms. Abankwah.
"Hopefully, this will get put behind her," she said.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 29, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Judge Approves Suit By Immigrant Detainees

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 186 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


A Federal judge in Newark has approved a class-action suit against the private
company that ran an immigration detention center in Elizabeth where detainees
rioted in June 1995 to protest what they said was inhumane treatment.

The decision by Judge Dickinson R. Debevoise in United States District Court
does not touch on the merits of the suit, which charges that detainees were
abused by guards, provided with inadequate food, sanitation, exercise and
medical treatment, and denied access to legal representation. Rather, the ruling
allows any of the 1,600 immigrants detained at the former Esmor Detention Center
between August 1994 and June 1995 to join in the suit, which was originally
filed in 1996 on behalf of 18 individual detainees, said Bruce J. Ressler, their
lawyer.

Mr. Ressler announced the judge's Aug. 24 ruling yesterday, following a $1.5
million settlement reached last week in a civil rights suit against Union
County, where detainees were moved after the riot and beaten by guards at the
county jail. Daniel Gzofski, a lawyer for Esmor, declined to comment on the
class-action suit.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 2, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Detained Immigrants Ending Hunger Strike

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 201 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH


A hunger strike at the Immigration and Naturalization Service's Elizabeth
Detention Center appeared to be winding down at the end of its third day
yesterday as most of the detainees who were protesting conditions and what they
considered tougher criteria for getting paroled began taking meals.

I.N.S. officials, as well as detainees who were able to telephone from the
center, said that after a series of meetings yesterday at which they aired their
grievances to officials from the Executive Office of Immigration Review, many of
the detainees had accepted snacks of fruit and still more began accepting
dinner.

In the meetings, agency officials promised to review the parole requests of
about 50 detainees, and study ways to increase the quantity of food and lower
the cost of telephone cards that detainees must use.

Andrea Quarantillo, district director of the Newark office of the I.N.S., said
the protest was really about how the agency was handling parole requests. Most
of the 268 detainees came to the United States illegally and requested
asylum.Ms. Quarantillo conceded that the number of paroles by her office had
declined sharply, to 53 percent from 67 percent in the last year.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 2, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Limits on Parole Dash Refugees' Hopes

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section B;  Page 3;  Column 4;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1080 words


It was an unusually grim October at the immigration detention center in Jamaica,
Queens.

Two weeks ago, a 19-year-old Iraqi immigrant placed in solitary confinement had
to be hospitalized after he repeatedly slashed one arm with a razor blade, then
tried to hang himself in his cell, using bedsheets. The next day, a man who fled
his native Congo ingested a foul concoction he made from a fistful of pain
killers and a tube of Ben Gay ointment, stirred into a glass of water. The week
before, the man said, he had watched an Albanian inmate swallow a bottle of
antibiotics.

The suicide attempts occurred during a hunger strike that the men, all seeking
political asylum, joined earlier this month at the Wackenhut detention center,
where they are being held as their cases wind through the immigration courts.
The hunger strikers were protesting the length of their detentions and demanding
to be paroled to friends and relatives. Some, like the Congolese man, had been
detained for more than a year.

And in recent weeks their frustration mounted as a pilot program offered parole
to a handful of new detainees, but left the veteran inmates ineligible.

"I was completely depressed after realizing that the officials are not giving us
any opportunity of being heard," said the man from Congo, 34, an engineer who
identified himself only by his first name, Ideda. "I could not control myself."

If the extreme -- and ultimately futile -- measures to which he and his fellow
detainees turned last month signal their level of desperation, their actions
also draw fresh attention to one of the most pressing debates in immigration
policy: Who among those who enter the United States illegally should be allowed
to roam free while immigration officials investigate their claims of
persecution?

Immigration officials say they need to detain asylum seekers to keep them from
disappearing and remaining in the country illegally. Besides, they say, asylum
applications are often rife with fabrications.

But immigrants' advocates have long maintained that many detainees can be safely
paroled to friends and relatives already living in the United States. Asylum
seekers in New York, they have pointed out, remain in detention longer on
average than in any other region of the country.

Now, a pilot program at the Wackenhut detention center has begun to offer a
supervised release program to a small handful of asylum seekers. To be eligible
for the program, available only in the New York region, detainees must have
friends and relatives in the area with whom they can stay, and they must be
considered at low risk of absconding. Run by the Vera Institute of Justice, a
private nonprofit organization, the three-year program requires asylum seekers
to check in with the group every two weeks and sends monitors to check on the
asylum applicants every month. Only those detained since the program began on
Aug. 31 are eligible.

"We only have the capacity to detain a small fraction of the noncitizens in
removal proceedings," explained Barbara Francis, a spokeswoman at the
Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington. "It's intended to release
individuals who we feel would comply and at the same time free up bed space, so
to speak." If the program succeeds, Ms. Francis said, the agency will consider
expanding it nationwide.

Of the roughly 60 asylum seekers who have been referred by the immigration
agency to the Vera Institute program, 10 have been recommended for parole,
according to officials at the institute who run the Appearance Assistance
Program, as it is called. All but one have been approved by the immigration
service.

But whatever possibility the program holds for the inmates, it is not available
to those who have been there the longest. (The immigration service has made one
exception, granting parole to an elderly man with health problems.)

"This may be the only hope people see," said Eleanor Acer, of the Lawyers
Committee for Human Rights. "They see a positive move and they say, 'Hey, what
about me?' "

Ideda, the asylum seeker from Congo, had held out hope ever since the pilot
program was begun at Wackenhut. He was detained after landing at Kennedy Airport
in October 1997, bearing a false passport. He said he belonged to an opposition
party outlawed by Laurent Kabila, the new president of Congo, formerly called
Zaire.

For his political affiliation, he said, he was beaten by soldiers loyal to Mr.
Kabila -- 33 lashes a day over three days, for he was 33 years old at the time.
At Wackenhut, it turned out, Ideda was not eligible for parole because his
asylum claim had already been rejected by an immigration judge in February, and
he was thus considered likely to flee.

Mark Messenbaugh, a lawyer, said: "When that finally hit home to some of the
hunger strikers, they started making more flamboyant protests. They tried to
kill themselves." Mr. Messenbaugh has since filed Ideda's case under a United
Nations treaty barring torture victims from being sent back home.

Like Ideda, the Iraqi teen-ager who attempted suicide last month was also
ineligible for parole. The teen-ager, a Kurd who said that as a boy he had
watched Iraqi soldiers torch his village, fled Iraq to avoid being drafted into
the army last year. He snuck out with the help of a camel-herder, boarded a
cargo freighter and was detained by immigration agents as soon as the ship
docked in New York. He asked for political asylum, but his claim was rejected in
May. His lawyer, Jackson Chin, said his case is now being appealed.

The long wait, Mr. Chin said, has been unbearably difficult for his client, whom
he identified by only his first name, Rachid, for fear of disclosing his
identity to Iraqi authorities. Rachid spent nearly a year at the detention
center, with little to do but worry and watch television.

On the fifth day of the hunger strike, in a letter to Mr. Chin, Rachid wrote,
"I'm in a confused state. I do not know what will become of me, I do not want to
spend my life in I.N.S. jail indefinitely."

The following week, Mr. Chin said, Rachid tried to hang himself. He had already
slashed his wrist with a razor blade at least four times. He was taken to
Jamaica Hospital Medical Center, where he remains under psychiatric care.

"He was hearing voices," said Mr. Chin, a lawyer with Victims Services of New
York. "He was hearing violent wind. The other detainees said, 'No, no, there's
nothing there.' He was going crazy."

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 5, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

On Refugees, Italy Is No Ellis Island

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 151 words



To the Editor:

The desperate situation described in your Nov. 2 news article about the suicide
attempts of asylum seekers being held in the Wackenhut detention center in
Jamaica, Queens, is a direct result of a punitive policy practiced in the New
York district of the Immigration and Naturalization Service but not mandated by
I.N.S. headquarters.

In October the immigration service issued guidelines stating that the detention
of asylum seekers is a low priority. The New York district, however, has chosen
to interpret the guidelines in a restrictive manner. By limiting parole to
recently arrived asylum seekers who have family in New York, the New York
district has closed off the possibility of parole for seekers who have family in
other states or who arrived earlier.

JAMES J. HAGGERTY
Dir., National Detention Project
Catholic Legal Immigration Network
New York, Nov. 3, 1998

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 1, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Detaining Immigrants

SECTION: Section A;  Page 18;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 174 words



To the Editor:

"The Immigrant Lockup" (editorial, Dec. 31) struck a chord with me. I am a pro
bono attorney representing a Chinese asylum seeker in San Diego. She endured
religious persecution and forcible sterilization in China and was detained for
nearly three months in this country without a hearing. After her initial
hearing, she is still in detention, even though the Immigration and
Naturalization Service found that she has a "credible fear" of persecution.

My faxed entreaty to the I.N.S. that she be released for her emotional
well-being was rejected because of a blanket prohibition of bail for the Chinese
immigrants from the ship on which she was a passenger. The I.N.S. has legitimate
concerns that some released detainees may never show up for their hearings, but
it is unfair to deny bail to immigrants without reviewing their cases
individually. I said to my client that it must be hard to go from detention in
China to detention in the United States.

THOMAS A. OLAFSON
La Jolla, Calif., Dec. 31, 1998

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 7, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Dies While Detained By the I.N.S.

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 519 words


A Dominican immigrant, who for two days complained of chest pains and a
persistent cough, died on Monday at a Federal detention center in lower
Manhattan without having been examined by a doctor, fellow detainees and Federal
officials said yesterday.

Officers with the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington and New
York said the immigrant, who was awaiting deportation because he had a criminal
record, received adequate medical care from nurses and a doctor's assistant,
first in his dormitory and later in the infirmary.

But lawyers for detainees who spent time with the man said the nurses were slow
to assess the seriousness of his ailments and failed to check on him the night
before he died.

The man, Miguel Antonio Valoy-Nunez, 40, is the first detainee to die at the
I.N.S. detention center on Varick Street in more than a decade, Federal
officials said yesterday. The cause of death has not been established, pending
results of an autopsy performed Tuesday, said Ellen Borakove, a spokeswoman with
the city's Medical Examiner's Office.

The death of Mr. Valoy-Nunez came as the immigration service was under pressure
from human rights organizations and advocates for immigrants to improve
conditions in detention centers and jails around the country. Inadequate medical
care has been one of the complaints in several recent reports about the agency's
detention practices.

The Federal Bureau of Investigations is investigating Mr. Valoy-Nunez's death.
"Our standard procedure says that if there is any indication of foul play in
connection with the death of a detainee, we call the F.B.I.," Russell A.
Bergeron Jr., an I.N.S. spokesman in Washington, said. "In this case, since the
cause of death is not known, the F.B.I. was called in."

Federal officials said Mr. Valoy-Nunez died in the infirmary in the presence of
a doctor's assistant who tried to save his life. He received medical attention
from the time of his first complaint, Saturday afternoon, until he died at 5:30
P.M. Monday, they said.

At least three detainees who were with Mr. Valoy-Nunez in the infirmary for
several hours called their lawyers yesterday to complain that a man had died
because of lack of medical attention. Matthew Guadagno, an immigration lawyer,
said one of his clients told him that he cared for Mr. Valoy-Nunez on his last
night. "My client said the man was shivering, very cold, coughing up black stuff
and had a very low pulse, and no one came to help," Mr. Guadagno said.

Mr. Bergeron said that Mr. Valoy-Nunez, who was never seen by a doctor, was
checked by nurses throughout the night. The infirmary, which is run by an agency
of the Department of Health and Human Services, is staffed 24 hours a day, 7
days a week, he said.

Mark Thorn, a spokesman for the immigration service in New York, said Mr.
Valoy-Nunez was taken to the detention center on Dec. 28. He had been jailed on
Rikers Island for seven months, but it was not clear last night what crime he
had been convicted of.

The day after he died, 33 detainees on Varick Street refused breakfast and
lunch, Mr. Thorn said.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 2, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW YORK;
Detained Immigrant Died of Natural Causes

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 182 words


The death of a Dominican immigrant at a Manhattan detention center last month
was due to natural causes, the Medical Examiner's office said yesterday.

The man, Miguel Antonio Valoy-Nunez, 40, died on Jan. 4 in the infirmary at the
Immigration and Naturalization Service facility on Varick Street. He was
awaiting deportation because he had a criminal record.

Mr. Valoy-Nunez had pneumonia and a viral respiratory infection, said Ellen
Borakove, a spokeswoman for the Medical Examiner's office. He had complained of
chest pains and a persistent cough for two days before dying. Lawyers for fellow
detainees said that the nurses were slow in assessing the seriousness of his
symptoms.

At the time of his death, I.N.S. officers said Mr. Valoy-Nunez had received
adequate medical care from nurses and a doctor's assistant.

Because Mr. Valoy-Nunez's death was unexpected, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation began an inquiry. F.B.I. officials did not return a telephone call
yesterday to comment on whether the investigation was continuing in light of the
Medical Examiner's finding.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 29, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Troubled Holding Center To Change, I.N.S. Says

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 191 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH


Federal authorities plan to install closed-circuit television monitors in a
detention center for immigrants and give guards sensitivity training after
receiving complaints of brutality.

"We want to insure a safe, secure and humane facility," said John Thompson,
acting director of the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service's
Newark office.

The I.N.S. recently met with top officials at the Corrections Corporation of
America, based in Nashville, which manages the center, to discuss complaints by
immigrants that employees had beaten and otherwise mistreated detainees and
tried to cover up wrongdoing. The complaints were first reported in April by The
Record of Hackensack.

The center's security chief has been removed. Two supervisors and six guards
have been reassigned to jobs that do not give them contact with detainees. A
guard has been fired for refusing to cooperate with an internal investigation.
The F.B.I. also conducted a brief investigation.

The detention center houses mostly people who arrived at area airports without
valid documents and requested asylum. Their cases often take years to resolve.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 26, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Four Men From Miami Face Charges in Cuba

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;  Page 12;  Column 6;  National Desk

LENGTH: 110 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 25


Four Cuban men from Florida were detained today by the Cuban Government, accused
of plotting to smuggle people off the island after their two speedboats were
intercepted.

The men were captured about an hour apart on Wednesday at two places off the
province of Pinar del Rio, west of Havana, Cuban Government news agencies
reported.

One had fled Cuba in May.

In Miami, Barbara Morales, wife of one of the jailed men, said they were on a
fishing trip.

The men were caught on the same day the Cuban Government announced a crackdown
on illegal emigration, including fines and seizure of boats suspected of
involvement in smuggling missions.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 1, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE 1998 CAMPAIGN: IMMIGRANTS;
Once Divisive, Immigration Now a Muted Issue

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1187 words


It is the weekend before the elections, and immigration, the source of much
national angst in years past, has disappeared from the election debate, although
not from lawmakers' political agendas.

In the past year or so, while the nation has focused on the White House and Wall
Street, Congress has quietly scaled back some provisions of several 1996 laws
that were written to discourage immigration by cutting a range of benefits to
legal residents and stepping up deportation efforts.

The moves, capped by pro-immigration provisions in this year's budget bill,
signal lawmakers' awareness of the growing voting power of immigrants.

"A couple of years ago people were advocating to build a wall around the
country," said Senator Spencer Abraham, a Michigan Republican who introduced
several pro-immigration provisions in this year's spending bill. "That's no
longer the case. Before, we had heard only one side of the immigration issue.
Now, we get to talk about some of the positive contributions immigrants have
made."

The immigration measures in the budget bill that President Clinton signed --
allowing almost 50,000 Haitian refugees to stay in the country, for example, and
increasing the number of visas granted to foreign professionals -- would have
been unthinkable four years ago, when anti-immigration themes dominated
political campaigns nationally, or two years ago, when Congress passed what many
consider the most anti-immigrant legislation in decades.

No one is suggesting that Congress is dismantling those laws, particularly the
Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996. Indeed, now
that the Immigration and Naturalization Service is flush with money, most of the
harsher measures of that law are being enforced.

Still, there seems to be a growing consensus among lawmakers that too much
control of immigration is not good -- for politicians, who recognize that
immigrants' votes could be pivotal in some races; for businesses and the
economy, because valued employees have had to return home and prospective hires
have not been granted visas, or even for the Government itself, since control is
expensive and time consuming.

Those assumptions, coupled with good economic news, have led some
anti-immigration members of Congress to take a cautious approach to immigration
issues or ignore them.

"The Republicans are taking a wait-and-see attitude," said Representative Luis
Gutierrez, an Illinois Democrat who is pro-immigration. "They don't want to
offend one side or alienate the other."

Among some lawmakers, especially those who advocate a hard line against
immigrants, there is a sense that the laws of 1996 were so sweeping that very
little more can be done or added to the debate. The budget for the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, much of it dedicated to enforcement, now surpasses
that of the F.B.I., and the agency has more employees than either the Department
of State or Labor.

"The Clinton Administration took some major steps showing that it was serious in
trying to control illegal immigration," said T. Alexander Aleinikoff, a law
professor at Georgetown University and former general counsel and associate
commissioner of the immigration service. "Some people are saying, 'We've dealt
with the problem. We've done what we can. Let's move on.' "

But the issue of illegal immigration is far from resolved, Mr. Aleinikoff said.
There are about five million such immigrants in the United States and no law
that specifically addresses what to do with them.

Instead, lawmakers are sidestepping immigration in their campaigns, and have
been passing legislation that benefits immigrants and, in some cases, reverses
aspects of previous laws.

Congress has restored most of the welfare benefits it took away from legal
immigrants in 1996. Lawmakers also restored some of the protections that Central
American immigrants had lost, therefore sparing them from deportation. Congress
granted amnesty to 150,000 Nicaraguans, 5,000 Cubans and 49,700 Haitians and
allowed hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants who hope to gain permanent
visas to stay in the United States instead of having to go home to file their
applications, as the 1996 law dictated.

Congress granted $171 million to the immigration agency to speed the
naturalization process and, for the first time in years, it increased by 5,000
the number of refugees allowed into the country every year.

"The pendulum is definitely swinging our way," said Judith E. Golub, director of
advocacy for the American Immigration Lawyers Association in Washington.

Advocates for immigrants as well as those who oppose immigration say the
pendulum began to swing in favor of immigrants four years ago.

The re-election of California's Governor, Pete Wilson, who won in part by making
his anti-immigration platform part of the national debate, was a signal to
immigrants everywhere that unless they quickly became United States citizens,
they too would feel the impact of measures like Proposition 187. The proposition
is a California ballot initiative seeking to deny education, health and other
benefits to illegal immigrants.

Many rushed to naturalize and thousands of new citizens were ready to vote in
the 1996 races. The results caught the Republicans by surprise. In California a
newcomer to politics, Loretta Sanchez, a Democrat, unseated the Republican
incumbent, Representative Robert K. Dornan.

"Pete Wilson brought out the angry white male in California and used immigration
as a hot-button issue to get re-elected," said Frank Sharry, executive director
of the National Immigration Forum. "That brought out the angry new citizen in
record numbers to vote and punish the Republican Party."

Shortly afterward, Republicans began to change their tune.

Speaker Newt Gingrich set the tone by pledging that his party would reach out to
Hispanic people and members of other minorities. He hired an aide to oversee
this effort and his office began releasing information translated into Spanish.

And now, running hard against Ms. Sanchez again, Mr. Dornan is calling himself a
friend of Hispanic immigrants. In Texas, Gov. George W.Bush, a Republican
popular with Hispanic immigrants who is seeking re-election, is spending more
money to attract Hispanic voters than any other politician ever, his campaign
advisers said.

Advocates for immigrants point to Senator Abraham's appointment as the chairman
of the Senate subcommittee on immigration as a turning point. He replaced
Senator Alan Simpson, a Republican from Wyoming, who retired two years ago.

With Representative Lamar Smith, a Republican from Texas, Mr. Simpson was the
architect of some of the more restrictive of the 1996 anti-immigration laws. Mr.
Simpson did not return phone calls.

Mr. Smith, chairman of the House immigration subcommittee, said in a statement:
"The passage of a Haitian amnesty reflects year-end budget deal making and not
any change of heart in Congress. There was little support in the House for
amnesty because it will set a bad precedent and undermines longstanding
immigration policy."

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 6, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Court Clears the Way For Revoking Citizenship

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 138 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 5


A Federal appeals court has ruled that Federal officials do not have to go to
court before revoking an immigrant's citizenship for failure to disclose past
crimes or arrests.

The ruling on Friday by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
overturns a judge's nationwide injunction last year that protected more than
4,500 naturalized citizens from administrative revocation of their citizenship
by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Judge Barbara Rothstein of Federal District Court in Seattle said in her July
1998 ruling that the immigration service's authority to revoke citizenship
without going to court was in serious question.

But the appeals court, in a 2-to-1 ruling, said a 1990 law that authorized the
agency to grant naturalized citizenship contained the power to revoke it.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 28, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Fairness for Haitian Refugees

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 292 words


The Senate has included in its Treasury-Postal appropriations bill a provision
to allow 40,000 Haitian refugees who have been in this country since 1995 to
stay permanently. The House, which has not included similar language in its
bill, should accept this measure when the conference committee meets to produce
a compromise bill this week.

Last year, Congress amended the 1996 immigration act, which had made it much
harder for Central Americans who fled civil wars and persecution to fight
deportation even though many had lived in the United States for years. As a
result of that correction, 150,000 Nicaraguans and 5,000 Cubans were granted
permanent residency. Salvadorans, Guatemalans and some Eastern Europeans were
also allowed to apply for residency under more lenient rules. But Haitians who
fled their country under comparable circumstances were left out.

President Clinton moved quickly to shield the Haitian asylum seekers from
immediate deportation by an administrative directive, giving Congress an
opportunity to correct its omission. About a third of the Haitians were allowed
into this country after authorities determined that they had credible fears of
persecution if returned. The rest filed asylum petitions at least three years
ago, and many are still awaiting the outcome of their cases. Allowing this group
to stay would not signal an opening of doors to all illegal aliens. Indeed, tens
of thousands of Haitian boat people were shipped back in the early 90's because
they could not make claims of persecution.

The Haitians who would benefit from the proposed measure have rebuilt their
lives and developed community and family ties here. Compassion and fairness
dictate that they be given the chance to stay.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 15, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Status is ... for Arab Immigrants;
Taking Care of the Folks Back Home

BYLINE: By Amy Waldman

SECTION: Section 6; Page 89; Column 3; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 516 words


Every two or three months, Ali Alfatimi packs up some shirts, or blue jeans, or
some vats of the honey he sells in his small Brooklyn store, and sends them to
relatives back home in Yemen. Every month he sends them money -- even though he
has a wife and five children to support. By doing so, he shows that he cares
about his mother, his brothers and the other relatives he left behind.

He also shows that he is making it.

Whether they send money or gifts back, many Middle Eastern immigrants -- indeed,
immigrants of all origins -- find status not here, but there. "Being able to
send money back home, or being able to go back and build a home, means they've
made it in this country, says Emira Habiby Browne, the executive director of the
Arab-American Family Support Center. After all, she says, an immigrant with a
large family to support is not likely to start going to college and become
educated and become a professional."

Alfatimi fits this model. Now 41, he landed in Brooklyn six years ago, forsaking
a small farm in a Yemeni village, where he grew coffee and cultivated lambs.
After arriving in America, Alfatimi worked for a car service, then sold clothes
on the street and out of his car. Two years ago, he finally opened his small
odds-and-ends store in a neighborhood where dozens of Middle Eastern immigrants
have set up similarly modest shops: halal markets, luncheonettes and video
stores. While Alfatimi has little by conventional American standards, he has
enough to support his family.

For his first two years in the United States, he was so poor he could send
nothing home to Yemen. Now that his modest business is up and running, Alfatimi
sends gifts religiously and says he cannot stop, nor even reduce the amount. To
do so would be to suggest failure -- and, he says, "I do not want to tell people
there about my failures."

The pressure to prove to relatives that you have achieved the American dream can
be intense. Many of Alfatimi's friends, he says, blow their meager savings by
flying back to Yemen -- at least $1,000 a trip -- several times a year, trying
to prove they are a success in their new homeland. While there, they flash big
bills and masquerade as big-timers. Alfatimi, by contrast, has not returned to
Yemen once in six years. Instead, he shows his success by airmail, one package
at a time.

Within the enclave of Middle Eastern immigrants where Alfatimi lives, there is
no bragging. He does not know precisely how much his neighbors send, and he will
not specify how much he sends, either. Any bragging that is done is done back
home.

After all, it is so much easier to dazzle those back home, with a cool pair of
jeans or a small amount of money. With the Yemeni equivalent of five dollars in
your pocket, Alfatimi says, "you are rich."

Success, from a distance, is a blessedly obscure notion; relatives do not know
whether you live in a shoe box or where that places you on the social scale.
They only know whether they can build their own shoe box -- or something bigger
-- with the money you have sent back.   Amy Waldman

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: (James Wojcik for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 22, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Moving to Cut Citizenship Backlog

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1411 words


One year after the Immigration and Naturalization Service pledged to reduce the
backlog of almost two million people waiting to become Americans, the agency has
announced that it will hire 300 more employees and create a national hot line to
help prospective citizens.

The announcement came days before President Clinton said in the State of the
Union address this week that his budget proposal would "expand significantly"
the efforts to chip away at the unprecedented backlog of people waiting to
become American citizens.

"Our new immigrants must be part of our 'One America,' " the President said on
Tuesday night. "We have a responsibility to make them welcome here, and they
have a responsibility to enter the mainstream of American life."

Maria Echeveste, a deputy chief of staff who helped to draft the President's
address, said this newest proposal to improve naturalization efforts built on
the $171 million requested by the White House last year and later approved by
Congress. Ms. Echeveste said it was not yet clear how much the President would
propose to spend this time.

Among the new initiatives, the one likely to have the most immediate impact is
the hiring of 200 employees to review citizenship applications, interview
applicants and make decisions. They will be deployed to the cities with the
largest backlogs. With 412,558 people waiting, Los Angeles has the nation's
largest backlog and will receive 56 new positions. New York, which has 314,976
people in line, will be able to hire 40 new employees. San Francisco will get
35; Miami, 25; Chicago, 15; Boston, 11; Houston, 10, and Dallas, 8.

In addition, 100 immigration information officers will be sent to the four
regional centers where citizenship applications are received and processed in
California, Vermont, Nebraska and Texas.

The agency will also develop a national telephone hot line to answer questions
about eligibility for citizenship, application procedures and the status of
cases. And, in a move that immigration officials hope will eliminate one of the
biggest complaints against the agency -- lost files -- all 25 million paper
files that are now scattered in 80 offices across the country will be sent to a
central office to be established in Missouri.

Immigration officials said they expected the measures to cut in half the waiting
time for obtaining citizenship. Most immigrants now wait about two years, but
some have been waiting since 1995. By the end of this year, the wait should be
down to a year, officials said. By the end of 2000, the time should have been
reduced to six months, the traditional waiting time.

The citizenship backlog began two years ago after Congress passed tough
immigration laws and an unprecedented number of people, fearing the loss of
Federal benefits and equal treatment under the law, applied for citizenship. The
agency, understaffed and grappling with old technology while trying to comply
with the ever-increasing requests of Congress for quality control, could not
meet the demand. Files piled up, sometimes in boxes lined up in hallways, and
immigrants, from Los Angeles to Miami to New York, hunkered down for the long
wait.

Salomon Elias Garay, a 44-year-old immigrant from El Salvador, applied for
citizenship in 1996. In October of that year, he was called for an interview and
told to wait for his appointment to be sworn in as a citizen. Mr. Garay, a
delivery truck driver in Alameda County, Calif., said he was still waiting. He
is eager to become a citizen, he said, because as a refugee from a civil war, he
cannot wait to cast his first vote in a free election.

"The first thing I do when I go home is check the mail, waiting for that
envelope," Mr. Garay said. "I've been doing it for 27 months and it's just
incredibly frustrating not to hear anything for so long."

The reduction in the backlog is important for immigration officials because
citizenship is the one element that guarantees that immigrants are fully
integrated. To become an American citizen, a person has to be able to read and
write some English and must swear allegiance to the country. Citizens can vote;
studies have shown that many tend to vote for politicians who help them achieve
their dream of citizenship.

Attaining citizenship is crucial for the immigrants because it allows them to
travel with an American passport, and to petition their relatives from their
home countries faster and have them arrive sooner than those of noncitizens. It
also entitles immigrants to receive full Federal benefits and, sometimes, it
helps them obtain better paying jobs more easily than noncitizens.

The backlog, which reached 1.9 million last September, is now at 1.8 million,
just as it was in January 1998, when the I.N.S. Commissioner, Doris M. Meissner,
announced that the $95 fee that immigrants must send with their citizenship
application packet would have to be increased to $225 to help meet the agency's
actual cost of processing the cases.

The day Mrs. Meissner made the announcement, though, she pledged that the fees
would not be raised until the agency improved its record of customer service and
reduced the backlog. Despite the agency's failure to deliver on Mrs. Meissner's
pledge, the fee was raised last week.

Representative Nydia M. Velazquez, Democrat of Brooklyn, called the increase
"immoral."

"How can you raise the fee when you haven't been able to expedite the process
for people?" Ms. Velazquez said. "My office is like an E. R. Old people, people
with children, disabled, poor, all wanting to know what is going on with their
citizenship applications."

Leonard Glickman, executive vice president of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society,
said the fee increase could not possibly be justified.

"You expect services to be delivered in return," Mr. Glickman said. "Anyone who
has ever stood in line at the motor vehicle registration department can just
imagine what it must be like for a newly arrived, poor person to wait in line
forever and not know if or when your number will be called."

But William R. Yates, acting head of the agency's naturalization program in
Washington, said that the raise was justified because, although the number of
people waiting to naturalize had remained steady, the agency's productivity had
increased, reducing the delay to 23 months now, from as many as 39 months last
January. While the agency was completing 40,000 citizenship cases a month last
year, it is now processing nearly 80,000 cases a month.

"An awful lot of thought, concern and discussion went into it," Mr. Yates said,
referring to the raising of the fee, a touchy subject among immigrants who
sometimes must use all their savings to pay for the fees. If a family of five
was to apply for naturalization now, they would have to come up with $1,125.
Before Jan. 15, the cost would have been $475.

The backlog remains high, Mr. Yates said, because people continue to apply at a
rate of 700,000 per year.

The agency's inability to chip at the backlog has frustrated immigrants and
their advocates who remain skeptical of new initiatives.

"I try my best to understand the immigration service's point of view," said
Dolly Z. Hassan, supervising attorney for the Liberty Center for Immigrants in
Queens. "They have had problems with computers; they are short of employees;
their software is inadequate; they lost the fingerprints. I've heard it all. At
this point, I've simply lost faith in the system."

Ms. Hassan whipped out her logbook to demonstrate her point: of the 199
immigrants who filed applications for citizenship through her agency in
September 1996, 30 have not been called for interviews. In her logbook, there
are even immigrants who have been waiting since 1995.

One of them is Dhanrajie Gaffoor, who applied for citizenship in November 1995.
In June 1996, Ms. Gaffoor was called for an interview and was told to wait for
her oath ceremony, where the actual citizenship is granted. Since then, Ms.
Gaffoor, 28, has not been able to find out what happened to her file, despite
requests in writing and visits to the New York district office in Manhattan.

Ms. Gaffoor, who lives in Queens but wants to move to Boston with her family,
said she did not dare to move for fear that her case would be delayed even more.

"I'm so frustrated, I don't know what else to do," she said. "My daughter wasn't
even born when I applied, and now she is 3. How much longer can it take?"



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 29, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Looking for That Good Doctor

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 160 words



To the Editor:

Re "Registered Nurses in Short Supply at Hospitals Nationwide" (news article,
March 23):

From the 1950's to the mid-90's, American hospitals imported several thousand
foreign-born nurses each year. These nurses jumped through hoops to relocate,
pass state licensing exams and deal with immigration red tape, yet their
contributions were essential to the maintenance of the American health care
system.

In 1995 Congress allowed the law that permitted foreign-born nurses to obtain
temporary visas to expire, despite a Government study that urged that the
program be extended indefinitely. In 1996, Congress placed additional
restrictions on the ability of foreign-born nurses to obtain permanent
residence. With the number of new American nursing graduates dropping each year,
Congress should bring back a program that was working well.

CARL SHUSTERMAN
Los Angeles, March 25, 1999

The writer is an immigration lawyer.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 285 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 24, 1999 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

ON SUNDAY, JANUARY 24, 1999: ART IMITATES LIFE; (Real) Games (Real) People Play

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 515 words



Immigration wasn't much of an issue in last fall's election, possibly because
the Government has been cracking down so heavily on illegal aliens. In the two
years since Congress passed tough new enforcement legislation, the Feds have
deported 300,000 immigrants, twice as many as in the two years before. These
days, coming to America illegally is a real crap shoot -- which is precisely the
point of an interactive exhibition called ''Juegos Ilegales/Illegal Games'' that
opened Thursday at the New Museum of Contemporary Art in SoHo. Created by Anaida
Hernandez, the casinolike installation allows visitors to embark down the risky
path of unlawful entry. ''Immigrants dream of a better life,'' Hernandez says.
''This exhibition is about the chances they take to achieve that dream.'' The
artist herself arrived in New York (legally) two years ago from Puerto Rico. In
her Brooklyn studio, she provided a preview of her rather idiosyncratic work.

Would-be immigrants enter the installation through a small doorway, pass under
flashing lights and then find themselves inside a completely dark tunnel, an
effect Hernandez hopes will create uncertainty. They must then wend their way
through a mirrored labyrinth, even more disorienting lights and a bizarre
blockade: 150 multicolored yo-yos hanging in midair (right).

''In Spanish, 'Yo' is 'I,' '' Hernandez says, ''so the yo-yos represent the
double identity of all immigrants and the struggle to maintain your heritage
while adopting American culture.'' Some of the yo-yos are painted with national
flags; others, with images like glossy lips, golf clubs and the Chase Manhattan
Bank logo.

Those with identities still intact continue through the maze to a wheel of
fortune (left), where they can spin for prosperity, power, sex, fame and the
like. A corresponding table of symbols, however, reveals the reality. Those who
get the symbol of a wedding bell, for example, find out that their hope for true
love in America may be replaced by the less romantic goal of a completed N-400
green-card form. Lady Liberty's crown, Hernandez's symbol for freedom, turns out
to be a crown of thorns.

Players fumble toward the final game. To determine the outcome of their journey,
they roll symbol-laden dice on the floor of a handmade concrete boat (top
right). ''It's very likely that this boat will sink,'' Hernandez says. ''This is
a metaphor for the big chance you take coming here.''

One die is painted with images that represent modes of transportation; the
other, with those representing ultimate fates. In Hernandez's world, it is
possible for players to travel by horse and reach New York or to cross the
border on skateboard and achieve citizenship. But it is far more likely that
they will roll something like a fishhook (you're caught), a skull (death) or a
nasty-looking question mark (general trouble).

''It's very dangerous, and the vast majority of illegal immigrants do not
achieve their dreams,'' says Hernandez. ''But they try anyway. People go to a
casino to win. No one goes hoping they're going to lose everything they have.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Oren Slor for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 4, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Don't Speak English? No Tax Break, Alabama Official Declares

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1311 words

DATELINE: HUNTSVILLE, Ala., June 1


As a vibrant center for space and technology research, this city in northern
Alabama owes much of its character to an immigrant, Wernher van Braun, the
German rocket scientist who helped create the Marshall Space Flight Center here
after World War II. Proud of its international heritage, the city greets
visitors today with flapping roadside banners that welcome newcomers in a
variety of languages.

But in recent years, a number of Hispanic and Asian immigrants have found that
Huntsville's hospitality vanishes at the door of the Madison County tax
assessor, Wayland H. Cooley. Part of Mr. Cooley's job is to grant legally
authorized property tax breaks to residents who own and occupy their houses. And
in several instances, according to a lawsuit scheduled for an initial hearing
next week, Mr. Cooley has denied those breaks to homeowners who cannot speak
English.

The plaintiffs -- a Dominican-born husband and wife who are United States
citizens and a South Korean-born widow who is a permanent United States resident
-- charge that Mr. Cooley has denied them the tax reductions because state law
requires applicants to take a simple oath swearing to the accuracy of
information about their property.

And Mr. Cooley maintains, according to the plaintiffs, other witnesses and his
own testimony, that he cannot vouch for the accuracy of such an oath if it is
not taken in English, even if an interpreter is present.

In some cases, Mr. Cooley, an 83-year-old Democrat who has held his elective
office for nearly 22 years, has been only too happy to explain his rationale,
according to evidence gathered for the trial.

"He said that he had to watch out for people who were trying to come in from all
over the world and skin us on taxes," said Mary Catherine Graham, a financial
analyst for the Federal Bureau of Investigation who testified in a deposition
after accompanying a native of Mexico to Mr. Cooley's office last September.

Becky Turner, a real estate agent who offered to interpret for the Mexican, said
in an affidavit that Mr. Cooley told her, "They're coming over here and taking
what's ours."

As it struggles to shed its history of racial intolerance, the South has seen a
surge in immigration from Asian and Hispanic countries in the 1990's. The growth
has created adjustment problems across the region, particularly in small- and
medium-size cities that have little experience with foreign cultures.

Excluding Texas and Florida, which already had large numbers of Hispanic
residents, the nine other Southern states are expected to see their Latino
population grow by 112 percent from 1990 to 2000, according to Census Bureau
projections.

The Asian population is projected to grow by 72 percent in those states, while
the region's population is expected to increase by 14 percent. By the end of the
decade, 3.5 percent of the people in those states will be of Latin American or
Asian origin, compared with 2 percent in 1990.

In towns where large numbers of immigrants have been lured by jobs in poultry
plants and carpet mills, the need for interpreters and English-language training
has strained schools, courts, police departments and social service agencies.

Experts on immigration say they have been pleasantly surprised at the relative
rarity of cases of blatant discrimination or violence against immigrants in the
South. But they have started to detect anti-immigrant sentiment in the politics
of some areas, and they say they fear there will be more bias of the type the
plaintiffs charge in the Huntsville case.

No trial date has been set in the lawsuit against Mr. Cooley, but a Circuit
Court judge will hear arguments next week on Mr. Cooley's contention that the
case should be thrown out on the grounds that he did not violate the law and
that he has immunity as a government officer.

The plaintiffs say the tax assessor violated the Constitution's equity
protections for non-English speakers and ask for both compensatory and punitive
damages.

In court papers, the lawyer for the plaintiffs, Rhonda Brownstein, of the
Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery, Ala., charges that Mr. Cooley's
"actual motive, his hatred of foreigners, is nothing more than xenophobia and
ethnic prejudice."

Speaking with the help of interpreters in interviews in their homes today, the
plaintiffs, Byong Rye Ahn and Julio and Carmen de Paula Telleria, said they felt
demeaned by Mr. Cooley's treatment, which they described as spiteful and
sarcastic.

"I felt less than human when he attacked me," said Mrs. Ahn, 63, a hospital
housekeeper who came to the United States in 1985 and bought a three-bedroom
house the next year with her husband, who died in 1989.

Mrs. de Paula said Mr. Cooley at one point gestured at the ground with his
finger. "He said, 'This is Alabama,' " she said. " 'Here you need to know
English.' "

Ms. Brownstein has calculated that Mrs. Ahn should be paying $278 in annual
property taxes rather than the $677 she is paying. The de Paulas, she said,
should be paying $209 instead of $659 annually.

Both Mr. Cooley and his lawyer, Julian Butler, declined to comment on the case.
A brief filed by Mr. Butler states that Mr. Cooley's English-only policy is
designed "to prevent potential fraud." It also cites a 1990 state constitutional
amendment declaring English to be the official language of Alabama.

Because Mr. Cooley provides all taxpayers with equal services in English, Mr.
Butler writes, his practice "does not classify persons based on race, ethnicity
or national origin."

Last year, Ms. Brownstein's office conducted a survey that found that Madison
County, where 3.8 percent of 272,000 residents are Hispanic or Asian, is the
only county in Alabama that does not allow interpreters to assist applicants for
tax exemptions.

In addition, the State Attorney General, Bill Pryor, issued an opinion last year
stating that the English-language provision of the State Constitution does not
restrict non-English speakers from claiming tax exemptions on their property.

The de Paulas retired to Huntsville in 1995 after immigrating to New York City
from the Dominican Republic in the 1960's. Mr. de Paula, 71, had worked as a
solderer in a Ford assembly plant in New Jersey. Mrs. de Paula, 59, had stitched
brassieres in a factory in Brooklyn. Both gained citizenship in 1992 under a
provision that allows immigrants of a certain age and tenure in the country to
be exempt from an English-language exam and to take the civics exam in the
language of their choice.

In Alabama, the couple managed to afford a modest brick house with three
bedrooms, a garage and an above-ground pool. They paid $54,000. "It felt like
tranquillity," Mr. de Paula said.

In 1996, accompanied by their son, Ricardo, who is bilingual, the de Paulas went
to the tax assessor's office to see that their new house was properly registered
on the tax rolls as a residence and to apply for their homestead tax exemption.

Residential property is appraised for tax purposes at half the rate of
commercial property, and the homestead exemption grants an additional modest
discount to those who own and occupy their houses.

According to affidavits from all three de Paulas, Mr. Cooley informed them that
they could not take the oath to qualify for the exemptions because they did not
know English. He also told them, the de Paulas said, that an interpreter could
not be used and that exemptions could not be granted to noncitizens.

Ricardo de Paula's affidavit says that he told Mr. Cooley that his parents were
citizens but that Mr. Cooley said it "doesn't matter."

Several days later, a family friend, Rosa Almanza, called Mr. Cooley to ask
whether she could be their interpreter. Ms. Almanza said he refused.

"How do I know," she quoted Mr. Cooley as asking, "that what you are translating
is the truth?"



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Byong Rye Ahn, left, and Julio and Carmen de Paula Telleria,
contend that they have been denied tax breaks by an Alabama tax assessor because
they do not speak English. Applicants for the tax break must take an oath about
the facts of their property, and the three assert that the assessor says he can
not vouch for the accuracy of their oaths if they are not in English. Wayland H.
Cooley, an Alabama tax assessor, says he has denied tax breaks to people who do
not speak English "to prevent potential fraud." (Photographs by Alan S. Weiner
for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 11, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Man Accused in Nazi Case Leaves Country

BYLINE: By PAUL ZIELBAUER

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 649 words


A 74-year-old Sullivan County man accused of concealing his wartime past as a
guard at three Nazi death camps in Poland renounced his American citizenship and
is now living in Germany, Federal officials said yesterday.

The man, Dmytro Sawchuk of Glen Spey, appeared at the United States Consulate in
Frankfurt on March 23 to relinquish his American citizenship, according to the
United States Attorney's office in Manhattan, which had been seeking to deport
him.

Mr. Sawchuk had been accused by the Justice Department last year of having lied
to the Immigration and Naturalization Service about his past. Rather than face a
trial that was set to begin on Sept. 30, officials said, he fled the country.

In a complaint filed last June in Federal District Court in Manhattan,
prosecutors said that Mr. Sawchuk, an ethnic Ukrainian who was born in Leski,
Poland, joined the German military in 1943 and served at three slave labor and
extermination camps in Poland. The first was an S.S. labor camp in Trawniki,
where prosecutors said Mr. Sawchuk was an armed guard. Later, the Government
said, he was a guard at the Belzec death camp, where the complaint claimed Mr.
Sawchuk guarded Jewish prisoners who were forced to exhume and burn the corpses
of hundreds of thousands of Jews who were murdered in 1942.

After the war, Mr. Sawchuk immigrated to the United States in 1951 from Germany
and, by lying about his past, became a naturalized citizen in 1957 in Manhattan,
said Eli M. Rosenbaum, the director of the Justice Department's Office of
Special Investigations, which seeks out and prosecutes Nazi war criminals living
illegally in the United States.

Mr. Rosenbaum called Mr. Sawchuk's flight from American soil "an outstanding
resolution of the case."

"Our goal is to achieve cancellation of their ill-gotten U.S. citizenship," he
said. "That's exactly what we accomplished in this case. And it took far less
time than if this case had gone through the litigation process." Mr. Sawchuk's
lawyer, Ivars Berzins, declined through his secretary to discuss his case or his
client's move to Germany.

Mark Weitzman, who directs a task force at the Simon Wiesenthal Center that
searches for Nazi-era war criminals, said that Mr. Sawchuk's voluntary
departure, while achieving the same goal as a court trial would have, was less
satisfying. "On the one hand you'd like to have a completed trial to show for
the historical record," he said yesterday. "On the other hand, it's an admission
of clear guilt."

Mr. Weitzman added that the Wiesenthal Center plans to formally ask the German
government to begin legal proceedings of its own against Mr. Sawchuk. But that
is not a likely prospect, said Mr. Rosenbaum in a telephone interview from
Washington. "He would know that there are many other people who have not been
prosecuted, which is the case generally in Europe," he said.

A spokesman for the German Consulate in New York City, Werner Schmidt, could not
say where in Germany Mr. Sawchuk was living, but added, "Our embassy in
Washington is well aware of this case and they have inquired already in Germany
what is going on."

Mr. Sawchuk is the 61st Nazi collaborator to be stripped of American
citizenship, Mr. Rosenbaum said. Since the Justice Department created the Office
of Special Investigation in 1979, the agency has prosecuted 108 people,
including 10 suspects living in New York state.

Prosecutors were not exactly surprised upon hearing in March that Mr. Sawchuk,
who lived a reclusive life in Glen Spey with his wife, had fled and given up any
chance of legally returning to the United States. "It's an increasingly common
result in our cases because our track record in court indicates to them the
likely futility of going to trial," Mr. Rosenbaum said. "Defendants discover
that their wartime misdeeds are going to be documented in court to the world."




http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 18, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Advocates for Immigrant Students Protest New English Exam

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1323 words


As 11th graders take a rigorous new Regents English exam today that will
determine if they will graduate, advocates for immigrants warn that the test
could be catastrophic for many who entered New York City schools with limited
English and have tried to catch up in bilingual and intensive English classes.

Until these students get more help from more and better-qualified teachers, the
state should delay putting its more exacting, back-to-basics academic standards
into effect for them, leaders of the New York Immigration Coalition said
yesterday.

While many immigrant students, their parents and their teachers say they support
the state's broad overhaul of testing and the need to raise academic standards,
some educators have questioned whether the schools have done enough to prepare
schoolchildren for the tougher requirements.

The concern is especially acute in New York City, where at least one in four
public school students is foreign-born and as many as half live in homes where
English is not the main language spoken.

"The investment should be made first so that students acquire the skills and
have a fighting chance of succeeding on the exams," said Margie McHugh,
executive director of the coalition, which represents some 200 groups serving
immigrants and refugees.

The new six-hour English Regents exam, twice as long and in greater depth than
its predecessor, will be given for the first time today. All this year's
11th-grade students will eventually have to pass it -- it will be given again in
the summer and next year -- in order to graduate in the year 2000.

"The level of anxiety about this is just tremendous," said Guillermo Linares, a
City Councilman from Washington Heights, who has received dozens of calls from
frantic parents about the Regents English exam. "What I explain to parents is
that we have to start somewhere, and we have to assess where every school is and
every child is. And then we had better follow with an appropriate commitment of
resources."

Mr. Linares, who is co-chairman of the black and Latino caucus of the City
Council, said he nevertheless anticipated that the new tests would prove to be a
catastrophe for immigrant children because they are not receiving adequate help
to learn English.

"If we're true to meeting the challenges," he added, "the standards have to be
not just for students, but for the educational environment in which the children
are learning."

Full results from today's test probably will not be available until September,
education officials said. But special studies of test scores from schools with
large numbers of students in bilingual and special English classes will be
conducted over the next few months, and the Board of Regents has scheduled a
discussion of the problems of foreign-born students for its July meeting.

"The Regents want to consider the policy for English-language learners at that
meeting and we'll have to see," said Christopher Carpenter, a spokesman for the
State Education Department. "We've tried to look at options that would fall
short of delaying the implementation of standards for this group."

State officials said that 178,000 students statewide are considered to have
limited proficiency in English, meaning they did not score high enough on
English assessment tests and have been put in bilingual classes or get special
English-language instruction.

In New York City, the number is nearly 141,000 out of a total school population
of about 1.1 million students, including about 45,000 in high school.

In bilingual classes, children study academic subjects in their native language
and learn English at the same time. The idea is to ease their transition into
the mainstream curriculum, ideally within three years. But only when there are
at least 20 students in the same grade who speak the same language and who
request bilingual classes do school administrators have to provide them.

This year, according to the New York City Board of Education, there were 85 such
bilingual classes being conducted throughout the city's schools in 11 different
languages, including Spanish, Chinese, Russian, Arabic and Urdu.

Most immigrant students who are tested and found to have limited proficiency in
English are given one period of English-language instruction a day and take
their history, math and other academic subjects in English with everyone else.

In anticipation of the tougher English Regents exam, some New York City schools
have added new courses, but ones created for all students and not just
immigrants.

"What we've done is provide extra classes in English, double periods in English
and during the summer we have an intensive focused program called the language
institute," said Margie Feinberg, a spokeswoman for the Board of Education. "It
may be true that many will fail, but more will rise to the occasion."

Renaud Joseph, an 18-year-old student who came from Haiti two years ago not
knowing any English, is one of the 11th graders who will take the Regents
English exam today. A student at Tilden High School in Brooklyn, where one in
four students arrived from a foreign country in the last three years, he said he
was scared about the written test, even though he feels he speaks and
understands English well.

"I want to learn English more," he said, "but still, it doesn't mean I can't
keep up with the other children."

Renaud takes all his academic classes in English, as well as a basic "English as
a second language" course two periods a day. But he said he had learned much
more English from talking to American friends, listening to the radio and
watching television than in his crowded English class, where he and his friends
chat in their native Creole.

In many schools, the English-language classes for immigrant children are crowded
and unruly, said Janet Lovell, who runs a bookstore and tutoring center serving
mostly Caribbean and Haitian immigrants in Brooklyn, called Metropolitan
Learning.

Often, she said, immigrant children fall through the cracks because teachers do
not properly assess their progress or have inadequate training.

Mrs. Lovell said she had one Caribbean student who showed her his perfectly
written, extremely neat notebook in which he had copied down every sentence his
English teacher had written on the blackboard. His teacher considered him a
success, she said, but the boy could not read.

The immigration coalition, in a report released yesterday, made a similar point.
The report said immigrant children are not properly assessed by schools and are
put in special education classes in disproportionate numbers.

The report also said that the schools had failed most immigrant children by not
providing enough English-language training, by not giving teachers proper
training to deal with children who have limited English and by not reaching out
to immigrant parents.

"The districts with the highest level of student need are also the districts
with the highest number of uncertified teachers, the least experienced teachers
and the lowest salaries," said Norm Fruchter, director of the New York
University Institute for Education and Social Policy.

To deal with a student population as diverse in languages and culture as New
York's, he added, educators may have to revamp their whole approach to teaching
students who do not speak English as their native language.

When students who are still trying to perfect their use of English have taken
state exams recently, they have done much worse than their classmates who grew
up speaking English.

In January, 3,800 New York City 11th and 12th graders who are still learning
English took the old English Regents exam, which was less comprehensive and less
time-consuming than the test that will be administered today. About half of all
the students who took the same test passed it, but of those in bilingual and
special English classes, fewer than 13 percent passed.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graphs: "Language Barrier" -- A small but growing number of New
York City high school students who are not fluent in English are taking the
Engish regents exam, which will be mandatory next year. But few are able to
pass.
Total with limited English: 45,400 (yearly average)

Percentage of nonfluent students taking the exam:

1995: 1.41%
1996: 1.75%
1997: 1.94%
1998: 2.81%
1999*: 8.05%

Percentage of nonfluent students who passed:

1995: 26.6%
1996: 27.4%
1997: 24.8%
1998: 21.8%
1999*: 12.8%

*Last test was offered in January

(Sources: New York State Department of Education; N.Y.C. Board of Education; New
York Immigrant Coalition)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 18, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Dead Man Found on Train Was Visitor From Delaware

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 611 words


The man who was found dead on Monday morning sitting upright on a Manhattan
subway train was identified yesterday by his family as a 36-year-old Ecuadorean
immigrant who worked as a migrant farm worker in Delaware.

The man, Ignacio Mendez, a father of two, had come to New York City on Saturday
to help his brother, Jesus Mendez, paint his house in Sunset Park, Brooklyn,
relatives said. He must have died, they said, as he began his trip back to
Delaware early Monday morning.

His death attracted wide publicity after officials reported that Mr. Mendez may
have been dead for several hours during the morning commute before passengers on
the subway noticed. That possibility upset Mr. Mendez's family, who said they
learned of his death only yesterday after seeing a police sketch of him in a
newspaper.

"At 8:30 in the morning there's a million people on the train, and nobody saw he
was dead?" asked his nephew, Juan Mendez, 33. "It makes me feel that New York
doesn't have a heart. The people care only about themselves -- they don't care
about anyone else."

It was still unclear yesterday exactly when Mr. Mendez died, what caused his
death and how long he was dead before commuters noticed him. An autopsy was
inconclusive, so pathologists are conducting further tests to try to determine
what killed him. Police officials said that they did not suspect foul play. The
police could not immediately identify Mr. Mendez when he was found because only
20 cents and a comb were in his pockets.

The police said Mr. Mendez was last seen alive at 8:30 A.M. Monday on a
northbound No. 1 train in the South Ferry station, where witnesses said they saw
him talking to a man who has not been identified. He was found dead as the train
pulled into the 96th Street station that morning at 11:15 -- probably after
making two round trips between South Ferry and the 242d Street-Van Cortlandt
Park station in the Bronx.

Investigators said Mr. Mendez smelled of alcohol when he was found dead, leading
them to believe that he may have gone back and forth on the train because he had
passed out. And they noted that he had wet his pants, saying that could explain
why no one got close enough to him to realize he had died.

Mr. Mendez came to the United States about a dozen years ago from Ecuador, Juan
Mendez said. He is separated from his wife, and his two children -- a
16-year-old daughter and a 9-year-old son -- live in Ecuador. For several years
Mr. Mendez was a migrant farm worker, most recently in Delaware, Juan Mendez
said.

Last weekend Ignacio Mendez visited his brother, Jesus Mendez, to help paint his
row house a few blocks from Green-Wood Cemetery in Sunset Park. The men painted
all day Saturday and then went out for drinks. On Sunday morning they played
soccer together in Prospect Park, then returned to the house.

At 7 P.M. Sunday, Juan Mendez said, he and Ignacio went to his apartment in
upper Manhattan. They spent several hours together and then, at 1 A.M., Juan
Mendez, a coffee vendor, got ready for work. The two men left the apartment
together, but Juan Mendez soon realized that he had forgotten something and went
back to his apartment.

When he got back downstairs, he said, his uncle was gone. Thinking he had tired
of waiting and decided to begin the trip home, Juan Mendez went to work. "I was
going to call him soon to see how he was doing," he said. "Then I see in the
paper that he is dead."

Yesterday Juan Mendez and his other uncle, Jesus Mendez, went to the morgue to
identify Ignacio's body. Then, he said, he began raising money for the funeral.
"We want to send him back to Ecuador," he said.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 20, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: BELMONT;
Where Balkans-Bound Turn

BYLINE: By MARINA LAKHMAN

SECTION: Section 14; Page 10; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 476 words


At Louis Overseas Travel on Arthur Avenue, Bosnian, Serbian, Croatian and
Albanian immigrants from all over the metropolitan region turn to Luigj Shkreli
for help in returning to their homelands.

For 25 years, Mr. Shkreli, an Albanian-American, has specialized in travel to
the Balkans. But during the recent NATO bombing, he developed a subspecialty:
arranging trips for Albanians seeking to help friends and relatives who were
displaced during the war.

Mr. Shkreli says 30 to 40 people a week walk into his storefront travel agency
and pay $600 to $800 each to make the trip.

While the plight of the Kosovo Albanians captured the attention of the world
only recently, for Mr. Shkreli, who was born in Montenegro, went to school in
Croatia, attended a seminary in Slovenia and went on to study history in Kosovo,
the problems among the patchwork of ethnic groups in that region are age-old.

"This is going on for a long time," said Mr. Shkreli, 49, in the back office of
his travel agency. But his loyalties, unsurprisingly, are with the Kosovars.
"The way I feel," he said, "is that the land belongs to the people who live
there."

During the war, Mr. Shkreli directed his customers to friends in Albania who
could help them figure out in which of the many refugee camps their friends or
relatives might be. Now that the bombing is over and the refugees are returning,
Mr. Shkreli, who came to the United States in 1973 to visit his two brothers and
never went back, is helping his clients to aid in the resettlement after the
Serbian withdrawal.

"It's a big excitement in the community," he said. "People are interested in
going back and rebuilding."

He is a central figure in his community in another way: he is the host of an
Albanian-language radio program. In a small back room of his travel agency, Mr.
Shkreli, who is married and has four children, has a half-hour program broadcast
every Sunday at 8:30 P.M. throughout the region on WPAT, 930 AM.

Among other things, Mr. Shkreli reads the news from the Balkans, mentions
birthdays and anniversaries, plays Albanian music and interviews prominent
Albanians. The idea for the program came shortly after his arrival in New York,
when he began listening to a Croatian radio program. In 1974, he decided to
begin one for Albanians.

Mr. Shkreli attributes his role as a pivotal community figure to his
sociability. "When I was thinking of becoming a priest, I loved talking to
people," he said. Also, he said, such communication "keeps the tradition,
language and culture" of Albanians alive.

Belmont, known as the Little Italy of the Bronx, has also become a home for
Albanian emigres. Mr. Shkreli lives in Westchester, but his travel agency shares
its block with an Albanian cafe. He said that about 5,000 Albanians are living
in the borough.
   MARINA LAKHMAN


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Luigj Shkreli broadcasts from a small back room in his travel
agency. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 21, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: BELGRADE;
Milosevic Urges Serbs to Go Back to Kosovo

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 945 words

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, June 20


Hundreds of Serbs who had fled Kosovo, fearing vengeance from the Kosovo
Liberation Army rebels, responded today to appeals from the Yugoslav Government
to return to the province and to trust the security provided by NATO-led forces.

President Slobodan Milosevic, moving to shore up his position after failing to
keep NATO out of Kosovo, has urged the province's Serbs to defend the right to
their land by staying put, or returning if they have already fled.

By praising the very NATO forces -- now under a United Nations peacekeeping
mandate -- who were described during the war as criminal aggressors and worse,
Mr. Milosevic is clearly putting the responsibility for the Serbs' safety on
NATO.

He is also trying to rid himself of a potentially embarrassing refugee crisis.
After all, if Yugoslavia actually has won the war and preserved its sovereignty
over Kosovo, as his state news media assert, why would Serbs leave Kosovo in the
first place?

Mr. Milosevic has moved to protect his right wing, keeping the Radical Party
leader, Vojislav Seselj, from leaving the Serbian Government. The liberal
politician Vuk Draskovic, leader of the Serbian Renewal Movement, thus found his
efforts to rejoin that Government spurned, and state television sharply attacked
Mr. Draskovic tonight.

Earlier today, Mr. Draskovic and his party called for "interim governments" in
Yugoslavia and its major republic, Serbia, that could attract Western investment
and support -- an indirect attack on Mr. Milosevic, who has been indicted as a
war criminal. Mr. Draskovic also called for a return to peacetime laws, a
resumption of diplomatic relations with NATO countries and press freedom.

"If we cannot make the regime see reason," Mr. Draskovic said in a speech today
to his party, "I call on all members to be on alert and ready for all of us to
do whatever it is we have to do."

Mr. Draskovic, whose party runs the capital, Belgrade, was immediately attacked
tonight on state television. Mr. Seselj's party, in a statement read on
television, derided "criminalized and arrogant city officials."

Then in its own commentary, the television service mocked Mr. Draskovic, saying
that he is "offering the West even more than they asked," and jibing that he
must be disappointed at being left out of a meeting of opposition figures last
weekend with Robert S. Gelbard, a Clinton Administration official. Serbian media
have depicted the meeting, held in Montenegro, as a conspiratorial gathering to
plot Mr. Milosevic's ouster.

The editorial then accused Mr. Draskovic of using Belgrade's city television,
Studio B, as a personal advertising agency "to promote only himself and his
party." So it was ludicrous for him to call for changes in state television,
which NATO had attacked with missiles for its effort to serve the people, the
editorial said.

While journalists witnessed the return of some Serbs to Kosovo today,
accompanied by Serbian Cabinet Ministers and with food and fuel provided by the
Government, state television asserted tonight that "large convoys" were heading
back to Kosovo from the Serbian towns of Kraljevo, Kragujevac, Aleksinac,
Jagodina and Nis.

The police had discouraged the bulk of the refugees -- numbering up to 50,000,
according to the Red Cross -- from coming to Belgrade, where there was a small
protest of 200 refugees this afternoon.

Only on Saturday, when Deputy Prime Minister Milovan Bojic called on Serbs to
return to Kosovo within 48 hours, did state television admit that many Serbs had
even left. And it used a mocking term for them -- "pobegulje," a feminine plural
meaning "those who have fled" -- that seemed to accuse the refugees of betraying
their homeland.

As one senior Serbian journalist said, asking anonymity, "First they call a
defeat a victory, and then they call the victims cowards."

Mr. Bojic insisted, contrary to the facts: "There's no shooting in Kosovo and
Metohija, nor are there murders there." He said that the Kosovo Liberation Army
had merely applied "psychological pressure" to get Serbs to flee, and that the
NATO-led peacekeeping forces were now "disarming" the insurgent fighters.

NATO and the Serbian Orthodox Church have also urged Serbs to stay in Kosovo or
to return there. After a slow move to establish order, NATO now promises
evenhanded justice, while church leaders like Patriarch Pavle, who has himself
moved to the Kosovo town of Pec, urge their flock to hold on to their right to
holy Kosovo with their physical presence.

Serbian "institutions are functioning in Kosovo and the cooperation with KFOR,"
the NATO-led peacekeeping force, "has been established," Mr. Bojic said.

"Kosovo and Metohija is ours and will remain ours only if we return there," he
said. "You should use this moment to return to Kosovo in the next 48 hours.

"Otherwise the return will be more difficult," he warned.

And he promised: "We will be with you now, possibly the hardest hour, and in the
future too, because we have succeeded, through a great engagement of all of us,
to secure conditions for your safe return and a secure life in Kosovo."

Mr. Milosevic's political moves seemed to dampen the prospect for the early
elections advocated by opposition parties. He could even benefit from elections
this autumn, several analysts say, although his party might not be able to count
-- as it has in past elections -- on artificially bolstering the number of votes
it got in Kosovo, whose majority Albanians boycotted Serbian polls.

It is not clear whether Kosovo, formally a part of Yugoslavia but actually under
United Nations administration, would be allowed to vote in any new elections.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hundreds of Serbs who had fled Kosovo have begun trickling back
at the urging of Yugoslav Government officials. A Serbian refugee waited with
her luggage in Belgrade to be taken back to Kosovo yesterday. (Reuters)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 25, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Queens Is Where The World's Music Comes Together

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend
Desk

LENGTH: 2415 words


If the term world music makes you think of wide-eyed, long-haired bohos noodling
on the dance floor of a SoHo nightclub in their latest ethno-chic garb, then get
yourself quickly to Queens.

In Queens, world music is home music. And night life is in large measure a
commemoration of all the places that the people of Queens have left behind. It
is the syncopated Trinidadian soca or the breakneck beat of Dominican merengue.
It is the middle-aged children of Irish immigrants learning to dance like the
Irish in the back of a Woodside pub, or the children of South Asian immigrants
picking up the mother tongue from Hindi films screened in Jackson Heights. It's
a man in a rumpled suit singing Korean love songs in his own karaoke studio in
Flushing, or it's a table of men in a smoky, half-empty tavern in Astoria
throwing back their heads and singing along to rebetika, songs considered the
urban blues of Greece.

Queens has become an important place in many people's diasporas, an outpost of
Lima and Lahore, Port-au-Prince and Seoul. And so, to step out for the night in
Queens is to vault the vast blue sea and sky that separates the New World from
the Old. It is to eavesdrop on the remembrances of expatriates, to watch how
they move their hips and mouth the lyrics of well-remembered songs, usually only
in the company of one another. Or it is to watch their American children delve
into their roots with an enthusiasm that new immigrants can hardly muster.

"Irish-Americans are a little bit more sentimental about their roots," observed
William Collins, a second-generation Irish-American fiddler, as he watched a
roomful of set-dancing students at Breffni Pub in Sunnyside. As for the new
Irish immigrants, he said, "These people come here and listen to rock music."

One should note, however, that stepping out in Queens does not always mean
finding world music and dance in well-packaged folklorica. One is likely to
stumble into, say, a Haitian restaurant near La Guardia Airport and find the
band playing "Girl From Ipanema" or, at a vast Brazilian disco in Astoria, to
watch the crowd move to the Village People.

A few night spots offer musical fare that could just as easily be found across
the river. For example, Flushing Town Hall is wrapping up its spring jazz series
tonight with the Latin jazz sextet of Jerry Gonzalez and the Fort Apache Band,
while the nightclub Amazura, in Jamaica, serves up a standard hip-hop bill.
Scheduled to play tonight are two of the genre's most thuggish icons, the
rappers Jay Z and DMX.

Occasionally a whiff of the avant-garde is to be found. At the P.S. 1 Center for
Contemporary Art in Long Island City, for instance, in an outdoor pavilion
designed by the architect Philip Johnson, a crew of D.J.'s and self-described
"noise terrorists" will entertain at a series of Saturday evening performances
starting this weekend.

Every now and then someone tries to pull together all the people who live side
by side. On Sunday, for instance, the Queens Council on the Arts will present a
concert of drumming traditions from around the world at Bohemian Hall, an
89-year-old Czech beer garden in Astoria. The stage will be shared by a trio of
Korean women, a Bukharan doira player and a West African djembe man, among
others.

And next month the Queens Theater in the Park will be the stage for the annual
summerlong AT&T Latino Arts Festival. The lineup is intended to draw crowds from
inside and outside Latin New York, with crossover bands like Inti Illimani of
Chile and Noche Flamenco of Spain, as well as Armando Manzanero, the crooning
balladeer regarded as the Burt Bacharach of Mexico.

Still, Queens, not unlike the rest of the city, is for the most part an
archipelago, with each island occupied by members of a particular tribe.
Casablanca, a warehouse of a club on Queens Boulevard in Sunnyside, draws mostly
young Dominicans and Puerto Ricans equally at home in hip-hop and merengue,
while Chibcha, in nearby Jackson Heights, is known for an older, flashier
Colombian crowd. The Bollywood pictures (that's the Hollywood of Bombay) shown
at the Eagle Theater in Jackson Heights draw a strictly subcontinental crowd,
while Calypso City in Richmond Hill plays to a Caribbean crowd and Carmichael's,
an unassuming railroad diner in Jamaica, commemorates the jazz heritage of
southeast Queens with its weekly Wednesday evening jam sessions.

You can dance, eat and groove your way across the world in Queens. But you have
to know where to go. What follows is a rough and selective guide.

Recreating Colombia

Barrel-chested men in tuxedos guard the doors to Chibcha, a sprawling Colombian
nightclub and restaurant on Roosevelt Avenue, the commercial and cultural artery
of Hispanic Jackson Heights. Inside, a cluster of red-and-white checkered tables
frame the dance floor. The east wall is taken up by a chiva, a bright red and
yellow jitney that has been brought from somewhere in rural Colombia and
retrofitted here with tables and chairs inside.

It's all part of the project of recreating the old country.

"They come here for the nostalgia, you know?" explained Jorge Alarcon, the
Medellin native who runs a mini-empire along Roosevelt Avenue, including the
nightclub, an adjoining restaurant and a travel agency. "They live there. But
they live here."

Chibcha is an extravagant place. The menu offers standard Continental fare like
shrimp scampi and pasta, but if you ask, the waiter will also bring you
aguardiente -- fire water -- an anise-flavored Latin American cane liquor that
pours into you, indeed, like a flame.

The action doesn't begin on the dance floor until close to midnight, when stiff,
straight upper torsos give way to undulating hips, and women in pinprick heels
offer hours of fancy footwork.

Most patrons are no longer Colombian, as they were when Mr. Alarcon first
converted an abandoned Irish pub into the nightclub 20 years ago. Today the
lineup at Chibcha reflects the panoply of Latin Americans who have settled into
Jackson Heights and Corona: a strapping Mexican ranchera starlet one night, a
Venezuelan folk ensemble another, followed the next night by vallenato music
from Colombia's northern coast. Members of that other tribe -- the English-only
bohemian fresh from a salsa lesson downtown -- are still conspicuously absent.

A Mexican Hideaway

Five blocks east of Chibcha is a more intimate, younger venue, Plaza Garibaldi,
catering mostly to Mexican immigrants, the borough's newest and fastest-growing
Latino group. At Garibaldi one recent Saturday evening, young men in flannel
shirts and goatees sat at the long narrow bar, nursing red cans of Tecate beer,
and $3.50 bought a sandwich of potato and Mexican sausage topped with red sauce
and a dollop of cream. The stage was aflame with a mural of the Virgin of
Guadalupe framed by red, white and green streamers, the colors of the Mexican
flag. A small Asian woman wandered in, peddling fake gold jewelry from a
briefcase.

Arturo Carlos, the club owner, said he was well aware of how much Latinos love
one another's music: Mexicans are drawn to the lilting Colombian cumbia as much
as to their own version of country music, called ranchera, just as Mr. Alarcon's
South American patrons down the road are crazy about salsa, rooted in the
Afro-Cuban tradition. So on the tiny Garibaldi stage, a five-piece band from
Elizabeth, N.J., played an irrepressible mix of merengue, ranchera and cumbia.
The lead singer scratched rhythms on a scraper called the guiro. Congas shared
the stage with a drum machine. Still, Plaza Garibaldi, named after the square in
Mexico City where mariachi music is said to have been born, is unquestionably a
Mexican hideaway.

"Years ago, there was no place where Mexican people could go to dance, eat and
drink," recalled Mr. Carlos, a 24-year veteran of Queens. "We thought, we need
something for our own people."

This is the logic of much of the cultural life of Queens. You can stay up until
dawn most nights of the week, peeking into these hideaways. Down Roosevelt
Avenue, an arepa stand does a brisk business all night, frying up the
traditional Colombian cornmeal cakes topped with cheese. You can cap off the
evening with an espresso at La Meson Asturias, a Spanish restaurant as famous
for its paella as for the 1992 shooting death of a crusading journalist, Manuel
de Dios Unanue. Or if you're up late enough, you can linger until the Mexican
bodegas roll open their gates for an exclusive Sunday morning treat: trays of
fresh tamales.

Subcontinental Film

A few blocks to the west is the Jackson Heights of the South Asian
subcontinentals. Night life here is limited, though. By sundown the gold shops
and sari emporiums roll down their forbidding metal gates, and all that's left
is the Eagle Theater, a former porn palace turned Bollywood cinema on 37th Road,
off 74th Street.

Now that cricket season is over (the Eagle has been packed for weeks for World
Cup Cricket matches, broadcast by satellite from England), Saqib Hussain, the
theater's Pakistan-born manager, promises a summer of new Hindi film hits. But
don't expect an especially eclectic mix. India's film industry churns out one
boy-meets-girl story after another, all with musical numbers, many with
mustachioed villains and weeping mothers.

But if the Bollywood films, which draw as many children of South Asians as their
immigrant parents, have become a vital part of the subcontinental cultural life
in New York, the Eagle must also work hard not to fuel communal sentiments among
this diverse crowd. This month, for instance, a poster promised a film produced
by Smita Thackeray, the daughter-in-law of Bal Thackeray, the head of a militant
Hindu political party in India. Theater officials quickly removed the poster,
and plans to screen it are being reconsidered.

"We don't want to put ourselves in trouble," Mr. Hussain said simply.

Philip Johnson Onstage

Paraphrasing the architect Philip Johnson, the programming people at P.S. 1 are
calling their outdoor music pavilion "a cross between Studio 54 and a medieval
amphitheater."

Whatever you call it, the five-cornered stage framed by steel-and-mesh towers
will be the site of its second annual summer music program, "Warm Up 2: Live and
Electronic."

On Sunday, Mr. Johnson, just weeks shy of 93, ceremoniously dropped the first
vinyl of the season onstage, choosing Frank Sinatra's "My Way," "Bridge Over
Troubled Waters" and the disco classic "I Will Survive," to which he performed a
minimalist dance. He was incongruously followed by the rapper Fat Joe and D.J.'s
from Jimmy's Bronx Cafe, Tony and Loco, spinning a ferocious mix of merengue and
house music.

Starting tomorrow and continuing through Sept. 11, D.J.'s, dancers and live
bands from around New York and across the globe will descend on the P.S. 1 stage
on Saturday nights. Attractions will include the London-based Russell Haswell
("He's noise for sure," said Tarra Cunningham, a development and programming
associate at P.S. 1) as well as local D.J.'s from the Soundlab crew, a
Paris-based disco band with Japanese vocals ("with a James Bondy flavor," Ms.
Cunningham said) and an electronic "bluegrass-country-gothic" band called Who
Killed Teacher.

"Stylistically, it's everything from drum and bass to bluegrass to really
straightforward punk to disco galore, true disco," she added.

Who's Playing And Where

Here is information about places mentioned in the article about nightlife in
Queens:

AMAZURA, 91-12 144th Place, between Jamaica and Archer Avenues, Jamaica, (718)
298-6760. Tonight at 9, the rappers Jay Z and DMX. Tickets: $25

BREFFNI PUB, 43-45 40th Street, Sunnyside, (718) 729-9803. Irish set dancing
classes on Tuesdays, 8 to 10 P.M., and Thursdays, 6:30 to 10 P.M. Fee: $7 each
night.

BOHEMIAN HALL, 29-19 24th Avenue, Astoria, (718) 647-3377. On Sunday, 3 to 5
P.M., Drum Dance, a performance of West African, Central Asian, Indian, Korean,
Colombian and American Indian drumming traditions and dancing. Free.

CALYPSO CITY, 121-08 Jamaica Avenue, at 123d Street, Richmond Hill, (718)
847-8900. Fridays and Saturdays, 9:30 P.M. to 4 A.M. Cover, $10, Fridays, $12 on
Saturdays.

CARMICHAEL'S, 117-08 Guy Brewer Boulevard, Jamaica, (718) 723-6908. Diner that
offers jazz on Wednesday nights from 7 to 10.

CASABLANCA, 40-15 Queens Boulevard, Sunnyside, (718) 482-1199. Call for
performance schedule and admission prices.

CHIBCHA, 79-05 Roosevelt Avenue, between 79th and 80th Streets, Jackson Heights,
(718) 429-9033. Live music most nights at 10. Cover: $15 Fridays through
Sundays; no cover charge Mondays through Thursdays.

EAGLE THEATER, 73-07 37th Road, Jackson Heights. For movie listings and
showtimes, call (718) 205-2800.

FLUSHING MUSIC STUDIO, 136-76 Roosevelt Avenue, second floor, Flushing, (718)
460-4300. Private karaoke rooms available at $25 an hour and up. Open daily,
noon to 6 A.M.

FLUSHING TOWN HALL, 137-35 Northern Boulevard, near Main Street, Flushing, (718)
463-7700. Appearing tonight at 8 and 10 P.M. is Jerry Gonzalez and the Fort
Apache Band. Tickets: $20; $17 for students and the elderly; $15 for Town Hall
members.

LA MESON ASTURIAS, 40-12 83d Street, near Roosevelt Avenue, Jackson Heights.
Open daily, noon to midnight, till 1 A.M. Fridays and Saturdays.

PLAZA GARIBALDI, 89-12 Roosevelt Avenue, between 89th and 90th Streets, Jackson
Heights, (718) 651-9722. Live music Fridays through Sundays, beginning at 10
P.M. Minimum, $15; no cover charge.

P.S. 1 CENTER FOR CONTEMPORARY ART, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, near 46th Avenue, Long
Island City, (718) 784-2084. Performances Saturdays, starting tomorrow, 4 to 9
P.M., with programs of international music. Through Sept. 11. Included in center
admission, which is by suggested donation: $5; $2 for students, children and the
elderly.

QUEENS THEATER IN THE PARK, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park. From July 21 through
Aug. 8, the AT&T Latino Arts Festival. Highlights include Paquito D'Rivera on
July 21 at 7 P.M.; Maldita Vecindad on July 27 at 8 P.M.; Inti Illimani on July
30 at 8 P.M. and Munequitos de Matanzas on Aug. 8 at 7 P.M. Tickets are $20 to
$35. For schedule information, call (718) 760-0064 (English) or (718) 760-0686
(Spanish).

TAVERNA O ANANIAS, 29-35 Newtown Avenue, at 30th Street, Astoria, (718)
932-1456. Rebetika music on Tuesday nights, starting at 11 P.M.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Eagle Theater, above and left, on 37th Road in Jackson
Heights, shows the latest films from India. Jerry Gonzalez, above, will be the
star at two performances tonight with the Fort Apache Band, at Flushing Town
Hall. Dancing to the live music at Chibcha, on Roosevelt Avenue in Jackson
Heights. (Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times; John Abbott
(Gonzalez))(pg. E1); Plaza Garibaldi, top (Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The
New York Times), has a band after 10 P.M. on weekends, here Sonora Latina. It
caters to younger Mexicans, while Chibcha, above, with live music most nights,
has older Colombians. At right, the architect Philip Johnson dances with Tamar
Osorio in the pavilion he designed for the P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center.
(Stephanie Diamond)(pg. E22)

Map of Queens highlighting clubs. (pg. E22)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 27, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Beijing Overturns a Hong Kong Court Ruling on the Residency Status of Immigrants

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 905 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG, June 26


In a move that has profound implications for Hong Kong's legal system, China
today overturned, in effect, a local court ruling that granted residency here to
more than a million people.

The decision by China's legislature to reinterpret provisions of the Hong Kong
constitution that were the basis of the ruling is tantamount to overruling Hong
Kong's highest court. And it marks Beijing's most overt intervention, albeit at
the request of Hong Kong's own Beijing-appointed administrator, in the affairs
of this former British colony since it reverted to Chinese rule in 1997.

While widely expected, the move elicited a torrent of protest from lawyers and
pro-democracy politicians here. They said it would jeopardize the rule of law
and the high degree of autonomy that Hong Kong was promised in its transition
from a Crown Colony to a Chinese metropolis.

In a terse statement issued by the Standing Committee of the National People's
Congress, Beijing declared that Hong Kong's Court of Final Appeal had erred in
its landmark ruling, which granted residency to all children born in mainland
China who have at least one parent living in Hong Kong.

"The decision of the Court of Final Appeal is not consistent with the Basic
Law," said the official New China News Agency, referring to the Beijing-drafted
constitution that governs this territory.

Beijing's decree brings to an end a five-month drama that pitted Hong Kong's
British-style legal system against China's.

The dispute laid bare the deep ambivalence that Hong Kong people feel toward
their mainland brethren. And it forced this independent-minded enclave to face
the reality that -- whatever the niceties of the Sino-British agreement known as
"one country, two systems" -- Hong Kong is now part of a single country that
will not hesitate to assert its suzerainty, in matters legal or political.

"Not only does this set a precedent," said Margaret Ng, a lawyer and member of
the legislature here. "It sanctions political intervention in the judicial
system in Hong Kong. It ushers in a whole culture of mainland political figures
criticizing and putting pressure on Hong Kong courts."

Dozens of protesters crowded around the Government headquarters to protest the
action. Several carried a huge banner that said, "Tung Chee-hwa ruins the rule
of law, ruins Hong Kong." Mr. Tung, a shipping magnate, is chief executive of
the territory.

Critics trained most of their fire on Mr. Tung rather than on Beijing. He asked
the Chinese Government to act because of fears that the court decision would
have inundated this already teeming city with mainland immigrants.

Beijing's action also provoked concern from the United States, which has kept a
low profile on Hong Kong affairs since the handover.

"The issue is whether the common law system in Hong Kong will maintain its
integrity," said Richard A. Boucher, the United States Consul General. "Our
concern is that reinterpretation could become too easy a precedent. It could
undermine future cases and influence future behavior."

Mr. Tung denied that Hong Kong's legal system had been undermined. While he said
he had been reluctant to ask Beijing to insert itself in Hong Kong's affairs, he
did not rule out doing so again.

"What I want to emphasize is that we have taken this course of action because
there were really no other alternatives, and it is not something we would want
to do in the future, if we can help it," Mr. Tung said.

Hong Kong's drama began last January when its court extended residency rights to
mainland Chinese children regardless of whether their parents were Hong Kong
residents before or after their birth. That sweeping language threw open the
doors to an estimated 1.6 million mainland Chinese.

The court managed to upset people on both sides of the border. Mainland
officials objected because they said the court was trying to usurp the authority
of China's legislature. Because the ruling involved the movement of Chinese
citizens between the mainland and Hong Kong, Beijing said the court should have
referred the case to the National People's Congress.

Hong Kong's government, meanwhile, warned that the newcomers would swamp this
city of 6.8 million, swelling unemployment, jamming schools and hospitals, and
blighting the environment. Hong Kong estimated the influx would cost $91 billion
in additional capital spending.

With anti-immigrant sentiment running high, Hong Kong last month asked Beijing
to invoke the rarely used device of reinterpreting the Basic Law. Today, the
Chinese legislature responded by limiting the right of residency to mainland
children whose parents were residents at the time of their birth.

Officials here estimated today that would reduce the eligible immigrants from
1.6 million to less than 200,000.

While public support has been resolutely behind the Government's efforts to
limit immigration, pro-democracy leaders said Hong Kong would pay for its action
by opening itself to future meddling by Beijing.

"If you break open a hole in the legal system for one group of people, then
nobody is safe," said Martin Lee, the leader of Hong Kong's Democratic Party.
"Nobody knows how large this hole will be."

Government officials said the critics were simply stubborn in their refusal to
adapt to life after the handover. "You must accept that there is a new
constitutional order," said Elsie Leung, the Secretary of Justice.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 30, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

California, Here Bush Comes, a Moderate on Immigration and Racial Quotas

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1112 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, June 29


George W. Bush plunged into the most-populous state today for the first time as
a Presidential candidate. And he immediately cast himself as more temperate than
most Republican leaders here and in Washington on two ballot measures that have
roiled his party: immigration and affirmative action.

Mr. Bush, the Governor of Texas, distanced himself from a proposition voters
passed in California in 1994 that prohibits public services for illegal
immigrants. And he refused to endorse a proposition approved by voters here in
1996 that outlawed racial preferences for hiring, education and contracts.

Mr. Bush's remarks were a striking departure for a Republican Presidential
candidate because both measures were championed by the last Republican elected
governor of California, Pete Wilson. Mr. Bush's stand is also at odds with the
dominant position of the Congressional wing of the Republican Party. And it
differs from the position of most of his rivals for the nomination.

His comments in response to questions from reporters were the most vivid
demonstration thus far of how Mr. Bush is so confident of his support in the
primary that he has embarked on a general-election strategy to attract as broad
a swath of voters as possible. With his more moderate positions on affirmative
action and immigration, he is seeking to appeal to minorities and independent
voters in a general election.

Mr. Bush's comments are the more notable because he is setting the tone for the
Republican competition. He is swamping his opponents in the polls here and
nationwide, and on this trip he has been showered with donations and greeted by
packed gatherings.

"We wouldn't have had a 187 in my state," Mr. Bush said of Proposition 187, the
initiative on immigration that curtailed the rights of illegal immigrants to
services like schools.

Asked at a stop here whether he would have supported the measure, Mr. Bush
sidestepped the question but made his qualms clear: "I said when it first came
out I was against the spirit of 187 for my state. I felt like every child ought
to be educated regardless of the status of his parents. I don't know what's
happened in California, but I do know that quotas won't work when it comes to
certain social obligations such as encouraging capitalism to be spread all
around the country."

Mr. Bush also sounded a moderate tone in refusing to stand behind the measure on
affirmative action, Proposition 209. "I support the spirit of no quotas, no
preferences," he said, "but what's important to say is not what you're against
-- what you're for. I'm for increasing the pool of applicants and opening the
door so that more people are eligible to go to the university systems."

On the first of three days of appearances up and down California -- the king of
electoral votes with 54 -- Mr. Bush acted as if he were already running a
general-election race. He made no mention of his Republican rivals. He played up
his success in Texas at appealing to Hispanic voters. And he cast himself as an
inclusive candidate who would not be tugged to the right.

It was no accident that one stop today was the Plaza de Mexico, a Hispanic area
at the Del Mar Fair near here. He worked his way through hundreds of people,
many of whom greeted him with chants of "Viva Bush." Pointedly, he delivered
some of his remarks in Spanish, in which he is fluent.

"I intend to win California in a general election," Mr. Bush repeated again and
again to the Republican faithful. "I intend to become the next President of the
United States."

Asked to name one Republican who was a threat to Mr. Bush in California, State
Senator Jim Brulte, a Bush supporter, was stumped. "Expectations," he said.

Mr. Bush's play-to-November strategy may not be risky in the primary here
because it may draw moderate Republicans, many of whom helped elect a Democratic
Governor, Gray Davis, last year.

Besides putting forth more moderate positions, Mr. Bush made a play for the
Hollywood elite, who are traditionally more supportive of Democrats and have
been courted by Vice President Al Gore. Terry Semel, the chairman of Warner
Brothers and a prominent supporter of Democrats, today held a reception for Mr.
Bush at his Bel Air home. Guests included Warren Beatty, Quincy Jones and Jack
Valenti, president of the Motion Picture Association of America and a longtime
backer of Democrats.

Appealing to entertainment executives who believe that President Clinton and Mr.
Gore unfairly fault Hollywood for violence, Mr. Bush said: "All of us need to
work together to change the culture. One industry alone does not bear all the
brunt."

Mr. Bush will again delve into Mr. Gore's territory on Thursday, with
fund-raising events in Silicon Valley.

And, Mr. Bush vowed, this is only the beginning. Pledging to concentrate his
energies in this battleground state, Mr. Bush has told supporters that he has
the luxury to focus here because he is well positioned in two other states with
huge electoral prizes: In Texas he is the favorite son and in Florida his
brother Jeb is Governor.

At event after event in California, Mr. Bush was welcomed by ebullient crowds --
as well as by expectations among many Republicans that he can rescue their party
in this state from turmoil. The last time a Republican Presidential nominee won
California in a general election was 1988, when Mr. Bush's father was elected
President.

George Gorton, who was a longtime aide to Mr. Wilson but is neutral in the
Presidential race, marveled at the outpouring for Mr. Bush at a breakfast here
this morning. "This is the closest thing to a legitimate draft I've ever seen in
my life," Mr. Gorton said. "There are people here who are both from the right
and from the left of the party -- people you don't see in the same place."

In random interviews at Mr. Bush's events, many Republicans said they were not
troubled by the Governor's distancing himself from the ballot measures that were
supported by most Republicans in California.

John Hensley, an Irvine lawyer, said he disagreed with Mr. Bush on those ballot
initiatives but expected to support him. "It's nice to see a guy with a family
and a proven track record," Mr. Hensley said. "That forgives a lot of sins. He's
a good guy too, which has a lot to do with it."

But Democratic officials in the state said they believed Mr. Bush was most
vulnerable for his stand against abortion and his refusal to press for stronger
gun-control laws.

"Bush is out of step with most Americans on gun safety, and he is out of step
with California," Roy Romer, the general chairman of the Democratic Party, said
in Washington today.





http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 30, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

What NATO Victory?

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 100 words



To the Editor:

Re "The Rough Landing We Give Refugees" (Op-Ed, June 26): In fact, immigrants
seeking refugee status in this country have long been put on welfare, but unlike
United States citizens before the recent changes, they could receive benefits as
refugees only for a period of five years. With the recent welfare reforms
limiting benefits, refugees are now in sync with United States citizens, or
rather, United States citizens are in sync with them.

ELIZABETH SHACKELFORD
New York, June 26, 1999

The writer was a volunteer with the Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 30, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Seeking a Reading on an Immigrant Past

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 565 words


A curator found them while going through one of the old tenement apartments at
97 Orchard Street in the fall of 1993: about six business cards buried in the
floorboards and behind the kitchen wall.

The cards, one side in English, the other in Yiddish, advertised the services of
Prof. Dora Meltzer, "The World Famous Palmist and Mind Reader recently arrived
from Europe."

Thus began the project by the Lower East Side Tenement Museum to commemorate the
history of fortunetelling in New York City, as well as the search for Dora
Meltzer, who, in her cards, offered "the best advice in business, journeys,
lawsuits, love, sickness, family affairs, etc." -- all for 15 cents and up.

Since it was established in 1988, the museum in lower Manhattan has restored
apartments in a 19th century tenement on Orchard Street at Broome Street, using
each one to tell the story of a particular family and a particular immigrant
experience.

Museum officials said they hope learning about Professor Meltzer will shed light
on such questions as how immigrant women adapt themselves to the United States
and to what extent middle-class Americans criminalize immigrant activities.

In documenting the history of the families that lived in the apartments that
have been restored so far, the museum had the help of family members in addition
to extensive research. Given the valuable firsthand information that such family
connections provide -- as well as documents, photographs and artifacts -- the
priority for the museum's fortunetelling project is finding relatives of
Professor Meltzer or people with personal knowledge about her.

"We hope by the end of the summer we'll have some answers about who Dora Meltzer
was," said Steve Long, the director of the museum's resource and study center,
who is in charge of the fortunetelling research.

So far the museum's researchers have only scratched the surface. They were told
by the typographer's union that the business cards appear to date from the
1890's. The 1903-1904 City Directory lists a Hymen Meltzer living with his wife,
Bessie, at 97 Orchard Street, and museum officials suspect that this was the
fortuneteller's real identity, that Dora was simply a professional name. Both
Meltzers were listed in the directory as Russian immigrants who arrived in the
United States around 1885 and had two daughters, Ray and Lillian, and two sons,
Samuel and Bernie.

Mr. Long said he has sent letters to every Meltzer in Manhattan, Brooklyn and
most of Queens asking for information about the fortunetelling Meltzer family.
None have produced any leads, and Mr. Long said he planned to send another round
of letters to the suburbs and possibly Florida, given its large population of
Jewish retirees from New York.

From research conducted so far, the museum has determined that the average
fortuneteller in early 20th century New York was likely to be a traditional
housewife.

In recreating the Meltzer apartment, the museum plans to include elements
typically used by fortunetellers of the day: a palm-reading chart, tarot cards,
reflective crystals and a crystal ball. Researchers have made connections
between turn-of-the-century methods and current methods by calling
fortunetellers who advertise in immigrant Russian newspapers. One they recently
found in Brighton Beach said her grandmother had psychic powers, which she had
inherited.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 1, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Ailing Foreigners Burden Emergency Rooms in U.S.

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1901 words


They look like any of the anxious patients who walk into the city's polyglot
emergency rooms.

But there are telltale signs.Sometimes they arrive with luggage and with tourist
visas in their pockets. Often they have crumpled notes from doctors back home in
China or Africa.

One man from the Dominican Republic flew into La Guardia Airport weak with
fever, asked for an ambulance and presented himself at New York Presbyterian
Hospital, where he announced that he had leukemia and needed help. Along with
his suitcase, he carried his own intravenous drip.

They are known as medical immigrants, poor or middle-class foreigners who scrape
and save to fly to New York, but not to join family, flee oppression or find
work. Instead, they come solely to seek treatment at city emergency rooms, where
Federal and state law says they must be examined and treated if their problems
require immediate care.

Doctors say that such patients have been gravitating to the city in modest
numbers for years, mostly to the city's public hospitals. While New York appears
to receive the brunt, hospitals in Chicago, Houston and Miami also report
treating a steady stream of medical immigrants, mostly from poor countries.

No one is able to say exactly how many there are or how much their care costs
hospitals. And in part, this is a policy decision. Many emergency departments,
fearing the anti-immigrant sentiment that has restricted access to health care
in California and other states, resist counting such patients or pressing them
about where they came from if they do not volunteer that information.

"Should I wonder whether this is the guy from Third Avenue who doesn't have any
money or the guy from the third world who doesn't have any?" asked Dr. Lewis
Goldfrank, emergency services director at Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan.
"That's not my job," he said. "I'm a doctor."

But especially in New York, those who keep an eye on city hospitals' precarious
finances say that if something does not change, the hospitals will not be able
to keep their emergency room doors open to the world.

Medical immigrants are a tiny but striking example of a larger and growing
problem of uninsured or underinsured patients -- both citizens and immigrants,
legal and illegal -- who rely on emergency rooms as clinics for everything from
colds to cancer.

According to the New York State Health Department, city hospitals provided $1.2
billion in care to those who could not pay in 1997, the last year for which
figures are available. The same year, the state collected only $635 million in a
charity pool used for such care, most of which went to city hospitals. The pool
is financed through taxes on hospitals and insurers.

In addition to the shortfall, New York's percentage of uninsured people, 19.1
percent, is not only higher than the country's, but is growing faster. Medical
immigrants are only a sliver of this group, but Patricia Wang, a senior vice
president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, called the phenomenon "a
tremendous concern to hospitals as the number of uninsured grows."

"It's another thing that's putting a lot of stress on hospital budgets," she
said.

The patients come from all over the world, many with long-neglected, serious
illnesses. Just after 2 on Sunday morning, a newly arrived Honduran woman showed
up at Elmhurst Hospital's emergency room, and doctors determined that she had an
aggressive form of cancer.

Last year, Dr. Goldfrank treated a West African with kidney failure who had sold
his house and possessions to travel to Guinea for dialysis. He could not get
help there, but tacked to a bulletin board in the hospital was an announcement
saying that if patients could get to Bellevue or Pitie-Salpetriere Hospital in
Paris they would get free dialysis.

The man, whose name was not released, flew to New York last February and walked
into the emergency room with almost fatal levels of potassium in his blood, Dr.
Goldfrank said. He was stabilized and has remained in New York for weekly
dialysis, paid for with emergency Medicaid money that require mountains of
paperwork for the hospital.

When Bellevue officials asked the man whether he would be willing to be
interviewed, provided that his name not be used, he became so frightened that
nurses in the dialysis program worried that he would not show up for his
treatments again.

"These are people who are on a mission to save their lives," Dr. Goldfrank said.
"It's their last resort before they give up. And it can be a very courageous
journey they're taking."

Not all cities are as welcoming. At Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami,
officials have begun to make access much harder when patients cannot prove legal
residency or an ability to pay. They might be stabilized in the emergency room
but not admitted. Or if their condition is not immediately life-threatening,
they may be told to go to the hospital's clinic, where they must pay a fee
before being seen.

Taking the Drastic Step: Alerting the Authorities

Recently, Jackson has even begun taking the most drastic step: alerting
immigration authorities if hospital administrators determine that a patient's
condition can be treated in his home country. When this leads to deportation,
the hospital will sometimes pick up the cost of the airline ticket, many
thousands of dollars cheaper than the care they might otherwise have provided.

"We have to draw a line, and we're doing it more and more," said Maria Rosa
Gonzalez, a spokeswoman. "The county has made it very clear that our first
responsibility is to the people of Miami-Dade County. And we're not ashamed to
admit that."

In California, the flow of medical immigrants has slowed considerably since the
1994 passage of Proposition 187, which sought to deny most medical help to
illegal immigrants and require doctors to report them to the police. While the
measure has been mostly dismantled in court, uncertainty among immigrants about
whether they will be treated has deterred them from traveling to California for
medical care.

But New York doctors who see such patients say they would never deny care
because of economics or immigration status, even though in some cases the law
might allow them to discharge the patients once they are stabilized.

"From my point of view, I'm just interested in getting them taken care of," said
Dr. Stuart Kessler, the director of the emergency department at Elmhurst
Hospital Center in Queens, another city emergency room frequently sought out by
such patients because of its diverse neighborhood and proximity to airports.
"Whether it's a strain on resources or not, that's an issue I can debate some
other time."

Many Patients Lie About Visit's Purpose

Bellevue estimates that it may see a few dozen patients a year who doctors or
social workers determine have traveled to the country just for medical care. But
hospital officials believe there are probably dozens more patients who lie,
thinking they are more likely to receive treatment if they claim they came to
the city for a vacation or to find work and then fell ill. Elmhurst officials
say they may see a few patients a month who they know to be medical immigrants.

"They are the patients all the doctors talk about," said Dr. Kessler, who said
he is always struck by those who bring doctors' notes or medical charts. "This
is not a letter from a doctor down the street. It's from another part of the
world."

In New York City, the number of these patients appears to have risen only
slightly over the years, probably because of obvious barriers, doctors say.
First, the patients must be able to get a tourist or temporary visa in their
countries and come up with the money for the airline ticket. They must also have
a certain level of sophistication to know that they will indeed be treated once
they show up. Sometimes this knowledge comes from friends or relatives who live
in New York and take them to the hospital after they arrive.

In other cases, underequipped hospitals in third world countries actually urge
seriously ill patients, like the West African with kidney failure, to go to New
York as a last resort.

The man from the Dominican Republic who showed up at New York Presbyterian was
lucky. He got a bone marrow transplant, said a former doctor at the hospital.
But sometimes, Dr. Goldfrank says, the patients arrive too late. A few years
ago, a man in Mexico City who knew he had serious heart problems began having
chest pains and got on a plane. He landed, took a cab to Bellevue and walked
into the emergency room in shock. He died several days later.

New York doctors say they have seen no patterns of immigrants from specific
countries or regions, but for the last several years they have noticed several
South Americans with AIDS, West Africans with kidney failure and Chinese with
cancer.

Sometimes they arrive straight from the airport, with no contacts in New York
other than the doctors and nurses who help them. More commonly, friends or
relatives in the city familiar with a certain hospital take the patient to the
emergency room within a few days of his arrival.

Some of the immigrant traffic may be an unintended side effect of occasional
good-will missions by public and private hospitals, which bring in foreign
patients from impoverished or war-torn countries in need of complicated
surgeries or treatments. These patients get special medical visas, they usually
have the support of a charity, and the cases generate a huge amount of publicity
for the hospitals. It is publicity sometimes seen around the world as an
invitation to free care at New York's emergency rooms.

"There's apparently good word of mouth about us in Mongolia, which is nice to
know," said Pam McDonnell, the director of communications at Bellevue.

A Complaint of Patients Sent to Public Hospitals

 The city's public hospitals complain that when medical immigrants, especially
those with serious illnesses, show up on the doorsteps of private hospitals,
they may be stabilized and then shipped over to a public hospital for the costly
surgery or long stay.

Francesco Santoni-Rugiu, an Italian cardiologist who is leaving Mount Sinai
Medical Center to return to practice in Italy, said doctors at private hospitals
would like to keep the patients because they often have medical conditions
either no longer as common in the United States or virtually unheard of, like
leprosy.

"But probably," he said, "the hospital isn't going to be in favor of admitting
these people."

They often end up at Bellevue.

Last year, the social work staff there took a statistical snapshot of the
admitted patient population on one day, Dec. 3. The report was mostly to
determine the size of the homeless population, but it found something that
surprised administrators. Of the 701 patients, 166 were not United States
citizens and 70 were ineligible for government entitlements, meaning that they
were probably illegal immigrants.

No one can say how many of the 70 had entered the United States specifically for
medical help, but Patricia Blau, deputy director of the Social Work Department,
estimated that it was probably over half.

"I think some of the medical staff were surprised with the numbers we found,"
she said. "But we weren't. The word is on the streets, so to speak, that if you
come in these doors, you will not be turned away."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Should he wonder whether an immigrant with a serious illness can
pay? "That's not my job," Dr. Lewis Goldfrank said. "I'm a doctor." (Nancy
Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. B8)


                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 2, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Halifax Journal;
Canada Celebrates Immigrants, but Which Ones?

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1045 words

DATELINE: HALIFAX, Nova Scotia, July 1


Certain countries, like certain people, find celebrating their own birthdays a
bit awkward. Canada is one.

Canadians shoot off fireworks and they hold parades, though they never get as
boisterous as their noisy neighbors to the south. That may be because national
birthdays like the one they mark today inevitably invite reflections on a
nation's character. That can be a squirmy subject for Canadians, who may not be
sure what their vast land is, but who are certain what it is not -- the United
States.

This birthday is Canada's 132d since Queen Victoria declared a nation of four
individual Canadian colonies. It could have been a particularly difficult one
for Canadians to enjoy. Public debate in recent days has focused on a proposal
to dump the weak Canadian dollar and replace it with the American buck. That led
Canada's most prominent news magazine to lament, "Say It Ain't So."

It is no surprise, then, that Canadians would devote so much attention this year
to a squat, ugly pier in Halifax's bay that this morning was officially
designated the soul of this good land.

Pier 21 is Canada's Ellis Island. It is the last surviving immigration shed in
Canada. It was here that more than a million immigrants, refugees and World War
II war brides and displaced people first set foot in North America, first felt
the velvety freedom of being given a second chance. Many of those people settled
in Canada and so changed the country that today the history of 20 percent of all
30 million Canadians can be traced to this spot.

The people-processing center was shut down in 1971, and the shed was largely
left to deteriorate. But after a $6.5 million (U.S.) renovation done with
Government money and private donations, it was officially reopened today as the
country's first historic site dedicated to immigrants.

At least in this place, on this day, there was no doubt about what Canada is:
not only a big country but a big-hearted one, built in part on the backs of
small people from more than 200 countries who are Canada's real heroes.

"What they found here was a new land, a new life, a new hope and a new destiny,"
said Prime Minister Jean Chretien, who spoke by a broadcast link from Ottawa
during the inaugural ceremonies.

Focusing on immigration in this way makes Canada seem more than ever built of
the same stuff as the United States. But no one seemed to mind today, not even
when the Canadian Maritime Forces Atlantic Band played an American classic like
"This Land Is Your Land" during the inaugural cermonies.

"Our first sight of Pier 21 really wasn't much to look at," said Hana Gartner, a
nationally known broadcaster who came through Pier 21 from wartorn Europe with
her parents in 1951 when she was a child. "But it was our new home, and we did
feel lucky that we were given that opportunity."

In Canada as in the United States, however, attitudes toward immigration are not
always positive. Immigrants continue to arrive at the rate of about 200,000 a
year, though they now come by plane rather than old boats.

Since the beginning of this decade, public opinion polls have shown that
Canadians are less and less tolerant of high levels of immigration. The real
irritant, said Jeffrey G. Reitz, a sociologist at the University of Toronto, is
not the rising number of immigrants so much as "the changing racial composition"
of those who come.

While Pier 21 was the principal port of immigration to Canada, from 1928 to
1971, roughly three-quarters of all immigrants came from Europe. Today, only 20
percent of immigrants are European. More than half the total come from Asia, and
the rest from widely scattered countries around the world.

That is quickly giving Canadian cities like Halifax, Toronto and Vancouver a far
more diverse character while presenting far greater challenges to the
multicultural mosaic that Canada considers itself to be.

The project to establish the Pier 21 National Historic Site did not escape this
thorny trend. The organizers were criticized for focusing on the period of
European immigration, while ignoring contemporary Canada.

Like the renovated Ellis Island, the sophisticated exhibits inside Pier 21 allow
visitors to experience some sense of what it was like to be on a ship that
emerges from the fog of war, poverty and persecution into a land of freedom.
Photographs, documents and re-creations help convey the stomach-churning
combination of fear and hope that immigrants felt.

Ruth Goldbloom, the granddaughter of immigrants from Russia and the catalyst
behind the Pier 21 renovation, said the displays had to cover only the period
that ended in 1971 if they were to be historically true to what happened at Pier
21.

But she said the story did not end there. She said that "what we're doing with
our Pier 21 is raising awareness of immigration and the contribution of
immigrants" whenever they came.

Pier 21's only concession to the critics is the double row of mostly third-world
flags hanging above a lecture hall to reflect some countries from which
immigrants are coming.

Immigrants like the 56 people who on this day were given the chance to become
the newest Canadians of all. They came from 22 countries, from Albania and
Bosnia, Egypt and Libya, from Mozambique and from Uganda, where Herman Ssebazza
was born 57 years ago.

In the same hall where so many Europeans had landed, Mr. Ssebazza and his family
today swore allegiance to Queen Elizabeth, who is also Queen of Canada. They
sang the national anthem, "O Canada," in both English and a halting French. They
received small Canadian flags and tiny evergreen seedlings, which they planned
to plant in their backyard in Halifax.

And they learned a basic lesson in North American life. "Canadians are not flag
wavers," Mr. Ssebazza, who suggested that, in itself, that might not be such a
bad thing at a time when the passion of nationalism has left so many countries
in ruin.

"I just wish Canadians would market themselves a little bit more," Mr. Ssebazza
said, who came to Halifax in 1994. "Canada has so much to offer."

And as he said that, his 10-year-old daughter Karen took the small maple leaf
flag she had received during the citizenship ceremony and waved it with
new-found exuberance.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Three of 160 war brides, with military escorts, arriving by ship
in Halifax yesterday for the opening of the Pier 21 National Historic Site.
(Associated Press)

Map showing the location of Halifax: Pier 21 in Halifax is now a historic site
dedicated to immigrants.

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 3, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Study Finds Immigrants Doing Well in America

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 205 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 2


Within 20 years of arrival in the United States, more than 60 percent of
immigrants lived in their own homes in 1990, according to a study on how well
immigrants integrate into American society.

About 76 percent of immigrants who had lived in the country for 40 years were
naturalized citizens, the study said, and 3 of 4 spoke English well within 10
years of arriving in the United States.

"Immigrants are much better prepared in English than is commonly thought," said
the report, released on Thursday by the National Immigration Forum, an
immigrants' advocacy group.

More than 26 million foreign-born people were in the United States in 1998,
about 9.8 percent of the total population, the report said. An estimated 27.1
percent of immigrants living here were of Mexican origin. The Philippines were
the second most-common country of origin, at 4.6 percent, and China was third,
with 3.9 percent.

Nearly one-third of all immigrants live in California. More than 70 percent of
immigrants live in six states: California, New York, Florida, Texas, Illinois
and New Jersey, the report said.

Data for the study were taken from the 1990 census and the Current Population
Survey, which tracks generational differences.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 3, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Account of Taunts Brings Reassignment

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 129 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 2


Two refugees among a group of six who frantically tried to swim past Coast Guard
boats and make it to shore on Tuesday have said they were taunted while in the
custody of Border Patrol agents and were made to pose with a photograph of
President Fidel Castro of Cuba.

As a result, an Immigration and Naturalization Service officer was "temporarily
assigned to duties which do not involve contact with I.N.S. detainees," the
service said today.

The men were freed from custody and allowed to remain in the United States after
large protests by Cubans in South Florida.

Attorney General Janet Reno said today that she was "deeply troubled" by the
accusation. "There is no room for abusive conduct among the ranks of our law
enforcement personnel," Ms. Reno said.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 4, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

L.I. Struggles to Find Space for Day Laborers

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 838 words

DATELINE: HUNTINGTON STATION, N.Y., July 2


The sun was barely up when the immigrant day workers began to gather here along
New York Avenue, waiting curbside to be hired by the landscapers, carpenters and
other contractors who would drive up in vans and pickups.

The daily ritual, which starts in May and continues through September, has
gained a number of participants over the last several years, upsetting local
residents and merchants who say the laborers create traffic hazards and scare
away shoppers.

The vans and trucks began arriving this morning around 6:30 and were quickly
surrounded by as many as 30 men, who jostled for position to bargain for the
promise of an average of $60 in exchange for a long day's hard work.

"All we want is a job," said one of the workers, who came here a year ago from
El Salvador. "We just hope we get our money at the end of the day." He
identified himself only as Eduardo, 20, saying he was an illegal immigrant who
feared deportation.

By 7:30 A.M., nearly 125 workers had converged on this busy commercial strip,
some of them arriving by train at the Long Island Rail Road Station a few blocks
away. At times the traffic came to a screeching halt as the workers darted back
and forth across the avenue, chasing down any vehicle that might be driven by a
contractor or a local resident looking for a couple of men to help with yard
work.

The first signs of hostility and resentment began to surface around 8 A.M. as
the local store and business owners arrived to open shop. They chased the
workers, three to four deep, from the sidewalk in front of their stores, picked
up the discarded coffee cups and breakfast leftovers and waited for the
customers who no longer come, the shop owners said, because of the crowds of day
workers.

"If you get someone driving up in a station wagon, they get mobbed, even if
there are kids in the back seat," said the owner of a small shop in the middle
of the block. "The workers think it might be a job offer. But the drivers get
frightened. I'm afraid someday someone's going to get run over."

He would speak only on condition of anonymity, he said, "because I don't want a
brick through my window."

"It's not that I begrudge any of them a job," he added. "My own parents were
immigrants. I know what these men are feeling. But all this is ruining my
business, and no one seems to want to help solve the problem."

The Town of Huntington, which includes this small middle- and low-income
suburban community stretched along Route 110, tried three years ago to set up a
hiring station on a parking lot at a nearby public park that has public rest
rooms. But residents living near the park resisted the move, and town officials
backed down.

Town Supervisor Frank P. Petrone tried again last year to convert a parking lot
into a hiring station, but that effort, too, was defeated. He has said he has
another site in mind, but several calls to his office seeking details were not
returned.

The curbside hiring problem has repeated itself in scores of communities across
Long Island with growing immigrant populations, officials said. Most of the day
laborers are Hispanic, and the officials say the number of Hispanic residents
may have doubled since the 1990 census, which showed 200,000 Spanish speakers in
a total population of 2.8 million.

The Suffolk County Legislature tried recently to resolve the issue with a
proposal that would have made it illegal for contractors to solicit the workers
on public roads between 5 A.M. and 11 A.M. under penalty of up to $1,500 in
fines and three months in jail.

The proposal was defeated at a meeting of the Legislature in Riverhead on
Tuesday attended by nearly 100 Latino protesters. Among those who voted against
the bill were Maxine Postal, the Democratic majority leader, and Paul Tonna, a
Republican whose district includes Huntington Station.

Ron Cohen, a legislative aide to Mr. Tonna, said that all the towns in Suffolk
were keeping an eye on Huntington. "If they can work out a solution, perhaps it
can be applied elsewhere," he said.

Ms. Postal was among the lawmakers who questioned the bill's constitutionality.
"No one wants to put these men out of work," she said.  "The best way to solve
this is for the workers, the employers and leaders of the local communities to
come together and set up a hiring hall."

She noted that such a location had been set aside by the City of Glen Cove in
Nassau County a few years ago near the Glen Street Station of the Long Island
Rail Road. A similar solution has been in place in Inwood for more than three
years, according to Nadia Marin-Molina, a lawyer and the executive Director of
the Workplace Project, a support group for Hispanic workers. She said that she
had offered to help officials in other towns, but that none had got in touch
with the group.

"It's a problem that affects all those involved, including the workers. They,
like everyone else, would like to work out a solution," she said. "It's a matter
of working together and overcoming distrust and fears."



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A van arriving at Huntington Station, N.Y., is rushed by men who
gather and wait on the street every morning in the hope of being asked to do a
day's work. Shop owners say they are scaring customers away. (Angel Franco/The
New York Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 5, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Pressed by Backlog, U.S. Rethinks Citizenship Test

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2239 words


If all it took to become a citizen was knowing what caused the Revolutionary
War, Grigoriy Brekhman would be in luck.

"The taxes were very high and the colonies hated England about the taxes because
they had no rights," explained Mr. Brekhman, a 65-year-old immigrant from
Ukraine, when the teacher in his citizenship class posed the question last week.

Correct, the teacher said, but not the best response.

"At the interview, they are looking for short answers," she advised her elderly
Russian-speaking students at Bronx House, a Jewish community center. "If you
said, 'high taxes,' that would be very good."

Mr. Brekhman is part of the largest group of applicants for citizenship in the
nation's history. Altogether, 1.8 million people are waiting to be tested on
their knowledge of English, civics and history.

The test is at the core of one of the weightier decisions any nation can make:
who should be a citizen?

But for this important judgment, critics say, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service relies on a process that is not uniform in content, administration or
grading.

Even eager candidates like Mr. Brekhman, in the final analysis, are judged less
on their understanding of citizenship and American values than on their ability
to memorize a list of names, dates and facts, like the name of the Pilgrims'
ship, the author of "The Star-Spangled Banner" and the colors of the flag.

Although officials supposedly work from the same set of 100 history and civics
questions, the agency has found that failure rates vary widely across the
country. The agency's critics say that is because the way questions are chosen
and framed, and the way answers are assessed, depend on the mood, style or
locale of the interviewer.

Partly because of a backlog of applications, caused largely by computer
problems, that has overwhelmed the naturalization process in the last three
years, the I.N.S. is now looking at ways to make the citizenship test more
uniform and easier to administer. Inevitably, in re-examining the mechanics of
naturalization, a debate has arisen on the more fundamental issues of what
United States citizenship means and what the country should require a new
citizen to know.

"It's not a question of making the naturalization process harder or easier,"
said Noah M. J. Pickus, assistant professor of public policy and political
science at Duke University and one of the experts consulted by the I.N.S. "But
can we make it more a meaningful, coherent lever for accomplishing the kinds of
aspirations we have, not only for immigrants, but also for native-born
citizens?"

Immigration agency officials said that over the next few months they would
decide what subjects to include in a revised civics and history test and how
much applicants should know to pass the language and civics tests. They hope to
solicit bids on a test-development contract in the fall.

"We've wanted to open up the issue on all fronts," said Doris M. Meissner, the
Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization. "And it's implicit in our asking
the question that we wanted the test looked at, both the way we use it and what
we want the test to be."

An applicant for citizenship now is tested for English proficiency and knowledge
of the government during an interview with an immigration adjudicator that can
range from 15 to 40 minutes. The process includes an oral exam in English on
some history and civics topics and questioning about the personal data on the
application form. In most cases, the adjudicator also dictates a few sentences
in English and has the applicant write them down. The content and conduct of the
interview and the judging of the writing are left entirely up to the
adjudicator.

A new test will be part of a broader agency effort to streamline and standardize
naturalization procedures, at a time when more foreigners than ever are seeking
citizenship because of Federal cuts in benefits to noncitizens.

"We're looking for a testing process where there's as much consistency as
possible throughout the agency," she said, "and as much preparation by the
applicants as possible, so they have the strongest chance of passing it if they
prepare."

Question of Revision Sets Off Alarms

Still, topics like immigration and citizenship tend to set political bells
ringing, so the discussion of revising the tests may end as little more than an
empty exercise. Ms. Meissner's agency, buffeted both by advocates for immigrants
and by conservatives seeking to restrict immigration, is treading carefully.

Two years ago, the agency hired the consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers to
poll a broad range of people, including experts in linguistics and civics and
Congressional aides, on the same questions of revising the naturalization
process.

Its report, which reviewed existing history, civics and English language
standards but made no specific recommendations, was completed at the end of
1998. It has not been distributed outside the agency, in part to forestall a
possible conservative backlash against tinkering with the process at all.

"In my view, you can ask the same questions today you asked 50 or 100 years ago,
because the idea of America is the same as it was 50 or 100 years ago," said
Stephen Moore, an immigration analyst at the Cato Institute, a libertarian
policy group in Washington. "So I worry about either dumbing it down or updating
it."

At the other end of the spectrum are academics and some immigrant advocates who
support doing away with as many obstacles to citizenship as possible, although
that would require changing the 47-year-old Immigration and Nationality Act.

Dr. Pickus, one of the civics experts contacted by the agency's consultants,
contends that more can be accomplished by making naturalization what he calls a
transformative experience. Starting a national program of citizenship classes,
he said, could help enlighten prospective citizens about their rights and create
a sense of identification with their new country and its principles.

"It can play a kind of catalytic role," he said. "Imagine a situation where you
had civic education courses that talked not just about the separation of powers,
but what to do if your landlord sues you."

The test itself would still be a test. But a reform of the naturalization
process should look at more than the test questions alone, he said. "The
question is, what should the naturalization process consist of?" he said. "How
do we prepare people for citizenship?"

An Earlier Move To Change the Process

At the turn of the last century, the Progressives' Americanization movement had
a similar idealistic mission of creating new citizens, rather than simply
testing them, and organized citizenship classes in settlement houses and other
private institutions that taught civics and history in immigrants' native
languages.

Looking back at the excesses of that movement, many historians now say it
evolved into something xenophobic, nativist and coercive. The industrialist
Henry Ford, for instance, required his foreign-born employees to attend classes,
and the first thing they had to learn was to say, "I am a good American."

After the United States entered World War I, the emphasis of the movement
shifted even more, to compelling immigrants to make patriotic oaths. But by the
end of World War II, the Progressives' crusade had largely faded.

The objective legal criteria for citizenship have not changed much over the
years, except that race and ethnicity restrictions have been replaced by
national quotas. To qualify, an applicant must have lived in the country as a
permanent resident -- the requirement now is at least five years -- and have no
criminal record or affiliation with any organization that advocates the violent
overthrow of the Government.

But the more subjective components of naturalization have metamorphosed several
times. In the first century after independence, the naturalization process
emphasized a loyalty test in which new citizens had to demonstrate their
"allegiance to the Constitution" and, later, "their attachment to the principles
of the Constitution."

Between the world wars, applicants had to show they were literate by reading at
least 40 words in any language, not necessarily English. For a time, it was
enough for applicants to bring two citizen witnesses to attest to their
character, attitude toward the Government and qualifications for citizenship.

In 1940, the law was changed to require applicants to demonstrate "knowledge and
understanding of the fundamentals of the history, and the principles and form of
government, of the United States." Twelve years later, a section was added
requiring naturalization candidates to show they could read and write "simple
words and phrases" in English.

There have been a variety of different tests in use, but since 1986, the
immigration service has relied on a set of 100 possible history and civics
questions as the guidelines for those who give citizenship interviews. That
test, now given orally, serves as a kind of English language test, but language
proficiency is generally tested by also having an applicant listen to a dictated
sentence or passage and write it down.

The test questions cover basics like the structure of the Federal Government,
the cause of the Civil War, the content of the Bill of Rights and the name of
the building where the President lives. Other possible queries include the name
of the applicant's Governor, the number of stripes on the flag and the name of
the first President.

Seeking the Meaning Behind the Questions

Advocates for immigrants, who worry that a revised test might prove to be a
barrier to citizenship, said the test can be useful if it causes immigrants to
make an effort to understand the meaning behind the questions.

"Nobody would argue that this is the best test that's ever been devised, but
it's not bad," said Gary E. Rubin, director of public policy at the New York
Association for New Americans, one of a handful of groups in New York City that
help immigrants prepare for the test.

"The truth is that immigrants who study for the test know how the Government
works," he added. "They know why there are three branches of government. They
know who can declare war."

The questions touch on many of the topics that are recommended by history and
civics educators who developed standards for public school students.

But in the view of some experts contacted by the immigration agency consultants,
the questions do not constitute a test of relevant or meaningful knowledge.

"It doesn't test for understanding," said Brenda Bell, an associate director of
the Center for Literacy Studies at the University of Tennessee. "There is
nothing about the questions that hangs together and lets you know the person
understands what it means to be a citizen in this country."

Good citizenship skills, she added, include knowing how to participate in local
politics and understanding civic rights and responsibilities. The problem is
devising a standard test to assess that.

At some point in the immigration agency's effort to revamp naturalization
testing, it will have to decide whether to continue administering the tests
itself. Many immigrant advocates have contended that it should not.

"All I.N.S. officers have enforcement training," said Aliza Becker, an author
and independent consultant on immigration issues in Chicago. "This causes many
of them to approach the interview with an eye to finding any reason a person can
not be naturalized. This is not a problem for the educated, but there are
people, like many refugees, who are terrified."

Assessing proficiency in what is called "ordinary English" can be the most
arbitrary part of the interview. For about one-third of those who fail the
citizenship test, the language portion is the reason.

" 'Ordinary,' in my view, is ordinary life, and what do most people do in their
lives?" Ms. Becker said. "They speak. They don't read and write a lot. Of
course, I would love to see enough English-training resources made available so
that immigrants could learn enough to fully participate in all aspects of civic
life. But I don't think it's a fair standard to become a citizen. We don't hold
that standard to our own citizens."

A Quick Rate Of Assimilation

Forgotten in much of the testing debate, however, is the evidence that most
newcomers quickly integrate into mainstream American life.

A study published last week by the Immigration Forum, an advocacy group in
Washington, said that more than three-quarters of immigrants spoke English
fluently 10 years after arriving in this country and that after 20 years, nearly
70 percent sink down roots in a community by buying their own homes.

"One does expect them to learn English and they do," said Nathan Glazer,
professor emeritus of education and sociology at Harvard. "One does expect them
to participate in politics and they do. So one could probably make a case in
terms of social trends, that the citizenship test hardly matters."

But the naturalization exam has a value beyond its content, he added.

"I think it has another virtue -- the virtue of solemnification, of rebirth that
comes with the change of status," Mr. Glazer said. "I think that we have little
enough in our lives which mark transitions in a significant way, and I think the
requirements make it significant."
  http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A moment awaited by 1.8 million: in Brooklyn, Winston Barros
swears in Felicia Voltaire, 80, as a citizen. (Linda Rosier for The New York
Times)(pg. A1); To prepare for the Federal citizenship test, Russian-speaking
immigrants took a course at Bronx House, a Jewish community center. (Librado
Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B5)

Chart: "TAKING THE TEST -- America 101"
Here are 15 of the 100 history and civics questions that the Immigration and
Naturalization Service has used in its citizenship interviews since 1986.
Interviewers can use some or all of the 100 questions, and have wide discretion
in phrasing the questions and deciding who passes. (The agency's answers are
given below.)

1.What are the colors of our flag?
2.What do the stripes on the flag mean?
3.What is the Constitution?
4.What are the duties of Congress?
5.How many senators are there in Congress?
6.What Immigration and Naturalization Service form is used to apply to become a
naturalized citizen?
7.Who helped the Pilgrims in America?
8.Which President freed the slaves?
9.What is the introduction to the Constitution called?
10.Name one benefit of becoming a citizen of the United States.
11.What are the 49th and 50th states of the Union?
12.In what year was the Constitution written?
13.How many changes or amendments are there to the Constitution?
14.Who is the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court?
15.Who said, "Give me liberty or give me death"?

ANSWERS
1. Red, white and blue
2. They represent the 13 original states
3. The supreme law of the land
4. To make laws
5. 100
6. Form N-400, Application for Naturalization.
7. The American Indians (Native Americans)
8. Abraham Lincoln
9. The preamble.
10. Obtain Federal Government jobs; travel with a United States passport;
petition for close relatives to come to the United States to live
11. Alaska and Hawaii
12. 1787
13. 27 (with the Congressional Pay Amendment ratified May 7, 1992)
14. William H. Rehnquist
15. Patrick Henry. (pg. B6)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 5, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

For Queens Immigrant Family, This Fourth Was a First

BYLINE: By DAVID BARSTOW

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1145 words


Ali and Samra Sabir came to the United States with two suitcases and $2,000.
This was 15 months ago. Yesterday, the Sabirs took their first day off together.

They packed a picnic in a plastic bag and wheeled their two children in a
borrowed baby stroller to the Unisphere, which hovers like a giant spacecraft
over Flushing Meadows-Corona Park in Queens.

The Sabirs sat facing the United States on the Unisphere globe.

Pakistan, their homeland, was out of sight.

But this was fitting. Like dozens of other immigrant families in the park
yesterday, the Sabirs came to celebrate their new home. As with the shiny new
Sears credit card in Mr. Sabir's wallet, a Fourth of July picnic represents a
simple way to feel connected to this vast land. It is a chance to fit in, to
join effortlessly in the annual rites and rhythms of an often bewildering
country.

"That's why we came here," Mrs. Sabir, 27, said, smiling and laughing, and a
little giddy to at last have a day -- a whole day! -- with her husband of nearly
three years.

This being the first time they celebrated the Fourth of July -- Mr. Sabir's boss
at the grocery store made him work last year -- some traditions did not come
naturally.

Mrs. Sabir wanted to make lasagna. She had heard this was typical American
picnic fare for the Fourth of July. But she had never made lasagna before. She
asked Pakistani friends for tips.

"I try to know about lasagna," she said. "I think my husband will be very happy.
But I cannot do it. It is too much. It takes too long."

So she settled on a mixture of old and new: a chicken and rice recipe from
Pakistan, Lay's potato chips from the United States. Their 18-month-old son,
Zunnair, wandered with the bag of Lays toward his 5-month-old sister, Rida, who
ignored him.

"Why not we should also enjoy the Fourth of July?" asked Mr. Sabir, 28, laying
firm claim to a new holiday and a new set of cultural traditions.

Only a few years ago, the thought of living in the United States -- let alone
celebrating America's independence -- seemed a remote possibility for the
Sabirs. First cousins, the Sabirs had an arranged marriage and a small house in
Chak Jhumra, a modest city in the province of Punjab. Mr. Sabir worked as a
physician's assistant. Each Aug. 14, they celebrated Freedom Day, marking the
birth of Pakistan in 1947. They envisioned a life devoted to family, their
Muslim faith and cricket, Mr. Sabir's passion.

And then something unexpected happened.

Defying long odds, they won a special lottery for work visas in the United
States. "We think it is a blessing of God," Mrs. Sabir said. "The U.S.A. is
strong, and everybody wants to come here."

Without really thinking it through, they sold their belongings, packed their
bags, gathered their savings and flew to New York. First they stayed with a
friend in Jersey City; then they moved into a tiny studio apartment in Flushing.

Mr. Sabir found work in the Gold Sword, a nearby grocery store. He works seven
days a week stocking shelves, working the deli counter, running the cash
register.

At first, Mrs. Sabir was nervous about venturing forth. "I did not want to come
out," she said. "I was afraid." But with her husband working all the time, she
was forced to go out, which is when she realized something.

"I can go alone everywhere without my husband," she said.

By this, she merely means that she feels safe from criminals, something she did
not feel in Pakistan. Mrs. Sabir enjoyed the sense of order here, the way people
formed lines in stores, the way the nurses seemed so efficient at Flushing
Hospital when she gave birth to Rida.

"Here," Mr. Sabir said, "you feel equal. We appreciate every person in this
country."

On this Fourth of July -- a day for counting blessings and fitting in -- it was
easy to overlook the painful moments, and there have been plenty. First of all,
the Sabirs are terribly homesick. Second, the dream of prosperity remains
elusive. Mr. Sabir earns about $300 a week; their rent alone is $561 a month.
They have barely inched up the economic ladder compared with their living in
Pakistan.

Beyond money is the challenge to their values. Devout Muslims, they are offended
by the sight of couples kissing in public. Mr. Sabir draws a careful
distinction: he wants his family to remain in America and eventually obtain
citizenship, but he does not want them to become Americans. He shudders at the
thought of his wife wearing sleeveless dresses, or high heels.

He was thinking about these things one afternoon when he took his wife and
children to the Statue of Liberty. There, staring up at the torch, then turning
out toward the sea, Mr. Sabir felt a strange stirring. It was the feeling of
belonging, he said.

"I feel very good," he said. "I had no idea why I was coming to the United
States, but when I was there, looking up, I figured it out."

And so Mr. Sabir has charted a course for prosperity. He plans to obtain a
license to drive a limousine. He plans to improve his English by engaging anyone
he can in conversation.

He says these things with determination, and even on this day of rest, it turns
out, he was quietly pursuing his ambitions in the most American of ways --
networking.

After the picnic, Mr. Sabir and his family headed across a field to join the
members of the Universal Cricket Club. The club is made up mostly of young,
affluent professionals from Bangladesh, men who have been educated in the United
States and who glide easily between East and West.

The captain, Mesbah Ahmed, wears a cap from Deutsche Bank, where he said he
works as an investment banker. The team manager, Maruf Siddiquee, is an
accountant. A year ago, Mr. Siddiquee had noticed Mr. Sabir watching one of
their games. Pakistanis are known for their prowess in cricket, and it was
considered a huge upset when Bangladesh beat Pakistan last month.

"Every time I'm in a cab and the driver is Pakistani, I ask, "Do you play
cricket?' " Mr. Siddiquee said.

So he asked Mr. Sabir, who, as it happened, was captain of his city's cricket
team in Pakistan. "The best team of all the city teams," his wife said proudly.
After a few trial bowls, Mr. Siddiquee and Mr. Ahmed were suitably impressed
with Mr. Sabir. They asked him to join their team for their first match, which
was yesterday against Brothers Union.

Mr. Sabir was looking forward to the match -- "I love cricket so much" -- but he
also was hoping to make new friends, new connections. Yes, the wives and
girlfriends of his teammates were wearing sleeveless dresses and platform shoes.
But Mr. Siddiquee and Mr. Ahmed seemed like just the men he would need to know
if he ever wanted to make it beyond the grocery store, and even beyond the
limousine business.

"Maybe they will help me," Mr. Sabir said, getting ready to take the cricket
pitch on his first Fourth of July celebration.
  http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: For their first day off together since they arrived from
Pakistan 15 months ago, Ali and Samra Sabir felt a family picnic on the Fourth
of July would be a good way to celebrate. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York
Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 5, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Honoring Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 149 words



To the Editor:

Re your July 1 news article on the White House's honoring of the No. 7 subway
line as a National Millennium Trail: Rather than a plaque and a portion of a
$500,000 stipend, the Government and private foundations should insure that
service on this subway line, which is used primarily by Latin-American and
Asian-American immigrants, is equal to that enjoyed by other city dwellers.

The unpleasant suspicion arises that the reason intolerable conditions are
allowed to continue is only that the very immigrants whose contributions are
being acknowledged are lacking the knowledge of English and the ways of American
politics to raise an effective outcry.

Given the overall conditions of our subways and of most of the communities they
serve, plaques and token sums of cash are more an insult than reward.

VINCENT AMATO
Jackson Heights, Queens, July 2, 1999

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 6, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Conflict in Kashmir Stirs Fund-Raising Fervor Among Indian Immigrants

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 735 words


For years, earthquakes, floods and other natural calamities back home have
kindled patriotic sentiments among immigrants in this country, compelling them
to open their checkbooks in the spirit of good will. Now, in a moment of
unprecedented nationalist fervor, Indian immigrants in New York City and across
the United States are sending home dollars to aid Indian Army soldiers involved
in the conflict in Kashmir, the contested mountainous terrain on the
India-Pakistan border.

Over the last several weeks, Indian immigrants have been lobbying members of the
United States Congress, writing letters to the editors of American newspapers
and, most notably, writing checks and transmitting thousands of dollars over the
Internet to organizations apparently set up to aid Indian soldiers and their
families. Appeals abound on such Web sites and in Indian-American newspapers for
donations to the "brave" or "martyred" "jawans" -- foot soldiers in Hindi -- who
have been killed or injured in battle on the icy mountaintops of Kashmir.

"It's amazing what the response is," said Yash Paul Soi, an engineer for New
York City's Environmental Protection Department who is the president of the
Federation of Indian Associations, a coalition of dozens of regional Indian
organizations. The coalition established a fund three weeks ago to collect
contributions for Indian soldiers and their families.

"Our roots are there," he said. "We are very proud to be Indian-Americans of
course, but those are our roots."

Because of the variety of fund-raising, it is impossible to tell the total
amount donated so far.

As of July 1, the Indian Army's Central Welfare Fund had collected more than
$23,300, according to the Army Web site.

The Indian Embassy in Washington has been receiving checks in the mail -- about
$10,000 in the last three weeks, said its spokesman, Navtej Sarna. It has turned
over the funds to the Prime Minister's Defense Fund, the Government body that
receives donations during times of national crises. But it is likely, Mr. Sarna
said, that Indians in this country have sent much more directly to the Indian
Government and charities. Various other groups have each collected tens of
thousands of dollars.

Mr. Sarna said the money being raised has far outweighed fund-raising for
natural calamities back home in the past.

"This has been much more than anything in recent years," Mr. Sarna said. "It's
not comparable to any natural disaster. This is an external threat and perceived
as such. That's why the response is that much more nationalistic."

Details on Pakistani-American fund-raising efforts were not immediately
available.

The latest confrontation in Kashmir began more than two months ago, when Muslim
guerrillas crossed into the Indian-held part of the state. India has accused
Pakistan of sponsoring the insurgents, while Pakistan says they are independent
operators seeking the Kashmiris' right to self-determination. Kashmir is India's
only state with a Muslim majority, and it has been the focus of three wars
between India, a secular but Hindu-majority country, and Pakistan, an Islamic
nation, since the partitioning of the subcontinent in 1947.

The drumbeat for dollars for Indian soldiers and their families signals a kind
of nationalism that has long been a constant fixture in immigrant communities
nationwide. The difference perhaps is the extent to which technology has aided
the ability of immigrants today to divert precious dollars to various causes
back home.

In this case, several Web sites offer instructions on how to contribute. The
Icici Bank, an Indian financial institution, has set up an account at a
Manhattan bank, the First Union Bank International, where people can deposit
checks.

The American arm of the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Hindu nationalist political
party, has sent E-mail to its supporters, urging them to contribute to the India
Development and Relief Fund, a Maryland-based charity associated with Hindu
nationalist groups in India, so that they can write it off on their taxes. The
group is hoping to raise $50,000.

So far, the India Development and Relief Fund has raised about $25,000, said its
president, Vinod Prakash. Mr. Prakash, a retired World Bank economist who has
lived in this country for 35 years, said he hoped to double the amount that he
had collected so far.

"It's emotionally very charged," he said.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 7, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Former Mexican Official Still Pushing for Asylum

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 146 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


A former Mexican deputy attorney general is pressing an asylum claim to avoid
being sent back to his homeland, where he faces criminal charges of concealing
evidence in his brother's murder.

Mario Ruiz Massieu, once a top narcotics prosecutor, maintains that he will be
persecuted and possibly tortured if he is returned to Mexico, said his lawyer,
Robert Frank.

The Mexican Government has accused Mr. Ruiz Massieu, who remains under house
arrest at an undisclosed location in New Jersey, of obstructing the
investigation into the 1994 assassination of his brother, Jose Francisco Ruiz
Massieu, the No. 2 official of the ruling party.

On Monday, an immigration judge in Newark is to schedule further hearings in the
four-year-old case, which has frustrated the Mexican and United States
Governments, both of which have sought Mario Ruiz Massieu's extradition.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 7, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Founders Gave 'Nature' Its Due

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 128 words



To the Editor:

Re "Pressed by Backlog, U.S. Rethinks Citizenship Test" (front page, July 5):
The Immigration and Naturalization Service should rethink its test for another
reason: at least one of its suggested answers is incorrect. To the question
"Which President freed the slaves?", the agency gives the answer "Abraham
Lincoln."

While President Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, that document
freed no one. It exempted the many slaves in the Northern states and in the
federally occupied portions of the Southern states, and it had no impact
elsewhere. Slaves were freed by the 13th Amendment, which was ratified on Dec.
18, 1865. Lincoln had been assassinated eight months earlier.

JOHN M. RYAN
Chapel Hill, N.C., July 6, 1999


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 8, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Hurdle

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 154 words



To the Editor:

As a tutor of Mexican immigrants preparing for citizenship, I believe that
revising the questions on the citizenship test will alleviate only some of the
arbitrariness of the naturalization process (front page, July 5). Memorizing
arcane facts and confronting temperamental Government interviewers are not the
most difficult parts of becoming a citizen for my students. What is a serious
barrier is the bureaucracy.

Many immigrants have difficulty finding and filling out Form N-400, the
application for naturalization. Those who succeed in submitting the form must
often wait more than a year to schedule an interview and have no way to check
the status of their application.

Reforming the citizenship test will add some fairness to the process, but it
will continue to favor those with the resources and skill to negotiate the
bureaucracy.

PETER S. CAHN
Berkeley, Calif., July 6, 1999

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 13, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Credit Card Scheme Tied to Car Rentals

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1019 words


One thing that hundreds of people who fell victim to an elaborate credit card
scheme had in common was that they had all rented a car from the Thrifty car
rental agency in Warwick, R.I., over the last three years, officials said.

The other thing they had in common was that a former employee at the agency was
accused of selling copies of their rental car agreements for $20 apiece to a
group of Nigerian immigrants in New York who used the information to steal $1.4
million, according to prosecutors from the Queens District Attorney's office.

The immigrants used information from the rental agreements to dig for more data
in computer banks to call banks and transfer money from the victims' credit card
accounts into bank accounts that they had opened under false identities,
prosecutors said.

Nine Nigerian immigrants were arraigned yesterday in the credit card scheme,
which was also linked to a broad range of other crimes, including tax fraud,
forgery of drivers' licenses and Social Security cards to help illegal
immigrants obtain employment, and dealing in drugs. All nine pleaded not guilty
to the charges, which were handed up in a 268-count indictment.

The Queens District Attorney, Richard A. Brown, said 1,300 people from 21 states
had had their credit identities stolen by the ring since early 1996. Law
enforcement officials traced the illegal wire transfers, ranging from $600 to
$44,000 and said most of the stolen money was sent back to Nigeria.

The former Thrifty employee, who was not identified, was also accused of selling
rental car agreements in Chicago and Missouri but has not yet been charged in
the case.

Mr. Brown said that although the banks that issued the credit cards eventually
covered the losses, "the victims still suffered immeasurably because of the loss
of their credit ratings and of their good names." He added that consumers
ultimately wound up paying for this kind of fraud through high interest rates.

He said the rental agreements included the driver's license number of the
renter, which in some states is the same as a Social Security number. The
suspects are said to have used the Social Security numbers to obtain copies of
birth certificates, which gave mothers' maiden names, the password that many
banks use to authorize money transfers.

Both Mr. Brown and Police Commissioner Howard Safir called for changes in the
banking industry to make it harder to transfer large sums of money by phone.
They said law enforcement efforts were handicapped by the fact that banks seldom
report this type of fraud and instead assume it as a cost of doing business.

"It's incomprehensible to me that banks would transfer large amounts of money
out of an account based simply on a telephone call without any significant means
of identification," Mr. Brown said.

Mr. Safir said a major hurdle in prosecuting this kind of credit card fraud was
that neither victims nor banks readily reported the crime. "People are not
rushing forward to report it because the credit card companies tell them they're
not liable for it," he said. "So banks need to rush forward and report this, but
they don't."

Mr. Brown said banks often made it easy to transfer money electronically to
attract more customers. "They figure if one of 100 transactions is fraudulent,
then that's the cost of doing business," he said.

Most of the illegal transactions in the current case, worth $1.1 million, were
authorized by MBNA-America, a bank based in Wilmington, Del. Other financial
institutions lost between $21,000 and $64,000.

Brian Dalphon, a spokesman for MBNA, with 40 million customers worldwide, said
he believed that it was just coincidence that the bulk of the illegal transfers
came out of MBNA accounts. "Our fraud losses are actually among the lowest in
the industry," he said. "This particular scheme was brand-new. It was something
we hadn't seen before, and since then, we've put in controls so that it won't
happen again." He would not elaborate on the new controls.

Prosecutors said the credit card scheme was uncovered while police officers were
investigating suspected drug dealing in the Rockaways. Wiretaps later led
officials from one drug suspect to other suspects linked to the credit card
theft and forgery. Officials said they did not know whether all the suspects
were legal immigrants or where in Nigeria they came from.

The three charged with selling $16,500 worth of heroin face up to life in prison
if convicted and are being held without bail. They are Joseph Omesiete, 44, a
security guard from Far Rockaway, Queens; Babatunde Shodunke, 34, a taxi driver
from Rosedale, Queens, and Bola Adeola, 34, a security guard from Arverne,
Queens. Mr. Adeola also has been charged in the credit card scheme.

Prosecutors said the credit card operation was organized by Ayodele Peters, 28,
who they said ran it from his home in Canarsie, Brooklyn. He faces seven years
in prison if convicted and was unable to post $60,000 in bail. His lawyer, David
E. Levine, said, "He wouldn't be sitting in jail for $60,000 bond if he had $1
million he'd stolen from people."

Mr. Levine also represents Mr. Peters's wife, Yewande Elegbe Peters, who faces
25 years in prison if convicted in the scheme. Mr. Levine said Mrs. Peters, who
worked as a State Health Department inspector, gave birth two weeks ago to twin
boys two months prematurely. "The birth was brought on by the aggravation of
this case," he said.

The four other suspects were released on bail and face between 7 and 15 years in
prison if convicted. They are Derrick Roundtree, a 35-year-old accountant from
Flatbush, Brooklyn; Olusola Ashaye, a 42-year-old security guard from
Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn; Abiodun Oguntoyinbo, a 38-year-old security guard
from Bedford-Stuyvesant, and Adebiyi Otulaja, a 37-year-old youth counselor from
Arverne.

Chris Payne, a spokesman for Thrifty, said he had little information on the
case. "We do recommend that our locations take the utmost care in handling this
kind of information," he said, adding that many agencies use shredders to
destroy the forms.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 13, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Niagara-on-the-Lake Journal;
Low Pay and Hard Work, Blessed by Immigration

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1097 words

DATELINE: NIAGARA-ON-THE-LAKE, Ontario


Out in the fields, under an easy summer rain, a dozen men in blue slickers
stooped over long rows of newly grafted cherry trees, staking each one so it
stood straight.

Dye from the wet stakes had turned Fernando Portugal's hands the green of an
American dollar bill. Rain dripped from his plastic hood as he recalled how he
had scraped together 300 American dollars, more money than he had ever seen, to
pay a smuggler to help him enter the United States illegally in 1991.

For two years after that, he dashed from one farm to another all the way from
California to Washington State, trying to keep one step ahead of immigration
authorities and two steps from starvation and despair. Finally, hounded by fear
and fatigue, he returned to Mexico with little more money in his pockets than
the $300 he had originally spent to leave.

Mr. Portugal paid to come north again this year, but this time the border he
crossed was Canada's. The person who brought him in was Jim Garrett, a Canadian
farmer who had agreed to pay about half his air fare through a Government
program that imports thousands of seasonal laborers a year.

The field labor is just as hard as it was in California, and the hours just as
long. But here Mr. Portugal has a work contract and a legal visa for the
agricultural season.

And that, he said, makes all the difference.

"Here we live in the padron's house and we all can feel secure knowing that we
have our papers," he said, referring to the dumpy white stucco cottage that the
farm owner provides for Mr. Portugal and six other Mexican men who work at Mori
Nurseries in Niagara-on-the-Lake. "Here, we don't have to fear anyone."

Since 1974 thousands of Mexicans have flown to Canada to take part in a program
that predates the North American Free Trade Agreement by 20 years. The Canadian
Government saw it as a way to provide foreign aid and get something concrete in
return. For Mexico, it was a safety valve to ward off the kind of social unrest
caused when too many people chase too few jobs.

Farmers across Ontario say there are simply not enough Canadians who will
reliably work the fields at competitive wages. "On beautiful sunny days, I can
get plenty of Canadians to work," said Peter Vanderkooij, a farmer in Keswick.
"But when it rains, forget it. Canadians are getting soft, just like local
Dutchmen, just like local Americans."

Mr. Portugal and more than 6,000 other Mexican men and women will come to Canada
this year and stay for up to eight months, getting paid $4.75 an hour, which is
slightly more than the minimum wage here and far more than a civil service
manager in Mexico makes. They get free housing and free medical care, and they
contribute to a pension that will be sent to them when they retire in Mexico.

In a season, after paying back half the air fare and the $100 for a work visa, a
worker can take back $6,000, which can buy plenty of security in Mexico, where
they must all return.

"I built a concrete house with the money I earned here," said Lorenzo Marquez,
54, from Cuautla, in the state of Morelos, who has worked on Mr. Garrett's farm
for six years. Cecilio Fuentes, 40, has come back for seven seasons.

"With the contract, we can live almost as if we were in Mexico," he said. "We
have everything that we want, except that we must be separated from our
families."

To groups like the Canadian Farmworkers Union, the Government program is just
one more form of exploitation. The Rev. John Jose Duarte, a Roman Catholic
priest in Leamington, Ontario, got involved with some of the workers after they
began attending Mass at his church, St. Michael's. He says that farm laborers
have been exposed to pesticides and dangerous working conditions, but that
things have got better recently.

"The improvements came from within the community," Father Duarte said, "because
people have taken ownership of these guys and decided it wasn't right for them
to be treated this way."

The program also transports farm workers from Jamaica and other Caribbean
nations to Canada, which this year brought the total of foreign workers in the
program to around 15,000.

Occasionally a laborer wanders off the farm and gets into trouble, and every
year dozens of them do not return home as they are supposed to, becoming illegal
immigrants.

The workers' days are long, especially during harvest. The old farmhouses where
they are put up are only minimally acceptable. For the most part, though, the
program appears to be that rare species of Government program that works pretty
much as it was supposed to.

"It's wonderful," said Mr. Vanderkooij, who has used Mexican laborers to cut
lettuce and tend onions on the drained marshes of his farm, Cooksby Produce, for
16 years. Mr. Vanderkooij himself is an immigrant, who came from the Netherlands
in 1947, and he thinks hiring the Mexicans will help them get ahead.

"Everybody has the right to do whatever they can achieve," he said.

Mr. Garrett, of Mori Nurseries, controls 500 acres of fruit trees and vineyards
with the help of more than 100 Canadians and about 80 foreign laborers. He
recently tried to hire some local people to work in his peach orchards. "Four
young people came in for the jobs," he said. "Two quit before lunch, and the
other two finished out the day but they never came back."

When the local hires did not work out, Mr. Garrett requested additional Mexican
workers. Three women arrived on June 23. Only one of them, Maria Teresa Reyes
Carillo, had ever been to Canada before, packing Ontario greenhouse tomatoes.

All that Celia Duran, 32, knew about Canada came from a photograph of Niagara
Falls, but she did not know that the field she was tilling was only a few miles
from the falls, and just across the Niagara River from the United States.

"Here we have a contract and we don't have to hide," she said, repeating a
sentiment as common as the flatness of the Canadian fields. "We don't suffer the
way the illegals do."

When Gisela Ocelot Vasquez, 23, left her home in the mountains in the southern
Mexican state of Puebla, her parents urged her to be careful because she would
be going "far, very far," she said.

"It was my first time on a plane, my first time out of Mexico, my first time out
of our village," she said. At home, electricity and potable water had just
arrived his year and the nearest telephone was in another village about three
hours away. Canada seemed very far indeed.

"I was scared, but what could I do?" she said. "We have all decided to come for
the same thing. We came to get ahead."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jose Galvan, right, Lorenzo Marquez and Nazario Pinchon staking
plants in a field near Niagara Falls, in an area that has benefited from a
Government program that imports thousands of seasonal laborers a year. (Kevin
Argul for The New York Times)

Map of Canada highlighting Niagara-on-the-Lake, Ontario: Foreign workers say
they feel secure in Niagara-on-the-Lake.

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 14, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Clinton Condemns Coast Guard Action on Cubans

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 327 words

DATELINE: MIAMI BEACH, July 13


President Clinton tonight condemned the conduct of the United States Coast Guard
in trying to prevent six Cubans from reaching the United States off Florida last
month and said he had ordered a review of the incident.

Eight members of the Coast Guard were suspended last week pending further review
of whether they had violated the service's rules by using fire hoses and pepper
spray in an effort to stop the six Cubans from reaching shore on June 29.

"The way those people were sprayed and all that, it was outrageous," Mr. Clinton
said in his first comments on the incident when asked about it at a Democratic
fund-raiser here. "I want you to know it was not an authorized policy. None of
us knew anything about it in Washington until we saw it on the news or read it
in the newspapers just like you did. We have taken vigorous steps to make sure
it does not happen again, and the incident is being thoroughly investigated."

Immigration agreements allow Cuban refugees who reach United States shores to
stay and seek political asylum while those halted at sea are generally returned
to Cuba. Knowing that, the Cubans jumped into the water and tried to get to
shore after three Coast Guard boats surrounded their small, makeshift vessel
just north of Miami Beach.

Guardsmen sprayed the Cubans' boat with fire hoses and fired pepper spray at one
man as he swam toward land. Two made it to shore and the Guardsmen pulled the
other four out of the water.

The incident infuriated Miami's large Cuban immigrant population, whose members
staged demonstrations against the Coast Guard. All six Cubans were allowed to
stay and released to relatives after being held overnight by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Mr. Clinton acknowledged that the Coast Guard had recently been preoccupied with
trying to reduce the smuggling of illegal immigrants and that this effort could
have had something to do with the force used against the six Cubans.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 15, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Couple Charged in African Girl's 9-Year Servitude

BYLINE: By DAVID ROHDE

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1562 words


A woman who investigated child abuse complaints for New York City was arrested
yesterday with her husband and charged with forcing a teen-age Nigerian girl in
the Bronx into servitude for nine years, Federal law enforcement officials said.

Investigators said that the couple, originally from Nigeria, and their relatives
had also forced two other Nigerian girls into servitude, but that those girls
had returned to Africa after being sexually assaulted by the woman's brother.
Law enforcement investigators had even visited the family's home in 1992
investigating a sexual assault, but they apparently had decided that nothing was
amiss.

The case is the latest in a series of incidents involving illegal immigrants who
were brought to the United States and forced to work in servitude. Often, the
victims are reluctant to go to the authorities for fear of being deported.

Federal prosecutors said that the woman arrested yesterday, Ifeoma Udogwu, in
her 30's, and her husband, Prosper Udogwu, 48, tricked a 13-year-old girl from
Nigeria into coming to the United States in 1989. The couple told the girl, whom
the authorities did not identify, that she would attend trade school, become a
seamstress and be able to live a better life, officials said.

But once the girl arrived in the United States, prosecutors said, the couple,
who now have four children, terrorized her into working without pay as a maid
and baby sitter in their home in the Bronx.

Authorities said the couple seized the teen-ager's passport, forbade her to
speak to anyone outside the family, barred her from using the phone, threatened
to deport her and harm her family and beat her when she disobeyed orders. At one
point they forced her to work a night shift at fast food restaurants and
confiscated her paychecks, investigators said.

Last August, when the woman was 22, she demanded her freedom and was beaten, the
authorities said. Neighbors who heard her screams alerted the police, officials
said, adding that a friend of the family pressured her into not pressing
charges. She then went to live with a friend.

Then, four months ago, someone whom officials would not identify told the
Federal Bureau of Investigation about the woman's ordeal, prompting an
investigation.

Jennifer Falk, a spokeswoman for the Administration for Children's Services,
said that Ms. Udogwu worked as a caseworker in the Bronx between 1988 and 1998.
Last year, she was promoted to child evaluation specialist, Ms. Falk said.

Workers at Ms. Udogwu's office in the South Bronx declined to answer questions
yesterday. Ms. Falk said she knew of no previous investigations into Ms.
Udogwu's own family by the child welfare agency. "Ms. Udogwu was suspended
without pay, effective immediately," she said.

Myles Singleton, 28, a neighbor, said the family "seemed like very nice quiet
people" but said the girl did not appear to attend school and was treated badly.
"Originally people thought she was their daughter," he said, "but you realized
when they treated her in such a degrading way that she wasn't."

The Udogwus, who moved to Elmsford in Westchester County last year, were
arraigned on charges of immigration fraud and involuntary servitude last night
in Federal court in Manhattan. If convicted, Mr. Udogwu could face up to 35
years in prison and Mrs. Udogwu up to 25 years.

At the arraignment, defense lawyers attacked the credibility of the Nigerian
girl's story and argued that she was well treated, and that Mr. Udogwu was
deceived by the girl's family into believing that she was his daughter. They
said the family allowed the girl to attend Evander Childs High School in the
Bronx and Mercy College, and even took her with them to Disneyland.

"The fact that she went to school and they taught her how to drive belies the
picture provided in the complaint," said Joel S. Cohen, a defense lawyer.

But an assistant United States attorney, Jennifer M. Moore, contended that the
girl was allowed to attend school only after neighbors asked questions.

She asked Magistrate Douglas F. Eaton to hold the couple without bail because
they posed a risk of flight and could try to intimidate the young woman. Both
Udogwus are naturalized Americans and are accused of making fraudulent
statements to obtain citizenship. Magistrate Eaton set bail for both at $10,000
in cash and required Mr. Udogwu to post a $300,000 bond. Both were in custody
last night.

Law enforcement officials would not say where the young woman was living, or how
she was being supported. It was not clear whether she would return to Nigeria,
but officials said she would probably remain in this country until she testifies
or the case is resolved.

Investigators say that the girl's nine years of servitude began with what seemed
a generous offer. Thirteen at the time and working as a baby sitter for Ms.
Udogwu's sister in Nigeria, she was told that if she went to the United States
she could immediately attend trade school, learn to sew and live a better life,
officials say. When Mr. Udogwu's sister told the girl's parents of the offer,
they agreed.

After the girl was taken to the United States Embassy in Lagos in June 1989 and
presented as Mr. Udogwu's daughter, she was given a visa. Her servitude began
immediately after she arrived at Kennedy International Airport in August 1989,
investigators said.

In the family's Bronx home, Ms. Udogwu told her she would be responsible for all
household chores, including cooking, cleaning, yard work, laundry, and caring
for and feeding the children, and that she would not be paid, officials said.

The girl was told that if she did not obey their orders she would be stripped
naked and sent back to Africa, investigators said. Clothes that Ms. Udogwu said
belonged to the last girl from Nigeria were shown to the young girl, officials
said, adding that she was told that the last girls the family employed had been
sent back to Africa naked.

There was a sliver of truth in the family's warning. Law enforcement officials
said the couple had brought a 10-year-old girl to their home from Nigeria during
the 1980's. That girl, they said, was sexually assaulted by Ms. Udogwu's
brother, Gregory Ezeonu, and sent back to Nigeria after she set the house's
basement on fire.

Marshals investigated the fire and referred the issue to the city's child
welfare agency, law enforcement officials said. But it was not clear yesterday
what resulted from that agency's investigation. Ms. Falk said she did not have
access to those records yesterday.

A second girl, then 12, arrived from Nigeria and moved in with Mr.  Ezeonu in
the early 1990's, law enforcement officials said. He raped that girl and she
became pregnant, the officials said. Exact dates for the assaults and fire were
not available yesterday, although the brother was convicted of sexual assault in
1992.

The girl was later returned to Africa and Mr. Ezeonu served a one-year sentence
on Rikers Island, law enforcement officials said, before dying in 1994.

To keep their latest victim under tight control, the authorities said, the
Udogwus ordered her never to speak to strangers, collect the mail or answer the
phone without permission. When she disobeyed rules or made mistakes, she was
beaten by hand or with belts, slippers and a broom made of sticks, investigators
said.

As part of the Bronx District Attorney's investigation of that rape case,
investigators spoke with the Udogwus and the girl in 1992, according to court
documents. Both times the girl, then 16, was ordered to say she enjoyed living
with the family and taking care of the children. She complied.

A torture created by Mr. Udogwu involved forcing the girl to sit on her knees
for long periods with her hands over her head, investigators said. In 1993, they
said, the girl was beaten so badly after she mixed white and dark clothes
together in the wash that she fell down the stairs, cutting her arm. An F.B.I.
agent said in court documents that the woman had scars corresponding to her
accounts of the beatings.

In 1994, Mr. Udogwu presented the girl as his daughter to Immigration and
Naturalization officials and obtained a false green card for her, according to
court documents. In 1996, he ordered her to begin working in Wendy's and Burger
King restaurants. Mr. Udogwu seized the girl's paychecks and deposited the
proceeds in his own bank account, court documents say. In 1998, the girl, who
now spoke English, approached a stranger with her story. The person, who was not
identified by officials, helped her apply for a duplicate passport, and she was
able to put away $900 in savings.

But the applications and money were discovered by Ms. Udogwu and the couple used
records of local phone calls from their home to discover the workplace of the
person who helped the girl. The girl was forced to identify the person. Ms.
Udogwu then "assaulted and screamed" at the person, according to court papers.

Until the August 1998 fight, neighbors apparently did not report their
suspicions to the police or child welfare officials. Chris Traverzo, 24, who
lived next door to the family, said he vividly remembered the fight.

"I was sitting on my porch just back from work when I heard screaming next
door," he said. "It was horrible. I told my parents about it and they said mind
your own business."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 15, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Agency Settles a Suit On Disabled Immigrants

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 604 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has agreed to reconsider the
citizenship applications of about 200 immigrants in the New York City area who
said their physical or mental disabilities prevented them from learning English
and civics.

The agreement is part of the settlement of a class action lawsuit that was filed
on behalf of disabled immigrants on April 16 by two advocacy groups, the New
York Legal Assistance Group and the Hudson Valley Poverty Law Center.

Judge Alvin K. Hellerstein of United States District Court in Manhattan approved
the settlement in the case last Friday.

The immigrants' lawyers had accused the agency of ignoring its own guidelines
and arbitrarily refusing to waive the English and civics tests for disabled
immigrants. Those immigrants, the lawsuit added, were then wrongly denied
citizenship after they failed the tests.

In settling the case, the immigration agency did not agree with any of the
plaintiffs' accusations. But it did agree to reopen the cases of those disabled
immigrants who had asked for waivers on or after March 19, 1997, the date when
the I.N.S. issued its first detailed guidelines for determining who qualifies
for such exemptions.

A 1994 law requires the immigration service to accommodate disabled people who
otherwise meet the requirements for United States citizenship but are unable,
because of their disabilities, to learn and retain new information or a new
language.

The law, however, proved difficult to administer. In response to outside
complaints of inconsistent rulings on disability waivers, the agency has issued
several sets of guidelines to help its employees judge whether a naturalization
applicant should be exempted from taking the English and civics tests.

Immigrants who want a waiver must provide a statement from a doctor saying not
only that they are disabled, but also that there is a correlation between their
particular mental or physical condition and an inability to learn.

Old age alone, for example, is not considered sufficient ground for a waiver.
But some diseases associated with old age, like senile dementia or hypertension,
might justify a disability waiver if a doctor demonstrated that they prevented
the immigrant from learning new languages and facts.

The final decision, however, is left to immigration officers who generally have
law enforcement rather than medical training. According to guidelines issued in
April, the officers are supposed to weed out fraudulent or unjustified waiver
requests, but at the same time they are not to second-guess the immigrants'
doctors.

Irina Matiychenko, a lawyer with the New York Legal Assistance Group, said the
settlement offered renewed hope for many disabled immigrants who were turned
down for waivers but were never told what was deficient in their applications.

If immigration officers now follow their own April guidelines, Ms. Matiychenko
added, the process should no longer be arbitrary or obscure.

Mark Thorn, a spokesman for the New York district of the immigration agency,
said 175 to 200 cases might be affected by the settlement.

"We are reviewing each of these cases," he said. "We will approve those cases
where the applicant is eligible under the new guidelines and if more information
is needed before a case can be adjusted, the applicant will be contacted."

The settlement did not set a deadline for I.N.S. reconsideration of the old
disability cases. The immigration agency, plagued by computer and management
problems, has been trying for several years to dig out from under a backlog of
unfinished citizenship applications.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 18, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

IN BRIEF;
A Place for Immigrants To Telephone and Fax

BYLINE: By AARON DONOVAN

SECTION: Section 14; Page 4; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 102 words


At Calling Center, which opened last month in the Hell's Kitchen neighborhood,
people can make an international call in one of nine private phone booths for 49
cents a minute after a $1 initial charge per call.

The center also offers customers, many of whom are recent immigrants, a variety
of other services including the opportunity to send and receive faxes, transfer
money and rent mailboxes.

The center, which offers its flat rate around the clock seven days a week, is at
508 Ninth Avenue, between West 38th and 39th Streets. It can be reached by
calling (212) 279-1332.   AARON DONOVAN

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 22, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Cuban Defects Before Games

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 93 words

DATELINE: WINNIPEG, Manitoba July 21


Three days before the Pan American Games begin, a Cuban shooter defected and
several top American athletes dropped out.

The pistol shooter Abel Juncosa Reyes walked into a Royal Canadian Mountain
Police station on Tuesday and asked to remain in Canada. Reyes was turned over
to Canadian immigration authorities, then released.

Americans who left were the pole-vaulter Jeff Hartwig, the 1991 Pan Am 200-meter
winner Kevin Little, the hurdler Sandra Glover, the distance runner Libbie
Hickman and the long jumpers Erick Walder and Roland McGhee.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 25, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Aren't Servants For the Middle Class

SECTION: Section 14; Page 17; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 164 words



To the Editor:

In "Takeout Turnaround" (Soapbox, July 11), I found Marissa Piesman's
assumptions about immigrants offensive and condescending, as she describes the
"moral fiber" of cooking and laments her eventual decline back into delivery.

Her most objectionable remark is to characterize New York as a "port of entry
for thousands of immigrants each year who are eager to stop off here for a while
and help feed my family." Whether or not Ms. Piesman is exaggerating for effect,
she sacrifices a great deal of sensitivity.

While it is certainly possible that many immigrants in the restaurant business
do enjoy their jobs, it is equally likely that many do not. She cannot even
begrudge immigrants their right to stay in New York. In her eyes, they are
merely stopping off for a while.

Immigrants are a vital part of this city and this country. They are not
transients and they are not servants to the middle class.

PALYN HUNG
Morningside Heights




http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 25, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

GRASS-ROOTS BUSINESS;
Little Asias, Across Dixie

BYLINE: By JOEL KOTKIN; Joel Kotkin is a senior fellow at the Pepperdine
Institute for Public Policy. His column on the Main Street economy appears the
fourth Sunday of each month. E-mail: grassrts@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 886 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


WHERE can you find immigrant entrepreneurs from Asia revitalizing urban
neighborhoods today?

Try the South.

Large-scale Asian immigration is a relatively new phenomenon in the states of
the former Confederacy, beginning in earnest only in the 1970's, after the
Vietnam War ended. The first clusters appeared in the big metropolitan regions
of Atlanta, Dallas and Houston. By the 1990's, the Asian population in the South
was growing rapidly, increasing by almost half from 1990 to 1996, to nearly 1.5
million. And with the immigrants came the same entrepreneurial culture that has
been at work in older Asian-American communities for decades.

Asian immigrants now head south for many of the same reasons that other business
people do: low housing costs, rapid economic growth and a generally pro-business
political environment. Nowhere is that more evident than in Houston, which over
the last quarter-century has become home to the South's largest Asian-American
business community.

Houston's wave has been led by people like Don Wang, founder and chief executive
of Metrocorp Bancshares, the parent of Metrobank, the largest of the city's six
Asian-American-owned banks.

When he came to Houston in the early 1970's, Asian-owned business barely
registered in the dizzying energy-led boom. As the boom fizzled, Houston began
bleeding population, with 140,000 residents, mostly white, leaving the region in
the 1980's. But Asian and other immigrants began arriving in growing numbers.
The city's Asian-born population swelled from 2,500 in 1965 to 67,000 in 1990,
and demographers expect the 2000 count to be 100,000-plus, or more than 7
percent of the city's residents.

"In the 70's, oil made Houston boom, but it also brought in immigrants," said
Mr. Wang, whose bank, now 12 years old, is now the fourth largest based in
Houston. "When the oil crisis came, everything dropped, but it actually was our
chance to become a new city again."

In contrast to the American-born residents who left town during the oil bust, he
said, Asian immigrants saw the region's slump as an opportunity to acquire real
estate, buy homes and start businesses in fields like food processing,
distribution and electronics assembly.

The results are most striking in Houston's close-in suburban districts, just
outside the Interstate 610 loop that encircles the center of the city. The
Bellaire Road area, once a declining working-class neighborhood of aging
shopping centers, has become widely known as Houston's new Chinatown. Crowded
with Asian-owned banks, including Mr. Wang's, and an array of Asian-oriented
grocery stores, restaurants and business service firms, it looks and feels less
like the Texas oil patch than like Flushing, Queens, or the San Gabriel Valley
east of Los Angeles.

"Well, we still have one fried-chicken place left somewhere around here -- it's
kind of the last outpost of the native culture lost amid the new Chinatown,"
Chao-Chiung Lee said over dim sum in one of the area's many Asian-oriented
mini-malls. Mr. Lee is president of Stoa International Architects, which has
designed many buildings in the area.

ASIAN immigrants have also been responsible for the rapid growth of the adjacent
Harwin corridor. Once a forlorn strip of office and warehouse buildings, the
area has been transformed into a car-friendly bazaar for off-price goods for
much of East Texas. Discount furniture, novelties, luggage, car parts and
electronic goods are sold by more than 800 shops owned largely by Chinese,
Korean and Indian merchants, up from roughly 40 a decade ago. In that time,
commercial property in the district has more than tripled in value, and
vacancies have dropped from nearly 50 percent to the single digits.

Asian-American businesses have also contributed to a turnaround in some
long-depressed parts of the city center, including the vicinity of Houston's
tiny original Chinatown. Among the most successful of the food processors,
grocery companies and restaurants now there is Kim Son, a large Vietnamese
restaurant founded by seven members of the La family, who escaped their homeland
and survived a harrowing stay in a refugee camp in Indonesia before reaching
Houston, nearly penniless, in 1980.

Each of the seven began working 12-hour, minimum-wage shifts at a convenience
store, and within two years the family had accumulated $20,000 in savings,
according to Tan La, now 39.

In 1982, Mr. La, his parents and his siblings used their savings to open a small
restaurant, which grew rapidly even while Houston's economy was sputtering.
"Times were tough, but people were still eating," he said. "Maybe it was that
the price was reasonable, very affordable. The regular Houstonians kept coming
in."

Today, with Houston on the rebound, the regulars keep flocking to the downtown
restaurant, which now sprawls over 11 times its original space. Branch
restaurants in two other locations, including one in the affluent, mostly white
Galleria district, lift the family business's annual sales above $7 million; 200
people work for the company.

"Houston is really changing," Mr. La said with a slight smile. "People want to
come downtown now. It's become a very good environment. It has to do with us but
also with these Texans -- they are adventurous and like to try new things."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tan La in Kim Son, a restaurant he and six family members
opened in Houston in 1982 after fleeing Vietnam. (Photographs by Patty Wood for
The New York Times); Don Wang, who founded Metrobank 12 years ago, said the oil
crisis in Houston brought opportunities.

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 24, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Gaynor Jacobson Is Dead at 87; Helped Resettle Jewish Refugees

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO

SECTION: Section C; Page 27; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 279 words


Gaynor Jacobson, a former world director of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, or
Hias, who helped thousands of Jews leave Eastern Europe for Israel and other
countries in the West in the World War II period, died on June 6 at a hospital
in Sun City West, Ariz.

He was 87 and lived in Sun City West and also in Manhattan.

As a young man, Mr. Jacobson worked for numerous Jewish organizations in
Rochester, N.Y., before joining the American Joint Distribution Committee in
1944 as a country director in Italy, Greece and Czechoslovakia.

Over the next six years, he used his diplomatic skills to persuade various
governments to take in survivors of the Holocaust. He was especially active in
helping hundreds of thousands of refugees move from Poland, Romania and the
Soviet Union through Czechoslovakia to Israel and the West.

Mr. Jacobson was arrested and jailed for two weeks in 1949 in Hungary for
helping Jews leave the country. His work opening borders was detailed in the
book "The Secret Alliance: The Extraordinary Story of the Rescue of the Jews
Since World War II," by Tad Szulc, a former reporter for The New York Times
(Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 1992).

From 1953 until 1981, Mr. Jacobson directed programs for the Hebrew Immigrant
Aid Society, becoming world director in 1966. He retired in 1981.

Mr. Jacobson was born on May 17, 1912, in Buffalo. He received a bachelor's
degree from the University of Buffalo in 1937 and a master's degree in social
work in 1941 from the same university.

He is survived by his wife, Florence, two daughters, Margot Gotoff of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and Helen Jacobson of Boston, and six grandchildren.

http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Gaynor Jacobson

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 17, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Enslaved Deaf Mexicans Tell of Life in City Shadows

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1258 words


The first time he was handed a backpack full of pencils and ordered to sell them
for $1 each in the subways of New York, Jesus Barraza understood he had been
lied to.

Mr. Barraza, deaf and illiterate, had come to the United States in 1994, enticed
by tales of riches from a woman he had known since childhood in Mazatlan, a city
in western Mexico. The woman, Rosa Maria Beltran-Sanchez, handed him a fake
passport and told him that in New York he would find work as an electrician.

Instead, he became a virtual slave of bosses who smuggled dozens of deaf
Mexicans into the United States, putting them to work selling trinkets in the
subways and airports of New York, Chicago, Boston and other cities.

Their story became public a year ago this Sunday when three men and a woman
walked into a police station in Jackson Heights, Queens and, using signs and
written messages, revealed a tale of abuse and enslavement that shocked the city
and attracted national attention.

Since then they have been kept by the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
a motel in Astoria, Queens, the details of their ordeal revealed only in the
formalities of criminal prosecutions. Now, after 18 of their bosses have pleaded
guilty and have been sentenced or deported to Mexico, the Mexican workers have
begun to tell their stories.

In interviews conducted yesterday with the help of sign-language interpreters,
several of the immigrants described living in crowded houses, watched by
abusive, greedy bosses, who punished them if they did not make enough money.

Mr. Barraza said he turned over as much as $200 to his bosses when he returned
from a 12-hour day in the subways but was never given money to buy milk or
pampers for his 2-year-old son. Ms. Beltran-Sanchez, who was the boss in the
house where he lived, gave him one diaper a day for his child and allowed him to
borrow milk from her own children, but only if he pleaded.

Otherwise, Mr. Barraza would go to the corner bodega to buy diapers and baby
food on credit, he said. He paid off his tab with the tips he accumulated from
subway riders who gave him more than the $1 price of the trinkets. He said he
felt the payment for the pencils belonged to his bosses, who were supposedly
saving it for him and the others to help their relatives in Mexico.

"I would never steal from anyone," he said. "It was very obvious that the money
was not mine to keep."

And if he did, he knew there would be consequences. Mr. Barraza, tall and
muscular, said that when he dared to ask for food, he was punched and slapped on
the head by Ms. Beltran-Sanchez and once even threatened with a knife.

He said he put up with the long, miserable hours in the subway cars, the lies
and beatings because he had nowhere to run to and he feared deportation.

"I thought about leaving a couple of times," he said yesterday through an
interpreter. "But where was I going to go? I didn't know anyone."

And so he stayed for 41 months.

A year later, the images haunt him. He said he saw one of the bosses beat
another immigrant repeatedly, until his boyish face had become a maze of a
scars. He slept with his wife and son on the top of a bunk bed and many nights
all three went to bed hungry. Often, too depressed and tired to work, he walked
the streets of Queens waiting for nightfall. On those nights, when he returned
and his bosses realized he had not made any money, he was denied food.

Ricardo Gonzalez, 26, lived in another house run by a different set of bosses,
who had their own ideas about punishment. When Mr. Gonzalez did not sell enough
trinkets, he was sent into a room by himself and forced to assemble thousands of
keychains to be sold the next day.

But, he said, there were more horrific moments.

"The worst," he said, "is when I saw them beat the children."

Mr. Gonzalez said the bosses, who were deaf themselves, often slapped crying
infants and forced spoonfuls of food into the mouths of finicky toddlers who did
not want to eat.

He said he often thought of going to the police but feared that his bosses and
their friends, here and in Mexico, would eventually find out and have him
killed.

"I'm very happy that the police came when they did," he said yesterday. "I never
thought they would come. To this day, I don't know who did it. It may have been
one of us, or it may have been a neighbor. I have no idea who did it, but I'm
thankful they did it."

In fact, the people who went to the police were two workers, accompanied by an
elderly couple who were not connected to the group in Queens.

One of the workers who alerted the police said in an interview yesterday that he
decided to seek help because his bosses had started to abuse him mentally as
well as physically. He agreed to tell his story for the first time on the
condition that his name not be used.

He said that last year, after more than three years of hard work, he thought he
deserved a vacation and his bosses had promised him one. He was told he would be
going to Florida in July with eight co-workers.

But when the time came to pack, his bosses told him that they had changed their
minds and he would not be going. That made him angry enough to walk into a
police station house that same night and alert the police to what was going on.

"They broke their promise to me," he said, anger still reflected in his
desperate and quick signing. "They made me work hard for months, promising that
we would all enjoy a vacation and then they shut me out of it."

When he decided to go to the police, he told a fellow worker. Together, they
went to Newark International Airport where they sought out an elderly, deaf
woman from New Jersey, whom they had met while working at the airport. The
woman, a peddler born in the United States, was sympathetic to their plight and
told the men they should not have to turn over the profits to their bosses.

She and her husband accompanied them to the houses in Queens where they lived,
and, seeing the crowded conditions, agreed to go with them to the police. The
worker said yesterday that he never knew the name of the couple, referring to
the woman only by what he called "her deaf name" -- a sign across the left cheek
with his left pinky.

The worker said he came to the United States thinking that he would lead a
better life. He had lost his job as a fisherman in Mexico and, following the
advice of friends, took the fake passport they offered and crossed into the
United States. He said the border patrol officer never asked to see his
documents, though.

A few days later, accompanied by three of the bosses who had recruited him, he
arrived in New York. Within days, he was taken to the subway, handed a bag of
trinkets and told to begin selling. "I was deeply humiliated," he said. "I
thought peddling trinkets was like begging. That's not what I came here for."

The man and 34 other workers, who still remain in the motel, have asked for
permission to stay in the country; 14 of their fellow workers voluntarily
returned to Mexico earlier this week. Immigration officials have agreed to
sponsor the workers still here for a special visa granted to witnesses who
contribute to the prosecution of criminal cases. Today, they will receive work
permits and will soon move to housing provided by the city.

Mr. Barraza has already decided what kind of work he would like to do. He wants
to work at a factory putting together television sets or in a hospital, waxing
the floors.

"Operating that big machine, you know," he said with a grin. "I think I'd like
that."

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 19, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The New Immigrant Tide: A Shuttle Between Worlds

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG and CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 6507 words


Fernando Mateo has been shuttling between New York City and Santo Domingo since
he was in utero. His pint-sized immigrant mother, belly swelling, flew back to
her homeland so Mr. Mateo, now 40, could be born a Dominican. After that, his
childhood was split between here and there, between a cramped Lower East Side
apartment and a pink house beneath a mahogany tree in the Dominican capital.

As an adult, Mr. Mateo, a stocky man with a dimpled baby face, continues to lead
a double life, with gusto. A dual citizen of the Dominican Republic and the
United States, he wears a custom-made lapel pin that entwines the Dominican and
American flags. He is fluent in Spanish and English, in the business handshake
and the business hug, in yucca and plantains, bagels and lox. But there is
nothing fractured about his existence.

Every few weeks, Mr. Mateo, who owns a money-transfer company, simply commutes
between the Westchester County suburb of Irvington, where he lives, and Santo
Domingo. Many a day, he and his wife, Stella, start out in blaring traffic on
the Grand Central Parkway and end up on horseback in the verdant Dominican
countryside, cantering down to a river to feast on rum and goat.

"I believe people like us have the best of two worlds," Mr. Mateo said. "We have
two countries, two homes. It doesn't make any sense for us to be either this or
that. We're both. It's not a conflict. It's just a human fact."

For modern immigrants like Mr. Mateo, the homeland is no longer something to be
forsaken, released into a mist of memory or nostalgia. As the world has grown
smaller, the immigrant experience has inevitably changed. Unlike the Europeans
who fled persecution and war in the first half of this century, few modern
immigrants abandon their motherlands forever, shutting one door, opening another
and never looking back. Instead, they straddle two worlds, in varying degrees,
depending on where they came from and what they can afford.

Some immerse themselves in two societies at once -- economically, culturally,
politically. Jesus Galvis, a travel agent in New Jersey, ran for a Senate seat
in his native Colombia earlier this year; had he won, he would have considered
holding office simultaneously in Bogota and Hackensack, where he is a City
Councilman.

Most immigrants, however, base themselves more fully here, but maintain ties so
vital that their homeland is a part of their American-born children's identity.
Mersuda Guichard, 47, leads a hectic New York-centered life as a subway token
clerk and single mother of three. But she travels to Trinidad at least once a
year, and plans to retire there, which will keep alive her children's
connection, already strong from so many summers there.

Either way, this here-there phenomenon, while common to every immigrant center
in the world, makes a particularly clear stamp on the psyche of New York, the
American city with the largest and most diverse population of immigrants, living
side by side in neighborhoods where the very fact of their double identity is a
bond. It has evolved during the newest wave of immigration, which began in the
late 1960's, eventually driving the city's immigrant population to an all-time
high of 2.7 million, according to an analysis of the Census Bureau's latest
population survey. More than a third of the city's residents are foreign-born,
and about 60 percent are either immigrants or their children. Most are black,
Latino and Asian, unlike the Europeans of the previous waves of immigration.

To some extent, the new immigrants bear a resemblance to the Ellis Island
generation. During that last great migration, which began in 1880 and petered
out during the 1920's, some immigrants did revisit their homelands, and many
returned for good. But their experience was largely erased from popular
consciousness by the mid-century immigrants, most of whom, fleeing war, never
looked back.

Still, for the newest immigrants, technological advances and global political
and economic changes have revolutionized the relationship with the homeland --
just as the American embrace of multiculturalism allows it to flourish as never
before.

Armed with cut-rate phone cards and frequent-flier miles, with modems, fax
machines and videocameras, immigrants can participate in the lives of their
families back home -- be they in Barbados or Tibet -- with an immediacy unknown
to any previous generation. Indeed, this phenomenon has given birth to an
entrepreneurial subculture -- the money-transfer houses, phone parlors, barrel
shippers and even videophone centers dotting immigrant neighborhoods.

In the last few years, a proliferation of dual nationality laws has allowed many
immigrants to formalize their double identities. And, among other worldwide
political changes, the break-up of the Soviet Union and liberalizations in China
have allowed even refugees to reconnect in commonplace ways they once could not
have imagined.

Mei Yung Liew left China 19 years ago, and settled into a garment worker's life
in New York, quickly securing her American citizenship. She made a first visit
back for her father's funeral. Three years ago, she traveled back for a meeting
of labor-union women. Now, she watches with awe as her brother, an artist who
sells his work in China, not only conducts business by fax from their Bushwick,
Brooklyn, apartment but even returns for long stretches to the land they
supposedly fled forever.

So fluid is the exchange between the homeland and New York that it alters both
places. People move back and forth, money moves back and forth, ideas move back
and forth.

Families and sometimes whole towns bestride borders. The population of
Chinantla, Mexico, is evenly divided between that tiny town and New York City,
but the Chinantecans still consider themselves one community -- 2,500 people
here, 2,500 people there. In New York, the first-generation Chinantecan
immigrants are waiters, garment workers and mechanics; back home, they are the
big shots whose earnings built the town's schools and rebuilt its church.

The extent to which the newest immigrants have held onto their homeland
identities has unsettled many Americans, and this unease underlies current
debates about immigration, multiculturalism and bilingualism. Among a growing
army of immigration experts, there is a raging debate, too, about the importance
of this phenomenon, which the academics call transnationalism.

Many experts believe that modern immigrant families are ultimately shifting
their allegiances here, even if their resettlement takes decades. They see
transnationalism as a phase on the way to what they imagine will be the eventual
assimilation of the immigrants' grandchildren, and pronounce the modern
immigrant experience a variation on an old theme.

Others disagree, but only with their conclusion. First, they say, it is
significant that the resettlement can span decades in the life of an individual
family, especially in a city where more than 100,000 new immigrants arrive
yearly. Also, they say, transnationalism seems to transform the life of the
first generation's children and sometimes their grandchildren, creating a hybrid
identity that is genuinely novel.

"At the same time as they are keeping their old links, many are successfully
integrating themselves into the United States," said Robert C. Smith, a
sociologist at Barnard College and expert on transnationalism. "They're
redefining what it means to be American."

They are also making immigration a much more complex phenomenon than described
in policy debates. Immigrants have always had a utilitarian relationship with
America. But when the homeland remains alive, every life juncture, from cradle
to grave, becomes a time to choose: where to baptize, where to bury?

In 1996, more than half the Dominicans and Mexicans who died in New York City
were sent home for burial, as were a third of the Ecuadoreans, a fifth of the
Jamaicans and 16 percent of the Greeks, according to an analysis of city death
records.

Marriage, too, is a defining moment, especially among Indian immigrant families.
Many of the American-born children of, say, gemstone merchants from Jaipur or
hoteliers from Gujarat, agree to arranged marriages, often with weddings in
India, sometimes followed by new lives based there.

At key points in their lives, many immigrant families separate, some here, some
there. Needing day care, some send small children home to grandparents. Fearing
drugs, gangs and sexual precociousness, some ship their teen-agers home for high
school. And many retire to their birthplaces, which keeps their children and
grandchildren ineluctably linked. The familial webs crisscross the globe.

Margarette Lee, 36, is a vivacious Manhattan real-estate lawyer who came to New
York as a child and considers herself eternally wedded to its life style. Her
parents retired to Korea about 20 years ago, dragging back her older sister
because she was getting a little too independent. After marrying a Korean, the
older sister settled in Seoul, as did her younger sister, who was mostly reared
in Korea anyway.

Then, her parents re-immigrated -- because golfing is so much cheaper in Fort
Lee, N.J. Meanwhile, Ms. Lee married a Korean-American artist, Ik-Joong Kang,
who is represented by a gallery in Seoul, where his parents live. And they
recently had a baby whom they gave two first names, Kevin and Keeho.

"I hope for my son's relationship with Korea to be continuous, just as mine has
been," she said.

Jets and Wires -- Making the Commute To Santo Domingo

Before daybreak on a recent morning, Mr. and Mrs. Mateo left home for Kennedy
International Airport after blowing kisses to their sleeping daughters, Megan,
11 (named after a character in "The Thorn Birds"), and Hennessy, 10 (as in the
Cognac). Fernando Jr., 19, was away at college.

Left in their grandfather's care, the girls were soon so busy with their
suburban social lives -- baking brownies, swooning over Leonardo DiCaprio and
E-mailing their girlfriends -- that they didn't mind their parents' absence.
Third-generation New Yorkers, they themselves have spent a good part of their
preschool years and many summers in the Dominican Republic. They find the
intense connection between here and there so natural as to be unremarkable.

That morning, the Mateos sauntered onto a 7 o'clock nonstop flight to Santo
Domingo -- the first of six that day -- as casually as if it were a shuttle. The
plane was packed with immigrants returning home for a wedding, a visit with an
ailing family member, a business meeting. When the plane bumped down three hours
later, they applauded, and someone called out, "De regreso, paisanos!" ("We're
back, countrymen!")

In all immigrant groups, it is entrepreneurs like Mr. Mateo who have developed
the infrastructure that allows their countrymen to keep in touch with home.
"They are the vanguard," said Alejandro Portes, a Princeton University
immigration expert, "the ones whose economic or sometimes political interests
require them to be simultaneously present in their two countries."

Four years ago, on a flight home, Mr. Mateo sat next to a fellow Dominican who
sold discounted phone time to immigrants. The man expounded on the profit
potential in the link between here and there, and by the end of the ride, Mr.
Mateo had decided to go into the money transfer business.

"I set myself up in this business so I would have an official reason to go back
as often as my heart wants to take me there," Mr. Mateo said.

Mr. Mateo's money-wiring business, like some 15 other companies, provides an
electronic lifeline between Dominicans in New York and their families on the
island. Dominican immigrants send back $500 million a year (including about $100
million that the authorities believe to be proceeds from drug sales). The cash
sustains their relatives and their homeland's economy, just as such remittances
bolster familial, and sometimes national, economies throughout the world.

While there is no total estimate of immigrants' remittances, New York State
Banking Department statistics indicate that the industry has mushroomed here in
the last decade. The number of companies licensed to send money has increased 40
percent since 1988, and those companies have as many as 2,000 storefronts and
agents.

Among them, Boby Express says it transfers about $1 million a year to Haiti;
Habib Exchange sends about $6 million a year to India, Pakistan and Bangladesh;
Pekao Trading wires about $320 million a year to Poland. Mr. Mateo has 200
agents throughout the city, and transfers $40 million a year.

Dominicans, regardless of class, are probably the most transnational of all New
York's immigrants. The city's largest immigrant group, they have transformed
their nation while laying claim to whole New York neighborhoods. The Dominican
President, Leonel Fernandez Reyna, grew up on the Upper West Side, still holds a
green card, and has said he intends to rejoin his family in Manhattan at the end
of his term.

In Santo Domingo, the influence of New York-based immigrants is so visible it
can be toured. Here is the new residential subdivision built close to the
airport for the back-and-forth immigrants; here is a bagel shop, a video store,
a pizzeria that delivers; here is a parochial high school whose student body is
20 percent New York-born.

Just before his recent trip to the island, Mr. Mateo traveled by subway to
Brooklyn, his pinstriped suit equipped with beeper, cellular phone and computer
organizer. He was making a routine visit to one of his 200 agents, Teresa
Guzman, who runs Family Travel on Myrtle Avenue.

Behind a glass partition, Ms. Guzman and her employees sat before computers and
typed in orders from the immigrants who dribbled in that morning. A home health
attendant sent $65 to her elderly father. A garment worker sent $69 to relatives
with a succinct message: "THIS IS FOR FOOD." The directions were often quite
specific:

"Ten kilometers past Hatos de Yaque, left at the henhouse, climb the hill past
two herds of cattle and you can find Mercedes in the small green house."

From Ms. Guzman's agency, the orders traveled electronically to Mateo Express
headquarters in midtown Manhattan, then on to Santo Domingo, where the company's
war room holds a giant city map divided into sectors. Each sector is assigned to
a messenger who packs his pockets with cash-filled envelopes that he delivers by
motorbike within four hours of an immigrant's visit to a storefront in New York.

On his recent trip, Mr. Mateo accompanied a messenger to the home of Jose
Antonio Ortiz Sanchez in Bani, a small city outside the capital. Mr. Ortiz
Sanchez, a skinny, toothless old man who suffers from a nerve disorder, was
lying on a cot on his patio when the envelope arrived. He clutched it to his
chest -- $70 for a doctor's visit. When Mr. Mateo asked who had sent the money,
the man rose from his cot, hoisted his blue boxers, walked inside and pointed to
a poster of a St. Louis Cardinals Double-A farm team.

"My son," he said proudly. (The son no longer plays for the team.)

Just as they scratch together enough money to send home, even the poorest
Dominican immigrants make at least one trip back a year, travel agents say.
Fares run as low as $330 round-trip.

Mr. Mateo does not come from a wealthy family. His father began as a gardener.
He is a Seward Park High School dropout whose outsized hands bear decades of
calluses from manual labor. Before starting his money wiring company, he built a
carpet business from scratch, while his wife, who now runs a small construction
company, worked at an accounting firm.

But they and their families have been moving back and forth for decades. Even
now, Mr. Mateo's mother, Carmen, 76, hops between the family's modest, airy
house in Santo Domingo and a spare apartment in a retirees' building in lower
Manhattan.

After a few weeks in Santo Domingo, she begins "kvetching" (Mr. Mateo's word)
about the heat, the blackouts, the lack of Haagen-Dazs ice cream. So she flies
north.

After a few weeks on the Lower East Side, she starts complaining about how
cooped up she feels and about the outrageous price of mangos, which are supposed
to be free. She insists on flying back to visit the grave of her husband, who
died in Manhattan years ago only to be transported south for burial. There, she
sprinkles his grave with his favorite beer and plays him salsa from a boom box,
often accompanied by Mr. Mateo's half-brother, Dagoberto Linares.

Mr. Linares, 51, a small man whose jeans hang low and baggy like a teen-ager's,
also shuttles, between East New York, Brooklyn, and Yamasa, the Dominican
Republic.

In New York, he works as a carpet-layer; in the Dominican Republic, fulfilling a
lifelong dream, he lives on a farm -- riding horses, raising chickens and
harvesting a cornucopia of fruit trees.

Technology -- Breaking Barriers Of Space and Time

When Hamid Ali drives his yellow cab through Manhattan, the images of his family
in Pakistan run through his head as if on a loop. They keep him company through
10-hour workdays and lonely nights in a one-bedroom apartment he shares with
three other drivers. But they are stale images, four years old and frozen in
time.

It pained him, until a friend told him about a cutting-edge solution to
old-fashioned immigrant heartache: videophones.

At the end of June, on Ditmas Avenue off Coney Island Avenue in Brooklyn, Mr.
Ali sat nervously before a large computer screen in the darkened conference room
of Satellite Tech Telecommunication. His wire-rim glasses slipped to the very
tip of his nose; he pushed them up, and they slipped back down.

Without warning, the screen came to life, and the image of his older sister,
draped in a floral head scarf, flickered and died. He gasped softly. Then she
reappeared, live from Islamabad, a four-hour drive from their town of Okara. And
she had a thing or two on her mind.

For four straight minutes -- at $5 a minute -- his sister, Shamim Kusar,
harangued him for not writing. He protested that he phoned weekly, but his
sister told him letters were better; they could be fingered and re-read and kept
under pillows. No one could fathom why he didn't just come home, she said, or
why he was so ambitious. Their father thought he probably no longer cared for
them, she reported; now he was American.

When Mr. Ali's eyes brimmed, Mrs. Kusar softened. She told her brother he looked
weak and underfed. He told her he was working too hard, that everyone worked too
hard in America, which was why it is such a prosperous country. "Is everyone so
skinny?" she asked. "I will tell Mother you are fat." She reached out to tickle
his face on the screen.

"I will tell everyone in town that I saw my brother on TV," she said, giggling.
"They won't believe me. We are simple people."

"Pray to Allah for me, dear sister," he answered, biting back tears, "and I will
be home soon -- two years at the most."

This scenario, unimaginable even 10 years ago, shows just how far technology has
gone in breaking down the barriers of space and time that used to separate
immigrants from the lands they left behind.

Early in the century, it was too difficult and expensive to lead a genuinely
double life. Immigrants might return home for good, but they could not hop a
steamship to the Old World for a long weekend. Letters were the bond between
families, but they took so long that communication was herky-jerky.

Now, Chinese immigrants jet to Hong Kong for meetings with investors in their
Queens banks; Bombay movie stars fly in for standing-room-only performances at
the Nassau Coliseum, and highland Indians from Ecuador fax home orders for more
ponchos to sell on the streets.

The most revolutionary technological change in the lives of immigrants, though,
is the inexpensive direct-dial phone call.

It was not even possible to make a trans-Atlantic phone call until 1927, and it
was prohibitively expensive -- $200 in current dollars for a three-minute call
to London, said Sheldon Hochheiser, the corporate historian for A.T. &T.

In the last 10 years, small communities around the world have obtained direct
phone service, fiber-optic cables have drastically improved the quality of
long-distance calls, and rates have become dirt cheap: in 1965, it cost $10.59
to call the Dominican Republic for three minutes, and $15 to call India; now
those rates are $1.71 and $3.66, respectively, with A.T.&T.'s one-rate
international plan.

Many immigrants, however, seek out even cheaper rates at phone parlors, now
ubiquitous in the city, or with prepaid phone cards. The phone parlors and card
businesses, typically immigrant enterprises, buy telephone minutes in bulk from
long distance carriers and sell them at sharply discounted rates.

If the ability to call home cheaply connects immigrants to their families, the
ability to click on the homeland's news or soap operas connects them to the
society they left behind.

All a Korean immigrant need do is turn on the 24-hour Korean Channel, which is
offered in Queens as part of basic cable service, to watch the news from Seoul,
as well as Korean soaps, children's programs and Sunday morning religious shows.
Similarly, a Russian emigre can turn to WMNB-TV, based in Fort Lee, N.J., for
live performances from the Moscow Concert Hall.

For immigrant communities that lack television channels, there are
closed-circuit radio stations that operate on side frequencies leased from FM
stations. If they get their radios equipped with a special chip or filter,
immigrants can listen in on the Ukrainian Parliament, and Haitians can
participate in call-in shows that link listeners in Flatbush with those in
Port-au-Prince.

Reflecting the dual interests of their audiences, the immigrant radio and
television channels have also become electronic settlement houses, offering all
manner of advice.

"We're killing a lot of different birds at the same time," said Evgeniy Lvov,
president of the Russian-American Broadcasting Company, which owns WMNB. "We're
making this world smaller for everybody."

The New Breed -- Rebuilding A Burnt Bridge

Before Leonid Slepak left Russia in 1979, he traveled three days over land from
Moscow to Siberia to say goodbye to his parents. They were well-known
dissidents; he was a draft evader living underground and a poster boy for Soviet
Jewry, his photograph marched through the streets of New York, Washington and
Los Angeles.

Mr. Slepak was only 19. He had finally won his 10-year-battle to emigrate, and
in that moment, sitting opposite his parents in a Siberian prison, he thought he
understood with a panic what a permanent rupture it would be. "It would be like
dying, I imagined," he said recently.

Two decades later, it has not turned out to be so final after all. After the
collapse of the Soviet Union, many Soviet Jewish refugees ventured back for a
visit. They were the last immigrants who had ever expected to lead transnational
lives; they had relinquished their passports and possessed little nostalgia. But
the years away had taught some that they were more Russian than they thought,
and that it made sense -- business sense, family sense -- to re-establish ties.

Like Mr. Slepak, many have reconnected with a vengeance, building businesses
that require them to travel back and forth, to E-mail, to adjust their body
clocks to the eight-hour time difference. They have bought second homes in
Moscow or St. Petersburg.

Mr. Slepak, who puts together business deals that require financing and know-how
in both countries, even moved back for a year. He has a family here and a family
there: three very Americanized teen-agers in New Jersey (whose mother he
divorced in the 80's), and one Russian child, 7-year-old Anastasiya. His parents
live in Israel.

Mr. Slepak considers himself more American than Russian, but calls himself
"bicontinental." Has he embraced Judaism in exile? He laughed and called this a
"very American question." Being Jewish is a matter of blood, not deed, he said.
But then, he elaborated, with a very American answer: "If I arrive home on a
Friday, and the sun is just setting and the mood is right, I will light the
candles, and say a bracha," a blessing. "But it's more in the spirit of
T.G.I.F."

The Old Breed -- When Goodbye Meant Forever

When the new immigrants began arriving in large numbers, many Americans believed
there was a protoypical immigrant experience: immigrants were supposed to shed
their old selves and become Americans in language, culture, dress and appetite.

That model was based on the living memory of Morris Adler's generation.

At 103, Mr. Adler is a spry, stoop-shouldered man, happily retired in Jamaica,
Queens, with 5 grandchildren, 11 great-grandchildren and a great-great
granddaughter. His eyes are milky with age but his memory is undimmed.

After anti-Semitism drove him from Poland, he said, he arrived at Ellis Island
in 1920 with $9 in his pocket. Within days, he found work as a hat maker and
enrolled in night-time English classes. He quickly changed his name from Gershon
Szmedra, just as he tried hard to lose his accent and Americanize. He didn't
want the stigma of being a greenhorn; he wanted to belong in his new land, where
no one ever told him to get off the sidewalk because he was a Jew.

In New York, he married the daughter of Jewish immigrants from Poland and built
his American family. But he never saw his Polish family again. He corresponded
with them until the letters stopped in 1943; nearly everyone perished in the
Holocaust.

"I never wanted to see Poland again," he said. "My country where I'm born showed
me hate, so I never had love for it. To me the other world is, 'Forget it.' "

But if Mr. Adler's seems to be the prototype of the American immigrant
experience, immigration experts say this kind of abrupt break with the homeland
was actually a historical anomaly. The current immigrant experience, they say,
more directly echoes the mass immigration that stretched from 1880 to 1930.

Then, just as now, millions of immigrants came expecting to go home. Some
crisscrossed the Atlantic by steamship, like the Italian migrant workers whom
immigration officials called "birds of passage." And many returned for good,
carrying back their earnings and buying themselves new prominence and comfort in
their homelands.

One historian, Mark Wyman, believes a quarter to a third of the 23 million
Europeans who emigrated to America between 1880 and 1930 repatriated. But their
story has rarely been told because the history of immigration was written by
those who stayed.

With a return home on their minds, many immigrants behaved very differently from
Mr. Adler. They were slower to learn English and become citizens. They lived and
worked in ethnic enclaves, and belonged to homeland village associations.
Homeland politicians courted them; Irish nationalists made fund-raising trips to
New York in the early 1900's, just as Dominican candidates -- and Irish
nationalists -- do now.

"It's a mistaken idea that everyone always rushed to Americanize," said Roger
Waldinger, an immigration expert at the University of California at Los Angeles.

From the late 1920's to the 60's, though, the fluidity of these migration
patterns was interrupted by the Depression, World War II and the cold war. In
1929, Congress also imposed severe immigration restrictions that were not lifted
until 1965.

For those 35 or so years, the majority of newcomers were refugees fleeing
political persecution: first European Jews, then Hungarians, then Cubans. They
are the immigrants whose experience has shaped the living memory of New York.

Unlike those who came before, and those who would follow, they knew they would
never go home. And since their numbers were relatively small, they could more
easily be absorbed into America at a time when it was consciously forging a
national identity. At that moment in history, with the concept of
Americanization taking an ever-stronger hold, ethnic identity was a leftover,
and often an embarrassment.

"There was a zero-sum notion of identity," said Aristide R. Zohlberg, director
of the International Center for Migration, Ethnicity and Citizenship at the New
School for Social Research in Manhattan. "If you became 10 percent more
American, you became 10 percent less of what you were."

Ethnic Pride -- A New Notion Of Americanization

Philippe Vielot arrived in New York from Haiti in 1969, four years after
Congress lifted immigration quotas. He was 12, and he didn't know he was at the
vanguard of a new wave of immigration that would bring in black, Latino and
Asian immigrants in an era when many Americans were asserting their ethnic and
racial pride for the first time.

During Mr. Vielot's American lifetime, the idea of assimilating to a single
American norm would come to be seen as a dated, even racist, concept. It would
become socially acceptable for immigrants to hold onto their cultures, but then
the extent to which they did so would unnerve many Americans.

Mr. Vielot's family arrived intending to return to Haiti, and after 20 years as
hospital workers, his parents did retire there, keeping their apartment in East
Flatbush for visits north. When Mr. Vielot's daughter was little, she was sent
home to her grandparents, the best (and cheapest) day care imaginable.

Mr. Vielot never stopped following the ins and outs of Haitian politics. He
never gave up his languages, Creole and French, never stopped listening to zouk
and compas, never stopped going home for visits. He still awaits the perfect
moment to return for a long stay, maybe for good. He wants to be a farmer.

But Mr. Vielot long ago became an American citizen. He is fluent in English; he
peppers his speech with exclamations like "oh, gosh." He works for a New York
City agency as a mechanical engineer. His wife is a kindergarten teacher, his
children are American, and they all live in Bridgeport, Conn.

He is the very model of the modern immigrant, part of the mix of cultures that
has been called everything from a salad bowl to a gorgeous mosaic. But has he
Americanized? Mr. Vielot was at first stumped by the question, then said, "By my
estimate, maybe not by yours."

Sociologists say that to many modern immigrants, the issue of becoming American
is pretty much beside the point, the kind of question best left to the
sociologists. To many immigrants, assimilating means sinking into the dead-end
universe of the inner cities where they live; holding onto their culture and
values, then, is a way of inoculating their children against all those American
ills.

Experts prefer to ask if immigrants are integrating themselves into American
life even as they hold onto their language, culture and ties. The test, they
say, lies with the immigrants' children, and that is whom they have been
studying, although the studies, and the children, are too young for definitive
answers.

Still, families like Mersuda Guichard's offer some tentative answers. For Ms.
Guichard, Trinidad is the past, the island that felt too small when she left in
1971. It is the present, the place she goes to restore herself when the
pressures of bringing up three children alone are too much. And it is the
future, the "paradise" where she will retire, using the nest egg -- $6,000 so
far -- squirreled away in a Trinidadian bank.

But it is not the past, present or future for her teen-age children. When they
were younger, Ms. Guichard sent them home every summer -- because she was
working, and because she wanted them to absorb her love for Trinidad. Her
daughter, Starr, 16, still goes, and she describes it as a glorious vacation:
walking barefoot on the beach, tending rabbits and ducks, learning to cook
callaloo. But, every fall, Starr balks when her mother, who thinks a little
Caribbean discipline would do her good, asks her to stay and attend school in
Trinidad. Starr has no desire to wear a uniform or get her knuckles rapped for
tardiness.

"There, you can't wear make-up or nail polish," she said. "You have to wear
plaid pleated skirts and white shirts and little socks that fold at the bottom."

Ms. Guichard now wishes she had sent all her children home to school when they
were small, but, she says, it is too late for regrets. She herself is
Trinidadian through and through. Her children are a hybrid: part West Indian,
part American -- and all New Yorker. "They were born here," she said, "and they
will die here."

Overwhelmingly, the experts say, American-born children of immigrants seem to
have their feet planted in this country, no matter how many trips they make to
their parents' homeland. While bilingual, they express themselves better in
English than in their parents' tongues. And they feel more at home in the
hyperdeveloped United States than in the developing world.

Still, their parents' dual identity affects them, sometimes profoundly. In many
cases, they have relationships with their parents' hometowns that help shape a
newfangled identity. They are not going to move back, but they often consider
their parents' birthplaces second homes.

The back and forth can be confusing, and some feel they fit in neither here nor
there. "Here they say, 'You're from the islands,' " Starr said. "In Trinidad,
they call me a Yankee, and that's considered an insult."

At the same time, however, these ties to home are often a source of strength --
an escape from a city where many live in a social underclass to another, freer
world, where their families' social status has been elevated by emigration. It
helps keep their immigrant aspirations alive.

Liliana Maldonado, a 20-year-old computer student, has spent every summer in her
parents' hometown in Ecuador.

"I think of it as going home, and I was born here, which says a lot," she said.
"What it feels like to me is a relief."

Citizenship -- Dual Identities, Dual Loyalties

That the McManus Midtown Democratic Association, a century-old bastion of
Irish-American politics, has a president born and raised in Cali is testament to
the changing face of New York City.

That the president, Carlos Manzano, is a dual citizen of Colombia and the United
States speaks volumes about the changing immigrant identity. At the same time as
he courts Jewish, Italian and Irish voters in the district he seeks to represent
in the New York City Council, he sends routine mailings about Colombian politics
to his countrymen in the New York area.

"Fortunately, the election cycles here and there don't overlap," he said. "This
spring, I was focused on the presidential elections down there. By fall, I'll
shift gears back here."

Although immigrants taking the oath of United States citizenship must renounce
their homelands, the renunciation carries no teeth. American courts increasingly
tolerate dual nationality, and since the end of the Cold War, other nations have
relaxed their attitudes toward the concept, too.

Some countries have long allowed it, and in the last decade, many others,
including Russia and Poland, have decided to simply ignore their countrymen's
new citizenship. And others have enacted dual nationality or citizenship laws as
they have come to see their emigrants as assets rather than traitors; among them
are Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Italy and Mexico.

The Mexican law, overnight, created a potential population of millions of dual
nationals, as it not only recognizes Mexican-born Americans but their children.
Since the new law took effect, five New Yorkers a day have sought to recapture
their Mexicanness.

"The binational society is a trend that is unstoppable," said Jorge Pinto,
Mexico's consul in New York. "It used to be limited to the border, but now the
links are far afield."

For some, the issue of dual citizenship poses the ultimate question raised by
the transnational phenomenon: Where does an immigrant's allegiance lie? Some
fear that dual loyalties are necessarily dueling loyalties, and that the bond
between a citizen and his state should be exclusive.

Others, though, say this is an old-fashioned notion in a world that is not at
war, and an impractical one in the face of a global reality of entwined
economies, of businesses and families that straddle borders.

Like Mr. Manzano, Fernando Mateo sees himself as doubly loyal. Naturally, almost
physiologically, ebullient, Mr. Mateo hungered for a public role in his
community once he no longer had to work day and night to keep his business
afloat. His civic energy expressed itself both here and there.

In New York, he devised a campaign to urge New Yorkers to trade their illegal
guns for toys. The Toys for Guns program went national and international. Mr.
Mateo went on Oprah, met Bill and Hillary Clinton, and became a darling of
Spanish-language television, which has hemispheric reach.

Through his minor renown here, Mr. Mateo was able to assert himself as a player
in Dominican politics there. Last year, he won a battle to secure immigrants the
right to vote from the United States -- making the Dominican population in New
York the second-largest concentration of votes in any Dominican election, after
Santo Domingo.

It also allows New Yorkers, including Mr. Mateo, to contemplate running for
their homeland's highest offices. Mr. Mateo feels he has two countries, one that
shaped him emotionally, and another that helped him rise above his station in
life. He would fight for either country in a war, he said.

On a spring morning, from his home in Irvington, Westchester, Mr. Mateo debated
by phone his potential as a candidate for election in the Dominican Republic --
with David Garth, the veteran New York political consultant.

In Yamasa, the Dominican Republic, Mr. Mateo continued the conversation with his
wife as they danced to salsa on his brother's porch. Stella Mateo admires her
husband's political ambitions, but she does not want to move back to the
Dominican Republic.

Hips swaying, Mr. Mateo dipped her and said, "Babe, you smell that goat on the
grill? That's not a smell you get every day in Westchester."

"Freddy, honey," she answered, "you like the smell of hamburgers and hot dogs,
too."

Mr. Mateo's cellular phone rang. The music stopped. A third conversation began,
this one private. Mr. Mateo's mother, who had been rocking in a chair drinking
milk from a coconut, said: "Who is it? New York again?" She smiled proudly.

"My little gringo," she said.

Here and There

TODAY -- Coming to America, holding on to the homeland.
MONDAY -- From New York to Jaipur: The pull of tradition.
TUESDAY -- The global village: A community in two places at once.
MORE ON LINE -- These articles, with additional photographs and charts, as well
as a forum for discussion, are available on The New York Times on the Web, at
www.nytimes.com/immigration. Readers may offer accounts of their own immigration
experiences by E-mail to herethere@nytimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: HERE AND THERE: A New Immigrant Identity -- First of three articles.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stella and Fernando Mateo commuting between their homeland, the
Dominican Republic, and their home, New York (Edward Keating/The New York
Times)(pg. 1); VIDEOPHONING HOME -- Hamid Ali, a cab driver, talking with his
sister, Shamim Kusar, in Islamabad, Pakistan, from a videophone parlor in the
Kensington section of Brooklyn. He had not seen her in four years. (Photographs
by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. 28); CACHE IN A BARREL -- Eric Beckford,
a Jamaican immigrant, packing a barrel of food and clothing to send to his
parents back home. Mr. Beckford, as well as his four siblings who live in New
York, frequently send staples to Jamaica because American prices are relatively
low. THE FINAL RETURN -- At the Ortiz funeral home in Harlem, saying goodbye to
Jorge Cruz, 30, a Mexican immigrant who was stabbed to death. Mr. Cruz, like
half of all Mexicans who die in New York, was to be flown back for burial.(pg.
29); MATEO EXPRESS -- Fernando Mateo at his company's headquarters in midtown
Manhattan, right, and in Bani, Dominican Republic, far right, at the home of
Jose Antonio Ortiz Sanchez, who had just received money from his son in the
United States. (Phtotgraphs by Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. 30)

Graph: "More Than Ever, a City of Immigrants"
A new immigrant identity, with intense bonds to home, has evolved over the last
three decades, as a vast tide of newcomers has given New York City the largest,
most ethnically varied immigrant population in its history. Graph tracks the
percentage of foreign born residents in New York City in the years 1930, 1970,
and 1997.

(Source: New York Times analysis)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 19, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Streetscapes/The Jewish Daily Forward Building, 175 East Broadway;
A Capitalist Venture With a Socialist Base

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY

SECTION: Section 11; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 905 words


THE JEWISH DAILY FORWARD BUILDING, at 175 East Broadway, was built in 1912 as
the Socialist paper reached new highs in circulation among its audience of
Yiddish-speaking immigrants. The Forward moved out 24 years ago, succeeded by a
Chinese church, but now a condominium conversion is under way.

First published in 1897, the Yiddish-language Forward was born as Jewish
immigration swelled the New York sweatshops and labor unions. It had close ties
to the Socialist Party, taking the name of the successful Socialist paper in
Berlin. The first editor, Abraham Cahan, had to leave Russia after revolutionary
activities, and it was he who molded the paper into more than just a broadside
of ideology.

Cahan was convinced that to reach the working-class immigrant, he had to write
of daily life, so The Forward included not just world politics but also local
news, short stories and a free-for-all advice column, the Bintel Brief ("packet
of letters"), with responses from both editors and readers on love, money,
ethics and getting along in America.

The Forward Association, which controlled the paper, was incorporated in 1901
"for the purpose of distributing literature, social and economic science." In
1906 the association bought the building at 175 East Broadway, between Rutgers
and Jefferson Streets, across from the new Seward Park.  Circulation continued
to grow, and in 1910 the association bought the building at 173 East Broadway
and filed a permit for a new 10-story structure on the two-lot site.

Shortly after that the directors of the association amended their corporate
certificate to include operating a building but still "to adhere to and
propagate the principles of International Socialism."

Designed by George Boehm, the midblock Forward Building still towers over the
three- to five-story houses and tenements in the area. A common story is that it
was built in reaction to the capitalist symbolism of the 12-story Jarmulowsky
Bank building, two blocks away at the southwest corner of Orchard and Canal
Streets, but that building was begun a year after The Forward's.

The cream-and-tan exterior has the same light tones and delicate terra cotta
that Boehm used a few years later on the Chalif Dancing School, still standing
at 163 West 57th Street. Above the second floor of The Forward Building, a
series of relief busts depict four famous socialists, including Karl Marx and
Friedrich Engels. Above them two oversize reclining figures in classical dress
against a blue background flank a torch, an image that runs through the
building's decoration.

The Forward Building was completed in 1912 -- the same year the Socialist Eugene
V. Debs polled 901,000 votes in the Presidential election. In that year The
Evening Post reported that Cahan's paper generated thousands of dollars of
profit, all used to support working-class causes like organizing consumer
strikes. Circulation was 120,000.

In 1922, Oswald Garrison Villard, editor of The Nation, called The Forward
"America's most interesting daily," noting that the eight-page newspaper had
generated assets of $1 million and given about $35,000 a year to labor and
charity organizations.

Telephone directories list among the building's other tenants the Butchers'
Union Local 509, the Jewish Socialist Verband (Organization), the Naturalization
Aid League and the offices of the Workmen's Circle Cemetery.

The 1920's were the peak years for circulation, which reached 275,000, as the
paper served both recent immigrants and those who had moved up and out of the
Lower East Side. Shirley Zavin, who researched the building for the Landmarks
Preservation Commission -- which designated it a landmark in 1986 -- called the
paper "the giant" among New York's Yiddish dailies.

New laws in 1924 and 1929 tended to restrict Jewish immigration, and by 1939 the
circulation was down to 170,000.

THE FORWARD has always retained a reputation as a literary paper, and its
contributors have included the writers Isaac Bashevis Singer and Elie Wiesel and
the artist and writer Art Spiegelman.

In 1963 The Forward began an English supplement, and in 1974 it sold 175 East
Broadway and moved to 49 East 33d Street, where it remains. The building was
purchased by the Lau family, and for many years a Chinese church has occupied
part of the space. The building was designated a landmark just as the owners
proposed converting it to a hotel, but the conversion did not go ahead.

Now the building is covered with scaffolding, and the conversion will be to 39
loft-style condominiums, in an alteration designed by Alfred Wen that will
include a restoration of the facade. Stephen Lau, acting as agent for his
family's company, Chinese Center L.L.C., said that work would take about a year.
"We thought now is the right time," he said. "We hope to have people from SoHo
or Wall Street, not just Asians -- it's a bit out of Chinatown."

Things have changed for The Forward, too. It prospers now as a weekly, with
editions in English, Yiddish and Russian and a total circulation of about
45,000. Samuel Norwich, the general manager of the Forward Association, said the
organization completely controlled the Yiddish and Russian editions but had
50-50 ownership of the English edition with private investors.

The bylaws of the association were changed in the 1960's, Mr. Norwich said, and
"nobody's accused us of being Socialist in a long time."

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jewish Daily Forward Building in the 1920's, left, and newsboy
selling the paper in early 1900's. Condominium conversion is now under way,
right; (Forward Archives/YIVO Institute for Jewish Research); (Brown Brothers);
(G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 22, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

The New Immigrant Experience

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 416 words


New York City is the capital of the new global economy and also America's
traditional port of immigration. Put these together and you get, as Deborah
Sontag and Celia Dugger have vividly reported in The Times this week, a new
phenomenon of people living in two homelands, old and new, virtually at once.
Previous immigrants remembered and even revisited their homelands. But this is
the first immigrant generation that can connect back home instantaneously by
cell phone, videophone and the Internet. Cheap airfares and relaxed rules on
dual citizenship also help many people maintain lifelong relationships with
their ancestral lands.

One result is a changing New York City, which now counts an all-time high of 2.7
million foreign-born residents. But the consequences are also felt around the
world as these immigrants share their American experiences and American-earned
dollars with relatives and neighbors who stayed behind.

When Hamid Ali goes into a videophone parlor in the Kensington section of
Brooklyn, he can see as well as talk to his family back home. But his calls also
bring his sister in Pakistan into a more intimate contact with America than she
could ever get from Hollywood movies and television. When Vinit Sethi goes back
to Jaipur, India, for his arranged marriage to Anshu Jain, he takes his friends
from the University of Pennsylvania along with him. It is a meeting of two
cultures in very personal terms.

Hundreds of immigrant workers return each year from New York City to Chinantla,
Mexico, for the annual fiesta of Padre Jesus. That village has come to know New
York, and appreciate its economic opportunities, better than many Americans do.
Chinantla owes its economic survival to the $2 million a year sent back by its
sons and daughters who toil as waiters, garment workers and mechanics in New
York. Some of these first-generation immigrants go back to Chinantla to retire,
assuring that their children, too, will make regular trips back home.

Contrast all this to a time when a ship voyage to New York took several weeks,
and even a steerage-class fare amounted to a once-in-a-lifetime expense. Even
for those who prospered, war or persecution often barred the door back home.
Now, Jesus Galvis can serve on the Hackensack, N.J., City Council while running
for a Senate seat in Colombia.

New possibilities of global commuting are emerging, and New York, appropriately
enough, stands at the center of a new transnational immigrant culture.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 24, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Jury Convicts Man in Scheme To Set a Bomb In the Subway

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1242 words


A Palestinian immigrant who testified that he had wanted to kill as many Jews as
possible in a suicide attack was convicted yesterday of plotting to explode a
powerful pipe bomb in the New York City subway.

But in a case that raised the specter of another terrorist attack in a city
where the World Trade Center was bombed five years ago, the jury in Federal
District Court in Brooklyn acquitted a second defendant of charges that he had
been part of the conspiracy, instead finding him guilty only of an
immigration-related fraud charge.

The bombing plot, which was aborted in a police raid last July with possibly
only hours to spare, involved a nail-studded explosive that the authorities said
would have burst into hundreds or thousands of streaking metal shards that could
have killed scores of people had it detonated as planned.

After the jury pronounced Ghazi Ibrahim Abu Maizar guilty of conspiring to use a
weapon of mass destruction, he exclaimed at the defense table: "Palestinian
children do not deserve to die! Nobody in the world deserves to die!"

Then, jumping up from his seat, Mr. Abu Maizar, 24, who was born in Hebron, on
the West Bank, when the city was still under Israeli occupation, shouted "Allah
akhbar!" -- "God is great" in Arabic -- and held a copy of the Koran over his
head before Federal marshals forced him back into his seat.

Mr. Abu Maizar, a slightly built, bearded man -- wearing a Muslim skullcap he
had worn only irregularly during the three-week trial -- then pointed upward
with the index fingers of both hands and appeared to be murmuring prayers from
the Koran. During the trial, he accused Israel of oppressing Palestinians and
also denounced the United States' support for Israel.

His co-defendant, Lafi Khalil, 23, also born in the West Bank, simply buried his
face in his hands as he heard the jury acquitting him of charges related to the
bomb plot, though convicting him of possessing a bogus alien registration
document.

Mr. Abu Maizar now faces a sentence of life in prison. The immigration charge
Mr. Khalil was convicted of is normally punishable by up to 10 years in prison,
but prosecution and defense lawyers said it could bring a sentence of up to 25
years in this case if the judge finds that Mr. Khalil used it to further a
terrorist plot, a judicial finding that is possible despite the jury's acquittal
of Mr. Khalil on charges in the bomb plot.

Investigators in the United States have said they had found no evidence linking
the defendants to any known terrorist group. And the Israeli Government has said
that the men -- who came to the United States separately and met several months
before they were arrested -- were not known to have ties to militant groups,
although Mr. Abu Maizar was arrested as a teen-ager in 1990 for throwing stones
at Israeli soldiers during Palestinian protests.

Judge Reena Raggi set sentencing for Oct. 23.

After the verdict, following nearly 10 hours of jury deliberations over two
days, Mr. Khalil's lawyer, Bruce McIntyre, praised the jury's acquittal of his
client on the bombing conspiracy charges as "an absolutely wonderful job."

"All along we've maintained that he didn't know about what was going on," Mr.
McIntyre said. He had argued to the jury that despite being arrested with Mr.
Abu Maizar in the apartment where the bomb was found -- and despite a snapshot
showing Mr. Khalil with pipe parts and wire like those later found in the device
-- his client had not been involved in the plot. Among other things, the lawyer
argued, his client's fingerprints had not been found on any of the evidence in
the case.

Mr. Khalil's father, Taysir Khalil, who had come from his home in Amman, Jordan,
for his son's trial, said through an interpreter outside the downtown Brooklyn
courthouse, "I know my son is not guilty, and is innocent, from the first day,
and I know there is a fair law in the United States of America."

A lawyer for Mr. Abu Maizar, Michael P. Padden, said that "given what transpired
in the courtroom, we can't say we're shocked" by the verdict against his client.

He was referring to Mr. Abu Maizar's testimony -- against the advice of his
lawyers -- that he had planned to set off the bomb in a suicide attack in which
he hoped to kill as many Jews as possible, though he insisted that the bombing
was not to have taken place in the subway.

Earlier in the trial, Mr. Padden and his co-counsel, Jan A. Rostal, maintained
that Mr. Abu Maizar had not intended to explode the device, but rather had built
it for use as a prop in a fuzzy plot to defraud a Government antiterrorism
program of reward money.

They hewed to this line even after Mr. Abu Maizar's admission on the witness
stand, with Mr. Padden arguing at the trial's end that the admission was not
reliable because it had resulted from his client's "adoption of a notion" after
his arrest in the case that he was "a hero of the Palestinian cause." For his
part, Mr. Abu Maizar testified that he had "always dreamed to be a martyr."

An F.B.I. agent testified that after Mr. Abu Maizar was arrested in the police
raid on his Park Slope, Brooklyn, apartment, in which he and Mr. Khalil were
shot and wounded, Mr. Abu Maizar told him at Kings County Hospital Center that
he had wanted to bomb a rush-hour train on the B line "because there are a lot
of Jews that ride that train." The line passes through Borough Park section in
Brooklyn, which has one of the city's most concentrated populations of Orthodox
Jews.

Mr. Padden said his client's conviction -- on charges of possessing and
threatening to use the bomb as well as conspiring to use it -- would be appealed
on the ground that Judge Raggi should have suppressed certain evidence,
including Mr. Abu Maizar's statement at the hospital. The defense had argued
that the statement was unreliable because Mr. Abu Maizar had been in a
"hallucinatory" state when it was said to have been made, while heavily
medicated after surgery.

With the prosecutors, Bernadette Miragliotta and John F. Curran at his side,
Zachary W. Carter, the United States Attorney in Brooklyn, said that while he
was disappointed by Mr. Khalil's acquittal on the charges related to the bomb
plot, he was pleased with Mr. Abu Maizar's conviction because it "sends a strong
message that acts of international terrorism or attempts to commit acts of
international terrorism on our soil will not be tolerated."

Those who had known the pair in Park Slope said they hardly seemed like ardently
motivated terrorists. Local shopkeepers described them as seeming drifters,
living hand-to-mouth on short-term jobs, complaining about how poor they were
and often hanging around local stores and ogling passing women.

But heavily armed police officers raided Mr. Abu Maizar's apartment shortly
before dawn last July 31 after one of his roommates, a recent immigrant from
Egypt named Abdel Rahman Mosabbah, flagged down police officers in the street
and told them Mr. Abu Maizar was planning to explode a bomb, possibly in just
hours, in the subway or on a bus.

The police said that in addition to finding a pipe bomb "fully rigged and ready
to be detonated," they also found in the apartment a note that threatened
attacks against American and Jewish interests if various demands were not met,
including the release of imprisoned Islamic militants like Ramzi Ahmed Yousef,
convicted of masterminding the World Trade Center bombing.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ghazi Ibrahim Abu Maizar, right, was convicted of conspiring to
use a weapon of mass destruction. His co-defendant, Lafi Khalil, left, was
acquitted on that charge but convicted on an immigration charge. Taysir Khalil,
who came from Jordan to attend the trial of his son Lafi, said after the
verdicts, "I know my son is not guilty." (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York
Times)(pg. B6)


                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 3, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

A Court Ruled by Women;
With Netball, Immigrants From Caribbean Turn a Derelict Brooklyn Park Into a
Haven

BYLINE: By GARRY PIERRE-PIERRE

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1193 words


Just a few years ago, Lincoln Terrace Park, a green expanse on the edge of Crown
Heights, Brooklyn, was overrun with weeds, prostitutes and drug dealers.

But these days, the 18-acre park is crowded on summer weekends as thousands of
people flock there to watch their favorite players pass, shoot and score.

They are not gathering to watch basketball, though, or even soccer. The lure is
netball, a game similar to basketball that is played almost exclusively by
women. The sport is unknown to most New Yorkers, but is extremely popular in the
West Indies.

"Netball brings people together," said Patricia Gray, president of the United
States Netball Association, which was formed about six years ago. "These are
folks who want to keep their culture strong."

The emergence of netball is another small sign of the wave of diversity --
propelled by the arrival of more than one million immigrants in the last two
decades -- that has transformed the city's landscape, even down to the games New
Yorkers play. Immigrant soccer leagues thrive throughout the city, Korean
volleyball teams play in Flushing Meadows, Queens, and Pakistani cricketers
compete in Marine Park, Brooklyn.

On a recent Sunday, several thousand people gathered at Lincoln Terrace Park to
watch a dozen games that were part of a 36-team summerlong netball tournament
sponsored by the Caribbean American Netball Association. The teams, with names
like Hairoun, the Sharecroppers, the Tornadoes and Foreign Base, have players
from Trinidad, Jamaica, St. Vincent, Guyana and other Caribbean countries.
Spectators wore T-shirts with their countries' colors, and some waved flags as
they cheered their teams on.

West Indian lilts accentuated the conversations, and as the players warmed up,
the sound of calypso and soca music boomed from cars lined up along the park.
The smell of codfish and jerk chicken wafted from the food stands, and
spectators opened bottles of Red Stripe, the Jamaican beer.

After the St. Lucia team defeated the squad from St. Vincent, the normally
subdued St. Lucia supporters ran onto the court, hugging members of their team
and dancing and screaming as they celebrated the victory.

"We're re-creating our life from the islands," said Jerry Rogers, who moved to
Crown Heights 10 years ago from his native Trinidad. "We love America, so we're
giving it part of us."

And netball has transformed Lincoln Terrace Park, said Gailene Windsor of
Brooklyn, a spokeswoman for the Caribbean American Netball Association. "Netball
sure did come to the rescue of that park," she said. "It's a place to go meet
people you haven't seen in months."

Ms. Windsor said there are 46 netball teams and more than 1,000 players in the
United States. The game has a dedicated following not just in Brooklyn, but also
in West Indian enclaves in the Bronx, where another league thrives, and in New
Jersey, California, Florida and Texas.

"This is a very popular sport that was alien to the people of New York," said
Ms. Windsor, a former player. "Now we're showing them what it's all about."

Although netball is unfamiliar to most Americans, the sport began in the United
States in 1895 as a women's version of basketball, coaches and longtime players
said. Netball caught on in Britain and eventually gravitated to British colonies
around the world, where it has maintained its popularity.

In netball, teams of seven players try to pass the ball, which resembles a
volleyball, to their goal shooter or goal attack, the only players who can try
to make a basket. No dribbling or running with the ball is allowed, and players
are confined to particular areas of the court, depending on the positions they
play. Scoring requires more dexterity and precision than in basketball, in part
because there is no backboard off which to bank a shot into the basket, which is
mounted atop a 10-foot-high pole. Opponents can get possession of the ball by
intercepting or rebounding it.

The game continues to be played mainly by women, and some netball enthusiasts
say the sport requires levels of finesse and patience that men simply do not
possess. Nonetheless, promoters said they had recently begun to try to recruit
more men.

"We're trying to change the idea that this is a female sport," said Irene Thomas
Jackman, a coach and international umpire. "We want to show that the men can be
just as good as the women."

When Sherna Charles left Grenada nearly a decade ago for Brooklyn, she knew that
she was giving up her family, year-round sun and the laid-back life style of her
island nation.  But she was surprised to find that she did not have to forsake
netball, which she had played at her high school in St. Andrew.

"I think it's great," Ms. Charles, a nanny who is a goal attack for Grenada
United Sports Club, said of the Lincoln Terrace Park tournament.  "As you can
see, there are people of all ages and from all over the Caribbean playing
netball."

During a recent game, Ms. Charles displayed glimpses of her past brilliance.
"Make sure you get that," she called to a photographer on the sidelines,
pointing her index finger in a Jordanesque gesture after swishing a shot.

But that was a rare bright spot that day for her outmatched squad, which was
drubbed 71-20 by Hairoun, a powerful team laden with players from St. Vincent.
Ms. Charles complained that some of Grenada United's best players had
inexplicably failed to show up. "I don't know what happened," she said.

The transformation of the Lincoln Terrace Park into a netball haven began about
four years ago, when players approached the city about using the park for a
tournament. City parks officials, eager to attract more people to Lincoln
Terrace, whose shabby lawns and decrepit benches had kept area residents away,
seized the opportunity, building four asphalt courts. The nets, hoisted on poles
with wheeled metal bases, are brought in during the games.

The city's Board of Education has also joined the fold by offering netball as a
recreational sport to students in six elementary schools across the city and at
George W. Wingate High School in Flatbush, Brooklyn. Netball organizers are
hopeful that more courts can be built across the city.

"The worst kind of park is a deserted park," said Parks Commissioner Henry J.
Stern, who has attended netball games at Lincoln Terrace Park. "It had been
taken over by undesirable elements. We're delighted to see our parks being
used."

Many residents of the area agree -- even those, like Leroy Davis, who are not
netball enthusiasts. Mr. Davis said that he used to stay clear of the park.

"Man, let me tell you, you didn't want to go there," said Mr. Davis, 56, who was
pushing a stroller with his 8-month-old granddaughter, Kisha, tucked comfortably
inside. "There was all kind of misdeeds going on there. Now it's cool, you can
walk around and there are people. It's a lot safer."

As for netball, Mr. Davis said: "That's what this is? I had no idea what they
were doing."

Rites of Summer

 Third article in a series. Previous articles looked at the emerging motorcycle
culture in Manhattan and visiting day at a sleepaway camp.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: RITES OF SUMMER: An Imported Sport

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sherna Charles of Grenada United taking aim, above, and the
Highlanders team, in red and blue, battling St. Lucia in a netball game at
Lincoln Terrace Park in Brooklyn. (J. Emilio Flores/The New York Times)(pg. B1);
Members of Grenada United, their children in tow, arriving for their game at
Lincoln Terrace Park, which has become a haven for netball. (J.Emilio Flores/The
New York Times)(pg. B3)

Chart: "A COMPARISON Netball vs. Basketball"
The rules of netball, played almost exclusively by women, call for a court
divided into thirds, seven players on each team, and four 15-minute quarters
with a five-minute halftime. Each basket counts for one point and free throws
are awarded when a mandatory three feet of space for the player with the ball is
violated. Here are some other major differences between netball and basketball:

1. Set positions -- Each player must play only in her position's designated
area.
2. No dribbling -- A player can hold the ball for only three seconds.
3. Player space -- Players must stay three feet away from the player with the
ball.
4. Shooting the ball -- Only two players, the goal shooter and the goal attack,
can shoot.

(Source: Caribbean American Netball Association)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 9, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

One Mental Health Service Does Receive Financing

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 17; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 287 words



To the Editor:

Your Aug. 2 cover article, "Lost in Translation," said of Federal money
administered through the state Office of Refugee and Immigrant services that
"none of the budgeted money -- $3 million this year -- is earmarked for mental
health services." In fact, our agency, the International Institute of New
Jersey, receives $67,000 a year from this source to help finance the
Cross-Cultural Counseling Center, which provides mental health services to
refugee and immigrant groups. Furthermore, we receive significant additional
financing directly from the Federal Office of Refugee Resettlement, which added
the category of mental health services to its discretionary grant program within
the last two years. In providing culturally competent mental health services,
our program draws on a model that works with community leaders, ethnic community
groups, clergy, folk healers and resettlement agencies.

The clinical staff members of the center are all credentialed mental health
professionals who are from the refugee communities they serve, and they provide
services in the language of the clients.

Additionally, we have an affiliation with the Counseling and Resource Center of
Christ Hospital in Jersey City, a partnership that insures access to quality
mental health services for the immigrant communities of Hudson County. As your
article illuminates, there are few agencies in the state that provide these
services to ethnic minority groups; it is therefore surprising that your article
did not focus on programs such as ours that are making significant inroads in
this area.

BEVERLY PINCUS, Psy.D.
Jersey City

The writer is director of the Cross-Cultural Counseling Center.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 12, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

New Jersey Man Denies Links To World Trade Center Blast

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 353 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Aug. 11


A New Jersey man and native of the Gaza Strip who has been detained for the last
five months based on classified allegations that he is linked to the World Trade
Center bombing denied those charges today in deportation hearings here.

Hany Kiareldeen, 30, called the allegations that he was a Palestinian terrorist
"total fabrications" and repeated the charges of his lawyer that it was his
ex-wife, Amal Mohamed, who, out of vindictiveness, had told the Federal Bureau
of Investigation the stories that led to his being detained. He has never been
formally charged with a crime and was detained in March for having a lapsed
visa. Today, in Immigration Court, he got his first chance to speak in court on
the charges.

One of the allegations reported in a Government summary of classified and
confidential informer reports was that Mr. Kiareldeen had met with a convicted
World Trade Center conspirator, Nidal A. Ayyad, and other terrorists at his home
in Nutley, N.J., a week before the 1993 bombing. The other allegation was that
he had threatened to kill Attorney General Janet Reno.

Mr. Kiareldeen answered questions today from his lawyer, Regis Fernandez, in a
small courtroom where the eight guards outnumbered the spectators. Mr.
Kiareldeen said he lived in Garfield, not Nutley, at the time that the F.B.I.
informer said he had been host for the meeting of terrorists. He also said he
did not even know who Janet Reno was until he was told in April that informers
had accused him of threatening her life. At the time of the World Trade Center
bombing, Mr. Kiareldeen said, he was a delivery man for a pizza parlor in
Hackensack.

Leo Weber, assistant district counsel for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, sought to undermine Mr. Kiareldeen's credibility by questioning his tax
returns and showing that he had often listed different and nonexistent addresses
on his immigration applications and other documents, from school tuition
receipts to auto club memberships.

The hearing before Judge Daniel Meisner is to continue tomorrow, when Mr.
Kiareldeen's ex-wife is scheduled to appear.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 15, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Bars or Expels Suspect Immigrants On Secret Evidence

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1892 words


More than two dozen immigrants around the country are facing deportation or
exclusion from the United States largely on evidence that they are not permitted
to see and that comes from people who are not identified.

The Federal Government has defended the use of secret evidence in these cases,
which usually involve allegations of association with terrorists but not actual
charges of terrorism. Government officials argue that the only way to persuade
people to give information about terrorist activities is to offer the protection
of complete anonymity.

Cases that involve allegations derived from secret evidence are just a tiny
percentage of the more than 100,000 immigrant status cases that the Immigration
and Naturalization Service deals with every year, said agency officials.

But all of the 25 men being accused in these cases are of Arab descent or are
Muslims, say immigration advocates and members of Congress concerned about the
use of secret evidence. Hala Maksoud, president of the Arab-American
Anti-Discrimination Committee, says this has the smell of "human and civil
rights somehow being suspended when it comes to Muslims."

One of those cases played out in Newark last week, when a Palestinian immigrant
who has been jailed since March had his day in court. He says he believes that
the only person accusing him of anything is his former wife. But the names of
his accusers are a secret.

Russ Bergeron, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
that he could not comment on specific cases nor give the names of all 25 people
involved in secret evidence cases. But he defended the use of secret evidence
and cited the approval of the practice under certain conditions by Federal
courts over four decades.

"What essentially these courts have said is that the obligation of the U.S.
Government to protect its citizens from threats at times justifies a
modification in the due process that will normally be granted in judicial
proceedings," Mr. Bergeron said.

A senior U.S. intelligence official who spoke on the condition of anonymity
defended keeping details of the accusations secret to protect the informers and
"costly technical systems that took years to develop," like satellite
surveillance systems.

"These systems could be compromised by a disclosure that could indicate the
method of operation," said the official.

The use of secret evidence is not new. The procedures have been in place and
upheld by courts since the early 1950's amid fears that Communism threatened
national security.

Today, when the fear is that Middle East terrorism will spill over into the
United States, the number of cases based on secret evidence has increased, said
immigration officials. There has been a total of 50 cases since 1992, according
to a February letter by Lori L. Scialabba, the acting I.N.S. counsel at the
time.

To the accused immigrants, many of whom have been in jails or I.N.S. detention
centers for up to two years, and to their lawyers, this secret evidence invites
surreal literary comparisons.

"It's Kafkaesque," said R. James Woolsey Jr., the former Director of Central
Intelligence and a lawyer who is part of a team representing six exiled Iraqi
opponents of Saddam Hussein. The six were among a group of 6,000 exiles brought
to the United States in 1996 after their C.I.A.-supported efforts to undermine
Mr. Hussein failed. They have been detained for a year on the basis of secret
evidence. In March, a judge ordered them excluded, a ruling that is being
appealed.

For a time immigration officials would not let even Mr. Woolsey, who continues
to have the highest of security clearances, see the data. I.N.S. officials later
termed this a mistake and declassified nearly three-quarters of the material and
provided unclassified summaries of the rest.

"It was stunning," Mr. Woolsey said in a telephone interview. Although he did
not provide copies of the files, he said that much of the so-called secret data
turned out to be vague suspicions, some the result of lies prompted by
jealousies among the exiles, and some mistakes in translation during Federal
Bureau of Investigation interviews of the exiles.

"This is something that would have been entirely appropriate in Iraq," Mr.
Woolsey said. "But it is an outrage for the United States."

Noel J. Saleh, a Detroit immigration lawyer, said that his experience was
reminiscent of Alice "going through the looking glass." His client, Imad Hamad,
a 35-year-old social worker from Detroit who has lived in the United States
since 1980 and is married to a citizen, had to battle repeated efforts by
immigration officials to keep him from getting permanent residency.

Starting with immigration court hearings in 1989, the I.N.S. began brandishing
F.B.I. reports and photographs of Mr. Hamad participating in demonstrations and
fund-raising events for local Arab-American groups and suggesting that he was a
member of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine. But none of the
proceedings, which continued off and on through 1993, resulted in a final
deportation order.

Then, earlier this year, I.N.S. officials said that they had secret evidence,
which they withheld from from Mr. Hamad and his lawyer. But the immigration
court judge, who was shown the information, dismissed it and granted Mr. Hamad
permanent resident status. The I.N.S. is appealing this ruling, but in June they
declassified much of the secret evidence that they sought to use to bar Mr.
Hamad.

"The things they said were secret evidence turned out to be the same
declassified stuff we saw from the F.B.I. back in the 1989 hearing," said Mr.
Saleh. "What was declassified should never have been classified in the first
place."

Myron Marlin, a Justice Department spokesman, said that the courts have allowed
the use of secret evidence because they consider grants of political asylum and
other efforts for noncitizens as "discretionary benefits and extraordinary acts
of sovereign generosity."

They are not rights, he said, and because they are discretionary, national
security or other considerations can be brought to bear. The result is that in
certain immigration proceedings, noncitizens are not guaranteed the due process
that they would be in criminal cases.

Although the courts have upheld the use of secret evidence, the Justice
Department, which oversees the I.N.S. and the Executive Office of Immigration
Review whose 200 judges hear most immigration cases, has recently acknowledged
that some changes may be in order.

In meetings in June with a group complaining about the use of secret evidence,
Deputy Attorney General Eric Holder said that his office would start reviewing
all material used as secret evidence in immigration cases. He also said the
Justice Department would re-evaluate the classified nature of some of the
allegations in the pending 25 cases and make it a practice to provide lawyers
and their clients with declassified summaries of the classified data.

In addition, two United States Senators are voicing concern because all of the
current cases using secret evidence are against people of Arab descent or
Muslims.

In a letter last week to Attorney General Janet Reno and Immigration and
Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris Meissner, the two Senators -- Spencer
Abraham of Michigan, the Republican chairman of the subcommittee on immigration,
and Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, the ranking Democrat on the subcommittee
-- said they had "grave concerns" about the fairness and due process issues
raised by the use of secret evidence.

"Some also believe that the recent actions create the appearance that the I.N.S.
may be using secret evidence only in cases against Arab immigrants," the letter
said. "This is especially disturbing since many of these cases appear to be
based not on any actions of the immigrants, but rather on their purported
associations."

The Senate subcommittee is scheduled to have hearings next month on the I.N.S.
and its detention practices.

Louis M. Bograd, head of the prison project of the American Civil Liberties
Union and member of the group that met with Mr. Holder, the National Coalition
to Protect Political Freedoms, said that the 1996 Anti-Terrorism and Effective
Death Penalty Act authorized the establishment of a new judicial arm called
"alien terrorist removal courts," which would be empowered to use secret
evidence to deport suspected terrorists.

But those courts, which have yet to be established, would allow lawyers with
security clearances to view the secret evidence and permit judges to order
fuller declassified summaries that could be seen by the immigrant.

"We don't think these protections are adequate, but they are certainly better
than what I.N.S. is now providing when it comes to secret evidence," said Mr.
Bograd, who represents Nasser Ahmed, a Brooklyn man who has been held in prison
for 27 months largely because of secret evidence. "If the Government can use
secret evidence against resident aliens, then there is no real constitutional
impediment to using it against citizens."

Mr. Woolsey disagreed somewhat, saying that there were situations in which
secret evidence could be used, but only with "strict safeguards."

"I am not opposed to it completely as long as there are procedures to share the
information with counsel who have security clearances," he said.

This might help find problem cases, such as those of people with ulterior
motives making charges under the cover of secrecy.

Hany Kiareldeen, a 30-year-old manager of a Passaic, N.J., electronics store who
has been in the United States since 1990 and has spent five months in the Mercer
County Jail, says that his is such a case. A declassified summary of the
allegations against him that was given to his lawyer last April said that
unnamed informants accused him of making "a credible threat" on the life of Ms.
Reno in conversations and of meeting with Nidal A. Ayyad, one of the convicted
World Trade Center bombers, a week before the explosion at the building in 1993.

Edward G. Shulman, the lawyer who is fighting I.N.S. efforts to deport Mr.
Kiareldeen to his native Gaza, said that he and his client, who denies making
any threats or even knowing Mr. Ayyad, suspect that the secret evidence came
from his former wife, who, the lawyer said, had a history of vindictiveness even
before the couple's bitter divorce a year ago.

During a deportation hearing this week in Immigration Court in Newark, I.N.S.
lawyers expressed concern that opening the hearing to the public and allowing
Mr. Shulman to ask certain questions of some witnesses could reveal the identity
of and jeopardize the safety of a secret informer who they said had received
death threats.

Mr. Kiareldeen's former wife, Amal Mohamed, was called to the stand to testify.
She balked at answering questions about contacts she had had with the F.B.I. in
the case, saying that it was her life that had been threatened by some unknown
forces. The case was adjourned until Sept. 18 and Mr. Kiareldeen was returned to
a prison cell while his lawyers sought an order from a Federal judge to compel
Ms. Mohamed to testify.

"It's like we don't know who we are fighting," said Ms. Maksoud, referring to
the cases of Mr. Kiareldeen and other immigrants. "It's mind-boggling."

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hany Kiareldeen, a Palestinian, has been jailed since March
because of secret evidence. "It's Kafkaesque," said a former Director of Central
Intelligence, R. James Woolsey Jr., left, of the use of secret evidence in
immigration cases. He and Ahmad Chalabi, head of an Iraqi opposition group,
discussed in March the case of six Iraqi exiles facing deportation. (Agence
France-Presse)(pg. A11)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 18, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Israel and Palestinians Are Right Not to Trust

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 186 words



To the Editor:

Your Aug. 15 front-page article on the United States Government's disturbing
pattern of using secret evidence against Arab and Muslim immigrants suggested
that the practice has been upheld by the courts for 40 years. In fact, the only
two times in the last decade that the Immigration and Naturalization Service's
use of secret evidence has been challenged in the Federal courts, the courts
held that it violated due process.

In a 1988 case, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit said that it is virtually impossible to defend oneself against secret
evidence and compared the illegal immigrant's prospects to those of Joseph K. in
Franz Kafka's "Trial."

Moreover, in many of the cases pending today, the immigration service is using
secret evidence to lock illegal immigrants up, without charges of any criminal
wrongdoing, sometimes for years at a time. It does so despite the absence of any
law or regulation authorizing it to do so.

DAVID COLE
Washington, Aug. 15, 1998

The writer is a professor at Georgetown University Law Center.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 18, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Man Says He Never Hid His Past at Nazi Camp

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 636 words


Jack Reimer, the retired businessman who is accused of participating in Nazi
atrocities and then concealing his actions to immigrate to the United States,
testified yesterday in Federal court that he had never hidden the fact that he
had worked in the Trawniki concentration camp in Poland.

"I did not conceal anything," said Mr. Reimer, 79, a thin white-haired man who
maintains he was not a Nazi but a Soviet Army lieutenant captured by the Germans
in the early days of the war and then plucked from the misery of his
prisoner-of-war camp to work as a bookkeeper for his German captors.

The Justice Department has charged that at Trawniki, which was a training camp
for Nazi troops as well as a place of forced labor and random death for its
Jewish inmates, Mr. Reimer was a decorated officer who took part in mass murders
there and helped in the liquidation of Jewish ghettos elsewhere in Poland.

The problem for Mr. Reimer -- and for the Justice Department lawyers who want
his United States citizenship revoked -- is that he gave various accounts of his
wartime experience during questioning over the last 47 years.

In his three days of testimony before Judge Lawrence M. McKenna of United States
District Court in Manhattan, Mr. Reimer insisted he was a mere clerk with no
military duties and no role in Nazi persecutions.

Mr. Reimer, who was born in Ukraine, applied for a visa to the United States in
1951, after working for several years for the American Red Cross as a driver in
postwar Germany. He has testified that he does not remember much of what he told
investigators in Germany who were charged with weeding out Nazis and their
collaborators among the visa applicants.

The documents are contradictory. At least one report from that period shows that
he said he was a prisoner of war at Trawniki and worked there as a clerk,
according to his lawyer, Ramsey Clark. Another, based on his statements to the
investigators, does not mention Trawniki.

The more current record is just as ambiguous. Mr. Reimer testified that he did
not hide his past in interviews with the Justice Department in 1980, when he was
questioned as a possible witness in proceedings against another Nazi war crimes
suspect, John Demjanjuk, a retired Cleveland autoworker. Mr. Reimer said he did
not know Mr. Demjanjuk and was sent home.

In 1992, the Justice Department contacted him again. At that interview, Mr.
Reimer agreed with the investigators that he had concealed parts of his past. In
his testimony yesterday, however, he said he did so because he was confused and
flustered. "I had forgotten what I put in my visa application to come to this
country," Mr. Reimer said. "I believed what they told me."

He added that his interrogators "put words in my mouth."

Government lawyers will start their cross-examination of Mr. Reimer today.

At the proceedings, Mr. Reimer has alternated between tears and impassive
silence, though in a few recent asides on the stand he has also shown an edge of
irritation. Indeed, the passions provoked by the proceeding -- the retelling of
a terrible history and the anguish of its witnesses -- are never far from the
surface.

When the pastor of Mr. Reimer's church testified on his behalf yesterday,
neither the name nor the location of the church was revealed. By agreement of
all the parties, said Mr. Clark, the addresses of people sympathetic to Mr.
Reimer are being kept secret to prevent them becoming targets for people hostile
to him.

Only 45 minutes earlier, in the cafeteria of the courthouse, an elderly
Holocaust survivor walked up to Mr. Reimer and loudly accused him of murder. "A
monster, sitting here and eating with human people," the man said in a trembling
voice.

Mr. Reimer's only response was to shake his head vigorously in denial.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 19, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

India Taps Into Its Diaspora;
Expatriates Buy Bonds for Love of Country, and 7.75% Interest

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1461 words


They were plied with platters of hot kebabs and glasses of Johnnie Walker and
served platitudes about the prosperity of Indian immigrants in the United
States. Then, the doctors, diamond merchants and sundry other deep-pocketed
Indian-Americans who filled a room at the midtown Manhattan restaurant Shaan the
other night were delivered a remarkably simple pitch: Make money. Help the
motherland.

For the last couple of weeks, in an effort to raise at least $2 billion through
a Government-guaranteed bond offering, officials of the State Bank of India have
been making similar offers all over Indian New York.

They have invited small clutches of Indian-American doctors to the bank's Park
Avenue offices. They have blitzed the local Indian media with advertisements
("You don't need to be a financial wizard," says one such ad. "You need to be an
Indian.") and set up booths at shopping strips and at last Sunday's India Day
Parade. They have even assembled movers and shakers from among New York's Indian
immigrants -- whose numbers are estimated at about 200,000 -- under the watchful
eyes of the gods at one of the largest Hindu temples in Queens.

The Indian Government has been trying for several years to raise foreign
investment from its expatriates -- Non-Resident Indians, they are called, or
less flatteringly in India, Never-Returning Indians. The latest effort, however,
is its most ambitious. As Western aid begins to shrink in the aftermath of New
Delhi's recent nuclear escapades, the Resurgent India Bonds, as they have been
dubbed, represent an effort by India's Hindu nationalist Government to
compensate by turning to the expatriates among whom it has long enjoyed
considerable support.

In doing so, the Government is hoping to cash in on the patriotic fervor among
its departed native sons and daughters -- sentiments that, for many, have only
been intensified by the underground nuclear tests in May. But the investment
plan it has created does not count on patriotism alone. Offered only to overseas
Indians, the Resurgent India Bonds carry handsome returns and are guaranteed by
the Government of India. They illustrate perfectly how the ties between
immigrants and their homeland are exploited for mutual economic gains -- and how
easily immigrant dollars that could be invested in this country are whisked
away.

At the recent dinner meeting at Shaan, N. K. Puri, a State Bank of India
official who had flown in from Bombay, put it this way: "People who have
prospered here," he declared from the podium. "We should try to help the country
come up."

The audience responded with hearty applause. But in the back of the banquet
room, a prominent New York City doctor, who spoke on the condition of anonymity,
smiled knowingly. No amount of patriotic fervor, he said, could compete with the
profitability of these five-year bonds. Their tax benefits are attractive, as is
their 7.75 percent interest rate, 2 percentage points higher than comparable
United States Treasury bonds. The doctor said he had invested what he called a
small amount even though he does not support the nuclear test blasts; he called
the tests "the dumbest thing."

"I'm Indian, I have all good wishes for India," he confided. "But I'm only doing
it because it makes sense to me. They knew nobody would do this if it didn't
make economic sense."

In some ways, this transaction resembles the remittances that immigrants from
all over the world send to their families back home, often just a few dollars a
week saved from their pay. The Resurgent India Bond offering, however, is a
shrewd effort by the Indian Government to tap into the wealthiest corners of its
diaspora. Investors must buy a minimum of $2,000; the average purchase at the
State Bank of India's New York City branch is about $20,000.

The bank did not exactly help its cause when it failed to make applications
available at its New York City branches during the first few days of the
offering, which opened on Aug. 5. Even so, it succeeded in persuading Indians
worldwide to kick in $2 billion in less than two weeks. Now, the bank is hoping
for $3 billion by the time the offering ends Monday.

The idea of the Resurgent India Bonds emerged shortly after the Government led
by the Bharatiya Janata Party, or the B.J.P., detonated five underground nuclear
bombs in a northern desert of Pokhran in May. With the tests, India proclaimed
itself a nuclear nation. It also drew a heap of condemnation and economic
sanctions from the United States and several other Western countries.

By no means did the blasts enjoy universal support among Indians in this
country. Opponents demonstrated against nuclear buildup on the subcontinent and
published protest advertisements in the Indian-American press. Supporters
lobbied members of the United States Congress and pledged to help the homeland.

Indeed, the blasts at Pokhran seemed to offer a peculiar sense of vindication to
some. A few days after the explosions, Arish Sahani, a Queens insurance salesman
and a member of a group called the Overseas Friends of the B.J.P., said the
testing had "boosted the morale of some of the Indians, which has been very
low."

"It makes us feel very good."

Officials in New Delhi rallied citizens at home with patriotic music videos and
turned, with arms outstretched across the oceans, to its sons and daughters
abroad. A month after the blasts, a senior Indian Government official attended a
dinner meeting sponsored by the Overseas Friends of the B.J.P. The official,
Jaswant Singh, urged Indian-Americans to "stand up for India at this critical
hour." Even a small "symbolic" financial contribution, Mr. Singh, the deputy
chairman of India's planning commission, told them, would go a long way.

Early this month, just one day before the world marked the anniversary of the
1945 bombing of Hiroshima, the Resurgent India Bonds went on sale. At the end of
their five-year terms, they can be recouped entirely in dollars; bonds are also
available in British pounds and German marks. The bonds can be purchased at
local branches of the State Bank of India as well as at Citibank branches that
offer Non-Resident Indian services. Government officials say the proceeds are to
be used for the construction of roads, telephone lines and other infrastructure
projects in India.

The bank has not secured the Securities and Exchange Commission's approval for
the sale. Bank officials say they are not required to, and they have not
registered the offering with the agency in Washington. Paul Dudek, the chief of
the agency's office of international corporate finance, declined to comment on
whether the S.E.C. would crack down on the bank, but described an offering of
this magnitude as "rare."

Shortly after the offering was announced, Mukund Patel, a Staten Island surgeon,
met with bank officials in Manhattan. He brought with him a small cadre of
doctors, part of an alumni group from a medical school in his home state of
Gujarat. If the numbers made sense, Dr. Patel said, members of their alumni
group would invest more than $30 million. A larger doctors' group, the American
Association of Physicians from India, would be prepared to pitch in $150
million.

Few among them, however, would be drawn by patriotism alone, Dr. Patel said.
"There is a patriotic feeling, and there is a financial feeling," he explained.
"People who are staunch B.J.P. supporters, they will readily do it. People who
are not will also do it, because of the economic incentives."

Dr. Patel described himself as a little of both. He has belonged to the Overseas
Friends of the B.J.P. since its inception in the early 1980's. He is a firm
backer of India's nuclear arsenal, and he reminds doubters -- among them, his
son, a high school student -- of India's wars with Pakistan. Since the test
bombs, he has appealed to his Congressman to ease up on sanctions, and he speaks
of doing his part to cushion the blow.

But when he talks about investing in the Resurgent India Bonds, it is the 7.75
percent interest rate he points to. A father of three who has lived in this
country for 31 years, Dr. Patel says he is considering an investment, but only
if bank officials offer more detailed assurances that his funds will be returned
in dollars, not in Indian rupees. So far, he said, the numbers look promising,
especially after the recent downturn in the stock market. "This seems to be a
reasonable alternative," he said.

A survey by a weekly Indian newsmagazine, India Today, echoed his sentiments.
When asked why they would invest in India, 27 percent of the magazine's overseas
Indians surveyed said they would do it out of patriotism; 17 percent said they
would if it were "a good deal," and 55 percent said both.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: To raise at least $2 billion through a bond offering, officials
of the State Bank of India have been appealing to Indian-Americans all over New
York, including at the India Day Parade in Manhattan on Sunday. Above, an
advertisement from India Abroad, a weekly newspaper for expatriates. (Frances
Roberts for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 19, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Business Travel;
The I.N.S. is expanding its automated system for clearing travelers into the
United States.

BYLINE: By Jane L. Levere

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 595 words


THE Immigration and Naturalization Service is expanding its automated
immigration inspection system, which speeds up processing time for certain
travelers arriving in the United States from overseas.

The system is currently available at Kennedy International Airport in New York,
Newark International Airport, Miami International Airport and Los Angeles
International Airport, as well as at I.N.S. preclearance sites at Pearson
International Airport in Toronto and Vancouver International Airport in British
Columbia. It will be offered at San Francisco International Airport by early
October, and at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport, Washington Dulles
International Airport and Honolulu International Airport by early 1999.

To use the system -- called the Immigration and Naturalization Service Passenger
Accelerated Service System, or Inspass -- travelers proceed to a special kiosk
upon arrival at the airport and insert their enrollment card. They then place
their hands in a device that reads the geometry of the top of the hand. If their
identity is validated, the kiosk prints an inspection receipt and travelers may
go on their way. According to the I.N.S., the process takes 15 to 20 seconds.

To enroll in the program, travelers must fill out an I.N.S. Form I-823, which
can be obtained from the agency or downloaded from its World Wide Web site
(www.usdoj.gov/ins/ forms). The form and supporting documents must be returned
in person to an airport with a special kiosk; an I.N.S. inspector will then
interview the applicant and obtain a photograph, fingerprints and hand geometry
biometric image, a digital picture of the top of the hand.

Citizens of the United States, Canada and Bermuda can participate in Inspass, as
can people who travel to the United States three or more times a year and are
citizens of the 26 countries that take part in the I.N.S. Visa Waiver Pilot
Program.

Up the River

Virgin Group's Virgin Atlantic is offering free boat service to the City of
London -- the British capital's financial district -- for its first-class
passengers flying into Heathrow Airport. Passengers are transferred by limousine
to Ferry Wharf in Brentwood, where they board a six-passenger boat with
departures timed to incoming flights.

Sailing up the Thames River, the boat leaves passengers at St. Katherine's Dock
in the City; upon request, it can also drop them off at points like Chelsea
Harbor or Canary Wharf. According to the airline, the boat trip from Heathrow to
the City takes one hour; the same trip by car can take more than two hours,
depending on traffic. There is no charge for the boat service.

Virgin Atlantic said it would offer the boat service on a trial basis through
the end of October. If it is popular, the carrier plans to offer a larger boat
that will operate all year.

Tokyo Food Page

Visitors to Tokyo can brush up on dining possibilities there on the Web's Tokyo
Food Page (www.twics.com/robbs/tokyofood.html). The site lists 800 restaurants
by cuisine and neighborhood, and also tells where to buy wine and beer.
Especially valuable for a newcomer to Japanese food is a section on sushi.

Continental Lounges

Continental Airlines has opened its third lounge at Bush Intercontinental
Airport in Houston, on the south side of Terminal C, and relocated its lounge in
Terminal B of Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport. Both lounges have a
conference room, office equipment, private work stations and outlets for
computer hookups; the lounge in Houston also has shower facilities.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 20, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Smuggler of Chinese Immigrants Cites Earlier Trips

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 998 words


Providing the fullest account to date of an operation to smuggle Chinese
immigrants into the United States, a top organizer said yesterday that the
smugglers transported at least 100 people on as many as five voyages from South
America over a year and a half, before bungling the latest trip in May off the
coast of New Jersey.

The smuggler, Nam Jick Cho, 57, was so committed to the enterprise that he said
he often flew to Venezuela and Suriname from his home in Queens to insure that
the Chinese were squeezed aboard the smuggling ship, the Oriental I. When the
ship had mechanical trouble in Bermuda en route to New Jersey, Mr. Cho flew down
carrying new parts. And to prepare for the arrival of the latest group of
immigrants in Belmar, N.J., he paid $7,000 for a van to take the men to a
parking lot in Flushing.

Mr. Cho offered these details and more yesterday in Federal District Court in
Newark during a remarkably candid hearing in which he pleaded guilty to Federal
conspiracy charges in connection with the operation, which came to light when
the Oops II, a smaller boat that had picked up the men from the Oriental I, ran
aground in New Jersey.

Mr. Cho is the second man involved in the Oriental I operation to plead guilty
to conspiracy charges in the last week. Three other men, all crew members aboard
the Oriental I, remain in Government custody, while a fourth -- a Queens
resident named Charng Seon Choi, said to be another top organizer -- remains at
large.

Before yesterday's hearing, some details had emerged about the Oriental I and
the 23 Chinese it unloaded in New Jersey, mainly from a Federal complaint, and
from the Chinese themselves. But Mr. Cho is the first person on the operations
side of the endeavor to discuss what happened and what, ultimately, went wrong
in New Jersey.

"Among the people we have, he is an important one," said Carolyn A. Murray, an
assistant United States attorney. "He was in charge of land operations, so to
speak. He hired some of the others."

Speaking through a Korean interpreter, Mr. Cho said that he had been hired by
Mr. Choi to participate in a smuggling operation that solicited $25,000 to
$40,000 apiece from anyone interested in leaving Fujian Province in southern
China for North America.

In general, the scheme worked like this: First, the smugglers took the
immigrants to Suriname by air or by ship. A man with the surname Chang, based in
South America, arranged housing for the immigrants. Mr. Cho secured the use of
the Oriental I, a 120-foot fishing vessel owned by a Venezuelan company, to
smuggle the immigrants. Then the smugglers directed the Chinese onto a small
boat that, in turn, reconnoitered with the Oriental I about 30 miles off the
Suriname coast.

Each trip would include 20 or so immigrants, Mr. Cho said. And Mr. Cho would
receive a cut of $7,000 from the smuggling fee paid by each immigrant.

In all, the Oriental I made four or five trips to North America between March
1997 and June 1998, Mr. Cho said, including two to the Bahamas and two to the
United States.

It was not clear when or where the Oriental I made its first trip to the United
States; Mr. Cho did not say. But Mr. Cho has also been indicted on similar
charges in United States District Court in Manhattan, Ms. Murray said. In many
cases, the final destination of the immigrants is Chinatown or Flushing, Queens,
where jobs for Chinese are more plentiful.

But the most recent trip of the Oriental I was a little different.

"I got the impression that this trip was more unusual because it came into New
Jersey, and not somewhere in the city," said Sean McGovern, Mr. Cho's lawyer.
"They had presumed that it would be safer to go into New Jersey, with less
chance of being detected by the authorities."

According to Mr. Cho, the Oriental I carried an unusually large load of 50
Chinese immigrants, with scheduled drop-offs in Belmar, N.J., and the Bahamas.
In addition, the ship broke down in Bermuda, requiring Mr. Cho to fly down with
new equipment.

At some point, the other smugglers gave Mr. Cho $35,000 to pay for the van -- on
which the imprint of the previous owner, a Korean church, was still visible --
and other expenses in New Jersey.

On May 29, he traveled to Point Pleasant, N.J., to test out a small powerboat,
the Oops II, in anticipation of picking up the immigrants. On May 30, Mr. Choi
steered the Oops II to meet the Oriental I, about 100 miles offshore, while Mr.
Cho waited in Belmar with the van.

There was dense fog, though, and after picking up the men the Oops II ended up
in the affluent town of Bay Head, eight miles off target to the south. But Mr.
McGovern said that Mr. Cho told him that he simply ran out of gas and drifted
toward shore before dropping the 23 off against a backdrop of mansions.

The Oriental I, meanwhile, chugged on to the Bahamas, dropping off 20 or so more
Chinese before experiencing mechanical difficulties -- again. And on June 8, the
United States Coast Guard found the Oriental I about 195 miles east of San
Salvador Island in the Bahamas.

Yesterday, Mr. Cho said that he felt remorse over his role in the operation, Mr.
McGovern said. In exchange for his cooperation, investigators could pare his
sentence from its of maximum of 10 years in jail and a $250,000 fine.

Last week, Cho Yang Nam, a deckman aboard the Oriental I, pleaded guilty to one
conspiracy charge; he, too, is cooperating with authorities. Three others -- Kim
Jong Che, the captain; Piao Zhen Jia, a cook, and Jiang Yong Zhu, a mechanic --
are expected to go to trial on Nov. 17, their lawyers have said.

As for the 23 Chinese from the Oops II, they remain in Government custody. The
Government expects to begin taking videotaped depositions of some of the 23 men
beginning Monday, Ms. Murray said, meaning that the men should be released on
bond soon.

But that freedom could be brief. All still face deportation proceedings by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: When the Oops II ran aground in Bay Head, N.J., in May, an
immigrant-smuggling operation began to unravel. (Robert Sweeney)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 21, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Afghan and Sudanese Immigrants Doubt Merit of Attacks

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 669 words


Yes, they thought that the embassy bombings in East Africa constituted a crime
of the lowest order. And yes, they thought that Osama bin Laden, a wealthy Saudi
who has publicly threatened a holy war against the United States, came across as
a shady character with an inordinate amount of power.

But in the New York metropolitan region yesterday, immigrants from the Sudan and
Afghanistan reacted to bombings by the United States on their respective
homelands with surprise, horror and skepticism.

Like many others, the immigrants wondered about the timing of the strikes,
suggesting that President Clinton was aiming not so much to punish Mr. bin
Laden, as to divert attention away from the Monica Lewinsky case. But they also
criticized what they said was a foolhardy strategy of going after one man
accused of terrorism by picking on two countries that have been mired in misery
for so long.

"After the floods and the earthquakes and the wars and threats of attacks from
Iran," said Maryam Miazad, an Afghan immigrant living in Westbury, N.Y., "this
was the last thing Afghanistan needed."

Of the two immigrant groups, the Afghans are by far the more numerous and
visible in the New York region. According to official figures, there are more
than 5,000 Afghans in New York City; community leaders, though, say that there
could be as many as 40,000.

Most Afghan-Americans moved to the United States after the Soviet invasion in
the late 1970's and early 80's. It was a tragic time, said Yusuf Mohammed, an
Afghan-American immigrant who lives in New York City. He added that the invasion
was the latest example of Afghanistan suffering at the hands of rapacious
invaders, first with Alexander the Great, then with the Chinese, then with the
British.

Now, said some of the immigrants, come the Americans.

"America is a superpower," said Mr. Mohammed, an employee at the Afghan Kebab
House near Times Square. "The Afghan people don't have food to eat."

Historical indignities aside, many Afghan-Americans said they were irritated,
even dumbfounded, at Washington's strategy for capturing, or killing, Mr. bin
Laden.

"You can't bombard one area, maybe kill hundreds of people, just for one
person," said Mohammed Yusufi, imam of the Afghan Immigrants Islamic Center in
Flushing, Queens.

A number of people questioned Mr. Clinton's motives for the strikes, making the
analogy between the satirical film "Wag the Dog" and the current situation.

"I think what everyone else thinks," said Ms. Miazad. "Monica Lewinsky testified
today, right?"

Even those who were willing to give the United States the benefit of the doubt
said they were disappointed. They said the Taliban, the fundamentalist Muslims
in control of the Kabul government, have yearned for world-stage recognition
from other nations, particularly the United States. So logic suggested that the
United States might have given the Taliban recognition, money and food in
exchange for Mr. bin Laden.

"America could have used diplomacy," said Bashir Saleh, who operates a coffee
cart in Times Square. "But now, America strikes in Afghanistan, and the Taliban
are going to say, 'We're going to defend this guy till our last drop of blood.'
"

Similar words echoed in the Sudanese community in New York: questions of why
now, why at all.

The Sudanese community is a small one in the New York City, said Mustafa Hamad,
an administrator with the Sudan mission to the United Nations, with people
sprinkled throughout the five boroughs and numbering about 2,000.

Some Sudanese said they were particularly concerned about the attack in their
country because it occurred in an industrial area near the capital, Khartoum.
And, as with the Afghans, they were mystified as to the strategy behind it all.

"I think they rushed their decision," said Abdul Almutasum, who works at Sudan
Values, a variety store in Flatbush, Brooklyn. "They didn't think about it. You
have to be a rich country, and we are not. We're just looking for food and
peace."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mohammed Yusufi, top, imam of the Afghan Immigrants Islamic
Center in Flushing, Queens, led prayers yesterday after the air strikes.
(Richard Lee for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 23, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORTS: NORTHERN QUEENS;
Immigrant Steps In to Seek Latino Votes

BYLINE: By EDWARD LEWINE

SECTION: Section 14; Page 10; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 651 words


William H. Salgado sat in his threadbare law office in Jackson Heights earlier
this month and spoke of Queens politics in ethnic terms. Mr. Salgado, 43, a
Colombian immigrant, is challenging Ivan C. Lafayette for the State Assembly
seat in the 34th District, which covers Jackson Heights, Elmhurst and Corona.

"We are similar in our position within the political spectrum," Mr. Salgado said
of Mr. Lafayette, a fellow Democrat who is an 11-term incumbent and the majority
whip of the State Assembly. "But I think I bring an immigrant perspective which
represents an immigrant population."

The conventional wisdom is that Mr. Salgado, a lawyer in private practice who is
the district leader at large for the Queens County Democratic Organization, has
little chance in the Sept. 15 primary. But some say his candidacy represents the
first political stirrings of Latinos in Queens, a borough whose population is
about one-quarter Latino but next year, when Nydia M. Velazquez's Congressional
district is redrawn, may have no Latino representatives in the Federal, State or
city legislatures.

"It may take several elections before someone of Latin ancestry wins," said Luis
A. Miranda, a political consultant who is not working for either candidate in
this race. "But every single candidacy will put a little more into the
development of an Hispanic electorate."

According to research that Mr. Miranda conducted in 1996 using 1990 Census data
and polling done after the 1993 mayoral election, just over half of the
population in the 34th Assembly District is Hispanic. That number is probably
higher now. But because many of these people are not citizens and those who are
frequently don't vote, only one-third of the voters in this year's primary are
expected to be Latino, he said.

"If every registered Latino voter would vote, the numbers aren't there," Mr.
Miranda said of Mr. Salgado's chances.

Mr. Lafayette, who calls himself a "third-generation American" and whose
ancestors came from Austria and Russia, pointed to recent laws he had written
that helped immigrants in housing, education and police protection. The
Assemblyman, who is 68, also said he was angry with Mr. Salgado, whom he knows
through the local Democratic club, for challenging him without a major policy
difference.

"If the guy had a different vision, then I could understand," Mr. Lafayette
said. "But I've determined that his goal is to promote himself."

Mr. Lafayette said he would spend about $25,000 on his campaign. Mr. Salgado
said that he had spent some $14,000 collecting enough signatures to get his name
on the ballot and that he would be raising more money. Above all, he said, he
will be knocking on doors straight through until the election.

Mr. Salgado predicted victory. "A substantial segment of the district feels that
they are abandoned," he said. "My candidacy will give Latino voters a reason to
vote."   EDWARD LEWINE

Chart: "COMPARISON: The Veteran and the Rookie"
Here are the Democratic rivals for the State Assembly seat in the 34th District.
The primary is on Sept. 15.

THE INCUMBENT
Ivan C. Lafayette
68 years old
Married, three children, five grandchildren
Experience: 11 two-year terms in State Assembly; now majority whip
Education: Brooklyn College, no degree
Reason for running: "I have initiated many projects that are coming to a head
now, and I want to shepherd them to conclusion."

THE CHALLENGER
William H. Salgado
43 years old
Married, three children
Experience: 13 years as a lawyer, 10 in private practice; district leader at
large, Queens County Democratic Organization
Education: B.A., Latin American Studies, Columbia College; J.D., Boston College
Reason for running: "I want to bring a new, previously unheard perspective, from
the immigrant community, to Albany."

Map of Queens shows the location of the 34th Assembly District.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 23, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Helping Hispanic Patients In the Mental Health System

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 17; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 290 words



To the Editor:

The cover article "Lost in Translation" (Aug. 2) focused a powerful spotlight on
the host of problems that immigrants have in seeking, and finding, assistance in
our often confusing mental health system. The problem is particularly severe in
New Jersey, where one in every seven residents is foreign-born. It is even worse
for those who don't speak English.

This deplorable situation led us to establish the Hispanic Institute for Applied
Psychology at Montclair State University in 1984. The Institute is committed to
improving access to mental health services for the Latino community. In
conjunction with the psychology department, the institute created a graduate
clinical program for people bilingual in Spanish and English. As part of the
curriculum, students do a two-semester externship working almost exclusively
with Latino patients.

The Hispanic Institute for Applied Psychology also sponsors an annual lecture
series on Hispanic mental health issues, now in its 14th year. In addition, the
institute provides pro-bono consultations to surrounding hospitals, mental
health centers and private practitioners related to the psychological needs of
the Hispanic community. The institute is committed to addressing and
ameliorating the psychological pain caused by a mental health system that does
not address the needs of Latinos. We believe that the Hispanic Institute for
Applied Psychology has made and will continue to make a difference. We hope that
other similar programs will develop throughout the state to address this serious
situation.

ROBERT D. McCORMICK, Ph.D.
Montclair

The writer is director of the Hispanic Institute for Applied Psychology at
Montclair State University.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 25, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Queens Building Is El Salvador Norte;
Immigrants Seeking a New Life Stay in Touch at 'the Embassy'

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1483 words


Even before Rosa M. Talavera left her home in El Salvador nine years ago, she
knew exactly where she would live once she arrived in New York City: with
relatives in a tiny apartment in a red brick building in Jamaica, Queens.

The names of her new neighborhood sounded exotic to the 17-year-old Rosa:
Jamaica called to mind tropical images, while Queens sounded grand and
sophisticated. And while the apartment itself was a drab place to stay during a
cold, cruel winter, the building, at 88-15 168th Street, had become a home away
from home for hundreds of people like her, Salvadorans who had fled their
country's civil war in the 1980's.

"It was as if the entire town had moved here," Ms. Talavera said. "I was
surprised to find here people I grew up with. It seemed like home, in a way."

So many Salvadorans were living in the building at the time that people began
calling it "la embajada" -- the embassy. To this day, even as Salvadorans have
increasingly joined the mainstream of American life, some venturing to the
suburbs, the building remains the place where Salvadorans in the city get the
latest news from home. It is also where neighbors can take medicines and toys to
be sent to the children left behind, or just a place to talk with someone who
knows what it is like to find the body of a loved one hanging from a mango tree
in the front yard, a victim of a war that lasted a dozen years and killed 75,000
people.

The building has kept its central role even as the needs of many Salvadorans
have changed. No longer a newly arrived immigrant group, they are an entrenched
presence in New York and, with the Salvadoran civil war over for six years now,
their focus has shifted from surviving in a foreign country to striving for the
American dream.

These days, the thoughts of many Salvadoran immigrants turn to issues that
directly affect their lives in the city: what school to send the children to,
and when to start teaching them English; where to find good-paying jobs; whom to
trust with the care of their children, and how to solve immigration issues.

Yet, with few exceptions, the longtime Salvadoran tenants of "the embassy" have
chosen to stay put in their small apartments, adding a wall here and an extra
bed there to accommodate growing families. In some cases, three generations live
under the same roof, with the grandparents sleeping behind a crude partition,
while younger couples occupy the one bedroom and everyone else sleeps in the
living room.

Despite a lack of privacy, dark hallways and linoleum floors, Salvadorans have
stayed in the building because "the embassy" still serves their needs, as it has
for 15 years.

By opening their front door, they are immediately connected to the Salvadoran
community. Longtime tenants know who came from where and when, who is sick or
ailing, who can baby-sit at night and who is in trouble with the law. They are
comfortable with one another and with the building, which is large by Jamaica
standards, with nine floors and 190 apartments.

Ms. Talavera, who once moved away, returned to the building three years ago
because she trusts the care of her children to Delia Avila, a woman who lives in
Apartment 2G and who, on any given day, has a handful of the building's children
under her watchful eye. Now 26 and pregnant with her third child, Ms. Talavera
does not think she will be moving soon, even though she shares her one-bedroom
apartment with her husband, her two children and two cousins who help them pay
the $860 rent.

Jose and Maria Teresa Escobar have stayed for 13 years because, when she is not
working outside the home, she baby-sits the children of working mothers in the
building.  When she works outside her home, she relies on neighbors to care for
her 3-year-old daughter, Wendy.

Carlota Cisneros, her husband, Juan Morales, and their four daughters and one
grandson stay in a one-bedroom apartment because the subways are nearby, as are
factories and restaurants. And Olga and Manuel Gutierrez stay because
supermarkets and churches are within walking distance and because the landlord
allows late rent payments.

"I guess we could go someplace else, but why?" said Mrs. Gutierrez, 39, who has
lived in different apartments in the same building for 10 years. She now lives
in a one-bedroom apartment with her husband, their three teen-agers and a
brother-in-law.

The Gutierrez family can barely come up with enough money every month to pay the
rent, $860. She receives minimum wages at a nearby factory and sells women's
clothing door to door. Her husband, who lost an arm in a farming accident as a
teen-ager, gets by on odd jobs. Still, she says, her life is much better than in
the country she left behind.

"At least here we don't depend on the land," said Mrs. Gutierrez, who used to
help her husband plant beans, corn and tomatoes to feed their children. "Here we
go to the supermarket, and there is always food and the children can go to
school and better themselves. Our sacrifices are all for them."

Sacrifice may be the most used word among Salvadorans in this building. Whenever
a door is opened, after an initial period of mistrust and awkward greetings, a
sad story of pain and sacrifice often emerges.

"We are the transitional generation," said Jose Escobar, 38, who left his
parents in El Salvador and is raising his children in New York. "We are sad
because we are separated from our families, but we help them by sending money.
At the same time, we have to stay positive and work hard for the future of our
children here."

Mr. Escobar has lived in the building for 14 years. He shares a one-bedroom
apartment with his wife, his daughter, his sister and her husband. Mr. Escobar
and his brother-in-law, Samuel Zaldana, have worked for the same construction
company for more than a decade. They rarely make more than $300 a week each.
That they communicate in Spanish annoys their boss, and their co-workers turn
their radio off when they listen to a Spanish station.

"The situation is intolerable," Mr. Zaldana, 33, said. "We sometimes dream that
the street out there is a river and that we cross it and our country is there,
but it isn't."

Mr. Zaldana and Mr. Escobar are two of a handful of tenants in the building who
in recent months have begun to organize politically, hoping to educate
themselves about the ways of the United States and to educate New Yorkers about
them.

Two months ago, they joined a group of Salvadorans led by Miguel Ramirez who
created a community organization in Jamaica, Queens, called El Centro Hispano
Cuzcatlan, which has been lobbying to get Salvadorans resident-immigrant status.

Most Salvadorans who came to the United States illegally during the war years
have not been able to receive the so-called green card that confers residency
status or the political asylum many have applied for. Without a green card,
immigrants cannot become naturalized citizens and cannot travel abroad and
return to the United States without a special permit. They also do not qualify
for most forms of aid, including financial aid for college.

Carlota Cisneros, who lives on the third floor of "the embassy," says a green
card is crucial for the future of her family. Two of her daughters have not been
able to finish their college education because, being ineligible to apply for
financial aid, they have had to work full time to pay for their careers. Milly,
22, wants to be a bilingual teacher. Sonia, 20, is studying tourism.

Ms. Cisneros and her husband are legal residents. Their youngest daughter, 9,
was born in the United States, and so was a 1-year-old grandchild, the son of
their 22-year-old daughter, a single mother. The family lives together in a
one-bedroom apartment. The couple share a bed behind a partition in the living
room, while the daughters and the baby sleep together in the bedroom.

"My youngest daughter asks me all the time, 'Mami, when are we leaving this
place?' Ms. Cisneros, 51, said. "But I tell her I don't have wings."

She says she often dreams of moving to a house in Long Island, where many
Salvadorans live. She imagines the comfort of an extra bedroom, and a flower
garden in the front yard. But she knows she cannot yet afford that dream, so the
family stays put in "the embassy."

On the eighth floor, Mr. Zaldana, who builds homes on Long Island that he says
he will never be able to afford, does not seem to have any dreams left. Having
just returned from El Salvador for the funeral of his father-in-law, he is
beginning to wonder what is the point of trying so hard to get a green card.

"If they don't want us here, why stay?" Mr. Zaldana says, almost to himself. His
wife, Elena Chavez, and her brother, Jose Escobar, nod. But Mr. Escobar's wife,
Maria Teresa, who lost her mother and her home during the war, remains quiet,
their 3-year-old American-born daughter on her lap.


LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jose Escobar with his wife, Maria Teresa, and their daughter,
Wendy. A sister-in-law, Elena Chavez, prepared dinner. The apartment building
Salvadorans call "the embassy" in Jamaica, Queens. (Photographs by J. Emilio
Flores/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Manuel Gutierrez, a resident of "the
embassy" in Jamaica, Queens, who lost an arm in a farming accident as a
teen-ager, gets by on odd jobs. He is surrounded by pictures of family in the
United States and El Salvador. (J. Emilio Flores/The New York Times)(pg. B3)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 27, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Asbestos Puts 400,000 Files For Immigrants Out of Reach

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1137 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Aug. 26


Annie Ceballos struggled as she searched for the right English words to describe
her yearlong problem in getting Immigration and Naturalization Service officials
to act on the residency application of her 18-year-old son, who is back home in
Chile.

"I don't know, but there is something poison inside the I.N.S.," she said.

Even in the best of times, the immigration service is plagued with delays. But
since April, about 400,000 files have been out of the reach of agency employees
because they are in a 16th-floor records room here that became contaminated with
asbestos after water leaked through ceiling tiles.

Andrea Quarantillo, the district director for the immigration service's office
here, confirmed the "unique situation," saying that many of the agency's most
significant functions could not be performed. "Individuals will be disadvantaged
because of this problem and will have to wait a little longer than usual," she
said. "Every one of those 400,000 files is someone's life, and we know it is
hurting people that we can't get to them. But at the same time, we can't deport
someone without those files, either."

It will probably be November before the agency finally begins to clean up the
asbestos on the top floor of the Peter Rodino Federal Building here. In the
meantime, Ms. Quarantillo said, the agency will create a priority list that will
allow cleanup workers to retrieve, clean off and forward to immigration
officials the files of those who have been waiting the longest for action on
their cases.

The asbestos contamination has not been a secret, immigration lawyers and
advocacy groups say. Notices have been put up at the building that somewhat
euphemistically refer to "an environmental problem" that is causing some delays
in retrieving files. But most people facing delays were never told that their
records were temporarily adrift in a sea of asbestos contamination and out of
reach.

According to some of their lawyers, most people are simply told that their file
is "on the shelf" -- meaning in the records room.  It is a phrase, they said,
that is immigration service's equivalent of "the check is in the mail."

"They acknowledge there there is an asbestos problem," said Robert Frank, an
immigration lawyer here who is head of the New Jersey Chapter of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association. "But only once in a while do they acknowledge
it in a specific case. It all depends on who you are speaking to."

In the meantime, Mrs. Ceballos, a night clerk at the Federal Express depot at
Newark International Airport, and her husband, Jose, a mechanic for a garage in
Roselle Park, N.J., have not seen their son Rodrigo for two years. Almost
weekly, relatives have taken him to the United States Embassy in Santiago for
the interview that is required to get permission to come to the United States,
but each time the consular officers have told them that the I.N.S. records
detailing his parents' legal status as permanent residents with green cards and
jobs have not arrived.

"I am very upset," Mrs. Ceballos said.  "He is living with family, but not with
his family. And my lawyer and the embassy and I can't do nothing because there
is poison in the office."

For years, the General Services Administration, which manages Federal offices,
has known about the asbestos insulation in the ceiling of the top floor of the
36-year-old Rodino building. As long as it was contained, it presented no health
hazard. But last spring, Ms. Quarantillo said, heavy rain damaged the building's
flat roof, causing leaks that loosened ceiling tiles and breached the
containment.

The problems surfaced in March, but no asbestos contamination was found at
first. A month later, however, contamination was found in Ms. Quarantillo's
office and the offices of other staff members.

At the time, the problem did not involve the records room, but it was placed off
limits as a precaution.  Workers were moved from the area to temporary quarters
while a cleanup was arranged, and they expected to return in June.

But Environmental Protection Agency inspections of the floor found that a more
extensive cleanup was needed, especially in the records room. Mary Mears, a
spokeswoman for the cleanup agency's regional office, said that the agency would
generally require cleanup by a company certified to handle asbestos.  Asbestos
is carefully regulated because its fibers, once embedded in human lungs, can
cause respiratory problems, including lung cancer.

The agency has to contract out for the cleanup -- a process that will not be
completed until 30 days from now. Then, Ms. Quarantillo said, the employees of
the cleanup company must go through a background check before they are allowed
near the confidential records that contain personal data that cannot by law be
released and, in some cases, top-secret data related to national security. "We
would be operating under a cloud for the rest of my life if there was any
thought that those files had been compromised," Ms. Quarantillo said.

She said that it was the agency's hope that the files are packed so tight in
their manila folders that errant particles of asbestos have settled on the
outsides of the files, but not between the pages. The "worst case scenario," she
said, was "that we would have to take out every single piece of paper and vacuum
it."

"It's a huge workload," she said.

Because the files are so vital to the agency's basic working, Dianet Cardenas
wonders why there were no duplicate files or a fallback system to handle the
agency's workload.

Mrs. Cardenas's husband, Alvaro, a native of Colombia, voluntarily left the
United States and his job as a supervisor in a plastics factory here last
December, to allow the agency to go through the process of confirming his
marriage so that he could return to the United States legally as a permanent
resident married to a citizen. "It seems to me that you have to look at the big
picture if you have a department that is so vital so that they can continue to
function," Mrs. Cardenas said. "It's just poor planning. They make you feel like
they don't care, while my life is being postponed for three, four months at a
time. After a while, you start losing faith in the system."

Ms. Quarantillo said that while she sympathized with those in Mrs. Cardenas's
and Mrs. Ceballos's position, there was little she could do short of
jeopardizing the health of workers in the service's sixth-largest office --
something that by law she could not do.

Meanwhile, she said that for the most part, work on new cases was moving
efficiently. Staff members are also continuing, she said, to whittle away at the
60,000 immigration cases that are as much as 14 months behind schedule and the
30,000 adjustment-in-status cases that are as much as 10 months behind schedule.


LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Annie Ceballos is waiting for her son to receive permission to
immigrate. (Susan B. Markisz for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 30, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

PLAYING IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD: BATTERY PARK;
Russian Jews Celebrate Life In a Cultural Festival for All

SECTION: Section 14; Page 12; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 194 words


FOR the last 25 years, Jews have been immigrating to New York in significant
numbers from Russia and the former Soviet Union, and bringing the city a
fascinating infusion of culture.

Various sights, sounds and tastes of that culture will converge on Battery Park
next weekend in the To Life Festival '98, called a Russian Jewish cultural
celebration.

Running next Sunday through Sept. 8, the Labor Day weekend event will feature
free entertainment on three stages, including performances by the Children's
Ballet of Russia (pictured here), the New American Chamber Orchestra and the
Moscow Circus. Russian films will be shown across Bowling Green at the National
Museum of the American Indian. Martial arts and rhythmic gymnastics exhibitions,
roaming musicians and dancers, and food and crafts from the former Soviet
republics will all be on display. The event is sponsored by the New York
Association for New Americans, a nonprofit group that has helped half a million
people from around the world to start anew in the United States.

"To Life Festival '98," Battery Park; 11 A.M. to 9:45 P.M., next Sunday through
Sept. 8; free; (212) 898-7827.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 31, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Man May Have Died Trying to Cross Border

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 167 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Aug. 30


A man found under a tree may be the latest immigrant to die while trying to
cross a rugged, scorching border area, the authorities said.

The 23-year-old man, whose identity was not immediately released, was found in
the shade of the tree at about 2:15 P.M. on Saturday about a half-mile from
State Route 94 in eastern San Diego County, officials said.

The area is between the towns of Campo and Boulevard, not far from the Mexican
border, where temperatures have exceeded 100 degrees over the past several days.

The death appeared to have been caused by "environmental exposure," but an
autopsy was planned, the county medical examiner's office said in a
tape-recorded statement.

The man was discovered by Federal Border Patrol agents, and the authorities said
he may have been trying to cross the border illegally.

More than 90 people have died after crossing from Mexico into San Diego and
Imperial Counties this year. Many were victims of drowning or exposure to
extreme heat or cold.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 10, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Chinese Man's Release Ends A 5-Year Tale of Misfortune

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 748 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH, N.J., Sept. 9


In a reversal of fortune worthy of a Chinese poem about faith and perseverance,
a Chinese man who had tried twice in the last five years to sneak into the
United States walked out of an immigration jail a free man today after being
cleared by officials to remain in this country indefinitely.

The release of Wang Wu Dong culminates a roller-coaster existence for a man
whose attempts to abandon a life as a farmer in southern China for a chance at
an uncertain existence in the United States cast a raw light on the flourishing,
and perilous, criminal enterprise of smuggling people from China.

In 1993, Mr. Wang was a passenger on the Golden Venture, a freighter crammed
with 286 illegal Chinese immigrants that ran aground in Queens. Mr. Wang was
caught but failed to win asylum, and was deported only months before Congress
passed a law in 1996 that would have improved his chances for asylum.

In May, mr. Wang was aboard the ill-fated Oops II, a powerboat that carried 23
illegal Chinese immigrants and landed in a dense fog in an affluent town on the
New Jersey shore. At first, the Immigration and Naturalization Service suggested
that Mr. Wang, now in his mid-40's, was likely to be deported again under a 1996
law that allows for the deportation of any illegal immigrant who had previously
been deported.

But a few weeks ago, a Federal judge in Newark granted Mr. Wang "withholding"
status, a rarely invoked designation that allows illegal immigrants to live and
work in the United States indefinitely without ever having an opportunity to
become a full-fledged resident.

This afternoon, after immigration officials completed the paperwork, Mr. Wang
was released from the custody of the Federal Government -- for good. "I am very
happy to be released," said a laconic Mr. Wang, who looked tired and gaunt, with
bloodshot eyes. He declined to say much else, only that he planned to stay, for
now, with his sister in Delaware. "I miss my sister," he added.

Mr. Wang's release coincides with the end of an important phase of the Federal
Government's investigation into what officials described as an international
smuggling operation that demanded as much as $40,000 from anyone interested in
leaving Fujian Province for the United States, via South America.

After the 23 illegal immigrants from the Oops II were seized in Bay Head, N.J.
on May 30, they were held at the Elizabeth Detention Center.  And in July, two
immigration judges released the 23 on bond, pending asylum and deportation
hearings.

But the 23 were immediately rearrested by Federal authorities as witnesses in
the Federal investigation, which has resulted in several indictments so far.

Last week, Federal prosecutors took depositions from some of the 23 and returned
the men to the I.N.S. so they could be released on bond. In addition to Mr.
Wang, four illegal immigrants have been released so far, while the others are
expected to be released by the end of this week, according to immigration
officials.

But Mr. Wang's case has attracted the most attention because of his repeat
trips.

The first time, Mr. Wang spent three years in an immigration jail in York, Pa.,
claiming that his wife had been sterilized for violating China's one-child
policy. But he became increasingly disillusioned and asked to be sent back to
China just before a new law was passed that stipulated that opposition to the
one-child policy was a potential reason for asylum.

This time, Mr. Wang got the benefit of the doubt, with a withholding status that
confers limited freedom. He can work and live anywhere and does not have to
report to immigration officials. But he cannot sponsor any family members as
immigrants, cannot become a permanent resident and cannot leave the United
States -- even for a vacation -- without forfeiting his right to remain here.

"It's legal, but it doesn't give him a whole lot of benefits," said Amy Otten, a
spokeswoman for the Eastern regional office of the I.N.S. in St. Albans, Vt.

Today, Mr. Wang needed the assistance of immigration lawyers and visitors to
call his relatives in Delaware and his lawyer in New York. He said he had lost
weight and that his few possessions -- his identification, his wallet, his watch
-- were still being held by Federal marshals.

But at 7 P.M., a livery driver named Mr. Cui arrived, carrying a sign that read
"Mr. Wang Wu Dong" in Chinese. Mr. Cui asked if Mr. Wang was ready to leave, and
Mr. Wang, sighing, smiling, nodded yes.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Chinese immigrant, Wang Wu Dong, left, after his release from
an immigration jail yesterday. (Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 10, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Report Says Immigrants Are Jailed With Convicts

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 752 words


Thousands of immigrants and political refugees are in United States jails, mixed
with criminals and often treated as such, because the Immigration and
Naturalization Service has no other place to hold them while they await
deportation or a determination of their immigration status, according to a human
rights report released yesterday.

The scathing report by Human Rights Watch also found that friction between
detainees and jail officials had led to riots, escapes, beatings and, on several
occasions, the conviction of jailers who had abused detainees to the point of
violating their civil rights.

Human Rights Watch researchers, who visited 14 jails and communicated with
hundreds of detainees over 18 months, say the I.N.S. is to blame for the
conditions because, in its desperate search for places to hold immigrants, the
agency ships them to city and county jails over which it has no control.

The jails visited by the researchers are in Florida, Illinois, Louisiana,
Maryland, Pennsylvania, Texas and Virginia. The report, released in Washington,
found that detainees received poor medical and dental care, had little access to
lawyers and virtually no communication with jailers because of language
barriers.

"The fact that I.N.S. is handing over its administrative duties to facilities
for convicted criminals is unacceptable," said Jennifer Bailey, the report's
author and a research associate in the Washington office of Human Rights Watch.
"It's a violation of international standards and a violation of basic human
rights."

Human Rights Watch, a worldwide nonprofit organization, has prepared similar
reports about prisoners in other countries, including Congo, South Africa and
Turkey.

In a statement issued yesterday, Doris M. Meissner, the I.N.S. Commissioner
welcomed the group's recommendations, mainly to separate detained immigrants
from criminals and to stop detaining people seeking asylum, but she emphasized
that her agency was already monitoring the local jails it uses for detainees.

"If a facility does not meet our standards and does not take necessary
corrective action, we will not use it," Mrs. Meissner wrote.

Her statement did not address the incidents of violence in the report.

Russell A. Bergeron Jr., a spokesman for the I.N.S., said the agency was
detaining 16,000 men and women. Of those, 11,000 are in local jails, while the
rest are in detention sites run by the I.N.S. or in Federal prisons administered
by the Bureau of Prisons.

Human Rights Watch researchers are particularly concerned with the conditions
for immigrants held in local jails. No Federal regulations or laws protect them
there, the report said.

"I.N.S. has failed to provide oversight or insist on humane conditions and
treatment for its detainees, even though many jail officials have repeatedly
said that, in their facilities, immigrants and refugees are treated just as if
they were regular inmates," Ms. Bailey said.

The number of immigrants held by the I.N.S. has increased in the last few years
as the agency has complied with new laws expanding the categories of immigrants
who must be detained upon entry or detained and then deported for crimes
committed in the United States. At the same time, Congress has directed the
agency to acquire more bed space and has allocated money for that. Mr. Bergeron
said the number of beds available has increased 140 percent, from 6,600 in 1995
to 16,000 this month.

Mr. Bergeron said that about 60 percent of the immigrants detained by the agency
at any time were behind bars because they had committed crimes in the United
States and were awaiting deportation. But, he said, 2,600 detainees are in what
the agency calls "long-term detention" because their countries will not take
them or because, as with the case detainees from Cuba and Southeast Asia, no
immigration treaties allow the United States to deport them.

The long years of detention and the uncertainty about when or whether detainees
will be released, coupled with poor treatment in some jails, have recently led
to several violent incidents.

The report said detainees in the Jackson County Jail in Florida had accused jail
officials of administering electric shocks on shackled detainees in July. It
also outlined cases in which nine guards at the Union County Jail in New Jersey
pleaded guilty or were convicted of abusing detainees in 1998 and recent hunger
strikes by detainees across the country to protest poor conditions or
mistreatment.



LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 15, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Man Is Sentenced In Immigrant Case

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 122 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 14


A man convicted of arranging the smuggling of 280 Chinese immigrants on two
crowded fishing boats was sentenced today to three years and nine months in
Federal prison.

Prosecutors described the man, John Luong, 27, of Elk Grove as the leader of a
gang that in 1993 brought the immigrants ashore south of San Francisco. They
were to be taken to New York to work off the price of their passage.

All but 19 of the passengers were captured immediately. The 19 who escaped were
found later in New York, said Steven Gruel, an assistant United States attorney.

The passengers paid $27,000 to $30,000 each for the trip and were expected to
work off the debt in brothels or other gang-run operations in New York, Mr.
Gruel said.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 20, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

174 Chinese Migrants Taken From Boat Seized by the U.S.

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 442 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Sept. 19


They arrived here weary and frightened after two and a half months at sea. Yet
most of the 174 Chinese migrants are likely to be sent back unless they can
prove legitimate claims for political asylum.

The migrants were taken off a rusty, rat-infested fishing boat by Immigration
and Naturalization Service agents at a San Diego pier on Friday. The 153 men and
21 women had been at sea for 55 days. Thirty-five are juveniles, the youngest
about 13 years old.

"They looked kind of confused, scared," said Bill Strassberger, an immigration
service spokesman.

The migrants planned to enter the United States illegally, through Mexico, the
authorities said. The boat was intercepted three weeks ago about 100 miles off
the northern coast of Mexico.

After negotiations with Mexican authorities stalled, the State Department
decided to bring the boat to San Diego. The main compartment of the 185-foot
boat had filled with water, oil and sewage, said Susan Snyder, a State
Department spokeswoman.

Marched to the end of a pier in groups of about a dozen, the migrants were met
by people dressed in white, synthetic suits, green-tinted face masks and rubber
gloves to protect themselves against contagious diseases.

"From what I understand, there are quite a number of rats on the ship," Mr.
Strassberger said.

About seven people have shown they may have reason to stay in the United States.
Immigration officials said an additional 18 of those aboard could face
prosecution for smuggling.

Ms. Snyder said the migrants had each paid about $30,000 for the journey.

"A lot of times they have to work it off when they get here -- it's like an
indentured servitude," she said.

Sherman Chow, 31, a specialist on Japan and China for the Graduate School of
International Studies at University of California, San Diego, said the capture
likely would not deter future attempts.

Most Chinese migrants have heard of those who "made it big" in the United
States, he said. There is also the draw of technological jobs in Los Angeles and
San Francisco.

"Once they make it here, the smugglers set them up as indentured servants like
in restaurants, the men mostly, and the women, maybe into prostitution," Mr.
Chow said.

"Their idea is: 'Once I pay off my debts, I will be able to go back a rich
person.' "

About a year ago, 69 Chinese immigrants were intercepted in the same area. All
but four were returned to China. Those four were allowed to apply for political
asylum in the United States.

In 1993, more than 650 undocumented Chinese were found on three boats in the
same area. More than 40 smugglers were arrested and most were sent back to
China.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 23, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

For Russian New York, A 'Suburb' Next Door;
Many View Brighton Beach as the 'City,' And Manhattan Beach Is Now Home

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1523 words


Viktor Angurov lives on a leafy street in the affluent Brooklyn neighborhood of
Manhattan Beach, about one mile from his mother's apartment in Brighton Beach.
It is the same one-bedroom apartment they shared after arriving from Moscow in
1979 with two suitcases and $90.

Then, the short distance seemed so far: Brighton Beach was the Russian ghetto,
Brooklyn's Little Odessa, teeming with new immigrants from the Soviet Union,
many of them all but penniless. Manhattan Beach was a quiet, mostly Jewish
enclave of old money and oceanfront houses. To immigrants like Mr. Angurov,
looking up from the bottom of the ladder, Manhattan Beach represented the top.

"Manhattan Beach, in some ways, was a dream destination for us," Mr. Angurov
said. "It was the best of everything in a way."

Now, nearly two decades later, as a steady tide of immigrants from the former
Soviet Union has reshaped much of southern Brooklyn, affluent Manhattan Beach is
fast becoming the Scarsdale of Russian New York. Up and down its shady streets,
Manhattan Beach is rife with construction sites as size 12 houses rise on size 6
lots, many of them with a BMW or a Volvo parked behind a gated driveway. It is
not difficult to pick out the renovated or rebuilt Russian houses; one
non-Russian resident classified the architectural style as "the fortress look."

Not surprisingly, these Russian arrivistes have spawned tensions in both
Manhattan Beach and Brighton Beach. In Manhattan Beach, many older residents
complain that Russian taste is, well, tasteless. They worry that the character
of the neighborhood is endangered. In Brighton Beach, still a commercial hub of
Russian groceries, restaurants and nightclubs, a few civic leaders complain that
they are being abandoned. They want the most affluent Russians to revive
Brighton Beach's own deteriorating housing stock.

But for many Russian immigrants, the boundary between the two communities is
increasingly irrelevant; in what could be called Russian New York, Brighton
Beach is the equivalent of "the city," a place to work or eat or drink.

Once, Brighton Beach's cultural insularity gave security to its struggling
residents. Now, assimilation is not such a dirty word for many younger, more
prosperous Russians. Mr. Angurov, now 45, often eats lunch with his mother in
Brighton Beach. She can speak English but prefers Russian, just as she prefers
the familiarity of Brighton Beach.

"She watches Russian TV, she has Russian food, she buys her food in the Russian
stores," he said.

Mr. Angurov, the owner of a business that sells and repairs electronic pagers,
sees Manhattan Beach as a compromise. He can almost walk to meet his mother, who
prefers the familiarity of Brighton Beach, for lunch. "It's close, but it's not
the same," he said. "It's suburban-type living."

The Russianization of Manhattan Beach is but the latest phase in the creation of
a Russian city within a city in the 1990's. Between 1991 and 1996, Russians were
Brooklyn's fastest-growing immigrant group. During the same period, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service admitted more than 339,000 immigrants to
the United States from the former Soviet Union, many of whom settled in
Brooklyn.

Amid this flow of immigrants, many Russians who had already prospered in
Brooklyn began shopping for their dream house. Some moved to Staten Island or
New Jersey. Others bought old homes in Manhattan Beach. One of the
neighborhood's leading real estate agents, Jon Sobel, said prices now range from
$400,000 to $1.2 million. In the last two years, Mr. Sobel said, nearly two out
of every three buyers have been Russians.

In all, the portion of the neighborhood's population that is Russian is now
estimated at as much as 50 percent, many of them physicians, professionals and
merchants who work in Brighton Beach. A smaller number are "New Russians,"
entrepreneurs who prospered in post-Soviet Russia and have bought a second home
in Manhattan Beach.

Their arrival has not gone unnoticed by longtime residents. "A lot of people
say, 'Look what they have put up,' " said Dana Borell, president of the
Manhattan Beach Community Group, who says she has tried to remain open-minded.
"Aside from the fact that it's very massive, it's not so awful."

Suddenly, though, dull public hearings on proposed zoning variances became
heated battles. Older, established residents lobbied to block expansions and
renovations.

"I think Manhattan Beach is a unique place," said Ruth Freets, speaking
unsuccessfully against an expansion proposal at a public hearing last week, "and
if we build up, out, back and front, it's going to look like a lot of other
places in Brooklyn -- cluttered."

Some new Russian buyers have simply torn down the existing homes and started
over. Huge columned, brick structures seem to be a popular style. Even Mr.
Angurov, laughing gently, concedes that Russian style can be somewhat
flamboyant. "Over there in the Soviet times, everything was drab and colorless,"
he said. "The new styles would come around five years after it left here."

What concerns Mr. Angurov more than any question of esthetics is what he
considers the failure of his fellow Russians to participate in civic affairs in
their new neighborhood.

Many Russians, he said, learned to distrust "volunteering" during the Soviet
era. As a result, he is the only Russian board member of the local civic
association. "I feel that with so many Russians living here," he said, "that's a
shame."

Not everyone is opposed to the Russian look, though. Mr. Sobel said that the new
construction has increased property values in the neighborhood. He said many of
the homes were outdated or suffered from benign disrepair.

"Very showy and ornate," said Harold Weinberg, a Manhattan Beach resident of
nearly three decades, describing the Russian homes. "Somebody is doing a house
on Norfolk Street and Shore Boulevard that looks like a medieval castle. But I
like it! My house is humongous."

Mr. Weinberg is also a City Councilman, and he helped write the little-known
amendment to city zoning codes, passed by the Council in February, that has
helped stimulate the new construction.

Himself a professional engineer who designs houses, Mr. Weinberg pushed through
an amendment that allows owners of detached or semidetached homes to renovate
and enlarge with certain restrictions. Gail Benjamin, director of the city's
land use division, said the amendment applied only to the 5 of the city's 59
community boards that approved it, all of them, like Manhattan Beach, in
Brooklyn.

Mr. Weinberg said large families of Orthodox and Sephardic Jews (who are also
moving to Manhattan Beach) particularly benefited from the zoning change. The
Russians, he said, liked it to accommodate large families, but also for reasons
of style.

For Pat Singer, longtime president of the Brighton Beach Neighborhood
Association, the Manhattan Beach building boom is bittersweet. In Brighton
Beach, the rent-controlled apartments in the six-story apartment buildings
between Brighton Beach Avenue and the boardwalk are filled to capacity, mostly
with Russian retirees. Yet the rows of houses north of Brighton Beach Avenue,
many of them carved into small apartments, attract a more transient, less stable
population, Ms. Singer said.

For more than a decade, Ms. Singer has lobbied for a new waterfront development
on the site of the old Brighton Beach Baths. After several failed proposals,
developers are now presenting plans for a mixed-use development with up to 850
residential units.

"This is the curse of Brighton Beach," she said, pointing to a row of
deteriorating houses on a side street above Brighton Beach Boulevard. "And if
the Russians would come in here and buy these houses, it would be wonderful. But
they're not. They're going to Manhattan Beach. We want to see young families
getting married and buying our housing here."

For Oscar and Ada Kitsis, though, their three-story brick home on Coleridge
Street in Manhattan Beach is the reward for an immigrant odyssey that began in
1976. They had arrived in Rhode Island from Odessa with $60. They eventually
borrowed money and bought an International House of Pancakes franchise, working
18-hour days, sleeping at times in a small second-floor maintenance room.
Successful, they sold and moved to Brooklyn in 1982, operating another
restaurant in Manhattan, then a wholesale foods business before beginning a
construction and home finance company.

Now, they plan to move into their new home in a few weeks. They will live on the
third floor, accessible by an elevator. "There's an elevator because, you know,
I'm not getting any younger," said Mrs. Kitsis, 57. The couple's daughter,
son-in-law and grandchildren will live on the first two floors. In all, there
are 22 rooms and 6 bathrooms spread over 3,600 square feet. They tore down the
previous house.

"Manhattan Beach is a very prestigious location," said Mr. Kitsis, 61, in
accented English. "It's like a village, very quiet. At the same time, 10 blocks
away you have a city." That city, of course, was Brighton Beach, not Manhattan.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 25, 1998, Friday

CORRECTION:

Because of an editing error, an article on Wednesday about Russian immigrants in
the Brooklyn community of Manhattan Beach misstated the position of Harold
Weinberg, a local resident who was involved in amending zoning laws to let some
homeowners enlarge their houses. He is a member of the local community board,
not the City Council.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mr. and Mrs. Kitsis, above, in their new house, which is nearly
finished. It has 22 rooms, and will also be home to their daughter, son-in-law
and grandchildren. Left, construction on Beaumont Street. Large columns, like
these on the house being built for Oscar and Ada Kitsis, are popular among the
Russians moving to Manhattan Beach. The couple had the previous building on the
lot torn down. (pg. B1); Oscar and Ada Kitsis in their sun room. In some
instances, large houses being built in Manhattan Beach have ignited heated
zoning battles. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B8)

Map of southern Brooklyn: Russian immigrants have reshaped much of southern
Brooklyn. (pg. B8)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 25, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 57 words


Because of an editing error, an article on Wednesday about Russian immigrants in
the Brooklyn community of Manhattan Beach misstated the position of Harold
Weinberg, a local resident who was involved in amending zoning laws to let some
homeowners enlarge their houses. He is a member of the local community board,
not the City Council.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 26, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Haitian Immigrants Disagree on Lag in Hurricane Relief

BYLINE: By GARRY PIERRE-PIERRE

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 990 words


Haitian immigrants in New York City are scrambling to put together a relief
effort for Haiti in the aftermath of Hurricane Georges, and some have expressed
dismay at what they see as the slow response of the Giuliani administration to
the devastation there.

But others, including a leader of the Haitian relief effort, said the Haitians
have only themselves to blame for the delay.
 About a dozen Haitian organizations have created the Haiti Disaster Relief
Committee and have set up drop-off sites in Brooklyn, Queens and Manhattan for
people who want to donate money, food, clothing or medical supplies.

Some of the Haitians acknowledged yesterday that they did not act quickly enough
in assessing the damages in Haiti and failed to reach out to city officials
until late this week, after the city had already sent emergency relief to the
Dominican Republic and other islands.

"This challenges us once again to look at the way we operate in the Haitian
community and to do better next time," said Jocelyn McCalla, executive director
of the National Coalition for Haitian Rights and chairman of the ad hoc relief
committee. "We generally do not engage elected or appointed officials on a
consistent basis."

Colleen Roche, the spokeswoman for Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, said that the city
is ready to send emergency supplies as soon as it finds an organization in Haiti
capable of distributing the aid.

"We're trying to guard against the relief aid ending up in the black market,"
Ms. Roche said, adding that the city was prepared to send whatever was needed in
Haiti, including blankets, water and food.

On its destructive path through the northeastern Caribbean, Hurricane Georges
hit the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico the hardest, leaving almost 300
people dead in the Caribbean, including 134 Dominicans.

Leaders of Hispanic civic and business organizations in New York City said that
they did not wait for the city to begin planning a relief effort. When it
appeared that the full force of the storm would hit Puerto Rico and the
Dominican Republic, they reached out to the Mayor's office and created an
emergency plan. New York City dispatched a team of police officers and
firefighters to the Dominican Republic. Similar efforts have been coordinated
for Puerto Rico and other Caribbean nations.

Deputy Mayor Ninfa Segarra said that these relief efforts would be extended to
wherever they were needed. "Certainly, this is not just for Puerto Rico and the
Dominican Republic," Ms. Segarra said. "We've been working with groups from
across the Caribbean."

Haitians said that the hurricane's impact on Haiti was devastating, given that
mountainous country's problems with erosion and its poor infrastructure. In
Haiti, the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere, even routine rainfall can
cause flooding in the capital, Port-au-Prince.

In addition, because of poor roads and communication, scant information is known
about the storm damage and death toll in the northeast and central plateau
regions, which bore the brunt of the hurricane in Haiti. The country's death
toll continues to rise, with 87 people confirmed dead. Haitian government
officials say the death toll could increase further.

According to reports, Port-au-Prince, where roughly two million people live, is
completely flooded. Thousands of people living in Cite Soleil, a teeming seaside
slum, were left homeless when the storm washed away their cardboard homes.
Health officials fear an outbreak of cholera and malaria in a country with poor
sewage systems and a lack of drinkable water.

The relationship between the Giuliani administration and Haitian immigrants was
severely strained after an assault case in August of last year involving a
Haitian immigrant, Abner Louima. Four police officers from the 70th Precinct in
Brooklyn were indicted on Federal civil rights charges in the case, in which
prosecutors say Mr. Louima was beaten and brutalized in the station house.
Haitians organized a march across the Brooklyn Bridge to protest what they saw
as a climate in the Police Department that allowed brutality, and Mr. Giuliani
denounced the march as being anti-police.

Some Haitians said their strained relations with City Hall may have contributed
to the way the city has responded to the disaster in their home country. "In
almost every instance, we're not considered," said Henri Frank, executive
director of the Haitian Centers Council, a group based in Brooklyn. "It seems
that there is favoritism. The other groups make noise, and they get things
done."

Tatiana Wah, the chairwoman of the Haitian American Alliance, a community group,
agreed, saying, "I do think Haitians have been slighted" by Mr. Giuliani's
administration. She added: "He could have rallied the Haitian community. He just
felt that this time he didn't have to."

Georges Bousiquot, a Haitian immigrant and Giuliani supporter who is director of
operations at the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development,
said that Haitians have taken a victim's posture that undermines their potential
political strength and exposes their lack of cohesion.

"We're always bashing Giuliani, and now we want him to come to our aid," Mr.
Bousiquot said. "It doesn't make any sense. Why should he reach out to us?"

When it became clear that Haiti would need considerable help after Hurricane
Georges passed through, few prominent Haitians reached out to the city, many
Haitians conceded.

A system for collecting donations to Haiti is now in place, and the Haiti
Disaster Relief Committee says that people who want to contribute may make
checks or money orders out to the Haiti Relief Fund and send them in care of
Haitian Centers Council, 50 Court Street, Suite 1010, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

"Unfortunately, the Haitians were late in planning for this disaster," Mr.
McCalla said. "Now we have to develop very quick and fruitful relationships."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donations of clothing and other supplies for the hurricane
victims were collected yesterday in a Dominican neighborhood in Washington
Heights. (J. Emilio Flores/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 28, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Federal Agent Kills Man In Incident at Border

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 167 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Sept. 27


A Federal agent killed a man suspected of crossing the border illegally after
the man threatened the agent with a rock, the authorities said today.

The man was shot about 9 P.M. on Saturday near San Ysidro, said a Border Patrol
spokesman, Mario Villarreal.

The man and two others ran from two immigration agents on the United States side
of the border, Mr. Villarreal said. An agent caught one man, another crossed
back into Mexico, and the third straddled a fence at the border, Mr. Villarreal
said.

People on the Mexican side of the border began throwing rocks at the agents, and
the man on the fence jumped down, apparently to aid his friend. The man "came at
the agent with a rock," Mr. Villarreal said, and was shot after refusing an
order to stop and drop the rock.

A different version of events was offered by six witnesses interviewed by
Mexican authorities. The witnesses said the man, Oscar Abel Cordoba Velez, 23,
wasn't carrying anything he could have used to hurt the agent.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 4, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Mayan Immigrants Without Spanish Are in Language Limbo

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 570 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 3


Two by two, a procession of boys in heavy pullovers, or lopils, and girls in
embroidered huipil blouses dance a jaunty dance, their hands clasped behind
their backs, to the tunes of a marimba band. They make their way up the stairs
of a stage at the front of the room, where, finally, a nervous-looking young
girl at the end of the procession ascends in the puffy white dress that is the
traditional clothing of a Mayan bride and is crowned the year's Queen of San
Miguel.

The occasion on this recent Saturday night at Our Lady Queen of Angels Church in
the historic center of downtown Los Angeles is the Fiesta de San Miguel,
honoring the patron saint of the Mayan village of San Miguel Acatan. The 100
families taking part in the festival immigrated to the United States from San
Miguel Acatan.

But under a 1997 law, many of the Mayans here and elsewhere in Southern
California will eventually face interviews that will determine whether they can
stay in the country and apply for permanent residency or be told to return to
their homeland. A little-known language gap -- most Mayans have a limited
command of Spanish -- stands to make that process difficult at best.

About 50,000 Mayans were among 250,000 Central Americans who fled torture, rape
and murder in the 1980's during a civil war in their native Guatemala, and some
20,000 have settled in the Pico-Union and South Central neighborhoods of Los
Angeles and in other Southern California communities.

Guatemala's war formally ended in 1996, but many Mayans are afraid to return to
a country still in turmoil or have come to feel at home in the United States.
Although some people have already gone through the asylum process, immigrant
rights advocates have been feeling a sense of urgency regarding the others
because the interviews under the 1997 law were to begin this month (they have
been delayed).

To help the Mayans stay here, the advocates must first help them overcome a
language barrier: Mayans speak indigenous Indian languages and know only basic
Spanish, not enough to represent themselves adequately in immigration hearings.
(The I.N.S. does not routinely provide interpretation services outside the
world's major languages.)

The misconception that Mayans speak fluent Spanish is frequently furthered by
Mayans themselves. They often go into the proceedings without a lawyer or an
indigenous interpreter, in part because they do not know they can request one
and in part because they do not want to attract attention to their indigenous
heritage, which can be a target for condescension from Latino peers who ridicule
them for being "Indios" or "ignorant." As a result, advocates say, Mayans lose
the vast majority of their immigration cases.

"Most people don't know what the judge says, what the interpreter says, because
the interpretation is English to Spanish, and people don't know what many of the
words mean," said Victor Lopez, the director of the new group, called Maya
Various Interpretations Services and Indigenous Organization Network, or
Mayavision, that was formed to provide interpreters for the Mayans.

Mr. Lopez came to this country in 1981 from Guatemala and started out as a
flower picker in San Diego County, but began providing interpretation services
for his countrymen 14 years ago. The network, which is financed by private
grants, officially began operation in August and has about 35 interpreters.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 13, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Evidence to Deny 6 Iraqis Asylum May Be Weak, Files Show

BYLINE: By JAMES RISEN

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 848 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12


Newly declassified Government documents show that the United States has relied
on weak and unsubstantiated evidence that has never been fully investigated to
detain six Iraqi dissidents who worked with the Central Intelligence Agency
against President Saddam Hussein.

The six have been held for more than a year and a half based on circumstantial
allegations of espionage that the Government has never tried to prove,
declassified Federal Bureau of Investigation interviews and reports and formerly
secret court testimony show.

The Iraqis, removed in August 1996 by the Clinton Administration along with 600
other C.I.A.-supported dissidents and an additional 5,000 Iraqis and Kurds as
Mr. Hussein's forces attacked opposition groups in northern Iraq, have been in
legal limbo in an Immigration and Naturalization Service center in Los Angeles
since early last year.

In March they were denied asylum and ordered deported in a secret hearing in
which they were not allowed to see the evidence, hear the testimony or even know
the charges that were keeping them in custody indefinitely.

Their appeal has forced the Government to declassify much of the evidence in the
case, and those files show that many of the charges stem from unsubstantiated
allegations made to the F.B.I. by rival Iraqis combined with other fragmentary
evidence like family connections to other suspected foreign agents.

In the documents, the F.B.I. agents who were working on the case acknowledged
that comprehensive investigations of the allegations were never conducted.

Testifying against the six, Special Agent John Cosenza said the bureau had
conducted "interviews" in a refugee center on Guam, where the men were first
held after their evacuations, and had not formally investigated any of them.

The six are Adil Hadi Awadh, Safa al-Betat, Ali Yassin Mohamed Karim, Mohamed
Jawer al-Ammary, Ali Jahjoh Saleh and Mohamed Jassin Tuma.

When asked about Mr. al-Batat, Mr. Cosenza said he might pose a security threat
to the United States, but conceded that "without an investigation, I would never
say I was certain or uncertain," according to the documents.

Mr. Cosenza said the F.B.I. agents had received "source information that because
we didn't have an investigation we were unable to corroborate."

The bureau turned over its files to the immigration service, which did not
pursue the leads.

"We don't do investigations," the general counsel of the immigration agency,
Paul Virtue, said. "There is a low evidentiary threshold for finding whether
someone is eligible for asylum here. It is wholly unlike a criminal case, where
the burden is on the Government to prove someone has committed an offense."

The immigration service says it has the right to deny the Iraqis asylum without
the normal due process required under law because they arrived without visas and
have never been officially allowed to enter the United States.

Their lawyer, R. James Woolsey, a former Director of Central Intelligence, said
the six had been taken here in a Government-sponsored airlift and should not be
treated as if they were illegal aliens caught sneaking across the border.

The dissidents came from two crushed groups that the C.I.A. had backed, the
Iraqi National Congress and the Iraqi National Accord, that had been involved in
covert actions that the United States supported.

The C.I.A. apparently suspected that Iraqi double agents had penetrated the
groups and passed along evidence against the six to the immigration court,
information that remains classified.

But the intelligence agency never insisted that the Federal Bureau of
Investigation and immigration service conduct thorough investigations to
determine whether they had identified the right suspects.

An F.B.I. report said Mr. Karim's cousin Aras Habib Muhamad Al-Ufayli, who had
been the intelligence chief for the Iraqi National Congress, had a
"well-documented connection to Iranian intelligence."

But another F.B.I. report, on Dec. 30, 1996, said, "No further review by the
F.B.I. will be conducted" to determine whether Mr. Karim was a spy.

Often, the documents show, the Government did not believe the Iraqis' accounts.

To prove that he was a true enemy of Mr. Hussein, Mr. al-Batat told the F.B.I.
that he had been poisoned with thallium, a metallic element that can be use as a
rat poison, at the hands of an Iraqi spy and that he had been hospitalized in
London.

But Special Agent Thomas Graney testified that Mr. al-Batat's treatment for
thallium might have been a sham and that "trace information" suggested that his
use of rat poison "appears to be recreational."

Agent Graney added that "a number of walk-ins" in the camp in Guam had
identified Mr. al-Batat as an Iranian agent.

A former C.I.A. officer who worked in covert programs in Iraq, Warren Marik,
warned that the case was certain to damage the agency's ability to recruit
foreign agents.

"The lesson of the six," Mr. Marik said, "is this: If the going gets tough the
friends of the U.S. could well end up in a U.S. jail."


LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 18, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Albanian Student Looks Past Asylum

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 1; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1452 words


AFTER months of fighting for political asylum, Edmond Coku, 18, is breathing
easily again. Fearful that if he returned to Albania, the country of his
childhood, he would share the fate of his grandfather, Mr. Coku waged a
hard-fought battle with the United States Government this summer -- and won.

But now the strapping young man, last year's valedictorian at Lincoln High
School in Yonkers and now a scholarship student at Manhattanville College in
Purchase, has another hurdle to clear.

Mr. Coku is also seeking political asylum for his 63-year-old father, Zef Coku,
who still possesses the bullet-riddled coat of his own father, executed in 1945
by a Communist firing squad. As it is for many Albanians, the story of the Coku
family is tragic.

"We have suffered for many years," the elder Mr. Coku said recently through a
translator. "My father cried out before he died, 'Long life to Albania,' and he
made the sign of the cross. But in the end, the Communists had their way."

Zef Coku came to New York from Albania on a visitor's visa in June to attend his
son's graduation, and he wants to remain. Unlike other immigrants from his
country in recent years who have fought unsuccessfully against stringent
immigration laws to remain in the United States, the elder Mr. Coku will likely
be granted political asylum, in part because his son has paved the way for him,
lawyers said.

A 1997 immigration law denies asylum seekers full hearings with legal
representation and the right to Federal appeals unless they quickly convince
officials that they have a credible fear of persecution.

Before the law took effect, people who requested asylum were allowed to stay in
the United States while their cases were heard by immigration judges. If the
judges ruled against them, they could remain while they appealed to the Board of
Immigration Appeals and then to the Federal courts.

"For everyone, it is getting more difficult to leave," Edmond Coku observed.
"Every day it gets more dangerous in our country, and my father fears for his
life because the same people who executed his father are free to kill him, too."

An Albanian, whose lawyers reported that she was gang raped because her husband
refused to fight for the Government, escaped to the United States last year. She
was detained in Elizabeth, N.J., but was unable to convince immigration
officials that she had a credible case. As a result, she was deported under the
new law designed to weed out baseless asylum claims. After her return to
Albania, the woman's story received wide attention and she became a test case.
She was finally able to come back to the United States, in part through the
efforts of the American Civil Liberties Union.

In the case of the Coku family, a pattern of harassment and persecution has been
shown, dating back to the grandfather's role as a leader in the Albanian War of
Independence in 1912, said Adam Dorsky, a lawyer with the firm Wilson &
Associates of Manhattan, which represented the student on a pro bono basis.

When the Communists came to power and before they executed Ded Coku in 1945,
they labeled him a "kulak," a rich man who exploited peasants. After his death,
the family (including Edmond's father who was 10 at the time) was sent to
internment camps to live. Edmond was born in such a camp in 1980.

"Our story started with my grandfather's execution," the student said. Zef Coku,
as a member of the National Association of the Former Politically Persecuted and
an elected member of the Presidency of the District Council of Lezhe in Albania,
has continued his family's tradition of political activism. But Edmond Coku does
not think he will become politically involved once he graduates from college,
preferring other courses of study like computer science, law or finance, he
said.

"Perhaps political science," he added, "but I do not think so."

Because the Communists recently returned to power, Edmond's mother and his
23-year-old brother went to Italy, where they now live in detention camps. About
the same time, as the political situation throughout the Balkans continued to
grow more dangerous, Edmond was sent to live with relatives -- first in Dallas
and then in Yonkers.

Measuring only 250 miles in length and 50 miles across, Albania has produced
such people as the Roman emperor Justinian, Pope Clement V and Mother Teresa.
But for the most part, its people have labored under difficulties as their
mountainous country, which lies along the east coast of the Adriatic, was
endlessly subjugated and divided by its neighbors, beginning in 1488 with the
Ottomans, and then in 1912 with dictators from Serbia. About two-thirds of the
Albanians in the Balkans are secular Muslims, and the others are Greek Orthodox
or Roman Catholic.

An estimated 500,000 Albanians have settled in the United States, about half of
them in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, said Vehbi Bajrami, editor of
Illyria, an Albanian-American newspaper in the Bronx, which is published twice a
week.

But successful asylum requests are becoming less frequent. Last year, after new
immigration rules took effect, officials estimated that more than 1,000 people
requested asylum at United States airports and about 80 percent of them were
found to have a credible fear of persecution. The rest were deported.

Experts say the number of people seeking asylum has fallen sharply since 1994,
when the Clinton Administration first stopped automatically giving asylum
seekers work-authorization cards.

In Bayside, Queens, an immigration lawyer, Linda L. Foster, confirmed that it
was becoming more difficult for those seeking political asylum because United
States officials are now differentiating between those fleeing actual political
persecution and those attempting to leave a bad economy.

Also, she said that the Communists had become "very adept" at hiding their true
role in any political persecutions because Albania was seeking membership in
NATO and wanted to avoid being cast as a nation that violates human rights.

In addition to the Albanians from Kosovo, Macedonia and Montenegro who live in
the New York City area, another 50,000 to 75,000 have been living in the Boston
area since World War I, said Joseph J. DioGuardi, a former Republican
Congressman and now president of the national Albanian American Civic League.
Also, close to 75,000 live in Detroit, and the rest are scattered in pockets
nationwide, he said.

"Albanians have always felt comfortable looking to the West," observed Mr.
DioGuardi, who said they have immigrated mostly to Italy and North America. In
the United States, he said, many Albanians have been successful as
entrepreneurs, often starting out as waiters, busboys and building managers and
"quickly buying property or buildings, restaurants or other businesses." Mr.
DioGuardi's forbears on his father's side fled to southern Italy from Albania in
1488.

Many of the buildings in the northern Bronx near the Grand Concourse and Pelham
Parkway are owned and managed by Albanian landlords "who get ahead, want good
educations for their children and move on to places in suburbs like
Westchester," he said. There are enclaves of Albanians in Chappaqua, Ossining,
Yonkers and Scarsdale.

Edmond Coku's extended family in Yonkers fits the picture of success that Mr.
DioGuardi drew. Mr. Coku's 33-year-old cousin, Alfonse Pali, with whom he lives,
came to the United States six years ago with his wife, Vera. After marrying in a
civil ceremony in Lezhe because the Communist Government would not recognize
their Roman Catholic faith, they fled to Greece, where they had a religious
ceremony, and then to New York.

The couple worked in factories until Mr. Pali found a job as a doorman and then
as superintendent in the Yonkers building where they now live with their
4-year-old son, Daniel. Mr. Pali is also employed at the Bronx Zoo as a
construction worker and has started his own construction business. His wife is
attending Lehman College in the Bronx.

Meanwhile, Edmond Coku is continuing his studies at Manhattanville College.
After hearing about both his scholastic success and his immigration problems,
Richard A. Berman, president of the college, asked him to join Manhattanville's
small global community and offered him a full scholarship.

As a point of contrast to his latest accomplishments, Edmond Coku recalled a
less happy time in Lezhe eight years ago when his teacher announced that he had
won a student of the year award. Two days later, she withdrew the prize upon
realizing who the 10-year-old boy was.  "She found out that I was the grandson
of Ded Coku," he said. "I still am, but now I can again carry the family name
proudly."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 23, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Lawyer's Fall Rends Immigrants' Lives;
Search for Help in Gaining Work Permit Leads to Deportation

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1725 words


In the tightly ordered, self-contained world of Li Yu Mei and Wei Liang Li there
is little room for chaos.

Married just over a year ago, the couple, Chinese immigrants who live in Sunset
Park, Brooklyn, had planned their life down to the last detail. Their marital
bed is big enough to accommodate the children they hoped to have ("so no one
rolls off the bed," Ms. Mei says). They had talked about having a girl next
year, the Chinese Year of the Rabbit, so that she would be soft and pure. The
following year, the Year of the Dragon, they hoped for a boy, so that he would
be strong and daring.

But the events of the last week have wrecked their plans.

Mr. Li, a 26-year-old handyman who came to the country illegally in 1994, is now
being held in a Federal detention center in Elizabeth, N.J., where he awaits
deportation to China. Ms. Mei, a 25-year-old graduate from the University of
Rhode Island, is trying to stop his deportation by calling lawyers and sending
faxes to the White House and human rights organizations.

"I wake up every night and don't see him next to me and I just cannot go back to
sleep," said Ms. Mei, who cried throughout a recent interview. "I don't know
what I'm going to do without him or even if I can go on."

Mr. Li's predicament is an object lesson on how everything can go wrong, and
usually does, when immigrants who do not speak English and do not understand the
laws of the United States try -- by themselves or following the bad advice of
inept or corrupt lawyers -- to decipher the intricate ways of the immigration
laws.

Mr. Li's arrest comes at a time when Federal officials have a mandate and the
resources to detain and deport more people than ever before, because of a 1996
law that makes it harder for illegal immigrants to stay in the United States.

Mr. Li, his wife said, was the victim of a bad lawyer who filed a political
asylum claim on his behalf three years ago. Ms. Mei said her husband, who had no
intention of seeking political asylum, had gone to the lawyer only for a work
permit. Without Mr. Li's understanding of the process, she said, the asylum
claim was filed and denied. That denial led to a 1996 order of deportation that
Mr. Li ignored. His wife said that without telling him the contents of the
order, his lawyer had advised him to ignore it.

It is not possible to know what Mr. Li's former lawyer, Sheldon Walker, can say
in his defense or even if he recalls Mr. Li's case. Mr. Walker, a 60-year-old
immigration lawyer from Great Neck, N.Y., is finishing the first month of a
42-month sentence in a Federal prison for defrauding the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and misleading thousands of clients who sought his help
at his Manhattan office near Pennsylvania Station.

Most of Mr. Walker's clients were non-English-speaking immigrants from
Bangladesh, Pakistan, Nigeria, India, Turkey, China and the former Yugoslavia.
Prosecutors in the criminal division of the United States Attorney's Office in
Manhattan got an indictment of Mr. Walker with the help of dozens of his former
clients. Seven of them testified at his two-week trial in May.

The immigrants testified that they had gone to Mr. Walker hoping to receive a
work permit. Mr. Walker had told them that for $600 he could get them the
permit, a much-sought-after privilege. Some of them did not even know that Mr.
Walker had applied instead for their political asylum until prosecutors seeking
evidence against Mr. Walker showed them the asylum application with their
signatures.

Mr. Walker's mishandling of thousands of cases has caused many expensive and
time-consuming administrative problems for the I.N.S. In a letter sent to the
judge during the sentencing of Mr. Walker last month, Edward J. McElroy, I.N.S.
district director in New York, said that Mr. Walker's conviction would force the
agency to scrutinize all pending applications filed by his office and, most
likely, also lead to a review of old cases in which benefits were granted.

Because Mr. Li was not granted any benefit from the application Mr. Walker filed
on his behalf, his case is not up for review, though. Following an agency policy
of not discussing individual cases, I.N.S. officials declined to answer
questions about Mr. Li this week.

Mr. Li's ordeal began Oct. 14, when, accompanied by his wife, he walked into the
immigration office in lower Manhattan for a much-awaited interview on his
attempt to legalize his status. After marrying Ms. Mei last year, he had applied
to obtain legal permanent residency, or what is commonly known as a green card.
(Ms. Mei, who came from China when she was 12, is an American citizen.)

The couple hoped that within an hour, Mr. Li would walk out with a green card.
Instead, Mr. Li and Ms. Mei were ushered into an office on the 12th floor.
There, an immigration officer asked Ms. Mei to translate his words to her
husband.

"He said: 'Ask your husband if he has anything he wants to give to you, because
we are going to take him now. He is on his way to China,' " Ms. Mei recalled.
"And that was it. My husband was gone in five minutes."

Since then, Mr. Li has been held at the Elizabeth, N.J., detention center. The
day after his arrest, Mr. Li came within 10 minutes of deportation. Immigration
officials shackled him and took him to Kennedy International Airport, hoping to
send him to China. Just before he boarded the plane, his new lawyers filed a
motion to stop the deportation. Mr. Li was sent back to the detention center but
the motion was denied later and so was the appeal.

Mr. Li's new lawyers, Stephanie Yutkin and Theodore N. Cox, were able to
postpone the deportation only after filing a request for what is commonly known
as a torture convention interview, a last-minute appeal that stops the process
while the authorities determine whether the immigrant is likely to be tortured
on returning to his country.

Ms. Mei says she so wants to be with her husband that if he is deported to
China, she will follow. That could present a problem, though. Ms. Mei, who was
born in the province of Guangdong, about an hour's drive from Hong Kong, is what
she calls a black-market child. Because her parents already had a child when she
was born and China has strict laws that allow one one child per family, Ms.
Mei's birth and young life were not properly recorded in her own country.

"It's like I don't exist over there," she said. "My parents always had to bribe
officials to hide my presence everywhere we lived and to be able to send me to
school."

And because the rule about having only one child per family has become even more
strict in recent years, Ms. Mei is also reluctant to return to a country that
would limit the number of children she can have. Having a family is especially
important for Mr. Li, an only child whose mother was forced to have five
abortions, Ms. Mei said.

Mr. Li so wanted to become a father, Ms. Mei said, that he had already bought a
pretty little frame with room for two pictures. The frame, resting on a shelf
near a sunny window, is for the first baby portraits of their future children.

Prosecutors in the United States Attorney's Office declined to discuss Mr. Li's
case beyond what they argued in court. Their argument hinges on the contention
that Mr. Li could not possibly have been lied to by his lawyer because in 1995,
he attended an asylum hearing, at which he testified in detail about how, as a
student leader in China, he had been a victim of persecution. That hearing
should have indicated to him that he was seeking political asylum, not work
authorization, prosecutors said.

In addition, they said, even if he was lied to by his lawyer, he should have
been alert enough to understand that something was amiss when he had signed the
letter of deportation he had received. At the very least, a prosecutor said, he
should have walked into an immigration office when he received the deportation
order, in order to inquire about it. He could also have turned his lawyer in,
they said.

His lawyers vehemently argue that Mr. Li had been misled and could not possibly
have understood the legal or bureaucratic terms involved.

Prosecutors also point to the findings of the immigration judge who ruled
against Mr. Li in his 1995 asylum hearing. The judge noticed the rehearsed way
in which Mr. Li was testifying. In denying his claim, the judge noted that Mr.
Li's demeanor in court was not that of someone speaking from personal
experience; instead, he appeared to be trying hard to recall facts he had
memorized.

And indeed he may have been. His wife has not asked him about this and it is not
possible to communicate with Mr. Li now that he is detained. His current lawyers
said he was repeating in court what he had been told.

During court testimony in Mr. Walker's case, it was revealed that he instructed
his employees to prepare fictitious stories of persecution for his clients to
use, based on boilerplate model stories that Mr. Walker maintained in his files.

Mr. Li's new lawyers said that Mr. Walker's conviction should allow the courts
or the I.N.S. to reopen their client's case.

"They put the lawyer in jail, they know what he did and how and they are
unwilling to give a break to one of his clients," Ms. Yutkin said. "It's
outrageous! I have never seen anything like this in my years of practice."

Alan J. Stopek, who has been practicing immigration law in New York since 1969
and is not connected to Mr. Li's case, said it was possible that Mr. Li went
through the entire process of applying for political asylum without fully
understanding what he was doing.

"I see cases like that all the time," he said yesterday. "People, sometimes not
even lawyers, who file asylum claims for clients who don't know anybody. I just
saw one last week in court. A lawyer was coaching a woman from Jamaica to say
that she suffered persecution in her country because she is an educated woman,
which is, of course, a lie."

Prosecutors said Mr. Li's case was the first known to them in which an immigrant
sought to avoid deportation using Mr. Walker's conviction. Of the seven
immigrants who testified at the trial, six had already managed to obtain
permanent residency. One had not. A spokesman at the Federal Attorney's office
said he was not promised a green card in exchange for his testimony.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Li Yu Mei with her Chinese husband, Wei Liang Li, who faces
deportation. Li Yu Mei, crying, shows a photo of her husband, Wei Liang Li, who
is being held while Federal officials try to deport him. (Steve Hart for The New
York Times)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 23, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Honoring Potter's Field

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 139 words



To the Editor:

"Speaking Out for the Indigent Dead" (news article, Oct. 19) recounts Elsie
Lascurain's successful campaign to force Newark to restore its potter's field,
where her father was buried.

The disinclination of Newark and other cities to acknowledge these anonymous
burials is related to a cultural ambivalence. It is difficult to look at the
people who got lost en route to the American Dream.

In New York, more than one million people -- mainly immigrants, children and the
victims of epidemics -- are buried anonymously. Two centuries ago, yellow fever,
imported on slave ships, claimed 20 percent of the New York City population.

The failure to recognize our potter's fields weighs heavily on Americans who
choose to explore their slavery or immigrant roots.

MELINDA HUNT
Brooklyn, Oct. 19, 1998

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 24, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Suspect Denies Ordering Immigrant Ship Grounded

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 379 words


The man accused of masterminding the Golden Venture voyage -- an ill-fated
effort to smuggle hundreds of Chinese immigrants into the United States on a
crumbling freighter -- sought yesterday to take back a major part of the
statement he made when he pleaded guilty in the case.

On the day that the man, Lee Peng Fei, was to be sentenced in Federal District
Court in Brooklyn, his lawyer told the judge that although Mr. Lee stood by the
portion of his plea statement in March that he was an organizer of the smuggling
scheme, he was repudiating the portion in which he said he had directed that the
ship be grounded off the Rockaway Peninsula in Queens.

After the ship was deliberately run aground on June 6, 1993, prosecutors say,
many of the nearly 300 passengers leapt off to swim to shore in the rough waters
and early morning darkness. Ten of them drowned or died of hypothermia.

Mr. Lee's lawyer, James Moriarty, told Judge Reena Raggi that his client now
says he did not issue the order to ground the vessel. When Mr. Lee said in court
last March that he had done so, the lawyer said, he had been "extremely
frightened" that if he did not plead as he did he would face 50 years in prison
instead of a much shorter term.

Mr. Moriarty maintained that the plea to the manslaughter and alien smuggling
charges was still valid, despite his client's withdrawal of an important part of
his plea statement. But the lawyer also contended that if his client had not
given the order, he should be sentenced less harshly.

Judge Raggi expressed reservations that the plea remained valid, suggesting that
if Mr. Lee was recanting a central portion of his plea statement, the entire
plea might have to be scrapped and a trial held.

In the end, the judge, growing increasingly exasperated, declined to sentence
Mr. Lee, instead ordering Mr. Moriarty to submit papers specifying what his
client stands by in the plea and what he repudiates. She scheduled another court
session for Nov. 13.

Mr. Lee, 46, a citizen of Taiwan, faces up to three years in prison under the
basic Federal sentencing guidelines, but the judge may impose a significantly
harsher sentence if she finds that he was the leader of the smuggling scheme and
that his order led to the deaths.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 5, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Court Hears Selective Deportation Argument by 'L.A. Eight'

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1055 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 4


With the Government's effort to deport a group of supporters of the Palestinian
cause now approaching its 12th year, the Supreme Court heard arguments today on
whether the seven Palestinians and one Kenyan are entitled to go before a
Federal court with their claim that they were unconstitutionally selected for
deportation because of their political views and lawful activities.

In a 1996 law, Congress cut back sharply on judicial review of actions by
immigration officials. Where deportation is concerned, the new law made explicit
a limitation that the Government had viewed as inherent in the old law: that
judicial review was confined to appeal of a final order of deportation and that
during the years that often precede the final order, aliens were restricted to
bringing much more truncated administrative appeals that could not address
constitutional issues.

There was considerable confusion in the courtroom today over the extent to which
the new law applied to this long-running dispute and over what difference a
ruling would make for future cases, to which the new provisions would clearly
apply. Several Justices appeared to be looking for some safety valve, a way to
interpret the law to make sure aliens would not be effectively forced to forfeit
their constitutional arguments. The lower Federal courts have begun examining
the new law and have been restricting or striking down various provisions
intended to cut off judicial review.

"If no review is available of these constitutional claims, it might influence
our interpretation of the statute," Justice Sandra Day O'Connor told Malcolm L.
Stewart, an assistant solicitor general. Mr. Stewart was defending the
Government's position that the lower Federal courts should not have blocked the
deportation proceedings, as they have repeatedly done in this case, to enable
the Palestinians to collect more evidence to bolster their argument of selective
enforcement.

But other Justices expressed impatience with allowing constitutional arguments
to stand in the way of moving swiftly toward deportation.

"It's clear that these amendments were intended to prevent exactly what's
happening here," Justice Antonin Scalia said, referring to the new law and
addressing David D. Cole, the Palestinians' lawyer. "Everybody knows this is the
name of the game: String it out, and the longer it's strung out, the less likely
deportation will be."

Mr. Cole, a Georgetown University law professor handling this case on behalf of
the Center for Constitutional Rights, a New York City-based legal organization,
replied that it was the Government, and not his clients, that was prolonging the
case through repeated appeals of the Palestinians' incremental legal victories.

"The irony is," Mr. Cole said, "we're the ones seeking expeditious resolution at
every stage." He said that the longer the case dragged on, the longer his
clients remained "chilled" in exercising their First Amendment rights to free
speech and political association.

The group, often referred to as the "L.A. Eight," supports the Popular Front for
the Liberation of Palestine, which the Government regards as a terrorist
organization. But no member of the group has been charged with any act of
violence. Several were students when the case began, and were charged with
offenses like not taking enough college credits to maintain their student visas
or for holding jobs not authorized by their immigration status. In their
selective enforcement claim, they are arguing that other aliens with similar
visa problems but lacking similar political associations have not been faced
with deportation proceedings.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, which sits in San
Francisco, agreed with Mr. Cole in a ruling last year that the claim of
selective enforcement should not have to wait until the end of the deportation
process to be heard by a Federal court, because the facts necessary to support
the claim could not be adequately developed through the limited administrative
appeals available in the immigration system.

During the argument today, Justice Anthony M. Kennedy asked Mr. Stewart, the
Government's lawyer, whether he agreed that the Palestinians "can't make in the
administrative proceeding the records necessary to make their case."

"Yes, we concede that," Mr. Stewart replied. While some useful evidence might
emerge during such a proceeding, "we can't count on it," he said.

The case is Reno v. American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, No. 97-1252.

In a second case today, the Court heard arguments on whether a public school
district in Iowa was obliged under Federal law to provide continuous care in the
classroom to a quadriplegic student who relied on a ventilator to breathe.

Under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, schools must provide
special education and "related services" to enable students with disabilities to
benefit from an education. But schools are not required to provide "medical
services." The broad question in this case, Cedar Rapids Community School
District v. Garrett F., No. 96-1793, is how to define the "medical services"
exclusion.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, in St. Louis, ruled
in this case that because the services the boy needed did not have to be
performed by a doctor, they were not medical and so remained the obligation of
the Cedar Rapids school district. In its appeal, the district is arguing that
the continuous, one-on-one nature of the services, requiring the equivalent of
private-duty nursing, met the medical test even if performed by a nurse.

"We believe that by any definition, private duty nursing is a medical service,"
Susan L. Seitz, the school district's lawyer, told the Justices.

Both the student, represented by Douglas R. Oelschlaeger, and the Government,
represented by Beth S. Brinkmann, an assistant solicitor general, urged the
Court to hold that only those services performed by a doctor qualify as medical.

The case has attracted considerable attention from other school districts, faced
with rapidly rising costs of special education. The National School Boards
Association filed a brief urging the Court to adopt a broader definition of the
medical services for which a school district would not be responsible.




LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 10, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
The Trial

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 715 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In a column 15 months ago I told the story of Baxter Thompson, a building
contractor in Alexandria, La., and the young woman from Germany whom he had
married, Martina Diederich Thompson. The Immigration and Naturalization Service
held her in the New Orleans Parish Prison for a week and then put her on a plane
back to Germany.

She was treated like a criminal because she had made a mistake in her
immigration process. While awaiting adjustment of her status to permanent
resident, she and Baxter had gone to Germany to visit her parents -- which no
one had told them was against the rules. She returned to the U.S. as a visitor,
but I.N.S. agents said that was fraudulent because she really wanted to live
with her husband.

The nightmare could easily be dispelled, officials told me. The Thompsons simply
had to apply at the U.S. Consulate in Frankfurt for an immigration visa for
Martina: one that would admit her for permanent residence.

But the nightmare is not over. The Thompsons have dealt with the bureaucracy
month after month -- she in Frankfurt, he from Louisiana -- and they seem to be
no nearer the promised solution. Now Mr. Thompson is about to give up: close his
business in Alexandria and move to Germany to be with Martina.

"How can I run a business with my wife over there and me here?" he said in a
telephone call from Alexandria. "We've tried to reason with these people, but
they treat her like a criminal. When I phone and ask what to do, they say it's
not their problem. Or one tells me one thing, and then another says he's never
heard of that."

The problem now is not the I.N.S., which in fact has been helpful. It is the
State Department, which issues visas. As the wife of a U.S. citizen, Mrs.
Thompson is entitled to an immigrant visa. But consular officials have demanded
three years of tax returns from Mr. Thompson to meet a requirement of the 1996
Immigration Act that he prove she will not become a public charge. And he says
he could not give them what they wanted.

The 1996 act requires U.S. sponsors of immigrants to show income 25 percent
above the poverty line. That is now $13,262 for a family of two. Mr. Thompson's
after-tax income from his construction business is about double the required
figure. But he says he was told at the consulate that he must show returns for
three business years. And because he spent eight months in Germany with his wife
after she was sent back, the business is only a year and a half old. He will not
file his third tax return for it until the year 2000, and he says the consular
officials have told him he will just have to wait until then.

His father, Maurice, has filed an affidavit of support for Martina. He has an
income of more than $90,000 a year. But consular officials in Frankfurt have
said that his affidavit cannot obviate the need for three years of tax returns
from Baxter.

The State Department reads the 1996 act as absolutely requiring three years of
tax returns. I think it is wrong. The act has many rigid and harsh rules, but
this is not one of them. It explicitly allows the Secretary of State to require
only the return for "the most recent taxable year."

When I spoke with an official of the department's Bureau of Consular Affairs in
Washington, he said it needed tax returns for three years even if one showed
little or no income. Once the returns were in hand, he said, the Frankfurt
consulate could make a realistic judgment on the support prospects for Mrs.
Thompson.

In reality, the chance that Martina Thompson will become a public charge is
zero. She has a business degree and speaks English -- "with an Oxford accent,"
her husband says. If the law or its interpretation excludes her on poverty
grounds, Mr. Bumble was right: "the law is a ass."

The case of Martina Thompson is not some great constitutional test. But in its
very ordinariness it shows how grinding the process of our immigration laws can
be. When I heard that she and her husband were still being kept an ocean apart,
I could hardly believe it.

"I don't understand all this," Mr. Thompson said. "I don't see how people like
us are a threat to this country."

When I told him what the State Department had said about supplying returns
whatever they showed, he said he would do so -- and hope.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 12, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

After Storm, Immigrants Fear Returning May Strand Them

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1315 words


If she could fly, Reina Palacios says, she would flap her wings and soar above
her apartment in Newark, fly across the country and south to El Salvador, where
she would search for the three teen-age daughters she has been unable to reach
since Hurricane Mitch devastated Central America two weeks ago.

But Ms. Palacios can fly only in her imagination. An applicant for political
asylum, she is unable to go back without putting her quest for asylum at risk.

Hundreds of thousands of other Central American immigrants are in the same
situation. Many came here illegally, often for economic reasons, and if they
leave they fear they may not be able to return. Immigrants seeking to legalize
their immigration status, like Ms. Palacios, can apply for a permit that allows
them to leave in an emergency, but immigration officials warn that if they
travel to their countries they will lose their chance to become permanent
residents of the United States.

Central Americans say their plighthas never been more anguishing than it is now,
when every night they watch the wreckage caused by a storm that swept up
villages and flooded cities, killing more than 11,000 people.

Ms. Palacios, like many others, faces heartbreaking choices. She can go to her
family and remain in a devastated country where few jobs are available and
salaries are low, or she can stay and continue working to support them while
pursuing her goal of becoming a permanent resident so that she can bring the
rest of her family to the United States.

"There are days I can function," Ms. Palacios, 34, said softly. "But then there
are other days when I think my head is going to explode. I have terrible
nightmares. Big waves come crashing down on me as I look for my girls."

For two weeks now, Ms. Palacios has been dialing the number of the only family
with a telephone in the village where her daughters, 13, 14 and 16, live with
their grandmother. She gets only a busy signal. The storm cut almost all
communication between the countries it affected the most, Nicaragua, Honduras
and El Salvador, and the rest of the world. Bridges have fallen and roads are
flooded, making it nearly impossible for people to communicate with one another.

"This is agony for us," said Guillermo Chacon, a community organizer from El
Salvador who is an advocate for Central Americans on Long Island. "I cannot
describe how deeply painful and sad it is to know that your family is lost and
you cannot go to their rescue."

For days, Maria Cristina Guevara, a Honduran who has lived in South Florida for
10 years, did not know whether her family had survived the hurricane. Five days
ago, one of her brothers was finally able to call her from a borrowed telephone.
He told her they nearly lost their home; the roof and a wall are gone and all
the furniture was ruined. He also told her they have nothing to eat.

"I'm desperate to go," said Ms. Guevara, 52, who every month sends her family
part of the salary she earns as a housekeeper. "But if I go, they'll lose their
only chance for recovering from this disaster."

If Ms. Guevara, who is here illegally, were to leave, she could not return to
the United States legally because she lacks an immigration status or a visa, a
requirement before a foreigner can board a plane to come to the United States.
And if she went to an immigration office seeking help, the law dictates that she
be deported.

But immigrants like Ms. Palacios -- part of a group of thousands of Guatemalan
and Salvadoran victims of the Central American wars of the 1980's who have been
allowed to remain in the country legally while the Government processes their
political asylum applications -- can travel to their countries by asking the
Immigration and Naturalization Service for a special permit. The permits,
difficult to get, are granted at the discretion of directors of local I.N.S.
offices.

Even if the permits were easily obtained, officials discourage Central Americans
who are here legally but not yet permanent residents from traveling abroad, said
Elaine Komis, an I.N.S. spokeswoman in Washington. If they leave and come back,
she said, they may not be able to become residents because they will enter into
another category of immigrants for whom there are no legal protections.

"I would never tell them what to do," said an I.N.S. official in Washington, who
was reluctant to attach her name to a warning for immigrants. "But if we were
having a secret conversation, I would tell everyone to stay firm and try to
communicate through telephone, letters, Internet, any other means possible until
they adjust their status."

Immigration lawyers and advocates for immigrants agree.

"The bottom line is that the whole thing is a mess and there is no easy way for
them to go," said Ann Pilsbury, the director of Central American Legal
Assistance, a center in Brooklyn that helps Central Americans with immigration
issues. "The fact of the matter is that nobody can guarantee people that it
won't have a fatal effect on their case."

Despite the advice of lawyers, consular officials fear that some people are
leaving the country anyway, either because they do not understand the laws of
the United States or because they are so desperate that they no longer care
about returning.

Juan Antonio Villalobo, a vice consul of El Salvador in New York, said about 28
Salvadorans came to his office last week seeking a special passport to travel
home. He expected the number to grow this week.

"They have been told that their families are lost, and they want to look for
them," Mr. Villalobo said. "They must have a strong motivation to make a
decision to leave like that, without a guaranteed return."

Santos Mateo Hernandez, a Honduran who is applying for political asylum, may be
reaching the point of desperation Mr. Villalobo worries about. After almost two
weeks without news from his wife and five children, he was able to speak to his
family Sunday. He learned that they had lost the crops they depend on and have
nothing to eat. His daughters, 6 and 8, are ill with stomach problems. Because
they are unreachable in a town called Lloro, he cannot send them medicine or
money.

"My problem is I can't be with them when they need me the most," said Mr.
Hernandez, 35, who lives in Far Rockaways, Queens. "And that is killing me
inside."

Many Central Americans now unable to travel to their countries applied for
political asylum years ago and have been living in the United States for a dozen
years or more. They have learned English, found jobs, opened bank accounts, paid
taxes and started families, while still lacking a legal status in this country.

According to 1997 population figures prepared by the Census Bureau, there are
1.3 million Salvadorans, Guatemalans and Hondurans in the United States. That
number may include people who are here legally as well as illegally, because the
census does not categorize individuals by immigration status.

About a quarter of a million Salvadorans and Guatemalans, though, are protected
from deportation because the law allows them to remain in the country while a
determination in their political asylum claims is made. There is a huge backlog
of asylum applications, and the majority of cases have not been heard.

A new law in December halted the asylum process. The new law granted Nicaraguans
permanent residency, but it offered Salvadorans and Guatemalans the possibility
to apply to avoid deportation only. It did not address those who are here
illegally.

"This is just another story of the injustice visited upon these people," said
Philippe Weisz, a lawyer who works with Central American immigrants in New
Jersey. "Had the Salvadorans and Guatemalans had the opportunity to have their
asylum cases heard when they fled to the United States, many would be lawful
permanent residents, if not citizens of this country."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Reina Palacios and her husband, Edwin Valle, with pictures of
their three daughters and a niece at First Communion. They have not spoken with
their daughters since Hurricane Mitch struck El Salvador. (Norman Y. Lono for
The New York Times)(pg. B10)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 19, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Shedding Light on Immigrant Folk Art

BYLINE: By MITCHELL OWENS

SECTION: Section F; Page 10; Column 3; House & Home/Style Desk

LENGTH: 802 words


MINISERIES and documentaries have long explored the immigrant experience in the
United States. But few if any scholars have addressed the connection between
immigration and America's esthetic history. Luckily, until they do, there is the
Fall Antiques Show. Opening today at the Seventh Regiment Armory on Park Avenue
(67th Street), and running through Sunday, this 20th annual exhibition of
America's top dealers in rustic antiques and folk art sheds new light on a dim
corner in the history of American decorative arts.

"Immigrants brought their talents with them, along with their cultures, and it
showed up in home handiwork," said Howard Stein of the dealers Linda & Howard
Stein. "Foreign expressions are at the heart of what we now call folk art."

The master work that the Steins have brought to Manhattan proves his point.
Though made in Wisconsin at the turn of the century, the Steins' six-foot-tall
armoire is as Swiss as the anonymous carpenter who made it. Whoever he was, he
laboriously carved six-pointed stars and fish-scale-like patterns into pine
planks and then stained them brilliant red and orange. At the base of the
armoire, which is priced at $7,500, are carved representations of the emblems of
Switzerland's cantons, or provinces, as well as the country's totemic red cross.

An especially spectacular entry is a 10-piece suite of furniture -- including a
desk, several chairs and magazine racks -- made by a patriotic immigrant,
Christopher Moe. Moe, who died in his 80's, in 1941, was a Norwegian carpenter
who came to America on July 4, 1886, settled in Portland, Ore., and proceeded to
celebrate his newly minted citizenship by declaring his allegiance through the
wonders of marquetry.

Using more than 10,000 tidbits of sycamore, rosewood, mahogany and biron, an
Alaskan hardwood, Moe highlighted America's rich maritime, political and social
history in a collection of Mission-style furniture decorated -- nay, encrusted
-- with pictorial fascinations. One of the magazine racks is inlaid with a
clipper ship, while on the back of a chair a covered wagon eternally crosses the
Great Plains. And Moe's sprawling desk -- the furniture was made for his own use
between 1918 and 1931 and later left to the family that cared for him in his
declining years -- is a home-office hymn to World War I, its broad flat top
emblazoned with the flags of the Allied nations, dates of great battles and the
insignia of United States Army units.

Most bizarre of all is the floor lamp, a giant honey-colored gewgaw whose
umbrella-like wooden shade protects a Mount Rushmore of three-dimensional
landmarks like the White House, the Capitol and the Statue of Liberty holding a
flame-shaped light bulb in her right hand.

"It is an album of America," said Allan Katz, a dealer from Woodbridge, Conn.,
who pulled out an old newspaper clipping of the mustachioed, bespectacled Moe
for inspection. "He looks like Gepetto, doesn't he?" Mr. Katz and his wife,
Penny, are offering the collection for $115,000.

Though much of the recent focus on folk art has been dominated by the eccentric
creations of "outsider" craftsmen -- untrained and often mentally troubled --
the Carl Hammer Gallery, which is exhibiting in space A-11, features an armchair
whose history and design neatly combine prideful immigrant status with religious
zealotry.

"It used to belong to Barbara Johnson, one of the great American folk art
collectors," Mr. Hammer said. Priced at $16,000, the circa-1915 chair is
attributed to Jonas Bergren, a genius carpenter and citizen of Bishop Hill,
Ill., a radical religious utopia settled by Swedish immigrants in the 19th
century. It collapsed after its prophet-leader was murdered by a disgruntled
follower.

Stained, varnished and gilded, the dark and brooding chair looks like an early
19th-century Russian bergere channeled through a Ken Burns documentary: fat
gilded snakes straight out of a parlor at the Pavlovsk Palace twist around
uprights carved to resemble Indian braves, and the back of the chair is a
farrago of carved fringed curtains and mysterious arabesques.

Equally inventive and just as stylistically bold is the early 19th-century
Grecian-style sofa offered by Hallem & Swope, a gallery in Hudson, N.Y. Made
around 1815, probably in southern Canada, the elegant cane-seated piece
nonetheless makes a folk art statement, thanks to the ferocious-looking rooster
heads that ornament its arms. Though light years away in technical execution,
the sofa ($19,000) would work well alongside Mr. Hammer's Bergren armchair.

"Enough of the original gilding remains to give a sense of how rich it would
have been," said Jonathan Hallem, a partner in the firm. "And just look at the
cockerels. They're fierce, like fighting cocks, not gentle looking at all."

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: AMERICAN DREAMS -- The armoire, above (detail, top right), was
carved in Wisconsin by an anonymous Swiss man. A Norwegian carpenter's wooden
lamp is a paean to his new country. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times (top
and left)0

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 22, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

JERSEY;
The Indignation and Naturalization Disservice

BYLINE: By DEBRA GALANT

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 776 words


I SET my alarm for 4:15 A.M. I had to be at the Peter Rodino Federal Building in
Newark well before dawn.

Ron drove. He promised it would be worth it. Ron is like most everybody in our
lush little town. He holds a prestigious job, wears nice suits, carries a cell
phone, pays taxes and attends his daughter's soccer games. But there is one
detail in which he differs from the rest of us. He speaks in the rolling cadence
of his native Ireland.

Ron is not an American citizen. And this is the only detail that matters to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, which is where we headed at 5 A.M. one
recent day.

In August, Ron started working on getting the agency's permission to visit
Ireland in September. He was astounded by how hard this permission -- called
"advance parole" -- was to obtain. And he was outraged by his treatment by the
immigration officials.

Ron has been living in the United States since 1980. He's married to an American
and they have a daughter who was born here. He's smart and organized and knows
the ropes. Still, it took him three visits to Newark and numerous phone calls to
Vermont to complete all the paperwork. After his first visit, he learned it was
necessary to arrive well before the doors open at 7:30 A.M.

You know that if you have to visit the Division of Motor Vehicles, it will kill
most of a day. That the clerks will be surly and unhelpful. That you will need a
drink when you get home. But you have a reasonable expectation of leaving the
building with whatever you started out trying to get.

Not so, if you are an immigrant. According to the telephone message at the
immigration service in Newark, you can get your business done there most days if
you arrive by 2 P.M. On busy days, it advises, you should be there by 11 A.M.

I arrived before sunrise. It was still chilly -- under 40 degrees. I found at
least 50 people already in line, several in sleeping bags. An 81-year-old woman
from Colombia had been waiting since 1:30 A.M. A 24-year-old graduate student
from Southeast Asia had arrived around midnight. When she spoke of the horrors
of dealing with the bureaucracy, she began to cry. She begged me not to reveal
her name or her country.

Everybody was there early because of previous experience. Like Ron, they had all
learned that if they arrived by 7:30 A.M., it was much too late.

Kiril Gotzkov, a Bulgarian-born truck driver who lives in South River, had spent
the night outside the building in a sleeping bag, as had his American-born wife,
Justine. He said it was his fourth visit in two months and that each time, the
officials gave him a different reason for not granting a work authorization.
"They say, 'Next!' like you don't exist anymore," he complained.

The saddest case was that of Christiane Silva Sonza, a 7-year-old girl from
Brazil, whose face is so ravaged by burns that it was covered by a plastic mask.
She has been accepted into Operation Smile, a program that provides free
reconstructive surgery. Christiane had arrived at 5 A.M., but, I discovered
later, even the two medical students with her could not persuade the agency to
give Christiane's mother the change in visa status necessary to begin the long
series of operations she needs.

The last person I met that morning was a man who gets paid by immigration
lawyers to stand in line and hand papers to clerks. He charges $435 to obtain an
advance parole, the permission Ron needed to go to Ireland. This man confirmed
that the lines begin early. He himself arrives by 2 A.M. "It doesn't matter what
the weather is or anything," he said. "It's merciless."

He also confirmed the immigrants' collective story about the clerks: that they
reject applications for the "slightest" error, callous to the fact that they
have doomed someone to another long night in line. He also made me swear I would
not print his name, for fear of bureaucratic reprisal. "They can be very nasty,
those people," he said. "They can be very arbitrary and capricious."

An agency spokeswoman, Lynn Durko, said she was unaware that lines form outside
her building by midnight. She said she was unfamiliar with the recorded message
about hours. She said she suspects that delays are caused by the large volume of
immigrants who are processed in Newark.

I got home about 8:45 A.M. -- my notebook full -- and felt relief that my
grandparents had dealt with this 80 years ago.

I also recalled that just this year, New Jersey won a Supreme Court battle with
New York for jurisdiction over Ellis Island. How peculiar that states will
battle over the symbol of immigration, while the masses still huddle over on
Broad Street.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Doniger)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 27, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Racial Disparity Seen in Immigrant Housing

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 995 words


A report commissioned by the Fannie Mae Foundation, an arm of the federally
chartered home-mortgage provider, shows the extent to which race plays a
determining role in where immigrants live in New York City.

Using the most comprehensive housing survey available, the study focuses on the
conditions immigrants face in their communities, rather than just their
buildings.

The study, prepared by the Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at the New
York University School of Law, shows that black and Hispanic immigrants live in
those city neighborhoods with the highest rates of serious crime, tuberculosis
and unsafe buildings, and that their experience is rivaled only by conditions
faced by blacks born in the United States. Immigrants from Europe, Asia and the
nations of the former Soviet Union, by comparison, live in neighborhoods with
fewer deleterious conditions.

Titled "Nativity Differences in Neighborhood Quality," the study builds on the
findings of a previous Fannie Mae study of immigrant housing. The earlier study,
released in May, found that black and Hispanic immigrants lived in the city's
most dilapidated buildings, paid the highest percentages of their incomes for
rent and had the lowest rates of home ownership. And, as in the new study, those
conditions were matched only by those faced by native-born blacks.

"Our results suggest there is a racial hierarchy of neighborhoods in New York,"
said Michael Schill, director of the N.Y.U. real estate center. "Blacks and
Latinos live in worse-quality neighborhoods than whites, regardless of whether
they were born in the United States or not."

The new report was prepared by Professor Schill, Samantha Friedman of the N.Y.U.
center and Emily Rosenbaum, a sociology professor at Fordham University. It
examined six neighborhood conditions: crimes against persons per 1,000
residents; tuberculosis cases per 10,000 residents; the percentage of buildings
with safety violations; the percentage of the neighborhood population on public
assistance; the percentage of subsidized housing units, and the availability of
physicians per 10,000 residents.

In every category except the availability of physicians, immigrants from the
Dominican Republic, other Caribbean countries, Latin America, Africa and Puerto
Rico (for statistical purposes, island-born Puerto Ricans were considered an
immigrant group) lived in neighborhoods that posted the top four or five
rankings, indicating that they faced the worst conditions.

For example, in the category of crimes against persons, Puerto Ricans, at 17.58
cases; Caribbeans and Africans combined, at 15.57 cases; Dominicans, at 13.99,
and Latin Americans, at 13.02, lived in neighborhoods with the second through
fifth highest crime rates, topped only by native-born blacks, at 19.01.

In the category of tuberculosis cases per 10,000 residents, Dominicans topped
the list, at 34.99, followed by native-born blacks, at 34.37; Puerto Ricans, at
31.66, and Latin Americans, at 29.48.

The study was based on data from the 1996 Housing and Vacancy Survey, which is
considered the city's best source of housing data, as well as on crime and other
housing statistics. The Housing and Vacancy Survey, conducted every three years
by the Census Bureau, sampled 15,752 households, of which 5,933 were headed by
immigrants.

Surprisingly, immigrants from the former Soviet Union live in neighborhoods that
rank particularly well with respect to crime, disease and unsafe housing -- even
when compared with native-born whites. The crime rate for neighborhoods occupied
by those immigrants ranked lowest on the list, at 8.69 incidents per 1,000
residents, compared with 9.39 for native-born whites.

With tuberculosis as an indicator of the prevalence of disease, Soviet
immigrants experienced the lowest rates of exposure, 17.52 cases per 10,000
residents, while the rate for native-born whites was 18.31. And in terms of
housing safety, the average number of buildings with code violations for Soviet
immigrants was 0.14, compared with 0.23 for native-born whites.

"Russians do well on these indicators," said Dr. Rosenbaum, one of the study's
authors, "largely because of their concentration in relatively well-to-do
neighborhoods like Forest Hills and Manhattan Beach, and even Brighton Beach."

"They have a relatively higher proportion with college educations, compared to
other groups," she said.  "But I think part of it is that they are white. It's
really race and ethnicity that drive the difference between the ethnic groups."
The two groups with higher proportions of college educations than immigrants
from the former Soviet Union were those from Southeast Asia, and from India,
Pakistan and Bangladesh, taken as a group.

In the category of physician availability for every 10,000 residents -- based on
the location of the doctor's primary office -- immigrants from the Indian
subcontinent had the lowest number of doctors in their neighborhoods, 20.64;
those from the former Soviet Union had the second lowest number, 20.79, and
native-born whites had the most doctors available, 37.61.

Naomi S. Bayer, director of the New York office of Fannie Mae, said the study
was commissioned because "Fannie Mae is committed to eliminating discrimination
in the mortgage financing system."

"One of the challenges that the study shows we must address," she said, "is how
to reach people who may not have access to information about the home-buying
process. We really think that there's a great improvement in neighborhood
conditions when there's a higher proportion of homeowners."

Professor Schill said the public-policy implications of the study "are that
stepped-up enforcement of antidiscrimination laws, such as the Federal Fair
Housing Act, and investment in minority neighborhoods, such as that promoted by
the Federal Community Reinvestment Act, are likely to go a long way in improving
conditions of immigrants living in this city."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 2, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Mastermind of Golden Venture Smuggling Ship Gets 20 Years

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 718 words


The man accused of masterminding the Golden Venture voyage -- an ill-fated 1993
effort to smuggle hundreds of Chinese immigrants into the United States on a
decrepit freighter -- was given a 20-year prison sentence, the maximum,
yesterday. The judge rejected his expressions of sorrow for the 10 passengers
who died in the journey's calamitous end off the Queens shore.

"You and your confederates were not some group of selfless humanitarians," Judge
Reena Raggi of United States District Court in Brooklyn told the defendant, Lee
Peng Fei, who pleaded guilty to manslaughter and other charges in March.

Mr. Lee contended yesterday that he had sought to keep many of the America-bound
immigrants from being stranded in Africa because of earlier mishaps.

The judge saw it differently. "You were a group of greedy and indeed immoral
men," she said, "who hoped to profit from the misery of others" and who crammed
nearly 300 people "like animals" in the hold of a "wretched boat" that "you knew
was unfit for human beings in any way."

The boat lacked adequate water, food, sanitary conditions, lifeboats and life
preservers, on a journey that lacked any plan for landing its human cargo other
than by recklessly grounding the 150-foot boat at night "and telling the people
on board to jump into the water and swim to shore," the judge said.

For his part, Mr. Lee, a 46-year-old citizen of Taiwan, told the judge through
an interpreter that he had expressed his sorrow to those who perished. "I have
special ways to be in contact with them," he said.

The nightmarish, four-month journey of the Golden Venture began off the coast of
Thailand and wound through the Indian and Atlantic Oceans. It ended on June 6,
1993, when the freighter was ordered to run aground on the Rockaway peninsula in
Queens and the nearly 300 immigrants aboard were told to swim ashore in the
early morning darkness. Ten of the passengers drowned or died of hypothermia
from the effort, which required a long swim through rough waters because the
ship ended up on a sandbar 200 yards offshore.

The immigrants, who had made various down payments to get aboard, were to pay
the rest of the $30,000 fee after their illegal arrivals in the United States.
Nearly all of those who made it to shore were quickly rounded up and many spent
up to three and a half years in American jails after their voyage, which cast a
sharp spotlight on the widespread and lucrative smuggling of Chinese people to
America.

Mr. Lee, who was captured in Thailand in November 1995 -- while polishing his
$89,000 Mercedes-Benz, law enforcement officials said -- was the 22d and final
defendant to be convicted in the case, and he received the harshest sentence.

The others, who also pleaded guilty to various charges, received sentences from
Judge Raggi that ranged from less than a year to 10 years in prison.

With credit for the 3 years Mr. Lee has spent in Thai and American jails since
his arrest, and with the maximum deduction for good behavior in prison --
another 3 years -- he could be free in 14 years.

Had he been convicted of all the charges against him at a trial, rather than
pleading guilty to reduced counts of manslaughter, alien smuggling and criminal
conspiracy, Mr. Lee would have faced up to 80 years in prison. As it was, the
20-year sentence was far above the 3-year maximum suggested under Federal
sentencing guidelines.

But Judge Raggi noted that the law permitted her to depart from the guidelines
if she found various aggravating factors. In this case, she said those factors
included "dangerous or inhumane treatment" of the passengers and deaths that
"were directly caused by your callous decision" involving "grounding the boat at
night and having them swim to shore."

In pleading guilty, Mr. Lee, who had not been aboard the ship, said he had
ordered the grounding by telephone from an apartment in Chinatown.

On Monday and earlier yesterday, Mr. Lee, who is also known as Lee Hsiao Kuang
and Char Lee, sought to withdraw his plea, saying he had erred at the plea
session when he admitted ordering the grounding on the ocean side of the
Rockaway peninsula because he had really ordered the vessel grounded on the
Jamaica Bay side, where the waters are calmer. Judge Raggi rejected the
withdrawal motion.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 3, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Mother Cites New U.S. Law on Torture to Fight Return to Nigeria

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 555 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Dec. 2


A Nigerian widow who says she and her daughter face sexual abuses if they have
to return to her homeland has asked to stay in the United States under a new law
that makes an international convention against torture part of American law.

The woman, Virginia Anikwata, who has been battling to stay in the United States
for 10 years on various grounds after the death of her husband, a student, will
have a hearing on Friday on her new claim in Arlington, Va., according to her
lawyer in Washington, Morton Sklar.

Ms. Anikwata says that if she returns to Nigeria she will become the shared
property of her late husband's extended family and that her daughter, Chinedu
Sharon, an American citizen, will face genital cutting, known widely in Africa
as female circumcision. Immigration law no longer automatically allows an
immigrant to remain in the United States with a child who is a citizen.

Mr. Sklar said Ms. Anikwata's case built on a precedent set by Fauziya
Kassindja, an illegal immigrant from Togo who was given asylum in the United
States in 1996 based on her fear of having to undergo genital cutting if she
returned.

In Ms. Anikwata's case, however, she is asking for protection for herself and
the girl, 11, and she is not using asylum procedures but legislation enacted by
Congress in October. That law provides automatic protection against deportation
for people who file claims under the 1984 United Nations Convention Against
Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman and Degrading Treatment or Punishment. The
United States ratified it in 1994.

Mr. Sklar, director of the American branch of the independent World Organization
Against Torture, said it could take a year to complete hearings under the
antitorture law. In that time Ms. Anikwata will be permitted to work and cannot
be deported.

"The Kassindja case established the right of a woman not to go back to a
situation where she would be subjected to f.g.m.," Mr. Sklar said, using a
shorthand expression for female genital mutilation. "What's unique about this
case is that for the first time it deals with whether a parent can use this
protection on behalf of a child. The Immigration and Naturalization Service has
not recognized that right yet."

The protection of children, especially girls, is becoming an issue in more
immigration and asylum cases, and judges have considerable flexibility in
considering pleas. On Nov. 5 an immigration judge in New York allowed an Indian
couple to stay in the United States on the ground that their two daughters, both
American citizens, could not be expected to develop well under the hardships of
India.

A campaign on Ms. Anikwata's behalf has been led by Equality Now, a New York
human rights organization that helps women in the developing world and
immigrants in the United States.

"We want courts in this country to recognize that girls from countries where the
practice of female genital mutilation takes place are at risk and that their
mothers are very likely not going to be able to protect them," said Jessica
Neuwirth, a lawyer who is president of Equality Now.

Ms. Neuwirth said it was also outrageous that immigration officials had
suggested that Ms. Anikwata should leave her daughter behind if she fears such a
fate in Nigeria. They have no relatives in the United States.



LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 6, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Foreigner Seeking Entry Gets Insulting Treatment

SECTION: Section 14NJ;  Page 29;  Column 2;  New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 194 words



To the Editor:

The English language does not contain curses strong enough to describe the
emotions one feels upon dealing with the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
but Debra Galant's words are a worthy attempt ("The Indignation and
Naturalization Disservice") Jersey, Nov. 22.

Immigrants are not the only people who feel the weight of petty totalitarianism.
Last year my wife and I invited an Ethiopian friend to our wedding. It is hard
to say which aspect of the ensuing process was the most demeaning, but being
called a liar in almost as many words was one contender. The "guessing game" was
another: The embassy official asked for a document, we or our friend provided
it, the official said it wasn't enough and asked for another, we provided it,
and so on. The only winner was Federal Express. In the end, despite the
intervention of three Congressional offices, our friend had to celebrate with us
by phone.

The great irony is that these people completely fail at their presumed goal:
stopping illegal immigration. They succeed only in making life miserable for
those of us who are playing by the rules.

GEORGE MUSSER
Hoboken

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 7, 1998, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Mexico Weighs Voting by Its Emigrants in U.S.

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1250 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico, Dec. 6


It is the year 2000. Millions of Mexican immigrants line up outside improvised
polling places, not only in Los Angeles, Brooklyn and other major locations in
the United States where Mexicans have settled but in hundreds of towns across
the country, preparing to vote in Mexico's presidential elections.

Thousands of Mexican election officials have fanned out across the United States
to supervise the balloting, which caps a campaign in which candidates have
barnstormed through Mexican population centers in dozens of American states,
lambasting United States immigration, narcotics and other policies unpopular in
Mexico.

Fiction? No, this is the scenario that emerges from a recent Mexican Government
study, which, at the request of the Mexican Congress, offers detailed logistical
options and budget estimates for extending the vote to the estimated 10 million
Mexicans living in the United States.

"It is viable," the report concludes.

Millions of potential votes are at stake, perhaps 15 percent of the Mexican
electorate, and the Mexican Congress must decide in coming months whether to
approve any of the options the report outlines.

In the month since the report's publication, opposition leaders have praised its
proposals as a long-overdue attempt to extend suffrage to migrant workers who
have been disenfranchised both in Mexico and in the United States. But President
Ernesto Zedillo's allies in the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party,
known as the PRI, have lampooned them as too costly and complicated.

The political loyalties of Mexicans north of the border is a matter of dispute,
although the conventional wisdom holds that their vote would favor the
opposition because many migrants are thought to blame the PRI for the economic
debacles that forced their emigration.

The debate gained volume on Friday, as prominent American academics joined
Mexican leaders on both sides of the fray during a conference in Tijuana at
Colegio de la Frontera Norte, a Government-financed research organization.

"The implications of all this are frightening," said Rodolfo O. de la Garza, a
professor of government at the University of Texas, contending that an extended
display of Mexican politicking on United States soil would provoke a nativist
fury in the United States directed not only at migrants but also at
Mexican-Americans. "When the rocks start flying, xenophobic Americans are not
going to ask for an ID card."

Emilio Zebadua Gonzalez, the counselor in the Federal Electoral Institute who
coordinated the study, shrugged off the criticisms. "We have to decide whether
Mexicans who live in the United States have the rights of other Mexican
citizens," he said.

The institute's voting study was set in motion in July 1996 when Mexico's
Congress deleted a clause from the Constitution requiring Mexicans to vote in
their home districts and mandated the Electoral Institute, which organizes
Mexican elections, to study ways of extending the presidential vote to Mexicans
overseas.

A number of other countries allow their citizens living in the United States to
vote in their presidential elections, but none of the operations are on the
scale that would be needed for voting by Mexicans here.

The institute impaneled 13 distinguished demographers and other social
scientists, and on Nov. 12 they published their 14-volume study.

Nearly 10 million potential Mexican voters live north of the border, including
7.1 million Mexican-born immigrants and 2.7 million adult children of
Mexican-born parents, who could also exercise the right to vote under the
Mexican Constitution, the report said. In addition, 100,000 Mexicans live in
third countries, it said, and if voting rights were extended, they could apply
to this group as well.

Three out of four Mexican immigrants live in 33 counties in California, Arizona,
Colorado, Texas, Illinois, Georgia and New York, it said. The others are widely
dispersed throughout the rest of the country, including Alaska and Hawaii, with
only 11 American states having few or no Mexican residents, it said.

The report lists various procedures that would allow Mexicans in the United
States to receive credentials complying with the exacting electoral standards
that have allowed Mexico largely to eliminate ballot fraud in recent years.

And it describes six possible ways Mexicans could cast ballots in the United
States. Most would involve establishing thousands of polling places in
consulates, churches, Mexican-owned businesses and immigrant homes. The report
also outlines the possibility of voting by mail or telephone.

Extending Mexico's vote north would cost between $76 million and $356 million,
the report said, depending on how closely the authorities attempt to duplicate
registration procedures used in Mexico. The latter figure is roughly equivalent
to the Government's entire yearly anti-poverty budget.

Considerable debate at the conference on Friday centered on how much interest
Mexicans living in the United States might have in voting in Mexican elections.
Citing opinion samplings collected among migrants passing through border cities
and Mexican airports, the study reported that 83 percent of Mexicans living
north of the border want to help choose the Mexican president, but that many
said they could spare little time to register or to cast ballots.

Wayne A. Cornelius, a political science professor at the University of
California at San Diego, said an increasing number of migrants lived permanently
in the United States but remained interested in Mexican politics because they
finance construction of churches and other public works in their Mexican
hometowns.

"I consider these voting proposals to be of fundamental importance for the
democratic transition in Mexico," Mr. Cornelius said.

Jeffrey Passel, a demographer at the Urban Institute in Washington, D.C., also
praised the report but questioned why Mexico would consider allowing the 2.7
million children of Mexican parents living in the United States to vote.

"Many don't speak Spanish and have never been in Mexico," he said.

Clark W. Reynolds, an economics professor at Stanford University, said the
proposals would anger many Americans and undercut efforts to involve Mexican
immigrants more fully in United States politics.

"This will cause a political explosion, trust me," Mr. Reynolds said. "I know
the United States, and we've not had a very happy 10 years in U.S.-Mexico
relations. If you go forward with these plans, there will be a huge conflict."

Much discussion centered on the 2.7 million potential voters who live in the
United States with no immigration documents. The report suggests that Mexico
might seek to negotiate guarantees from the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service that undocumented Mexicans would not be arrested while
waiting to vote. But Roger Diaz de Cossio, a diplomat who devised Foreign
Ministry assistance programs for migrants, scoffed.

"The I.N.S. has laws to obey, and they're going to obey them regardless of
whether Mexicans are going to the polls," Mr. Diaz said.

Ernesto Ruffo Appel, whose 1989-95 tenure in Baja California made him Mexico's
first non-PRI Governor in the modern era, accused the authorities of whipping up
opposition to the voting proposals out of fear that migrants would vote against
the PRI.

"I think that fear is well-founded," Mr. Ruffo said. "So for the good of Mexico,
it's important to get going on this now."


LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 9, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Voters as Suspects

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 442 words


Not long ago, dead Democrats were supposedly the problem. New York State's
Attorney General, Dennis Vacco, and his Republican allies charged that the newly
departed might have marched into their old polling spots last month and helped
elect Mr. Vacco's Democratic opponent, Eliot Spitzer. When the voting dead
turned out to be little more than G.O.P. voodoo, the Vacco camp began looking
elsewhere for reasons their candidate lost. Even the normally Republican New
York Post mocked the Attorney General in its Sunday headline that said "Vacco:
Aliens Stole My Election."

As otherworldly as it is beginning to sound, Mr. Vacco's various campaigns to
uncover voting fraud have yet to uncover one fraudulent vote. What is far more
menacing is that his challenges focus on minority and immigrant communities,
raising a more sinister possibility of voter intimidation. Using a barely
noticed section of the state's election law, Mr. Vacco's attorneys are trying to
use police to go to voters' homes in search of illegal aliens and others
registered legally. A knock on the door from a policeman is no way to encourage
a higher turnout among the newly registered or recently naturalized.

Moreover, the latest Republican list of more than 100,000 suspect voters comes
in part from comparing a credit-checking agency's list of those living in these
areas against the voting lists. These 100,000 apparently cast their ballots
without ever applying for a charge card or bank account that would require a
credit report. There are legitimate reasons that a name would not show up on
such a computer data base -- someone whose roommate takes care of the bills, a
simple misspelling, a person who is too poor to develop a credit history. Most
important of all, since when did we require a credit check to vote in this
country?

A State Supreme Court justice on Monday gave the Vacco team a week to come up
with enough evidence of fraud to stall the certification next Tuesday of Mr.
Spitzer as the new Attorney General or call for a new election. If such evidence
is not available, Gov. George Pataki should order Mr. Vacco and the state
Republican Party to back off.

This bitter challenge has begun to sound like a cynical effort to smear not only
Mr. Spitzer but also New York City. Widespread fraud would deserve attention,
but if it is not there, Mr. Vacco should give up this destructive fight and
provide a decent transition to the next attorney general, which he has so far
refused to do. If there was ever any question about the voters' decision to
choose Mr. Spitzer, it has certainly been put to rest by Mr. Vacco's
post-election maneuvers.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 9, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Held on Secret Data Faces False Statement Charge

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WEISER

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 698 words


An Egyptian man who is bitterly fighting his deportation from the United States
has been charged with making false statements in a decade-old immigration
matter, leading to sharp criticism from his lawyers yesterday about the
Government's tactics.

The case of Nasser K. Ahmed has received national attention because until he was
charged on Friday in the false statements matter, he had been held for more than
two and a half years in solitary confinement without being charged with a crime,
based on assertions that Mr. Ahmed is a member of an Islamic terrorist group in
Egypt.

Citing national security concerns, however, the Government has refused to make
public most of its evidence about Mr. Ahmed's suspected terrorist connections,
making his case one of about two dozen in the country in which the authorities
have moved to deport or exclude an immigrant on the basis of secret evidence.

Defense lawyers for Mr. Ahmed denounced the new charge against their client,
contending that prosecutors had singled out Mr. Ahmed in retaliation for his
stand in the immigration matter.

"We have a name for that," said one of his lawyers, Abdeen M. Jabara. "It's
called selective prosecution. And it's also called prosecutorial misconduct."

A spokesman for the United States Attorney in Manhattan said there would be no
comment on the new indictment, for which Mr. Ahmed could face up to 10 years in
prison if convicted, or on why he has not been charged with terrorism.

But prosecutors have already asserted in legal papers that Mr. Ahmed, 38, is a
member of an Egyptian-based extremist organization, the Islamic Group, which has
claimed responsibility for several acts of terrorism. They have also described
Mr. Ahmed as "a loyal supporter" of the group's spiritual leader, Sheik Omar
Abdel Rahman, who is serving a life prison term for his conviction in 1995 in a
conspiracy to blow up the United Nations and other New York City landmarks.

Mr. Ahmed, who acted as the sheik's legal assistant during the 1995 trial, has
denied any role in terrorism or membership in the extremist group, his lawyers
said.

Mr. Ahmed, speaking by phone from the Federal Correctional Center at Otisville,
N.Y., said of the new charge: "It really shows they have nothing at all."

"They've been raising national security concerns for almost three years now," he
added, "and it's boiled down" to the false statement charge.

Mr. Ahmed was charged with making a series of false statements from 1987 to 1990
in connection with his application for temporary residence status.

David Cole, a law professor at Georgetown University who also represents Mr.
Ahmed, said that he believed that the criminal charge was an attempt to buttress
the case the Government is to make next week when Mr. Ahmed appears for another
hearing before a Federal immigration judge in Manhattan.

For that hearing, Professor Cole said, the Government has already submitted more
secret evidence to support his deportation.

Some legal scholars and other critics have attacked the use of secret evidence
on due process grounds, contending that it makes it impossible for immigrants
and their lawyers to mount an adequate defense. The Government defends the
practice as justified to protect sensitive counter-terrorism intelligence
sources and law enforcement efforts, in cases of immigrants who are in the
United States illegally.

Mr. Ahmed was arrested in 1995 on a charge that he had overstayed his visa, and
was released on a $15,000 bond. He was arrested again in April 1996, and the
Government cited classified evidence in later hearings to support his continued
detention.

At first, Mr. Ahmed and his lawyers were told only that the information
concerned his "association with a known terrorist organization," Professor Cole
said.

Later, the Government declassified what he described as "dribs and drabs" of
evidence, including more than 100 pages of heavily blacked-out transcripts of
immigration proceedings. Charging that the Government is using "guilt by
association" to attack his client, he added: "They are throwing around words
like 'terrorist,' but they indict him on a document fraud from 10 years ago."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 13, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Stiffer Rules Are a Threat To Refugees, Agency Says

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 25;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 628 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Dec. 11


A senior official in charge of protecting refugees said today that tougher
qualifications for asylum in both rich and poor countries are threatening the
lives and safety of displaced people almost everywhere.

Dennis McNamara, director of international protection for the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees in Geneva, said at a news briefing here that the
challenge to his office was "the most severe that we have faced in decades." He
singled out the United States as a major problem.

Mr. McNamara said that the refugee agency was lobbying governments and private
organizations in this country and around the world to reconsider newly
restrictive policies on asylum and "to to try to mobilize a reinvigorated,
expanded, renewed coalition in support of the refugee protection system."

"We are very worried that this fragile system can only work effectively if it
has proper support, particularly from states, but also from the public in
general," he continued.

Mr. McNamara said that millions of refugees were being boxed in between tighter
asylum policies and immigration laws in the industrialized nations and the
countries of the third world.

In the richer countries, he said, there is "increasing restrictiveness to
admission of asylum seekers and refugees and the mixing up of refugees and
illegal migration, drug trafficking, terrorist issues to the detriment of asylum
seekers." This was compounded, he said, by "a generally increasing
noninternational approach to the protection of refugees, in some cases going so
far as legal restrictions on the refugee definition and applying the refugee
Convention."

"And I am afraid to say that that approach is reflected also in this country, in
the United States," he said. "Our main donor, our main supporter, with a proud
history of refugee involvement, has in place some of the most severe
restrictions in its history, which affect asylum seekers and refugees trying to
enter the United States."

The poorer nations have taken a cue from the policies of the United States and
Europe, he said.

"Many countries of the developing south have said enough is enough," he said.
"Countries of Africa, Asia and elsewhere who have hosted refugees -- large
numbers, many millions for many years -- are starting to say: 'The burden is not
equally shared We are no longer prepared just to have our borders open.' So we
have an export value also of negative practice from the developed regions to the
south to the detriment of asylum seekers and refugees in many cases."

Turning again to the United States, Mr. McNamara said that immigration officials
here were often out of line with internationally accepted procedures.

"Expedited removals from U.S. airports do not, in our view, meet the minimum
standards of due process, in many cases," he said. "Immigration officials doing
those determinations, which may affect the future well-being of those
individuals, are not necessarily trained adequately to do so."

Mr. McNamara, who was in New York as part of events this week marking the 50th
anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, was also critical of
American detention practices, including the mixing of asylum seekers with
criminals and the treatment of women and children. He called on the United
States and other governments to adhere to international conventions they have
signed.

On Thursday, marking Human Rights Day at the White House, President Clinton
announced new procedures for dealing with children in asylum cases. The move was
welcomed by advocates of better refugee protection, led by the New York-based
Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children, an organization that worked
with the Immigration and Naturalization Service to develop the new guidelines.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 13, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

A Happy Ending Produces a Smile

SECTION: Section 14NJ;  Page 25;  Column 2;  New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 194 words



To the Editor:

As a follow-up to Debra Galant's report on her experience in the line at the
Immigration and Naturalization Service in Newark (Jersey, Nov. 22), I would like
your readers to know the successful outcome for the child from Brazil,
Christiane Silva Souza.

Although she had entered the United States on a tourist visa to visit relatives,
she was an Operation Smile surgical candidate because of her serious burns,
which could not be repaired in her native country.

With the help of the Operation Smile medical students, she and her mother did
receive a one-year extension on their visas, and Christiane is now being cared
for in cooperation with University Hospital in Newark.

Operation Smile cares for poor or uninsured children who need facial
reconstructive surgery in the United States and in 17 developing countries.
Volunteer surgeons, other medical professionals and some of the finest hospitals
devote their time, skills and services to improve the lives of thousands of
children who need a smile.

CATHERINE S. McMULLEN
New Brunswick

The writer is senior manager for national domestic programs of Operation Smile.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 16, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Unjust Deportations

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 167 words



To the Editor:

The 1996 law that has sparked the surge in deportations (front page, Dec. 15)
renders immigrants ineligible for many protections we regard as the core of
American law. The law eliminates judicial review from almost all cases, severely
truncates immigrants' capacity to prove their eligibility for asylum, applies
new rules to old cases, and limits the capacity of judges to exercise any kind
of discretion.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is now, as you report, "flush with
almost a billion dollars earmarked for the detention and deportation of
immigrants," and has suffered consistent shortfalls in its budget for
naturalization, leaving applicants for citizenship to face two-year waits for
action from an unresponsive bureaucracy. Wouldn't it be wiser to spend money on
integrating new permanent members of our political community?

GARY E. RUBIN
New York, Dec. 15, 1998

The writer is a vice president of the New York Association for New Americans.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 19, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 53 words


A front-page article on Tuesday about the deportation of immigrants from the
United States misstated the period in which 106,000 immigrants with criminal
convictions were deported. It was 1997 and 1998, not 1998 alone. As the article
said, the figure represented a 52 percent increase from the previous two years.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 19, 1998, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Boat Capsizes Near Miami; 8 Cubans Die

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 11;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 455 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 18


At least eight people were killed late Thursday night and nine were still
missing today after a pleasure boat carrying 26 Cubans capsized off one of the
keys that make up Biscayne National Park, Coast Guard officials said. The
officials described the incident as a probable case of immigrant smuggling.

Coast Guard and immigration officials could not recall a recent incident in
which a boat taking refugees across the Straits of Florida had caused so many
deaths.

The vessel, about 30 feet long, capsized about 11 P.M. on Thursday, Coast Guard
spokesmen said, some 20 miles south of Miami near Elliott Key. A passing
freighter rescued nine passengers this morning, including two children, who had
been clinging to the boat for about 10 hours, the authorities said.

The dead passengers were discovered in the vicinity later by a Coast Guard
rescue team. Using two cutters and three helicopters, the Coast Guard team
searched for the remaining passengers.

"We believe it is a case of smuggling," said Jibran Soto, a Coast Guard
spokesman.

The boat was registered in Florida and was most likely used to bring Cubans to
the country illegally, Mr. Soto added.

The incident comes as law-enforcement officials have encountered a growing
number of cases involving smugglers trying to bring Cuban and Haitian refugees
into the United States.

But it was not immediately clear whether the group whose boat capsized today had
been organized by a smuggler.

The site of the capsizing, the shallow flats south of Key Biscayne, holds
normally tranquil waters where recreational boats are a common sight. Though
more illegal immigrants try to reach Florida during the summer months than in
December, the weather has been warm with mild winds.

But navigating the waters from Cuba has often been a deadly trip for immigrants
trying to leave the island, said Jose Basulto, who heads Brothers to the Rescue,
a group that seeks to rescue Cubans and other refugees stranded along the
Florida straits.

"We try to tell our brothers in Cuba not to do this because it's costing too
many lives," he added.

In a similar incident in March, three people died when a boat believed to carry
16 refugees capsized off Biscayne Bay. Two people were later charged with
smuggling.

President Clinton began ordering the deportation of Cuban boat people in May
1995 after a huge influx of Cubans by sea. This amounted to a radical change
from a 35-year policy of welcoming all those leaving Cuba. Since the new policy
has been in place, those spotted in the water are more likely to be deported
than those who make it to shore.

So far this year, almost 1,000 Cubans trying to enter the United States have
been picked up by Coast Guard patrols.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Coast Guard said nine people were rescued after a boat
carrying 26 people capsized on Thursday. (Candace Barbot/The Miami Herald)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 20, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

China to Chinatown, via Canada;
Smuggling Arrests Expose Immigrant Pipeline on Indian Land

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 49;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1770 words

DATELINE: ST. REGIS MOHAWK RESERVATION, N.Y., Dec. 16


It was the kind of smuggling operation that, at its most efficient, resembled a
well-coached relay team seamlessly passing a valuable baton.

In China, smugglers would load their cargo on airplanes bound for Toronto or
Vancouver. Associates in Canada would drive the cargo in vans with tinted
windows to this weathered rural Indian reservation, which straddles the border
of Canada and the United States. The smugglers would hire Indians or other
locals to transport the cargo by powerboat for a two-minute sprint across the
cold, swirling St. Lawrence River. And waiting on the opposite shore would be
another van, sometimes driven by another Indian, to take the cargo to New York
City.

"They had it down to a science, whether crossing by daylight or by night," said
Michael McLaughlin, assistant district director of investigations for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. "You're talking 8, 10, 15 people a trip,
three or four times a week."

Mr. McLaughlin was referring not to the smugglers, but to the cargo: Chinese
nationals determined to sneak into the United States.

Over the last two years, the authorities say, smugglers funneled more than 3,600
illegal Chinese immigrants through the Indian reservation here, exploiting the
region's complicated geographical and jurisdictional anatomy. For the smugglers,
it was a lucrative, low-risk endeavor that could take as little as a few days,
from Point A, in Fujian province in China, to Point Z, in Chinatown. For the
immigrants, it was a life-altering odyssey marked by paranoia, hunger and the
hope that life would somehow be better in America.

Last week, however, American and Canadian authorities announced that they had
cracked the smuggling ring, arresting 35 people, including several Indians, and
indicting a dozen others. And in so doing, they shed light on an operation that
had become, quietly and almost invisibly, an increasingly popular route for
those smuggling Chinese nationals.

At the same time, though, the crackdown has brought attention to an insular
community that has long been branded as a silent partner for smugglers
trafficking in the latest profitable commodity, be it cigarettes, liquor or
immigrants.

The truth is that most of the 8,000 people on this rugged, wind-swept
reservation do not smuggle. Many did not even know that the Chinese operation
existed.

Still, many of the Indians have a tremendous capacity to forgive, saying that in
a hardscrabble place where the unemployment rate is 30 percent, a person's
decision to smuggle must be framed in economic, not legal or moral, terms.

"I wouldn't do it, but I understand the concept," said an unemployed social
worker who was eating at the popular Bear's Den restaurant on the American side.

"It's all about survival. If you have three kids, and you have to pay the rent,
and someone says that all you've got to do is 'drive here, drive there, make a
few thousand dollars,' I can see why you'd do it."

Split evenly between the Akwesasne Reserve on the Canadian side and the St.
Regis Mohawk Reservation on the American side, the reservation is a
jurisdictional jigsaw puzzle covering about 22 square miles in two countries,
two provinces (Ontario and Quebec) and one state (New York).

It is a place where the game of hide-and-seek is stacked against the seeker.
There are more than a dozen islands on either side of the border, plus hundreds
of coves and dozens of dirt roads leading to the St. Lawrence River. Abandoned
farmhouses and shacks dot the flat terrain, which is stubbled with wheat fields
and blanketed by oaks and evergreens. Street lights are dim and sparse.

As a result, smugglers have often ushered illegal immigrants -- many from India,
Pakistan or Poland -- through the reservation without much difficulty. These
have usually been unorganized operations, run by freelancers in an anything-goes
environment in which an illegal immigrant can almost ask someone, on the spot,
for a boat ride to the United States.

The Chinese smugglers, though, are different. "The Chinese are well organized,"
said Dick Ashlaw, patrol agent in charge of the United States Border Patrol in
Massena, N.Y. "And the Chinese aliens are more terrified than the other aliens.
They're petrified."

Law enforcement authorities said the Chinese smugglers would recruit young, and
usually male, farmhands and laborers in Fujian, promising a prosperous life in
America for an admission fee of $47,000 per person.

In Hong Kong, the smugglers would secure forged travel documents. Sometimes the
Chinese would be shipped directly to Canada; other times, they would travel
through another country, like Germany, Morocco or Cuba.

Once in Canada, they would be crammed into safe houses in Toronto; these were
usually apartments or cheap motels. Smugglers would buy street clothes for the
Chinese to help them blend in. The smugglers would also instruct the Chinese to
avoid doing or saying anything that might jeopardize the operation -- or else
risk harm to their families in China.

"It was like a jail," said a businessman in Chinatown who has talked to some
illegal immigrants and who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "They had no
freedom."

Next, the smugglers would arrange for the immigrants to be driven in a minivan
from Toronto to Cornwall, an industrial city bordering the Indian reservation.
The trip took about four hours.

The smugglers would usually drive to Cornwall Island on the Canadian side of the
territory -- an island that can be reached before one hits the customs and
immigration checkpoints on the Cornwall International Bridge. The van would then
stop at the end of any number of long hidden driveways leading to the water.
Quietly, quickly, the Chinese would get out of the van and into 18- to 24-foot
powerboats that could squeeze in 8 to 24 people, said Cpl. Norm Turcotte of the
Royal Canadian Mounted Police.

After a quick dash across the river, the Chinese would jump out of the boat and
into another van. Then the van would speed away, usually heading east on Route
37 toward the Gov. Thomas E. Dewey Thruway.

For driving the boat, the Indians would receive about $500 or so per immigrant,
and perhaps double that if they played chauffeur to New York.

Weather permitting, these were usually evening appointments. But during the
winter, when the river froze over, smugglers would often take a snowmobile,
hitch a trailer to the back, pack the Chinese inside and drive across the river
at all hours. Again, all in a matter of minutes.

"They're not here that long," said Wesley N. Benedict, Chief of the St. Regis
Mohawk Tribal Police Department. "They don't walk around on the streets, or go
into restaurants."

But of course, there were also times when things would go awry, when the
smugglers would be delayed by botched logistics and police sightings. If they
were lucky, the Chinese would stay in bunk beds in someone's cellar, or in cheap
motels in Cornwall or Massena. If not, they would be forced to stay in
dilapidated farmhouses, trailers or other shelter for a few days, said Police
Chief Lewis Mitchell of the Akwesasne Mohawk Police, on the Canadian side.

Those who became too cold, hungry or frustrated would wander the streets,
looking for a ride to New York. But they didn't get very far.

Earlier this year, for instance, the United States Border Patrol picked up four
Chinese women in their early 20's who had been abandoned by smugglers. A
smuggler in New York later posted $40,000 bond to win their release, and their
case is pending.

Over all, smuggling by air still remains the preferred choice, said Peter Kwong,
author of "Forbidden Workers: Illegal Chinese Immigrants and American Labor"
(The New Press, 1997).

But in recent years, the Akwesasne route has become an increasingly popular
alternative, as evidenced by the growth in arrests of Chinese immigrants trying
to cross the border. American authorities arrested 94 in 1998, up from 38 the
year before -- making the Chinese the leading nationality to be smuggled, Mr.
Ashlaw said.

None of this would be possible, of course, without local assistance. And while
most Indians and law enforcement officers insist that only a small number
participate, and that the topic of smuggling is unfairly soiling the
reservation's reputation, the fact remains that the Chinese have never had any
problems finding help.

In interviews, many residents of the reservation said that while they did not
condone smuggling, they did not condemn the smugglers, either. Most smugglers,
they say, are young and desperate, just trying to make ends meet.

Helen Jacobs, the manager of a gift shop on the American side of the
reservation, knows a luckless married couple who were arrested on charges of
smuggling two weeks ago. "They were just trying to keep it going, and they
decided to play the game," she said softly. "It's hard, especially because
there's no work right now."

At the same time, more people are supplying the police with tips about immigrant
smuggling. And law enforcement officials say that such cooperation, coupled with
better coordination among the various governmental agencies, contributed to the
recent arrests.

Even so, law enforcement officials say that catching 1 in 10 illegal immigrants
would be a coup.

On Tuesday night, two senior patrol agents, Dan Witkop and Ken Studlack, allowed
two reporters to accompany them on their evening shift. It was routine at first,
as the agents checked in with Mr. Benedict's Police Department, crisscrossed the
reservation, peered into minivans, checked license plates.

But at 10 P.M. or so, the agents were informed of a suspicious man of Polish
extraction who said that he wanted to cross the border and head for a bar in
Massena. This was notable, the agents said, because the night before, the
American authorities had picked up two illegal immigrants from Poland who were
wandering on Route 37.

So for the next two hours, the agents, in an unmarked car, followed the man. And
at first, he pulled into Bob's Motel, whose owner was recently indicted on
charges of transporting an immigrant.

After a few minutes, the man left, pulled into a gas station, stopped at a bar
for a few minutes but did not get out of the car, then returned to the motel. He
checked in, and turned off the lights.

Did he know he was being followed? Was he supposed to pick up an illegal
immigrant en route to New York? Or was he just a bad driver who got lost at
every turn?

The agents never found out; they waited a few more hours and decided to call it
a night.

"Well," Mr. Witkop said, "maybe next time."

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dick Ashlaw, a United States Border Patrol agent, looking for
signs of traffic on the American bank of the St. Lawrence. Above, the eyes of
Dick Ashlaw, on highway patrol in New York. In Cornwall, Ontario, Constable J.
Y. Cuillerier, right, keeps a home under surveillance.(Photographs by Librado
Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 49); A road sign directs Canadian drivers to
report to the nearest customs inspection station, in Fort Covington. (Librado
Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 54)

Maps showing the location of the St. Regis Mohawk/Akwesasne Indian Reservation:
The reservation straddles the United States-Canada border. (pg. 54)

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 25, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Frees 3 Who Fled Cuba in Plane in '96

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;  Page 21;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 190 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 24


Federal officials today conditionally released three Cuban men who had been
acquitted of hijacking a plane to the United States in 1996 and later granted
political asylum by a judge.

The release came a day after a protest by Representatives Lincoln Diaz-Balart
and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, both Florida Republicans.

The three Cubans, Adel Regalado Ulloa, Jose Roberto Bello-Puente and Leonardo
Reyes Ramirez, were released the Manatee County Jail in Bradenton. They went to
the home of their lawyer, Ralph Fernandez of Tampa, where they would be spending
their first free Christmas since their single-engine plane crashed in the Gulf
of Mexico about 30 miles west of Naples, Fla.

An immigration judge ruled last week that the men should be granted political
asylum because they would probably face retaliation if forced to return to Cuba,
but Federal officials said the men would be detained while they decided whether
to appeal.

The case against the three men remains active, their lawyer said, and they are
required to report to the Immigration and Naturalization Service every three
months under the conditions of their release.

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 27, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Find the Island a Mixed Blessing;
A Life Looking Over Shoulders In a Land Of Freedom

BYLINE: By MARY REINHOLZ

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2222 words


AT first glance, the one-story East Patchogue house where Jose and Rosa Ramos
live with their son is the picture-perfect love nest of a young couple pursuing
the American dream. But an air of anxiety pervades their $950-a-month rental,
which they share with two other relatives. Mr. Ramos is subject to arrest at any
time.

Mr. Ramos, a 28-year-old cook in Middle Village, fled his native El Salvador in
1993. Soon after being taken to San Diego by a smuggler who charged $3,500 for
the service, Mr. Ramos was detained by immigration officials and then released
to be united with his brother on Long Island while he challenged the
Government's case for deporting him.

Mr. Ramos's argument for asylum was that he feared he might be killed by former
guerrillas who killed two of his uncles and grandfather during the Salvadoran
civil war of the 1980's. He also argued for an exception because of the
congenital heart disease suffered by his 3-year-old son, Jonathan. But he lost
his fight in November, 1997, when an immigration panel rejected his last appeal,
ruling that he had no reason to flee a war that is over.

"You can't sleep well, you can't eat well, and when you open the door, you know
they can come at any minute and take you away," Mr. Ramos said in an interview
conducted to the beat of his right foot, which drummed nervously on the hardwood
floor of his brightly decorated living room. Mrs. Ramos, 24 and also an
undocumented Salvadoran immigrant who first met her husband on Long Island, sat
nearby with Jonathan, an American citizen by birth.

Variations on Mr. Ramos's case are repeated over and over again among the
Central Americans who live on Long Island, who are estimated to number 100,000
and to be the third largest population of Central American immigrants in the
United States, behind Los Angeles and Washington.

Hundreds of Central Americans are clustered in Brentwood, Carle Place, Freeport,
Glen Cove, Hempstead, Inwood, Port Washington, Westbury, Deer Park, Central
Islip and Riverhead. Most work as landscapers, nannies, porters, factory and
construction workers. Others have started their own businesses. Franklin Street
in Hempstead, where the Salvadoran government briefly set up an office in 1996,
has so many Salvadoran restaurants and clothing stores that it has been
nicknamed Little El Salvador.

Many of the Central Americans on the Island arrived in the 1960's and have
become American citizens, or at least have received the green card that
signifies legal residence in this country. But among a new wave of people who
began fleeing the human rights abuses in El Salvador and Guatemala in the 1980's
and wound up on Long Island are thousands who remain illegal immigrants.

The undocumented immigrants -- 20,000 to 30,000, according to Patrick Young,
director of the Central American Refugee Center, a Hempstead-based advocacy
group -- occupy the bottom rung of Long Island's economic and political ladder.
Living outside the law and with few skills, they must take menial jobs that pay
cash under the table and are easily exploited by employers, landlords and
merchants who can abuse their rights with virtual impunity, knowing that the
immigrants are unlikely to go to the authorities. Many undocumented immigrants
are afraid of being deported or put in detention centers if they call official
attention to themselves.

Michael Hoffman, director of the Workplace project in Hempstead, a nonprofit
center that helps to organize undocumented Central American workers, said the
coyotes, or people smugglers, are just "the first in a series of exploiters and
abusers that immigrants come in contact with. After the coyotes, they meet with
people who give them highfaluting promises of green cards after they pay X
number of dollars and employment agencies where they're offered jobs, and very
often never get them even though they've put up money to get them. Very often
women domestics get $1.50 an hour, below the minimum wage," from employers who
know that the immigrants "come without documents and won't complain."

What disturbs Mr. Ramos most is his belief that immigration judges and officials
from the Immigration and Naturalization Service don't seem to understand or care
that his being deported would break up his family and affect his ability to
provide for Jonathan, who underwent surgery last year.

"I told the judge I want to stay here because in El Salvador it's difficult to
get the kind of medication that my son needs," Mr. Ramos said. "Maybe there are
doctors in a special hospital there, but we can't pay for that."

Mr. Ramos said he makes about $250 a week in salary, plus as much as $100 more
in tips.

"Maybe immigration thinks I can leave and my son can follow me," he continued.
"But that's not the point. We are a family. He's half of my life. I can't
understand why these people think like that. They don't seem to care."

Asked whether the child's condition had a bearing on the father's immigration
case, an I.N.S. spokesman, Russ Bergeron, said Mr. Ramos "has the right to ask
for extraordinary relief based on the extraordinary medical circumstances of his
child."

Mr. Ramos's lawyer, David M. Sperling of Huntington, does not view Mr. Ramos's
case as particularly unusual, although he describes the I.N.S.'s treatment of
Mr. Ramos as "very shabby."

"This is a case that cried out for a humanitarian response," he said, "and the
cold-hearted response that Jose has received doesn't make me optimistic.

"The I.N.S. has this enforcement mentality, and they're not looking at the
individual factors," he continued. "In many cases families are being torn apart,
with mothers and fathers deported and children who have no one taking care of
them."

Mr. Ramos and other Central American immigrants facing deportation have won a
breather from the I.N.S. in the form of a moratorium on deportations of citizens
of Honduras, Nicaragua, El Salvador and Guatemala, the countries hardest hit by
Hurricane Mitch in late October. But the moratorium ends on Jan. 7.

Mr. Young said that the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility
Act, which went into effect in April, 1997, further limits the Central
Americans' chances of obtaining legal residence. The statute requires that
applicants seeking a "cancellation of removal" must have been in the United
States continuously for 10 years and prove that deportation would create
"unusual hardship" for American citizens, such as a spouse or relative. Under
the old law, applicants had to be in the country seven years and were required
to prove that deportation would result in "extreme hardship" only for
themselves.

George Fishmond, chief counsel of the House subcommittee on immigration, said
that one of the aims of the 1997 act was "making it more difficult for illegal
aliens to have jobs in this country."

"Another method was to make the standards for illegal aliens to stay in this
country less lenient," Mr. Fishmond added. "It is not the duty of the U.S. to
take in every one of the billions of people in the world who have economic
difficulty. We just can't accommodate all these people."

But the new act still leaves a confusing array of legal statuses for the Central
American immigrants:

*Undocumented people, who have no protection.

*Those with asylum applications pending, who often get work authorization from
the I.N.S. Many in this group are beneficiaries of a legal settlement involving
the American Baptist Church, which filed a class action in 1990 to stave off
mass deportations of Salvadorans and Guatemalans and to permit those immigrants
to apply for asylum.

*Those eligible to apply for protection against deportation under the 1997
Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act, which gives blanket
amnesty to Nicaraguans and Cubans who arrived in the United States before
December, 1995, and offers Salvadorans and Guatemalans the opportunity to apply
for suspension of deportation under the more relaxed regulations in effect
before the immigration reform of 1997.

Central Americans who win their cases under the Baptist Church settlement or the
relief act, noted Mr. Young, are in the "best position" to win permanent
residency because they can then apply for a green card and five years later
(three years if a spouse is a citizen) can apply for United States citizenship
-- provided, he said, that they have "good moral character and can pass a civics
and English test."

A 33-year-old Honduran woman living in Westbury described in an interview the
game of chance she plays as a working mother who could be picked up at any time
by the I.N.S. for having overstayed a Sept. 3 deportation order.

The woman, who insisted that she not be identified, said that she came to
America in 1989, after her husband "disappeared" in El Salvador when she was
pregnant with her third daughter. She said she left the children with her mother
and wound up swimming across the Rio Grande, later taking a bus to live with
relatives on Long Island.

Now she works at a cleaners and has an apartment in Westbury, a third-floor
walkup that rents for $1,100 a month. The five rooms house seven people,
including the woman's daughters, who joined her last year, and her pregnant
27-year-old sister, a recent arrival who was given six months to leave the
country after I.N.S. officials caught her illegally crossing the border.

"I don't want to go back home," she said. "There are no jobs there. My children
are here and I don't have money to bring them back. I trust in God, so I have no
fear."

"The myth is that undocumented people come here to get on welfare, to get
benefits," said Sister Judy Mannix, a Roman Catholic nun who works with
Spanish-speaking people at St. Bridget's Church in Westbury and acted as an
interpreter for the Honduran woman. "The reality is they're here because they
want to work. They're ineligible for most benefits unless there's an emergency
situation like a heart attack."

Mr. Bergeron of the I.N.S. noted that the traumatic experiences of undocumented
immigrants were often the consequence of entering the United States illegally.
"That," he said, "is why we have a formal system of immigration designed to
insure that people who come to the U.S. have the necessary legal and social
systems, which insure that they can resettle here without fear of exploitation."
Legal immigration, he said, allows them to be admitted to the United States
"either because of a petition filed by a family member or employer."

Many undocumented immigrants have achieved a measure of middle-class success.
Marcelino Moreira, 29, a Salvadoran who came to the United States in the 1980's,
and his wife, Daria, 33, who arrived in 1990, make a combined $33,000 a year --
enough to support their four children in a rented Brentwood house on a
tree-lined street.

Mr. Moreira, who has worked for eight years as an operator at a paper factory in
Hauppauge, making $8 an hour on a day shift, owns his own car. His wife works an
eight-hour shift in a Syosset factory at night. In halting English, she said, "I
want to go to school and get a good job that pays well."

But the couple, both of whom have temporary work authorization papers from the
I.N.S., still could be deported if they fail to win their asylum cases.

"My children would suffer in El Salvador," Mr. Moreira said. "The food is not
the same as it is here. You've got health inspectors here that check the food.
They don't have that in El Salvador. Every time we have the children visit
relatives in El Salvador, they have come back with some kind of illness. And
when they come back, they don't want to return."

Mrs. Moreira, whose first job was as a live-in housekeeper in Port Washington,
said she believes some people in her neighborhood regard her as a welfare
recipient.

"A woman in the laundromat said that," she said. "But I never take welfare."

In a decade of work, Juan Alfero, a 27-year-old Salvadoran immigrant, saved up
enough money from his 60-hour-a-week job as a busboy in a Lindenhurst restaurant
to make a $23,000 down payment on a $189,000 house in Brentwood.

"It was a big dream to come to this country to work," Mr. Alfero said, adding
that he worked in Long Island restaurants as an undocumented immigrant for two
years, receiving cash from his employers, before he applied for political asylum
and obtained work authorization.

"After I got that card from immigration, it was like starting a new life," he
said. "I got a driver's license. It's hard to live in this county without any
I.D. And you have to learn a different language."

His wife, Dina, works 40 hours a week at a Deer Park factory, manufacturing
guitar cords and bringing work home. "We're planning to take a vacation if we
get residency," Mr. Alfero said. "We're going to save our money and send our
kids to college."

"Salvadorans have resourcefulness," said Juan Carlos Murillo, 30, a Salvadoran
who works as a counselor in the Brentwood office of the Central American Refugee
Center while fighting his own deportation case. "They have kids in the schools,
they're circulating money, they're part of the community. Some of them live the
American dream."

But for people like Mr. Alfero, he said, "it's temporary." If Mr. Alfero is
deported, "he could lose everything, his house, his dream."

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jose and Rosa Ramos with son, Jonathan, at their home in East
Patchoque. Mr. Ramos, a cook in middle village, faces deportation.

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 31, 1998, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Government in the Netherlands Thwarts Modern Pilgrim's Progress

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 774 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Dec. 30


Almost four centuries after the Netherlands gave the Pilgrims refuge from
persecution in England, a leading American scholar on the Pilgrims seems to have
been caught in the Dutch Government's crackdown on immigrants and has been
ordered to leave the Netherlands by Jan. 15.

The scholar, Dr. Jeremy Bangs, who founded a Pilgrim museum last year in Leiden,
said the Dutch Ministry of Justice had rejected his application for permanent
residency because, it said, he did not qualify for a work permit and it did not
believe he could support himself.

"It is hard to get more ironic than to expel someone who is working on the
Pilgrims, who were the most famous example of Dutch welcome and protection," Dr.
Bangs said.

At the time the Pilgrims fled to the Netherlands in 1608, he said, the
government boasted that it "refuses no honest people free entry."

Dr. Bangs, 52, receives financial support from the New England Historic
Genealogical Society in Boston to conduct research on the history of the
Pilgrims while they were in the Netherlands before leaving for America in 1620
and founding Plymouth.

He recently discovered the first contemporary painting showing the Pilgrims
embarking at Delftshaven on their way to America.

Jane Fiske, the editor of the Register of the Historic Genealogical Society,
which will publish an article about Dr. Bangs's discovery in January, said of
the deportation, "He has done so well in his research and opening the museum
that this whole thing seems ludicrous."

The Ministry of Justice has been trying to deal with a record 50,000 illegal
immigrants to the Netherlands, already one of the most densely populated
countries, from Afghanistan, Iraq, Somalia and the former Yugoslavia this year.
The immigrants contend that they are escaping political persecution, but the
Dutch Government has been under pressure to treat them as economic refugees and
expel them.

A spokesman for the ministry, Wijnand Stevens, said Dr. Bangs could appeal the
expulsion.

Mr. Stevens also said the Government's crackdown and Dr. Bangs's case were not
related.

But the leading Dutch newspaper, NRC Handelsblad, poked fun at the ministry on
Tuesday, suggesting that Dr. Bangs was a victim of bureaucratic stupidity.

The problem for Dr. Bangs is that he may not apply for a work permit because he
is both an employee of the Leiden American Pilgrim Museum and the director of
it, the paper said. Under Dutch law, only an employer may apply for a permit for
an employee, so, the paper said, Dr. Bangs "falls outside bureaucratic
definition."

"Bangs does not cost the Dutch state a single penny," the paper said. "And his
museum tells of a meaningful part of our history. Hillary Rodham Clinton who
will visit the Netherlands in February has put the museum on her agenda. Perhaps
she will arrive at a closed door because Bangs had to leave the Netherlands on
Jan. 15. Can someone explain this to Hillary?"

At least one member of the Dutch Parliament, J. Th. Hoekema, has officially
questioned the ministry's decision.

Friends and acquaintances of Dr. Bangs say another part of his difficulty may be
that he lives simply, on the small income from the Historic Genealogical Society
and that the ministry may not believe he has enough means of support.

Neither Dr. Bangs nor the society would say what he is paid, but Ms. Fiske said:
"He lives very frugally, in a small apartment in an old building, and it is hard
to see how he gets by. I think he is putting much of the money we give him into
the museum."

Before moving to Leiden two years ago, Dr. Bangs lived in Scituate, Mass., and
was curator of Plimouth Plantation. He holds a doctorate in history from the
University of Leiden and has written 12 books and more than 40 scholarly
articles.

In his research, he has demonstrated that some of the people Americans today
celebrate as the Pilgrims were not English. Several were French-speaking
Walloons, or Protestants, and one even came from Danzig, in Poland. They had all
come to Leiden because it was a center of religious tolerance at a time of
warfare between Catholics and Protestants.

Dr. Bangs said that if he was required to leave, the museum would probably
close. If he does have to abandon Leiden, he may recall a passage written about
the Pilgrims' departure in 1620 by William Bradford, later Governor of Plymouth:

"So they left that goodly and pleasant city which had been their resting place
near twelve years; but they knew they were pilgrims, and looked not much on
those things, but lift up their eyes to the heavens, their dearest country, and
quieted their spirits."



LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 3, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Newspapers That Speak In Tongues

BYLINE: By GEORGE JAMES

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2659 words

DATELINE: BASKING RIDGE


IN a blue colonial on a quiet street in this Somerset County suburb, the last 10
days of the month are always hectic for Dr. Arturo Roberts. That's when, and
where, he publishes a monthly newspaper called Ninnau.

Although the masthead says it is "The North American Welsh Newspaper," its
readers are also to be found in Wales and other Welsh enclaves including
Patagonia in Argentina where Dr. Roberts was born and grew up. (Ninnau,
pronounced NIN-eye, means "We also" in Welsh.)

Dr. Roberts, a physician who worked for many years in the pharmaceutical
industry, created Ninnau in 1975 because he felt there was a need for a "means
of communication among people in the Welsh community worldwide." And he has been
editing and publishing it ever since with the help of his family.

"This is a hobby," said Dr. Roberts, noting that circulation and advertising
revenues barely cover expenses. "This is a labor of love."

His newspaper, which has a circulation of 3,500, is one of many throughout New
Jersey that try to address the concerns of specific nationalities in a state
whose immigrant population is the fifth largest in the nation.

Some are long-established papers such as The Italian Tribune News in Newark
(1931), The Post Eagle in Clifton (1962), and The Slovak Catholic Falcon in
Passaic (1911). Others reflect newer waves of immigration, like The New Jersey
China Times in Edison (1995) and Tiranga in New Jersey in Rahway(1998), for the
Indian population.

Perhaps the most vibrant journalism right now is the Latino press, with more
than a dozen newspapers competing for readers including Continental News Weekly,
El Especial, El Extra, Mensaje, La Tribuna, and La Voz.

"These little newspapers provide havens in a heartless world," said Sig Gissler,
a professor at the Columbia University School of Journalism and former editor of
The Milwaukee Journal. "There's news about their old country and news about
their new community that they often can't get in the mainstream press."

Professor Gissler, who teaches a course called "Race and Ethnicity in the New
Urban American," added, "I call these heartbeat publications. They try to
maintain the heartbeat of their culture."

Just before World War I, there were 1,300 foreign-language newspapers being
published in the United States, almost 40 percent of them in German. As each new
nationality arrived, other papers sprung up. By mid-century, restrictive
immigration laws and depression had caused the number to dwindle to about 120
German publications, 13 of them dailies, and 100 other foreign-language dailies.

Today, the Gale Directory of Publications and Broadcast Media lists 237
foreign-language newspapers and 210 such magazines in the United States. (Those
figures do not take into account either the Jewish press or black publications.)

The exact number published in New Jersey is difficult to determine, but a review
of Gale's, Editor & Publisher Yearbook, and telephone data banks indicates there
are at least 30. The papers range from humble shoppers distributed free to
substantial publications with large paid circulations and national and local
advertising.

The advertising can be just as important as the news, both to the papers'
survival and to the communities they serve. It helps ethnic businesses that
cannot afford to advertise in the mainstream press reach out to customers and it
provides direct access to lucrative markets for nonethnic businesses. For
example, nationwide "the Latino market has over $300 billion in purchasing power
and is way over 28 million strong," said Ralph Ortiz of the Hudson Advertising
Group.

Just because a newspaper is small or is given away, he added, its influence is
not to be scorned.

"Some of these papers are free, but they have great influence in the civic, the
political and religious affairs of the community," Mr. Ortiz said.

Barbara Straus Reed, an associate professor of journalism at Rutgers University,
said the new ethnic papers do what such papers have always done: speak out when
the minority culture sees its rights threatened, as well as teach the language
and customs of the new country. They also help transmit the community's heritage
by publishing profiles of successful immigrants and highlighting celebrations.

"Those are very important events for whole communities intergenerationally to
bond together," she said. "The paper serves as a central source for doing that."

Here is a look at some of the papers that reach out from New Jersey to readers
from around the world:

140 Years in German

The Freie Zeitung, possibly the oldest ethnic newspaper published in New Jersey
and the only German-language paper published in the state today, began in 1858
in Newark and continued as a daily until 1932, when it went weekly.

The current editor and publisher, Eberhard Schweizer, a German-born toolmaker
who owns the M.S. Tool Company in Kennilworth, bought the paper in 1963 as a
kind of gift for his stepfather, Helmut Heimsch.

"My stepfather worked for the newspaper as a part-time sports editor," Mr.
Schweizer recalled. "When the publisher died, I bought the paper so my
stepfather could have a full-time job."

After Mr. Heimsch's death in 1978, a number of German organizations encouraged
Mr. Schweizer to continue the paper and he has, often subsidizing it out of his
own pocket. It is now published out of his tool company by three employees and
has 6,000 subscribers along the East Coast.

Asked about the paper's greatest accomplishment, Mr. Schweizer said: "That we
are able to keep the newspaper going. It is not an easy task because there are
not that many immigrants coming to this country because of the immigration law
the way it is, and we have older readers who moved or passed away."

Two for Ukrainians

The Ukrainian National Association, a fraternal organization in Parsippany,
publishes two papers: Svoboda Ukrainian Weekly, which is written in the
Ukrainian language, and The Ukrainian Weekly, an English-language cousin. Each
has a circulation of about 7,500 in the United States and Canada.

Svoboda started as a daily in Jersey City in 1893 but last July it became a
weekly, according to Roma Hadzewycz, editor-in-chief of the Ukrainian Weekly.

Her own paper began in 1933; much of its early coverage was devoted to a famine
in the Ukraine that was not being reported by the mainstream press.

In October 1997, the association moved its newspapers from its 15-story
headquarters on Exchange Place to a smaller building in Morris County for
economic reasons and to follow its readers to the suburbs.

Ms. Hadzewycz, 43, who was born in the United States, began work in 1977 at the
Ukrainian Weekly part-time while studying for her master's degree in journalism
at New York University.

"I love this job," she said. "I love this community. Every week I see the
results of my efforts and every week I feel I've given something back to my
community. I feel the paper is needed and I'm doing a service."

Portuguese Competition

Luso Americano, a Portuguese-language paper published in the Ironbound section
of Newark, was founded in 1928 but subsequently declined. It was taken over and
revived in 1939 by Vasco Jardim, an immigrant from Madeira who had worked as a
journalist in New Bedford, Mass.

His son, Ed Jardim, a retired copy editor of the New York Daily News Magazine,
recalls his parents scrambling to make ends meet, running a print shop and doing
other jobs. "My father did travel," he said. "My mother did insurance."

On Mr. Jardim's retirement, his son-in-law, Antonio Matinho, an engineer by
training who had worked at the paper since 1960, assumed control and is director
and editor in chief. His wife, Natalie, Vasco Jardim's daughter, is managing
editor. Their son, Paul, 32, is general manager, and another son, David, 30, is
production manager.

Luso Americano publishes twice a week, averages 72 pages, sells for 50 cents and
has 35,000 circulation, primarily in New Jersey, New York, Connecticut and
Pennsylvania. It also sends 300 copies to Portugal and Brazil. It employs 21
people, including 7 editors and reporters and has 44 correspondents throughout
the United States.

"We pride ourselves on opening up the opportunities for people to make up their
own minds," Mr. Matinho said.

The Portuguese Post, which considers itself Luso Americano's main competition,
was started in 1987 by a group of Portuguese businessmen and is owned now by
Antonio Seabra, an entrepreneur who runs a number of supermarkets and
restaurants.

The paper, a weekly, averages about 56 pages, sells for 50 cents and has a
circulation of 10,000, according to Lisa Coelho, a spokesperson for the Seabra
Group.

Pedro Bento, the 26-year-old editor, said that Luso Americano was too much a
part of the establishment and that his newspaper was more likely to stir things
up.

"We're more aggressive," said Mr. Bento, who has a staff of six.

The Post is affiliated with a cable television channel, RTP-USA, with which it
shares quarters in the Ironbound. RTP, which is part of the Seabra Group, stands
for Radio Television Portugal and serves the Portuguese and Brazilian
communities in New Jersey. For an average of 11 hours a day, it broadcasts
programming from Portugal augmented by community programs, including a public
affairs program moderated by Mr. Bento.

RTP-USA says it serves 130,000 viewers in 14 New Jersey communities, including
Newark with 36,000 viewers and Elizabeth with 24,000, and is planning an
expansion to 29 others.

For Cubans and Others

La Tribuna, the oldest Spanish-language newspaper published in New Jersey, was
founded in Newark in 1962 by a Cuban immigrant, Carlos Vidot, for Cubans who
moved here after the Bay of Pigs invasion.

Ruth Molenaar, who had been publishing a real-estate magazine, bought La Tribuna
in 1988. Published in Union City, it comes out twice a month and has a
circulation of 53,000 in Hudson, Bergen, Essex and Passaic Counties. It also has
readers in Manhattan, Miami, California, Texas and Puerto Rico.

Ms. Molenaar, who was born of a Dutch father and Dominican mother and grew up in
Aruba, said her readers included Cubans, Puerto Ricans, Dominicans, Colombians,
Ecuadoreans and Peruvians.

When the mayor of Union City put planters along Bergenline Avenue, La Tribuna
said the money would have been better spent cleaning the streets. Another
editorial argued that nationality groups, not the city, should clean up after
their parades.

"We don't use the newspaper to insult anyone," Ms. Molenaar said. "We don't use
inappropriate language, and we have been in business for 36 years without
missing an edition and that's quite an accomplishment."

The Filipino Express

The Filipino Express, an English-language weekly, was established in 1986 after
the Marcos regime fell, because its founder, Lito Gajilan, wanted to make sure
Filipino-Americans were receiving news from the Phillipines.

The newspaper, which has three full-time employees, including Mr. Gajilan's
daughter Arlyn, who is managing editor, is operated out of RTA Travel in Jersey
City, the agency Mr. Gajilan established in 1983.

The paper, which sells for a dollar, has a nationwide circulation of 19,000.
About 6,500 papers are sold in New Jersey, 4,900 in New York and 3,500 in
California. Other readers -- a lot of other readers -- visit the paper's Web
site (www.filipinoexpress.com), which was set up in 1996.

"When we first set up our Web site we received a lot of good comment," he said.
"Some 340,000 people looked at the Web site, people all around the world. That's
pretty good for a small ethnic newspaper."

Mr. Gajilan runs editorials and columns that do not shy away from criticizing
Filipine or American officials, and in the paper's early years, he said, he
received a number of threats.

"I just continued, even though a lot of money comes from my own pocket, just so
the paper would survive," Mr. Gajilan said. "You prove something, that your
paper is always there every week."

Today, for Italians

When 23 Newspaper Guild employees were dismissed for going on strike in 1988 by
Il Progresso, the leading Italian newspaper at the time, they pooled their
resources and started their own newspaper, America Oggi.

"We tried to scratch up $5,000 each," said Andrea Mantineo, former managing
editor of Il Progresso and now America Oggi's editor and president. "We worked
for free for about five months using the small credit line we could get."

Il Progresso went out of business, but America Oggi (Oggi means today) now has a
circulation of 45,000. Mr. Mantineo said it is the only Italian-language paper
outside Italy that publishes daily.

The paper, published in Westwood, has 40 employees, sells for $1 daily and $1.50
Sunday. Thirty-five percent of its readers live in New Jersey, 40 percent in New
York.

"We're not making a profit," Mr. Mantineo said. "We are surviving in that we
have been growing slowly but surely. "We feel we do something very important for
them. You can feel from the number of calls and letters we get that we provide
something they can't find anywhere else."

Giving Indians an Outlet

Tiranga means "Tricolor," a reference to the Indian flag, which is red, white
and green. "Tiranga in New Jersey" is an English-language newspaper for Asian
Indians that was begun last August.

It was born because Joe Renna, an Italian-American graphics designer who owns
Rentec Design Studio in Rahway, wanted to place an ad for a computer operator in
an Indian newspaper but he couldn't find one.  Instead he placed an ad in The
Star Ledger for a partner to help start his own paper.

Responding was Nitin Gurjar of Jersey City, an accountant who had come to the
United States in 1989 and was working as quality control officer for a
pharmaceutical company when he saw the ad.

With Mr. Gurjar as publisher, specializing in circulation and advertising, Mr.
Renna as production coordinator, and Bob Rixon, a poet, writer and radio
personality (WFMU-FM 91.1) as copy editor, the newspaper is being published out
of the Rentec studio.

Each month 20,000 copies are distributed without charge in towns with large
concentrations of Indians, including Jersey City, Passaic, Elizabeth, Edison and
Woodbridge.

Mr. Gurjar said his major goal was to provide information about his diverse
culture and help his readers adjust to their new country. "The main thing," he
said, "is to help out my community."

Welsh, and Family

In the Roberts home in Basking Ridge, Dr. Roberts was saying that there were
more than two million people in the United States who claim Welsh ancestry, with
some living in New Jersey but many in New York State, Pennsylvania and
Wisconsin.

With him was his wife, Olga, who handles advertising and circulation for Ninnau,
and a son, Arthur Jr., a research associate at Robert Wood Johnson Medical
School who designed a computer program to keep track of circulation.

Dr. Roberts does not pay contributors but the articles come in from all over the
world. He edits the articles and sends them by E-mail to his daughter, Mair, in
Florida who designs the pages and E-mails them back. The pages then go to a
printer in Denville. The annual subscription price is $20.

He has made no money but received many awards from Welsh organizations,
including induction into a prestigious group in Wales, the Circle of Bards.

"Most of the recognition has come to me but the one who deserves it is Olga," he
said.

Asked what her title is, she replied, "What is my title? I can't remember. I
think it is the managing editor." Everyone laughed.

When asked what he did, Arthur Jr. said, "What is my title, Dad?"

"He doesn't have a title," Dr. Roberts said. And then, speaking about his son,
but by extension everyone who labors in the ethnic press for their community, he
added, "But he is very indispensable."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Newspapers that serve New Jersey's immigrant communities roll
off the presses in a variety of languages, offering news and advertisements that
can be hard to find in mainstream publications. The Filipino Express is
published in Jersey City; above, Eddie Teves, an art director for the Express,
designs pages. (Photographs by Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times); Dr.
Arturo Roberts, above, publishes Ninnau, a newspaper for Welsh-American readers,
from his Basking Ridge home. At the Newark offices of Luso Americano, left,
Fernando A. Dos Santo, senior editor, worked on page layouts. (Nancy Wegard for
The New York Times)(pg. 1); In the control room of RTP-USA, a cable television
channel that serves the Portuguese and Brazilian communities in New Jersey.
Standing is Antonio Seabra, whose Seabra Group owns the station; with him are
Carlos Miguel Ferreira, in foreground, and Armando De Sousa. (Photographs by
Mike Peters for The New York Times); Pedro Bento, editor of The Portuguese Post,
one of two papers published in Newark that serve Portuguese and Brazilian
readers. The Post was founded in 1987. (Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York
Times)(pg. 7)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 5, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

In Switch, Dutch Give Permit To U.S. Scholar on Pilgrims

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 302 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Jan. 4


After widespread publicity, the Dutch Government today withdrew its order that a
leading American scholar on the Pilgrims leave the Netherlands by Jan. 15 and
instead granted him a residency permit, the scholar, Dr. Jeremey Bangs, said.

Dr. Bangs said a Dutch official called him today to apologize for a
"misunderstanding" about the order expelling him from the country that almost
four centuries ago granted refuge to the Pilgrims when they fled religious
persecution in England.

Dr. Bangs, 52, founded a Pilgrim museum in Leiden in 1997 and was doing research
on the Pilgrims' sojourn in the Netherlands from 1608 to 1620, when they left
for the United States. His research is financially supported by the New England
Historic Genealogical Society in Boston.

In earlier rejecting his request for a residency permit, the Dutch Ministry of
Justice said Dr. Bangs did not qualify for a work permit and it did not believe
he had adequate means of support. Dr. Bangs and some of his Dutch and American
supporters believed he had been caught in a crackdown by the Dutch Government on
50,000 illegal immigrants last year from Afghanistan, Iraq, Somalia and the
former Yugoslavia.

In a letter Dr. Bangs received today, A. A. M. Wezenberg, a regional official of
the immigrant and naturalization department of the Ministry of Justice, said,
"After extensive study of your dossier, I have come to the conclusion that it
was incorrect that no residence permit was granted to you. For this I offer my
sincere apologies."

Although the residency permit was a temporary one, Dr. Bangs said he believed
that he would be able to have it extended.

Dr. Bangs said he was "very relieved" by the news. The Government acted after
newspaper articles about Dr. Bangs's plight prompted complaints to it.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 14, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Identity Checks;
High-Tech Help for Frequent Travelers Entering U.S.

BYLINE: By VERNE G. KOPYTOFF

SECTION: Section G; Page 5; Column 1; Circuits

LENGTH: 509 words


AFTER a flight to the United States, most travelers want to grab their luggage
and go to bed, not wait in line at the airport. But wait they do, sometimes for
an hour or more as Immigration and Naturalization Service inspectors check
passports and ask questions in their efforts to stop criminals and unauthorized
foreigners from entering the country.

But now, by using what looks like a automated teller machine, some travelers can
be on their way in a flash.

People enrolled in a Immigration and Naturalization Service program called the
Passenger Accelerated Service System, or INS-PASS, can avoid the bureaucracy by
simply inserting an identity card into the machine and placing a hand into an
identity analyzer. Then, if all goes well, the traveler walks through an open
gate.  The program is open to frequent business travelers, who are considered a
low-risk group, from the United States and 28 other designated low-risk
countries.

"Sometimes the lines are so full," said Yoko Omae, a flight attendant from Japan
who was using the INS-PASS machine at the Los Angeles International Airport
recently after working on a flight from Tokyo. "During Christmas, New Year's and
summer, it takes an hour to go through. This system is a great idea."

It took Ms. Omae only about 40 seconds to be allowed entry. The computer
examined a national database to find out if she was wanted by the police and
verified her identity using a relatively new technique called hand geometrics.

To prove that she was authorized to enter the United States, Ms. Omae followed
the instructions on a view screen, putting her right hand inside a slot on the
console. Within a few seconds, the computer compared data from her hand with
similar data entered a year ago, when she enrolled in the program.

Once cleared, she received a receipt from the computer, went to pick up her
luggage and walked past United States Agriculture and Customs inspectors. If she
had been rejected entry, either because of a criminal alert or an error, a
message would have appeared on the screen telling her to wait in line to see an
inspector.

Nearly 75,000 people have enrolled in INS-PASS. It is available at an increasing
number of airports, including Kennedy, Newark and San Francisco International
Airports. Applicants must generally travel to the United States at least three
times a year, submit to an interview and undergo a computer background check
that lasts a few seconds before being issued cards with magnetic stripes and
identification pictures.

Thomas Graber, director of the I.N.S. operations at the Los Angeles airport,
said the program allowed his inspectors to spend more time trying to find
passengers who are criminals or using fraudulent documents. The way things are
now, he said, inspectors have only about 30 to 45 seconds to determine whether a
traveler should be allowed to enter the country.

"What we are trying to do is move the low-risk passengers through and take the
inspectors we have and concentrate them on the bad guys," Mr. Graber said.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 18, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Storm Victims Surge North, With U.S. as Goal

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1892 words

DATELINE: TAPACHULA, Mexico


About every two days, a cargo train loaded with fuel and other supplies arrives
in this city near Mexico's border with Guatemala. It heads back north after
sundown, empty but for the human cargo clinging to its sides.

Since a hurricane struck Central America last fall, leaving thousands dead and
millions homeless, there has been an alarming increase in the number of
immigrants making this harrowing journey, heading to the United States,
officials say.

Central American immigrants have been jumping this creaking old night train for
more than a decade, embarking on a 15-hour ride fraught with danger. Hundreds
are ambushed and beaten by thieves. Others suffocate after crawling inside
boxcars whose doors lock behind them or are mutilated when exhaustion causes
them to lose their grip and fall beneath the train.

This latest group, driven by the loss of lives and livelihoods, is more
desperate and more determined to reach the United States, say immigration
officials and social workers who have talked with them.

Among those waiting for the train here in early January were three men from the
Honduran province of Olancho. Haggard and hungry, they said their entire village
of 500 people had been destroyed by the hurricane, which wreaked an estimated $4
billion damage. They had left home two weeks earlier, taking buses for pennies
across Guatemala, and already they had been robbed -- each had brought about $30
for food. One showed a deep gash on his shoulder left by the thief's machete.

"This has to be the most sad experience a person could live, leaving your
children," said one, Jose Juarez, a farmer and father of five. "There are no
words to describe that kind of pain. But I must make this sacrifice for them."

Mexican officials worry that the increased number of immigrants crossing the
border of southern Mexico could indicate the beginning of a large and prolonged
migration of Central Americans through Mexico to the United States. Such a
migration would place even greater burdens on border control systems in Mexico
and the United States and put untold numbers of immigrants at risk of being
robbed, raped, murdered and even enslaved by immigrant smugglers.

The number of Central Americans detained and expelled at the southern border has
doubled in the last several weeks, Alejandro Carrillo Castro of the National
Immigration Institute said in an interview in Mexico City. Institute officers
caught 5,800 immigrants in December, compared with about 2,900 in December 1997.
An overwhelming majority were from Honduras, the country most affected by the
hurricane.

United States Border Patrol officials in Laredo, Del Rio and McAllen -- towns
that are easily accessible from Tapachula -- reported significant increases in
the numbers of Central Americans detained in December.

In Laredo, for example, officials said 583 immigrants known as "other than
Mexicans" were detained in December, compared with 123 in December 1997. And in
Del Rio, officials said the number of immigrants detained who were coming from
places other than Mexico rose to 221 in December, compared with 45 in December
1997.

While the overall numbers are still low, United States officials said they were
troubled by the trend.

"We are watching it very closely, and we want to do everything we can to avert a
mass migration," said Doris Meissner, Commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, referring to Washington's support of numerous efforts
across Central America to rebuild roads, bridges and other installations and to
create jobs.

Strategies to prevent mass migrations from Central America will be discussed by
the Grupo Puebla, a gathering of leading immigration officials from the United
States, Mexico, Canada and every Central American nation, at a meeting in San
Salvador on Jan. 26, Mr. Carrillo said

The Middle-Aged Join A Desperate Trek

In Mexico, law officers charged with protecting immigrants' rights report that
they provided services to some 3,000 Central American immigrants in December, 10
times the number in December 1997. At the Casa del Migrante, a shelter for
immigrants in Tecun Uman, a Guatemalan town on the Mexican border, social
workers said they served close to 900 newly arrived immigrants in December,
compared with 200 in December 1997.

Unlike other groups of immigrants, those making the journey across Mexico's
southern border now have had no time to plan their trips, save money or contact
relatives who might receive them. Most travel only with the clothes they are
wearing, a little money for food, and wads of paper, about the size of gum
wrappers, with phone numbers of relatives whom they have not seen or talked to
in years.

Another unusual feature of this desperate group is that it includes middle-aged
men, who typically put off notions of abandoning their countries in pursuit of
new lives.

"I am past the years where I want adventures," said Jose Elias Perez, 47, while
a friend rubbed salve on his swollen ankle. "I am doing this because I have no
options. In Honduras I had no way to make money. I had no house. I had no
transportation. And I had no food for my family.

"In the United States," he said, "if they pay me three dollars an hour, it will
be fine with me."

So far, Mexican officials said they had no plans to seal off their southern
border with more immigration agents. Currently, there are 150 agents along
Mexico's 650-mile border with Guatemala and Belize.

Most are posted here, the most common gateway for immigrants coming from Central
America because the Suchiate River that forms a natural border between Guatemala
and Mexico is low and calm, shelters provide free food and lodging to
immigrants, and there are accessible forms of mass transportation heading due
north.

The border area near this city is so well known as a stop for illegal immigrants
-- as well as a den for smugglers and others who prey upon the desperate -- that
people refer to it as "Little Tijuana."

On a recent morning, the sun had been up only a few moments and already some 200
haggard and hungry immigrants had emerged from their sleeping places, beneath
bridges and in the municipal cemetery, to gather along the railroad tracks that
pass through town.

Among them was Julio Cesar Rodriguez, 28, a banana farmer and father of two from
El Progreso, who said the fields where he worked were ruined. Mr. Perez, a taxi
driver and father of two from Comayagua, said his entire neighborhood and the
car he used to make his living were swept away in the flood. And Nery Sierra
Ramos, 33, broke into tears as he talked about losing his three children, aged
10, 5 and 1.

Looking at the men around him, Mr. Sierra said they were his family now. He
called them "hermanos del camino," Spanish for "road brothers." And even though
their journey had been tough -- they had also been robbed of their money -- they
refused to turn back.

"We are suffering here, but at least we have hope that there might be a future
for us in the United States," said Mr. Sierra, a thin man who wore a jeans
jacket that looked too small. "In Honduras, we have no hope."

Asked whether he thought more Hondurans would follow, he said, "If they could,
all of Honduras would come."

Many Believe the U.S. Gave a Green Light

Another important factor contributing to the increase in the numbers of
immigrants from Honduras, officials and immigrants said, is that many Central
Americans mistakenly believe that the United States had offered refuge to all
victims of Hurricane Mitch. The confusion apparently arose immediately after the
storm when the United States Government delayed deportations of undocumented
Central Americans for humanitarian reasons.

The Clinton Administration announced in December that it would extend the
amnnesty for Hondurans and Nicaraguans who were in the United States before Dec.
30 by granting them an 18-month temporary protected status.

People in Central America believed that they had been given a green light to
immigrate. Most of the immigrants interviewed over three days at different
places along Mexico's southern border confirmed the confusion.

"We read it in our newspapers," said Carlos Cabrera, 21. "They said that
Hondurans who are victims of Mitch will be allowed to come and work in the
United States."

"We are good people who just want to work," he said. "Tell your President to let
us in."

Ms. Meissner, the immigration commissioner, said a major thrust of the American
Government's work with Central American Governments was aimed at spreading the
word that people who immigrate to the United States will not be given refuge.

Lesbia Gabriel Maldonado, a social worker at the Casa del Migrante, the
immigrant shelter in Tecun Uman, said she had done several interviews on
Honduran radio in an effort to warn people that they will not be given amnesty
in the United States. She said dozens of immigrants who had come to her shelter
carried "letters of recommendation" from their town mayors or their parish
priests, verifying that their homes have been destroyed and that they urgently
needed refuge.

When she tells them those letters are useless, she said, the immigrants feel
deceived, but not deterred.  "They have nothing at home," she said. "They have
no reason to go back."

Hugo Ayala Morales, chief of a law enforcement agency that strives to protect
immigrants from attacks, said: "These people seem more determined than other
groups of immigrants I have seen. They are more desperate."

Soldier From Honduras Tries and Tries Again

One of those determined to get to the United States was Carlos Danilo Rojas
Gomez, 35, an army sergeant from Tegucigalpa, the Honduran capital. In what
seemed like seconds, he said, he watched the Choluteca River swell and consume
his entire house. Two of his sisters drowned.

He asked his superior officers to help him and his family find a place to live.
But, he said, they turned him away. "I served my country for 16 years and when I
went to them for help they told me I was homeless just like everyone else," he
said at the shelter in Tecun Uman. "In that moment, I learned that we are
nothing in our country."

Mr. Rojas said he began his journey out of Honduras on Dec. 28 and made it to
Tapachula, but immigration agents arrested him on a bus heading north. He was
sent back to Guatemala.

His skin was sunburned and his eyes so bloodshot that they matched the pink
T-shirt he was wearing. He said he was worried about his wife, who was eight
months pregnant when he left. After several collect phone calls to Honduras, Mr.
Rojas still had not been able to reach her.

He was also worried about money. He said the $300 he had brought with him had
been stolen by two men who held him up. But he refused to go home. In Honduras,
he said, he earned less than $150 a month, hardly enough to rebuild his house
and provide for his family. International aid flowing into Honduras, he said, is
going only to help the rich.

"It is easier for me to die of hunger trying to get to the United States than to
watch my wife and child suffer hunger," Mr. Rojas said,

The next day, he said, he would start out again for Houston, where he hoped to
get help from a friend of a friend. "If they catch me 1,000 times," he said, "I
will try again 1,000 times until I succeed."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: With ravaged lives behind them, Hondurans wait to head north on
a freight train in Tapachula, Mexico. (Luis J. Jimenez for The New York
Times)(pg. 1); The number of immigrants entering Mexico from Guatemala is rising
sharply. On the outskirts of Tapachula, Hondurans waited for a freight train.
(Luis J. Jimenez for The New York Times)(pg. A8)

Map of Central America: Tapachula is a busy gateway for immigrants from Central
America. (pg. A8)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 27, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Colombian Immigrants Worry and Wait

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 580 words


Cristina Marquez couldn't stop crying on Monday night, worrying about her
grandmother, who had just narrowly escaped being crushed to death in her family
home in Armenia, Colombia.

"I can't think about anything else," said Ms. Marquez, who immigrated from
Armenia three years ago and now works as a waitress at La Pequena Colombia in
Jackson Heights, Queens. "I just keep seeing my grandmother and all my family.
They're all alive, thank God, but now they have no home, nowhere to go."

Nearly two-thirds of Ms. Marquez's hometown was reduced to rubble when an
earthquake hit western Colombia's coffee-growing region. Hundreds are confirmed
dead.

Many Colombian immigrants like Ms. Marquez spent the day yesterday trying to
reach relatives in Armenia or in Pereira, a nearby city that also was hard hit
by the earthquake. Local Colombian community leaders gathered at the Colombian
Consulate to coordinate their efforts to get medical supplies, bottled water,
basic housing needs and money to earthquake victims.

Ms. Marquez said she tried in vain to contact her family and friends and only
learned that her grandmother, sister, uncles and aunts had survived when a
family friend was able to get word to Ms. Marquez's husband, who lives in Cali,
a city about 100 miles southwest of Armenia. "My husband called to tell me they
were okay," she said, "but even he was shaken up because he felt the earthquake
all the way in Cali."

Ms. Marquez said that she often teased her 74-year-old grandmother because of
her complaints about minor aches and pains, but she said those complaints saved
her grandmother's life.

"She said she wasn't feeling too good, so she made my uncle take her to the
doctor, and that's the only reason they weren't in the house when it fell," Ms.
Marquez said.

She said that her father, with whom she lives in Jackson Heights, wants to get
back to Colombia now.  "He needs to see the house where he grew up, even though
there's nothing left," she said. "Everybody wants to go, but it's impossible
right now."

Dr. Jairo G. Casas, a leader of the community in Queens, said that many of the
estimated 80,000 Colombian immigrants in Queens are from Armenia and Pereira.

Dr. Casas, who is from Bogota, said friends in Colombia called to say that
hospitals need blood and basic medical supplies like gauze and antibiotics to
treat the injured. So Dr. Casas has gone on local Spanish television and radio
shows with that appeal and dozens of people have already contacted his office to
make donations. He said he hoped to start a blood drive for earthquake victims
within the next few days. The Colombian Consulate also has established a bank
account to accept contributions to help earthquake victims.

William Salgado, an attorney and a former president of the Colombian Civic
Center, said that hundreds of people have called his agency to offer help. "I'm
from Bogota and none of my immediate relatives were affected, but you can't
distance yourself when something like this happens," he said.

John Galvez, a waiter at La Pequena Colombia, went to work yesterday, even
though it was his day off. He said he just had to share his relief that his wife
and 7-year-old daughter, whom he left behind in Pereira, were all right.

"But my daughter is very scared now and she doesn't want to go home because
she's afraid the walls will come down," he said. "It's terrible and there's
nothing that I can do for them because I'm here."




http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 1, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

'Death-Defying' Smuggling Attempt Is Thwarted at the Border

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 420 words


An attempt to smuggle four Chinese women into the United States from Canada was
thwarted on a bridge north of Niagara Falls early yesterday by a customs agent
who spotted a piece of clothing dangling under a fish truck and found the women
wedged behind plywood under the truck's frame, officials said.

It was unclear whether the attempted crossing was an isolated incident or part
of a larger smuggling operation, one immigration official said, but it occurred
in an area along the New York-Canadian border that has seen a surge in human
cargo, as well as stepped-up enforcement, in recent years.

Winston Barrus, deputy director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Buffalo, said the confrontation occurred on the Lewiston-Queenston Bridge, six
miles north of the falls, at 4:30 A.M., and he called it one of the more
dangerous border crossing attempts in recent memory.

"It was death-defying," Mr. Barrus said by telephone last night, referring to
the women's precarious perch under the truck and to their exposure to toxic
exhaust fumes and the early 16-degree cold. "The women were wedged behind
plywood underneath the truck. It took the agents a half hour to get them out."

Although the women were wearing coats, all were shivering and two were
"unresponsive" -- either from carbon monoxide fumes or from exposure to the cold
-- and were treated at St. Mary's Hospital in nearby Lewiston before being taken
into custody by immigration officers.

The truck driver was held on felony smuggling charges and the women were held on
charges of attempted illegal entry, said Mr. Barrus, who said the names of the
suspects were not immediately available. All five were to be arraigned today
before a United States magistrate in Buffalo.

The border between New York and Canada -- particularly along the Niagara River
near Buffalo and the St. Lawrence River to the northeast -- has long been a
major crossing point for smugglers, who have faced stepped-up enforcement
efforts by customs and immigration officials.

One recent case, involving the bribery of immigration officials, exposed a
scheme to bring 1,000 Chinese into this country. Another case, in which 31
suspected smugglers were arrested in December, raised allegations of a plot to
bring 3,600 undocumented Chinese and Malaysians into the United States.

Recent smuggling operations broken up at the St. Regis Mohawk Reservation in
northern New York showed that immigrants had paid up to $47,000 each to be
brought into this country.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 1, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

After Quake, a Sorrowful Journey to Colombia

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1856 words

DATELINE: ARMENIA, Colombia, Jan. 31


Standing on the threshold of the tiny blue house she calls home, Isabel Cristina
Marquez, open-mouthed and wide-eyed, looks around, surveying the damage. "We've
lost our home," she quickly concludes and, softly, begins to cry.

Ms. Marquez, a 28-year-old waitress from Elmhurst, Queens, has been crying every
day since Monday afternoon, when a powerful earthquake rocked this city. She was
born here and lived here all her life before migrating to New York with her
daughter two and a half years ago.  Her parents and a brother had left earlier
and live with her.

Ms. Marquez left behind a sprawling family that includes her 77-year-old
grandmother, her older sister, about 60 cousins, uncles and aunts, and her
husband, Farid Lasso, 29, who is waiting for a visa to follow her.

Behind, too, remained her memories and her soul, Ms. Marquez says. Still, as she
roams the streets of her town searching for relatives and old friends, she looks
a little out of place, with her fake long nails painted a New York black, a
Yankees T-shirt, white platform sneakers and a red sweater tied at the waist.

Like many of the tens of thousands of Colombian immigrants who live in the New
York region, Ms. Marquez leads a split life. She lives here and there, dividing
her time evenly between the harshness of her life in New York City -- holding
down two jobs, struggling with a foreign language and barely getting through the
winter -- and the dreamy quality of her life here -- outings to lush mountains
laced with coffee plantations, lazy afternoons at her grandmother's house and
plenty of heat and sun.

The earthquake, she sensed when she watched the first news reports on Monday
from her apartment in Queens and saw the devastation here, would forever alter
the rhythm of her life. The landscape of her memories, she feared, was forever
lost. And so it was with great trepidation and a measure of hope that she
arrived at Kennedy International Airport on Thursday at dawn, lugging a 95-pound
black bag stuffed with food and medicine, and boarded a plane home.

"I'm dreading this trip and, at the same time, I can't wait to get there," she
said as her journey began. "Who knows what I'll find?"

Ms. Marquez's quandary resonated with many of the passengers on her flight --
Colombians from New York, Connecticut, New Jersey and several Hudson River towns
who, frantic with worry, had hastily left their jobs and their families to head
home.

"I haven't slept in three days," said Jairo Lopez, 43, who owns a car dealership
in Flushing, Queens, and had not heard from his two younger brothers who live
here. "My mission is to find them."

The same mission guided Diego Ramirez, 34, who has lived in Morristown, N.J.,
for the last 13 years and came looking for his father and five siblings in
Armenia and nearby Montenegro. About 5,000 people from Montenegro, a tiny town
eight miles from here, live in Morristown. The connection between the two towns
is such that about 20 people from Morristown have already descended on
Montenegro; six are working as volunteers, distributing food and resettling the
homeless.

"All I knew in New Jersey was that there were a lot dead and injured and
homeless people," said Mr. Ramirez, who is a construction foreman but is working
in Montenegro as a firefighter. "By Wednesday, I couldn't take it anymore, so
here I am."

Ms. Marquez, too, had not heard from her family until hours before she boarded
the Avianca flight for Bogota. Her sister borrowed a cellular phone and called
her Wednesday night, two days after the earthquake, to tell her that both she
and their grandmother had lost their homes and were living with relatives in the
north side of town, an area that escaped the quake's force. By then, Ms. Marquez
already held a ticket, paid for by her boss at La Pequena Colombia, a popular
restaurant in Queens, and she decided to come anyway.

During the flight from New York, Ms. Marquez hardly spoke. As the plane began
its descent into Bogota, she took a piece of paper from her date book and
started to take notes: "No one knows that the despair I feel in my heart and the
impotency I feel make me not want to see my city and my own family," she wrote.
"I only ask God to give me strength to confront this new reality."

The reality was indeed grim. The earthquake, which measured 6.0 on the Richter
scale, is the worst to hit this area in more than 100 years. It hit at 1:15
P.M., when many people were home having lunch. The authorities have said that it
killed close to 1,000 people, but even today, almost a week after the quake,
rescue workers continued to search for victims. About 35,000 families, or
180,000 people, were left homeless, the Colombian Red Cross has announced.

Armenia, known as the city of miracles because it became prosperous shortly
after it was founded just over 100 years ago, has ceased to be the city Ms.
Marquez knew. In fact, it is no longer a city. In its place, Ms. Marquez found a
lawless town, where looters terrorized homeless families, chunks of plaster hung
precariously from cracked facades, and red bricks littered the streets.

Everywhere she looked, there were men with weapons -- young soldiers carrying
powerful guns and regular people brandishing machetes and knives. People were
searching the rubble for family pictures and important papers, while children
with dirty faces and no shoes were darting in front of cars hoping for a piece
of bread or a candy bar. Entire families were seeking shelter under plastic
tents held up by sticks of guadua, the hardy bamboolike wood of a bush that
grows wild here.

And then suddenly, as her taxi was about to turn a corner, Ms. Marquez saw her
sister, Dora Liliana Marquez, standing on the street, a blue paper mask covering
her mouth to protect her from the fetid odor of the dead and the acrid smell of
tear gas. Ms. Marquez leaped from the car and hugged her sister, the two sobbing
uncontrollably.

"Ay, que pesar, que pesar," they both repeated. ("Oh, how sad, how sad.")

Not far from where the sisters met, the scene repeated itself at the family home
of John Bukvic, a gravedigger from Flushing, who came to this city on the same
flight as Ms. Marquez to see his parents and younger brother.

He found them at home, safe and happy that their house had withstood the
earthquake, but cowed by the horde of vandals breaking into homes at random. Mr.
Bukvic, who has lived in New York for 15 years, went out and bought a gun and
helped the neighbors organize a vigilante committee to protect what was left of
their neighborhood.

"You do what you have to do," Mr. Bukvic, 37, said. "I'm thinking of taking them
to another city."

Thousands are scrambling to flee the quake zone, clogging every road, to find
shelter away from the danger and violence. Ms. Marquez could not possibly
arrange for her family to leave; it is too large. Instead, she did the only
thing she could. She went from house to house, comforting relatives and
distributing black trash bags she had brought from New York full of canned food
and bread and sanitary napkins and blankets.

She was also keeping a mental log of the losses: Dora Liliana, her 30-year-old
sister, lost the apartment that she and her husband were about to finish paying
for this year. They have no insurance. Her father's brother, Hugo Marquez, lost
his home, which he rented from Ms. Marquez's father. Her mother's sister in
Montenegro lost her home, too. All were hungry, thirsty and frazzled, but
thankful to be alive.

"You know what I did yesterday?" Dora Liliana tells her sister, clutching a
sandwich that Ms. Marquez brought for her. "What I never thought I would. I ran
after a truck for a piece of bread." She blushes and smiles, embarrassed.

At her grandmother's home, Ms. Marquez lost her composure. This is the house
where Ms. Marquez was born and lived as a little girl. The house, built by her
grandmother's grandparents, is still standing, but only barely. The back walls
are separated from the floor, and the side walls remain attached only by some
quirk of architecture.

The room where Ms. Marquez slept as a child is no longer reachable, its entrance
blocked by the heavy furniture that shifted during the quake. Pots and pans
clutter the floor. A cup of coffee still sits on a table, exactly where the
family left it before leaving the house to go to the doctor, a few hours before
the earthquake hit. A doll rests on a mattress, headless, and a picture of the
Sacred Heart is upside down, but still hanging from a nail on the wall. Half a
dozen fish swim in a tank, undisturbed. The white curtains in the bedroom window
wave freely in the breeze; there are no glass panes to hold them back.

Ms. Marquez touches the walls tentatively; she is too stunned to talk. She
leaves the house, holding onto her husband, but finds no respite outside.

The school she went to as a child was destroyed, so were her middle school and
high school. There was nothing but the outer walls left of the supermarket where
she had worked. The street where she took walks with her husband during their
courtship, an avenue formerly cluttered with shops and restaurants, was
demolished. The theater was gone and so were her favorite restaurant; a bar
called Babalu, a neighborhood hangout, and the Church of the Sacred Heart, where
she was married.

Across the street from the church, where a five-story building called Andalucia
used to be, rescue workers were working around the clock to pull bodies from the
rubble. Neighbors said 25 people had already been found, all dead. Ms. Marquez
stood there on Friday, listening to a father tell of how he was waiting for the
body of his 21-year-old son, who had been working at the family's electronics
repair shop on the first floor when the building collapsed. He was surrounded by
his wife and three daughter, age 9, 15 and 20.

"We were expecting him at home to have lunch and he never showed," Eider
Echeverri, 43, said. "They have already found the motorcycle he used for the
deliveries, so I know he is in there, somewhere." Later, Ms. Marquez learned,
the body had been found and Mr. Echeverri had taken his boy home in a plastic
bag provided by the church's priest.

In Plaza Bolivar, the one place that Ms. Marquez prayed that had not been
destroyed, she stood next to her husband, who lives elsewhere and was not
affected by the quake, in a silent tribute to a friend who was killed in an
apartment across the street. The plaza was unharmed, but the buildings that
surrounded it, including City Hall, had collapsed.

Ms. Marquez returned to Armenia on Saturday to help her sister move to another
town. At the sight of her sister's furniture at the side of the road, Ms.
Marquez began to cry again. She left soon thereafter. Ms. Marquez said she was
heartbroken. All but a handful of her relatives have left for other towns. Ms.
Marquez left today for her husband's apartment in Cali, about three hours from
here, where she plans to stay for a few more weeks.

She does not plan to return to her hometown for now. "There is nothing to go
back to," she said. "My city is no more."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cristina Marquez of Queens, left, hugged her sister, Dora
Liliana, in Colombia after last week's earthquake. (pg. A1); Cristina Marquez of
Elmhurst, Queens, examined what was left of the house in Armenia, Colombia,
where her family had lived. The house was ravaged in last week's earthquake, the
region's worst in more than a century. (Photographs by Chang W. Lee/The New York
Times); Ms. Marquez said emotional goodbyes to her daughter, Laura, in Queens
before setting out for Colombia. (Richard Lee for The New York Times) Once
there, she and her husband, Farid Lasso, stood by the house where the family
lived before the quake. (pg. B5)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 7, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The View From/Caroline House;
In Bridgeport, Help for Immigrant Women in a New Land

BYLINE: By DON HARRISON

SECTION: Section 14CN;  Page 2;  Column 1;  Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 885 words


UNTIL the birth of her daughter, the young woman was a student at Caroline
House, an education center for women in Bridgeport. Once, she posed a question
that wasn't part of the curriculum. "When I come in here, why does the baby in
my belly start moving around?" she asked.

"Even unborn children experience what the mother experiences," she was told.

Her face brightened. "The child," she said, "is expressing the joy I feel when I
am here."

The young woman was among 60 attending daily classes at the center, in a bright
yellow Victorian on the city's East Side. There the young women study English,
computer use and other basics. In the day-care room, their babies play and learn
in safety.

The women represent a kaleidoscope of cultures and nationalities -- Laotian,
Vietnamese, Polish, Ethiopian, Guatemalan, Ecuadorean, Mexican. Nearly half
share the commonality of motherhood; all share the bond of a tremendous desire
to escape the clutches of poverty.

"There is a great need for these women to learn English," said Sister Maureen
Fleming, the center's executive director. "If they can't fill out a job
application, there's no hope. It's all over."

Connecticut's recent tightening up on welfare now limits benefits to a maximum
of 21 months (with the possibility of a six-month extension), so the women they
must find employment fast. And a working command of English is necessary in
conducting a successful job search, absolutely essential for maintaining the
job.

Some steps are small steps. "For a woman to stand up in class and say she was
able to make an appointment on the telephone . . .  that's quite a
breakthrough," said Sister Ellen Fitzsimmons, another staff member.

The center was opened nearly four years ago by the School Sisters of Notre Dame,
a teaching order founded in Germany in 1833. Its name honors Mother Caroline,
one of four nuns who immigrated to the United States 151 years ago to help
educate disadvantaged women and their children.

The center's full-time staff of five is augmented on a weekly basis by five
adult volunteers from Westport and Norwalk and students from Fairfield and
Sacred Heart universities who help in the day-care program and work as tutors
with the mothers.

Sister Fleming was appointed director in 1997, after spending 25 years in parish
ministry at Assumption Church in Westport. Her warm personality seems suited for
the dual role of fund-raiser and administrator, and her contacts in lower
Fairfield County are an asset.

"Coming from an affluent community to a community where people have basic needs
was a shock," she explained. "There's something special about dealing with
people who have real-life needs."

The program is supported by grants, foundations and private donations (it has no
public support). About $3,000 is spent each year for each young woman using the
center's services; all services, which may include accompanying a woman to a job
interview, are free.

The house was bequeathed to the city by Alice Simon, with the stipulation that
it be used for the betterment of the community. Miss Simon, who died in
February, was a feisty sort who lived in the family Victorian until forced to
move into a convalescent home in her final years.

Her spirit and determination -- as a young woman, she competed in gymnastic
meets in Europe -- are said to be representative of the women who study in her
former home.

The center started helping 10 women (now there are 60) and last year it
completed a two-story addition with a $90,000 price tag. Says Sister Fleming
with a laugh: "This is called faith at work."

Classes begin at 9 A.M. and run until 2:30 P.M. Some women bring their lunch and
eat with the sisters in the kitchen. Others must leave to pick up their children
at a nearby school, then return for the afternoon session, which is designed to
end before school is out.

The program mirrors a typical school year, from September through June. If more
time is needed to learn English, the young woman is invited to return.

The majority of the women have lived in Bridgeport for a few years. Many of
those with children have employed spouses, but most still need help to survive.
"One woman had enough confidence to go to hairdressing school. She won't finish
our program," Sister Fleming said.

Zuditu Nigatu, a native of Ethiopia, used her year at the school to improve her
English and learn the rudiments of computing. Today, she is employed at the
Marshall's store in Fairfield. "When I came here 18 months ago, I spoke some
English but not a lot," said Ms. Nigatu. "Caroline House was very good for me."

Another woman, Julie Toledo, said she learned "two words of English in two
months" in her native Ecuador.

Now, she is making strides toward becoming proficient in her second language
through the center's interactive computer program called Rosetta Stone. "Wow!"
she exclaimed after identifying "boy," "girl," "dog" and other formerly
unfamiliar words on the screen.

Sister Bernadine Gutacker, who has lived and taught in Chile and Puerto Rico, is
the only instructor fluent in Spanish. On Fridays, she leads a support group for
the women in their native tongue.

At Caroline House, the School Sisters of Notre Dame mix education with love on a
daily basis, one noun and verb at a time.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sister Maureen Fleming, above left, runs Caroline House in
Bridgeport. Pricilla Boyle, a volunteer, top right, helps out in day care.
(Photographs by Gale Zucker for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 10, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

One Man's 'Sprawl' Is Another's New Home

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 119 words



To the Editor:

I was surprised that your discussion of suburban sprawl (front page, Feb. 6)
failed to mention one of the most important contributing factors: immigration.
Americans today have small families, but the Census Bureau is projecting that
our population will grow from around 260 million today to nearly 400 million by
2050. This is mostly due to immigration, which has tripled since 1965.

Reducing immigration to the 1965 level of approximately 300,000 a year would
slow population growth dramatically and do much to alleviate sprawl and many
other environmental problems.

JOHN BROCK
New York, Feb. 8, 1999

The writer is co-chairman of the Tri-State Immigration Moratorium.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Guy Billout)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 12, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
U.S. Immigration Service Retrieves Tainted Files

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 129 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


The Immigration and Naturalization Service said yesterday that it had started to
clean asbestos from 400,000 files that had been out of reach since April because
of contamination in a record-storage room and resumed processing the cases.

The asbestos contamination, believed to have been caused by insulation damaged
by rain at the Peter Rodino Federal Building in Newark, halted the processing of
cases, from deportations to permanent residency applications, said Yocasta
Reina, a spokeswoman for the agency. At the current pace of 20,000 files per
week, it could take up to six months before all the files are cleaned, she said.

Mary Mears, a spokeswoman for the Environmental Protection Agency, said
yesterday that vacuuming each file removed the asbestos.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 14, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

SHOOTING IN THE BRONX: THE IMMIGRANTS;
Killing Heightens the Unease Felt by Africans in New York

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 1;  Column 4;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2161 words


The glow from the Farafina Coffee Shop on West 116th Street one evening last
week was warm, the smell of frying fish and fufu sweetly familiar, the
conversation among the West African men gathered inside easy. But as the large
television broadcast yet another report about the police shooting of Amadou
Diallo, an immigrant from Guinea, the feeling was sour.

"We are afraid, we are afraid," said Silla Sidique, 35, a Guinean businessman
who lives in Harlem. He nodded as Mamoudou Jawara, 30, also a Guinean
businessman, described being repeatedly stopped by the police near his Staten
Island home, asked for his license, and occasionally told by officers to "go
back to Africa."

"I want to go back before somebody kills me," said Mr. Sidique, who has been in
the country a year.

For Africans, particularly West Africans, Mr. Diallo's death has only reinforced
the vulnerability they feel as black immigrants in New York City. They left a
continent where they were a racial majority -- where divisions were based on
class or politics or tribe but rarely on skin color -- for a country where they
are a minority and where, they say, race matters all too much.

And the fatal shooting of Mr. Diallo on Feb. 4 has highlighted their insularity,
living in but not necessarily assimilating in a country they view with caution.
Like many West Indians, they have chosen to remain largely apart from
African-Americans here, although Mr. Diallo's shooting shows signs of forging
bonds between the two groups.

Many African immigrants say that whether they stay here for 2 or 20 years,
Africa is, and always will be, home.

Yet more are coming to New York City than ever. From 1990 to 1996, the number of
sub-Saharan Africans here nearly doubled, to about 84,000 from 44,000, said
Andrew A. Beveridge, a professor of sociology at Queens College. Most are from
West Africa.

By the 2000 census, Dr. Beveridge said, the official count will exceed 100,000
-- and the real count will probably be higher. Compared with other groups, like
Dominicans, whose numbers will most likely pass 500,000 in the next census,
their numbers are still small, but their presence is becoming visible.

It is most notable in the restaurants and businesses and mosques lining West
116th Street, but also in scattered pockets around the city, from Morris Heights
in the Bronx to Clifton on Staten Island to Bedford-Stuyvesant in Brooklyn.

The Africans arriving are diverse in origin and language and religion, and in
station and aspiration. While Nigerians and Ghanaians remain the most numerous
among sub-Saharan African groups in the city, many new arrivals are, like Mr.
Diallo, from West Africa, and many, like him, are Muslim. They greet one another
softly with "Bon soir" or "Salaam aleikum," or in African dialects like Fulani.

The common perception of Africa as a desperate continent, bleeding from wounds
of war and poverty, would suggest that its inhabitants are equally desperate to
escape it. Many are. But others are well-educated, and often have relatively
good jobs in their homeland. They simply want to see if there is something
better beyond their country's borders, and many crave more education than Africa
can offer.

"The reason most Africans leave to come here is not different from the reasons
any European leaves for -- for education, upward mobility, to maintain their
family, to start as an entrepreneur," said Sidique Abubakarr Wai, the president
of the United African Congress, one of the many groups that the African diaspora
has created in the United States.

As with countless other immigrants, many Africans say that what they find here
is far from what they expected. "Everyone thinks America is like 'Dallas,' "
Dame Babou, a Senegalese immigrant who is the host of a radio show broadcast
here and in Dakar, said of the television show that has given people around the
world a false picture of lavish American wealth.

Not surprisingly, then, interviews with more than 100 Africans around the city
suggest a profound ambivalence about America: they cherish its economic
opportunity, its political freedom and its education system, but they dislike
its racism and its violence, and they disdain its values.

Numbers Begin To Increase in the 80's

Historically negligible, the number of Africans in New York began to increase in
the 1980's as a result of drought, inflation and repression in Africa. In 1986,
several thousand Africans were granted amnesty, enabling relatives to follow.

Earlier this decade, the Government significantly expanded the number of visas
available to Africans through a Federal lottery system, with the number allotted
to Africa increasing to 30,514 in fiscal year 1997 from 11,571 in 1993.
Continuing unrest in countries like Sierra Leone and Liberia has brought still
more Africans, many of whom have been granted asylum.

Many Africans come to study, often at community colleges, usually majoring in
practical subjects like accounting. Often, they will work 40 hours a week to pay
costly foreign-student fees. Like many immigrants, they see education as the
path to upward mobility.

With limited higher education in most of Africa, New York can seem like an
academic candy store. Maurice Ojuang, 33, a Kenyan, earned two degrees in
computer science, and is working toward a Ph.D. at Lehman College.

But to feed his mind and his family, Mr. Ojuang spends 40 hours a week in the
underbelly of New York, managing a residential hotel-cum-city-shelter on the
Grand Concourse in the Bronx. The owner has been good to him, he said, but the
job has few charms. Last week, he worked the front desk as residents demanded
new rooms or televisions or repairs, heaping expletive-laced abuse on a stoic
Mr. Ojuang, who sat in a locked room behind a glass partition in a pressed shirt
and tie.

Such days are one reason Mr. Ojuang said he despises New York, which he thought
would be "halfway on my way to heaven." Instead, he said, it has become
two-thirds of the way to hell. But having given up a solid job back home and
raising a family in New York, he is still here 10 years later, still dreaming of
home.

Most of those who come are young men, often living three or four or eight to an
apartment, much as Mr. Diallo did. Many, largely from Senegal, but also from
numerous other West African countries, become peddlers, or taxi drivers, working
for a few years, living a spartan existence, sending money home, and then
returning there themselves.

But increasingly, more Africans are staying longer in New York, driven by
growing economic pressures back home. Many are starting small businesses, like
restaurants or groceries offering African products, in a sign that Africans are
putting down roots.

They have also started small import-export businesses, making them bicontinental
merchants who leverage American dollars for African products. The building at
1225 Broadway, near West 30th Street, for example, is a vertical bazaar, floor
after floor filled almost entirely with African small businesses.

Some African immigrants, particularly those from English-speaking countries like
Nigeria or Gambia, are getting jobs in the city bureaucracy, as their
French-speaking counterparts, hindered by a lack of English, watch their
ascendancy toward the middle class.

In another sign of commitment to longer-term stays, the last six years have seen
more men bringing over their wives. And many single men are going home for
"vacation" and returning with a wife.

But that creates complications, said Mr. Babou, the radio host. Often, the
couples barely know each other. Many men do not take well to their wives having
to work. And many women balk at the discrepancy between the image of America
that their suitors painted and the reality. Quite a few marriages end, he said.

Many of the women who come work in the hair-braiding salons sprinkled across the
city. Some women are even coming on their own, to study as well as to work.

More children are also in the mix, although the city's schools still have fewer
than 5,000 sub-Saharan African students, according to the Board of Education.
But how, and where, to raise children is also a contentious topic among
Africans, many of whom believe any educational advantages America offers their
children may be wiped out by the corrosion of African values.

Africans are strict disciplinarians; children are raised to be polite, to
respect their fellow human beings and to obey their parents, said David Udotong
Jr. 33, a Nigerian immigrant. American children, in contrast, "are very wild,"
he said, and African parents must constantly battle their influence.

Consequently, many families decide to leave their children in Africa with
grandparents or other family members.

Steven Weah, 22, who fled the civil war in Liberia and received asylum here,
said he watched his younger brother fall into a bad crowd of American teen-agers
in Clifton on Staten Island. He became hostile, Mr. Weah said, then was arrested
for shoplifting, and is now in a group home.

Mr. Weah's neighborhood is home to both Africans and African-Americans, but he
himself does not mix with his American neighbors. Barriers of language and
culture keep the groups apart, although there is some intermarriage, and many
Africans say they keep to themselves out of fear of trouble.

Some Africans simply fear that mixing with the melting pot that is New York will
mean subjugating their culture.

Eugenie, 32, a graphic designer from the Ivory Coast, who would not give her
last name, said her husband has been here for 15 years, but "he's still pretty
much an African." They work to keep it that way -- they eat African food, listen
to African music and the French news, shop at African stores. "We are trying to
keep that side of us that we think is the best," said Eugenie, who joined her
husband here two years ago.

Another way many Africans maintain their cultural ties is through religion --
whether they are Roman Catholics, or Seventh-day Adventists, or Pentecostalists,
or, in large numbers, Muslims.

Most West Africans are Muslims, and they cling to their faith here, saying it
encourages them to work hard and live cleanly. Around 5:30 each day, livery cabs
pull up to mosques around the city, and men trickle out of nearby apartment
buildings, responding to the call to prayer, many wearing traditional African
dress.

Various Islamic groups and African leaders also organize material support as
well as a spiritual anchor for immigrants who are sick or unemployed. "We
practice 'African socialism,' " said Demba Sanyang, a Gambian who works for the
city's criminal justice office. "We must take care of each other."

Sometimes that means helping to pay the way home for those who have lost either
hope, or their lives, here. Many say they have had to ship home too many
compatriots, slain while driving the livery cabs so essential to their
livelihood. Since 1986, more than 50 West African cabdrivers have been killed,
West African groups say. America is far more violent than many Africans
expected. Some, like Mr. Weah, left strife-torn countries, only to find
themselves in neighborhoods where shots still ring out. "I ran from gunshots. I
come here -- the gunshots are very scary," he said of his neighborhood. "Most of
the time I stay home."

Still, some Africans say this has become their new home, preferring its abundant
strengths and weaknesses to the lacks -- of opportunity, freedom and food -- in
their native land. Tunde Babwale, 40, a Nigerian who works as an operating room
technician, and is a United States citizen who served in the Army, said the
Diallo case had only cemented his determination to become a lawyer and remain
politically active here.

But many others say that America is a utilitarian stop until they can return
home. They do not want to grow old in a country where they say the young do not
respect the old.

And for many Africans in New York, and perhaps America, the Diallo shooting has
scraped against old uncertainties, and bred new ones. Many say they will reserve
judgment, but they believe that Mr. Diallo may have been shot because he was
black.

The Difference That Race Can Make

Tingah Mohammed, a 49-year-old Ghanaian who has been here 15 years, said he had
never heard of racism until he came here. He recalled walking late one night
down a TriBeCa street, and seeing a white woman begin to run. She hid behind a
rubbish heap. She was afraid, he realized, of him.

"I nearly cried," he said.

Five years ago, Dr. Balde Ngere immigrated to the United States from France,
where he had immigrated from Guinea. In Guinea, he said, he had fled a
government that cared little for political freedom or ending poverty. But the
racism in France was so bad, he said, that it was no place for an African.

Now his friend Amadou Diallo has been killed by the police in America.

"Where," he asked, "do we go now?"


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Farafina Coffee Shop on West 116th Street in Manhattan
offers Africans and Americans the food and the talk of the old country. From
left, Ben Aziz, from Mali, Buddy Muhammed, also from Mali, and Richard E. Stone,
an American, chatted there. (Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York
Times); Maurice Ojuang, who manages a Bronx hotel, thought moving from Kenya to
New York would land him "halfway on my way to heaven," but finds he is longing
for home. (pg. 39)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 14, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

IN BRIEF;
Immigration Files Emerge From Asbestos Quarantine

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 161 words


After being untouchable since April because of possible asbestos contamination
at the state's main immigration office in Newark, about 40,000 files can now be
handled, the Immigration and Naturalization Service announced last week.

It will take another four to six months, however, to get an additional 400,000
files cleaned and back in circulation, said the I.N.S. District Director, Andrea
J. Quarantillo.

The files, representing thousands of immigrants in New Jersey seeking
citizenship, work permits and visas, were on the top floor of the 16-story
Rodino Federal Building. The paperwork had been in limbo since the floor was
closed April 20 after a crew repairing the roof found asbestos insulation, and
tests revealed asbestos, a suspected carcinogen, on work surfaces in the
offices.

The 16th floor will remain closed until all the files, which must be
individually vacuumed, are cleaned, Mr. Nuzzio said. Cleaned files are taken to
other floors.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 14, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

TRAVEL ADVISORY;
Canada Wants to Speed Airport Clearance

BYLINE: By KALYANI VITTALA

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 299 words


International travelers passing through some of Canada's major airports to the
United States may soon have fewer bureaucratic hurdles to jump.

Under a recently introduced Canadian bill called the Preclearance Act, which
would expand the scope of existing law, air travelers would no longer be
required to clear Canadian customs for connecting flights to the United States.

The legislation is awaiting a vote in the Senate and would then have to be
considered by the House of Commons, but it is widely expected to gain Government
approval this spring.

It is based on a one-year pilot project at Vancouver International Airport that
enabled more than 70,000 passengers bound for the United States to bypass
Canadian customs and immigration checks and proceed directly to American
officials at that airport.

The streamlined process makes it faster and easier for a traveler returning to
the United States from Asia to land in Vancouver and catch a connecting flight.
He only needs to show his passport to American officials before boarding.

Previously, some non-Americans even needed a Canadian visa just to walk to the
boarding gate.

Pearson International Airport in Toronto and the Aeroport de Montreal (Dorval)
expect to implement the program this year, once the legislation is passed.
Airports in Calgary, Edmonton, Ottawa and Winnipeg would be eligible for this
so-called preclearance after 2001.

The arrangement is expected to be reciprocal in the United States, once
inconsistencies in American immigration and Customs laws are worked out. Then
Canadian officials at United States airports could ease entry into Canada.

The creation of preclearance facilities in San Francisco and Anchorage are being
discussed by officials of the two nations.   KALYANI VITTALA


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 16, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

High Costs of Sprawl

SECTION: Section A;  Page 18;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 131 words



To the Editor:

It is misleading to conclude that because people need affordable homes, sprawl
is acceptable and immigration limits are necessary (letters, Feb. 10). Spacious
homes are possible without sprawl by building adjoining row houses and large,
livable apartments in cities.

Most of the world's great metropolitan areas were built according to this urban
plan: New York's brownstone, London's town house or Boston's bay-window
apartment are some of many examples.

Residential neighborhoods built three to five stories tall provide the
inhabitant densities that make public transportation possible.

They also increase space available for public parks and significantly reduce
pollution and energy consumption.

ANDREW DONSON
Ann Arbor, Mich., Feb. 10, 1999

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 18, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Deportation Case Judge Gives Defendant Hope

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 111 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


An immigration court judge here yesterday closed testimony in what he called the
"unusual and difficult" deportation case of a Palestinian man who has been
linked by secret evidence to terrorist organizations and the World Trade Center
bombing and said that he would now consider an application that the man be
released on bail.

The judge, Daniel Meisner, gave new hope to the man, Hany Kiareldeen, 31, who
has been detained for nearly a year. Three earlier bail motions had been denied
by the judge.

Throughout the hearings Mr. Kiareldeen and his lawyers have maintained that his
former wife, Amal Mohamed, was the source of the terrorism accusations.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 18, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

An I.N.S. Hurdle for the Disabled;
Promised Exemptions Elude Many Would-Be Citizens

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1504 words


Mikhail Kholchanskiy turned 80 this month, an age that few men like him,
soldiers and laborers of the former Soviet Union, ever reach. Relatives sent
cards and presents, but they could not give him the one gift he craved: becoming
a citizen of the United States, the country that accepted him as a refugee when
he fled Ukraine in 1992.

He has tried but, weak and often befuddled since suffering a stroke and then a
heart attack after his arrival in Brooklyn, Mr. Kholchanskiy says he learns a
bit of English during the day only to forget it in the evening.

"I would like to show how proud I am to be in this country," he said in Russian.
"I would like to stand up in front of my grandchildren and show them that I am a
citizen like them."

But when Mr. Kholchanskiy interviewed with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service during his application for citizenship, his daughter, Lyubov
Mikityanskaya, said an I.N.S. officer told her that her father "didn't deserve
anything in this country."

Like thousands of other immigrants whose physical and mental disabilities are
supposed to exempt them from passing the English proficiency and civics parts of
the citizenship exam, Mr. Kholchanskiy was refused a waiver from the I.N.S.

A 1994 law requires the I.N.S. to accommodate immigrants disabled by conditions
like Alzheimer's disease, mental retardation and neurological damage from
strokes, and whose doctors attest that they can not retain information
sufficiently to pass the language and civics tests.

Almost from its inception, however, the disability waiver has been a source of
tension and dispute between immigrants and the I.N.S. It is a benefit, I.N.S.
officials in Washington acknowledge, that the agency is still deciding how to
best administer and that field employees sometimes misinterpret in their zeal to
detect fraud.

In New York, stories like Mr. Kholchanskiy's are common. In a case recounted by
lawyers for the New York Immigration Coalition, an I.N.S. officer scolded a
78-year-old Spanish-speaking applicant, saying: "In this country we speak
English. There are always some of you who try to get the easy way out." Another
I.N.S. officer recently rejected a Russian woman's request for a waiver, telling
her to "find a real doctor, not a Russian," according to a lawyer who was
present.

Nationwide, the agency's treatment of disabled applicants has prompted several
lawsuits. The latest, a class-action suit brought by immigrants in southern
Florida last fall, accused the I.N.S. of arbitrarily rejecting waiver
applications and rejecting out of hand any that mention age-related illnesses
like senile dementia and depression.

A Federal judge in Miami has denied an I.N.S. motion to dismiss the case and has
issued a preliminary injunction to two of the plaintiffs who faced a second, and
final, rejection of their citizenship applications. A hearing is to be held
later this month.

In New York City, immigration lawyers are preparing a formal and unusual
collective protest letter about what they call "multiple persistent problems" in
the way the regional I.N.S. office treats disabled applicants for citizenship,
and in I.N.S. guidelines that, for the first time, appear to demand that
immigrants submit copies of detailed medical records and related diagnostic
tests.

Several lawyers for nonprofit groups in New York said they were also assembling
cases in which disabled immigrants had been arbitrarily denied their rights to a
waiver, in hopes of filing a class-action suit like the one in Florida.

Besides verbal abuse, the immigrants' complaints in the New York area include
allegations that I.N.S. officers reject disability waiver requests out of hand
with no explanation, mislead immigrants on how to proceed with applications,
refuse to accommodate people with speech impediments or other physical frailties
and routinely second-guess doctors' diagnoses in direct violation of their own
internal guidelines.

I.N.S. officials in Washington said that they were aware of the complaints and
that they began to train field employees several months ago about the rights of
the disabled and to help them determine when doctors had adequately made the
medical connection necessary to obtain a waiver.

"It's a very useful and very good provision that allows us to show some humanity
and discretion in adjudicating these cases," said William R. Yates, acting head
of naturalization. "It is difficult, however, because our officers do not get
medical training."

Mr. Yates said the I.N.S. had no statistics, either nationally or for the New
York region, on disability waivers in the last four years.

But the New York Immigration Coalition, an umbrella organization for about 200
advocacy groups in the city, said its own informal survey indicated that out of
300 to 400 applications submitted in September, only 1 to 2 percent were
approved. The figures include only those disability waiver requests from
immigrants represented by lawyers. Many immigrants try on their own.

In one case, a 37-year-old Hispanic woman, whose doctor attested that she was
mentally retarded and could not write even in her native Spanish, went to the
I.N.S. with her waiver request and was not allowed to bring a family member with
her to the interview, said Lauren Dreilinger, a lawyer with the New York
Association for New Americans, an advocacy group.

After a few minutes, the field employee emerged and told her family that he had
rejected the waiver and had administered the English proficiency test. The
woman, he said, failed. At a second naturalization interview a few months later,
Ms. Dreilinger said, the field employee again shrugged off the waiver request
and told her, "You don't look mentally retarded."

When Mr. Kholchanskiy went for his first interview with the I.N.S., the field
employee asked him questions in English, his daughter said. He did not
understand them, and the officer announced that he had failed the citizenship
test. His daughter said that the second time Mr. Kholchanskiy was called for an
interview, in December, an I.N.S. supervisor said his waiver application was
insufficient, but refused to say why.

I.N.S. officials in New York said they did not have information about the
specific incidents, but said that if applicants were treated rudely, it would be
a violation of agency policy.

Until Dec. 30, when field employees received guidelines, there was not even a
form for rejecting a disability waiver or informing immigrants what was lacking
on their application. In New York, immigration lawyers said, the I.N.S. simply
told immigrants they had failed the English test. If an applicant fails the test
three times, naturalization is denied.

To become a citizen, an applicant must have lived in the United States for five
years, be at least 18 years old and of good moral character, pass a civics test
and English test, and take an oath of allegiance.

The disability waiver was part of an overhaul of immigration laws in 1994. Two
years later, sweeping changes in the Federal welfare laws eliminated social
benefits for noncitizens, triggering a vast increase in citizenship applications
in general.

But it took the I.N.S. until the spring of 1997 to issue administrative
regulations for the disability waivers. By then, one class-action lawsuit
accusing the agency of arbitrarily rejecting applications had been filed by
immigrants in California -- a Federal judge eventually dismissed it when the
I.N.S. regulations were published -- and complaints from disabled immigrants
seeking to become naturalized were mounting.

Stephen A. Rosenbaum, the plaintiffs' lawyer in the California suit and now a
staff lawyer at Protection and Advocacy, an advocacy group for the disabled in
Berkeley, Calif., has filed three civil rights complaints in the last year with
the Justice Department against the I.N.S.

Agency officials say the main problem in administering the disability waiver
program, at least as it is now conceived, is that field employees are asked to
make judgments about medical or developmental issues that are rarely clear-cut.

Most of the field employees also have a law enforcement background and are
naturally cautious when reviewing immigrants' applications, said Gerri Ratliff,
the head of the division that is revising guidelines for the employees.

Irina Matiychenko, a lawyer with the New York Legal Assistance Group, said she
represented a client who had had a stroke, was confined to a wheelchair and
could not speak. The woman submitted her doctors' diagnosis and copies of an MRI
and CAT scans.

A public health service officer who was working as a consultant to the I.N.S.
rejected all of it. The officer said he would conduct his own neurological test,
Mrs. Matiychenko recalled, and he asked the applicant to squeeze his hands. When
she did, he declared her fit.

"What's happening now is that an absolute stranger, who knows nothing about the
patient, is making a medical determination," Mrs. Matiychenko said.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Weak from a stroke, Mikhail Kholchanskiy, with his wife, Sara,
has been unable to pass citizenship examinations. (James Estrin/The New York
Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 4, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Queens Prosecutor Will Drop Drug Charges Against Minister

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 700 words


Prosecutors moved yesterday to drop drug charges against the Rev. Frank Almonte,
a popular television evangelist from Corona, Queens, who faced prison and
deportation for bringing 300 steroid pills that he said he believed to be
"appetite enhancers" into the country.

A crowd of more than 3,000 that had gathered outside the Queens County
Courthouse cheered and chanted, "Victoria! Victoria!" -- Spanish for victory --
when the minister's lawyers announced that the charges would be dismissed.

Mr. Almonte's case has become a major cause among Hispanic immigrants,
particularly Pentecostal and evangelical Christians. The minister maintained
that the pills that officials confiscated from him at Kennedy International
Airport in late January had been prescribed by a doctor in his native Dominican
Republic for Mr. Almonte's underweight 12-year-old son, Joel, and that he did
not know they were illegal in the United States.

Mr. Almonte spent 10 days in a Federal prison in Pennsylvania, and Federal
officials began deportation proceedings last month. His supporters said that the
dismissal of the criminal charges represented justice for the minister and a
triumph for immigrants who feel they are subjected to overly broad immigration
laws enacted to fight terrorism.

Carlos De Los Santos, a Dominican immigrant who lives in the Bronx, said he took
a day off from work yesterday to rally on Mr. Almonte's behalf. "It was
important to be here because maybe he's not the only one who could be involved
in a case like this," Mr. De Los Santos said. "Maybe it could be me or maybe it
could be somebody in my family, too."

Thousands of people from across the city chanted religious slogans and sang
along with a band set up on the courthouse steps while they waited for the
outcome of Mr. Almonte's court appearance. "When something happens to one of our
religious leaders, we have to be together," said Jose Jusino, a Puerto Rican
immigrant from the Bronx. "We represent God here, and the power is in unity."

Mr. Almonte, pastor of Adonai Christian Center, a Pentecostal church in Corona,
and a preacher on local Hispanic radio and cable television shows, still faces
deportation under a 1996 immigration law that penalizes any legal immigrant who
is suspected of or convicted of a drug crime.

Officials of the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service said they could
not discuss Mr. Almonte's case. But Fran Holmes, deputy district director for
the service in Philadelphia, said that "hypothetically," a legal immigrant like
Mr. Almonte would be allowed to stay in the country "if the criminal case goes
away."

Mr. Almonte must satisfy two conditions to have the criminal charges dismissed.
He must agree never again to try to bring steroids or any other controlled
substance into the country and he must take his son to a pediatrician chosen by
the office of Richard A. Brown, the Queens District Attorney.

"We are concerned for the well-being of this child because we have spoken with
several pediatricians who said that giving steroids to a child is a dangerous
thing," said Mary DeBourbon, a spokeswoman for Mr. Brown. "We just want to make
sure the child is in good health."

Ms. DeBourbon said the District Attorney had recommended that charges be dropped
because Mr. Almonte had no criminal history and had already spent time in
prison. She said it was also unlikely that he would be convicted of intent to
sell drugs because he had only 300 pills.

Mr. Almonte's lawyer, Mel A. Sachs, assured Justice Lee Cross of the State
Supreme Court in Queens that Mr. Almonte would take Joel to the court-appointed
doctor for an examination in the next two weeks. As long as prosecutors are
satisfied that Mr. Almonte has met their conditions, the criminal charges will
be automatically dismissed in six months and the case will be officially sealed,
meaning that the arrest and the drug charges will be stricken from Mr. Almonte's
record.

Surrounded by his family and prominent Hispanic religious and political leaders,
Mr. Almonte briefly thanked the crowd and made reference to a passage from the
Gospel of John: "Every tree which gives good fruit cannot be cut down."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 4, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Ability to Expel Foreigners Is Argued in Court

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 921 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 3


Arguing an important case on Federal refugee law, the Clinton Administration
told the Supreme Court today that foreigners who have committed serious
nonpolitical crimes outside the United States are ineligible for refugee status
no matter how severe a risk of persecution they would face if deported to their
home countries.

The Administration asked the Justices to overturn a Federal appeals court
decision that required immigration officials to evaluate a foreigner's crimes in
light of the severity of persecution he would likely face if deported.

The Refugee Act of 1980 bars relief for foreigners who would otherwise qualify
but who have committed serious nonpolitical crimes.

"Whether someone faces persecution has no bearing on that question," an
assistant Solicitor General, Patricia A. Millett, told the Justices. "It either
was or was not a serious nonpolitical crime, and a later risk of persecution
doesn't change that."

"Why not?" Justice Stephen G. Breyer interjected. "Doesn't it make a
difference," he asked, whether a would-be refugee who had committed a minor drug
offense at home faced death on the one hand or "seven hours in a cell" on the
other hand if sent home.

"Why not make that kind of 'all factors considered' analysis?" Justice Breyer
asked.

The law did not require such a balancing test, Ms. Millett said, and the
Attorney General, the official charged with enforcing the law, has chosen not to
employ one. An essential part of the Administration's argument in this case,
Immigration and Naturalization Service v. Aguirre, No. 97-1754, is that the
courts should defer to the Attorney General's overall interpretation of the law
as well as to its application in specific cases.

The case grows out of the Government's effort to deport a former Guatemalan
student leader, Juan Anibal Aguirre-Aguirre, who entered the United States
illegally in 1993 after several years of leading sometimes violent protests of
the Guatemalan Government's mistreatment of students and its approval of higher
bus fares. Mr. Aguirre participated in vandalism, beatings and the burning of at
least 10 buses.

An immigration judge granted Mr. Aguirre's request for withholding of
deportation and for asylum, two separate findings that are both based on the
probability of reprisals or persecution. The Board of Immigration Appeals
overturned that ruling, holding that Mr. Aguirre's crimes in Guatemala, which it
characterized as serious and nonpolitical, made him ineligible for relief.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, in
turn overturned the appeal board's opinion in a 1997 ruling. The decision had
three parts, each of which the Administration is challenging in its Supreme
Court appeal. In addition to requiring a weighing of the severity of the crimes
against the likelihood of severe persecution, the appeals court said that in
determining whether a crime was serious and nonpolitical immigration officials
should focus not just on the criminal acts but should also evaluate the
circumstances and the political context. The appeals court said further that
officials should consider whether the crimes involved "acts of an atrocious
nature," which Mr. Aguirre's did not, in the court's view.

The argument today led the Justices into a spirited discussion of basic
principles.

"I find it extraordinary that we take into this country people who have
committed any crime at all, even for political reasons," Justice Antonin Scalia
said. He said that purely political crimes, like speaking out against an
authoritarian government, should not be disqualifying but that offenses like
murder or rape should be, no matter what the motivation.

In response, Ms. Millett, the Government lawyer, offered, "Someone who attempted
to kill Hitler would not necessarily be excluded."

That led the Justices to muse on whether assassination could be considered a
political offense. Could the assassination of President John F. Kennedy be
considered a political crime, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist wondered.
Justice Scalia mentioned Queen Elizabeth. Justice Sandra Day O'Connor asked
whether a failed assassin of President Saddam Hussein of Iraq might qualify for
asylum.

Ms. Millett said she hesitated to get too specific but added, "There may be
times in this world where there's no way of changing a government except through
violence."

Justice John Paul Stevens said, "As soon as you have any political ingredient,
it can't be a nonpolitical crime."

Ms. Millett disagreed. "We're focusing on the crime, not the criminal," she
said, adding, "Political motivation alone doesn't make it a political crime, any
more than blowing up a day care center in Oklahoma City can be regarded as a
political crime."

Arguing for Mr. Aguirre, Nadine K. Wettstein said the test for a political
offense should be, "Was this out of proportion to his political goals?" Mr.
Aguirre maintains that when evaluated in context, his crimes were political.

The case has drawn considerable international attention because the Refugee Act
was the domestic implementation of the United Nations Protocol Relating to the
Status of Refugees, which the United States ratified in 1968. A brief filed by
the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees told the Justices that the
Court's interpretation was likely to guide other countries, more than 100 of
which have signed the protocol or an earlier United Nations convention, in
interpreting their obligations to refugees.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 7, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Clinton to Begin Visit to Central America

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1690 words

DATELINE: SAN SALVADOR, March 6


When President Clinton visits Central America next week, he will witness a
region forged by one tragedy or another over the last several decades and, more
often than not, forgotten in its intervals of renewal.

The President is to open a four-day visit to El Salvador, Nicaragua, Honduras
and Guatemala on Monday, the day after Salvadorans vote on a new President and
further cement a remarkable democratic transformation after 12 years of civil
war that left more than 70,000 people dead.

"It's almost a miracle what's happened here," said Anne W. Patterson, the United
States Ambassador to El Salvador.

But compared with the clamor of the 1980's, when the region's upheavals
dominated American foreign policy, that change has occurred nearly silently.
Instead, it has taken one of the worst natural disasters to rampage through the
hemisphere in modern times -- Hurricane Mitch late last year -- to refocus
attention here.

With this visit, many Central American experts agree, President Clinton has a
chance to engage the region once again -- with increased aid, trade preferences
and protected status of Central American immigrants, for example -- and to
nurture young democracies that emerged only recently from armed conflicts and
remain fragile.

"The question is, do we use this moment of political stability to help
strengthen the countries so they don't suck us back into the whirlpool?" said
Robert A. Pastor, former national security adviser for Latin America under
President Carter, who now teaches at Emory University in Atlanta.

As opposed to the cold war concerns that drove Washington's interest here a
decade ago, Mr. Clinton's agenda for this visit will reflect the global issues
of today -- free trade, immigration and drug trafficking, in addition to
repairing the damage from Hurricane Mitch.

But past interventions and traumas still color the region's relations with the
United States. And they are especially likely to confront Mr. Clinton in places
like Guatemala, where just last month a truth commission blamed Guatemalan
military rulers assisted by Washington for acts of genocide against the
country's Maya population during a 36-year war.

Besides helping the armies of El Salvador and Guatemala wage wars against
guerrilla forces, the United States financed the counterrevolutionary war
against the Sandinista rebels, who took power in Nicaragua in 1979, using
Honduras as an operational base for the contras.

Mr. Clinton, who first visited the region in 1997, when he met with Central
American leaders in Costa Rica, will travel with Hillary Rodham Clinton and on
Monday and Tuesday will tour areas in Nicaragua and Honduras that were
devastated by the hurricane.

He is scheduled to give the major address of the visit before the El Salvadoran
legislative Assembly on Wednesday, then travel to Guatemala for a round-table
discussion on that country's moves for peace on Wednesday evening. On Thursday,
he will meet with the Presidents of the four countries, and leaders from Costa
Rica, Belize and the Dominican Republic, at a summit conference in Antigua,
outside Guatemala City, before heading home.

Of the previously war-torn areas President Clinton will visit, El Salvador, a
country of about 5.8 million, has moved the furthest toward consolidating peace.
The former guerrilla movement, the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front, is
now the country's leading opposition party, boasts the second-largest bloc in
the national assembly and controls a large and growing number of mayoral posts,
including the capital's.

The governing Nationalist Republican Alliance, a party founded by
extreme-right-wing leaders associated with death squads, has undergone a
remarkable transformation of its own and now accepts the left's gains and
negotiates with them on all levels of politics.

This week, in the working-class neighborhood of San Jacinto, several thousand
euphoric supporters of the former guerrilla party marched down a street past
auto body shops and hot dog vendors, waving red flags and chanting revolutionary
slogans, though it was clear that the change they sought would come only through
the ballot box.

On a stage set up a few feet away from the presidential offices here, two former
guerrilla commanders, Facundo Guardado and Nidia Diaz, addressed the crowd.

"You can't be indifferent," Ms. Diaz, still going by her nom de guerre, told
them, closing out the campaign on Wednesday and urging supporters to turn out
for the vote, which her party is not expected to win. "It's your future, it's
what's going to happen to El Salvador, what is at stake."

But peace has not come easily to this country. Since the 1992 political
settlement that ended the war, American aid to El Salvador has dropped
dramatically, as it has in the rest of the region, to $34 million a year
compared with $292 million in 1992 and more than $500 million at the peak of the
conflict, American Embassy figures here show.

The country heavily relies on remittances sent home by Salvadorans who left
during and after the war and now live in the United States. That money, an
average of about $85 million a month, or more than $1 billion a year, forms El
Salvador's largest source of foreign exchange.

Not surprisingly, the possible deportation of some of the 1.2 million
Salvadorans estimated to be living in the United States is at the top of El
Salvador's agenda for President Clinton's visit.

Administration officials say they are seeking legal status for about 200,000
Salvadorans and Guatemalans in the United States. But a temporary suspension of
deportation proceedings against undocumented Salvadorans and Guatemalans --
whose numbers surged after Hurricane Mitch -- expires on Monday. Mr. Clinton's
Deputy Chief of Staff, Maria Echaveste, said this week that the Administration
saw no need to extend the grace period because "the countries can absorb the
return of illegal immigrants."

Eduardo Zablah-Touche, Minister of Economy in El Salvador, disputed that view
and said his Government would push for inclusion of Salvadorans in the amnesty
benefits granted to Nicaraguans in 1997.

"These are poor, small countries that have suffered internal conflicts and now
have had a decade of doing things right," Mr. Zablah-Touche said in an
interview. "But it's costing a lot and we need a hand."

The help Central American governments uniformly want, and contend best serves
the interests of both sides, is a free-trade agreement that would extend to
Central America the benefits Mexico receives under the North American Free Trade
Agreement. The Clinton Administration announced this week that it was seeking
temporary enhancement of the Caribbean Basin Initiative program for textile and
apparel -- Central American products -- as another way to deal with
post-hurricane recovery.

But the countries say that free-trade-agreement parity is crucial to compete
with Mexico for foreign trade and investment and to generate jobs, and the topic
is sure to dominate discussions at the regional summit meeting with President
Clinton in Guatemala.

"These countries have undertaken in the last five years big reforms -- reducing
inflation, trying to put their house in order," said Enrique Iglesias, president
of the Inter-American Development Bank in Washington. "It'd do a lot of good if
they had more investments and more exports, and that's why cooperation with the
United States is extremely important."

The thrust of Mr. Clinton's trip, though, is to survey first hand the damage
caused by Hurricane Mitch, which killed at least 9,000 people, left thousands
more missing, mostly in Honduras and Nicaragua, wiped out export crops, wrecked
roads and wells and caused damage estimated at $7 billion to $10 billion.

The President has asked Congress for $956 million in emergency reconstruction
funds for Central America and for the Caribbean countries damaged by Hurricane
Georges, in addition to the about $300 million already spent on disaster relief.

Administration officials said their relief package also includes a deferral of
$600 million in interest payments for Honduras and Nicaragua, the two severely
indebted countries in Central America, with an external public debt of $3.7
billion and $6.2 billion respectively.

A preliminary assessment by international financial institutions found that
Hurricane Mitch affected about one quarter of the total population of the four
countries in one way or another. A sharp fall in exports like bananas and coffee
is expected, while inflation, unemployment and fiscal deficits are sure to rise,
the institutions said.

The emergency comes at a time when the countries are still grappling with the
political and social effects of the violence that ripped apart their societies.
More than nine years after their civil war ended, Nicaraguans remain divided to
the point of paralysis on economic and political issues.

In El Salvador, one of the highest crime rates in Latin America is attributed to
the availability of arms after the war.

But the aftermath is starkest in Guatemala, where a war of more than three
decades caused more than 200,000 deaths and disappearances and the exile or
displacement of thousands more.

Many Guatemalans and Central American experts say Mr. Clinton, who is visiting
at a critical moment in the efforts to maintain peace, should give his
unequivocal endorsement to carrying out peace accords brokered by the United
Nations in 1996 and bringing war criminals to justice.

Some also advocate that Mr. Clinton acknowledge American support of repressive
armies and offer an apology in light of the truth commission report, which
recommended that Guatemala's President and guerrilla leaders, who have regrouped
as a political party, ask the forgiveness of all Guatemalans.

"If he were keen, he should apologize and declare that his policy is to never
again support deviations such as the ones that occurred," said Alfonso Bauer
Paiz, who served in the administration of President Jacobo Arbenz, a
left-leaning elected President who was removed in a military coup in 1954
engineered by the C.I.A.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton will visit Central America the day after El
Salvador cements its democratic transformation with a presidential election.
Facundo Guardado, a candidate and former guerrilla, spoke to backers. (Cindy
Karp for The New York Times)

Map of El Salvador shows location of San Salvador: U.S. aid to San Salvador
dropped after a pact ended fighting in 1992.

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 12, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Population Grows in New York City at Faster Pace

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 996 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11


New York City's population grew more last year than in any other year since
1986, fueled by a continuing heavy influx of immigrants and a decline in the
number of people leaving for other regions, according to new estimates released
today by the United States Census Bureau.

Though the rise was not huge -- between 1997 and 1998, the city's population
grew by about 35,000 or one-half of 1 percent, to 7.42 million -- it represented
an acceleration of the city's slow but steady growth since 1993.

The new estimates show that for the second consecutive year, all five of the
city's boroughs grew.

Queens, the city's major magnet for immigrants, had the largest number of new
residents in the state, nearly 15,000, while Richmond County -- Staten Island --
was the state's fastest-growing county, at 1.3 percent.

In recent years, the fastest growing has usually been Putnam County.

Demographers said the new figures indicated that the city's population had
become somewhat more stable because of the strong economy -- with fewer people
leaving for other parts of the country last year than at any other time in the
1990's -- and that its incremental growth in recent years has become a
consistent trend.

"I think we're into a sustained pattern of growth," said Andrew A. Beveridge, a
professor of sociology at Queens College. "For the past several decades, the
history of cities has been to lose population. The degree to which that is
reversing is important."

William Frey, a professor of demography at the State University of New York at
Albany, said: "It's good news, but not a U-turn. The city's inching in the right
direction."

Demographers say population growth is a good sign for New York City for two
reasons.

First, they say, it means that safer streets and a vibrant economy are
attracting new residents from other regions and abroad. Second, it indicates
that fewer residents are fleeing to other places, so that more are keeping their
investments in the city and helping maintain the stability of their
neighborhoods.

New York State's population grew last year to 18.17 million, an increase of
about 29,000, or two-tenths of 1 percent. As has been the case since 1995, the
state's population would have decreased last year -- by roughly 5,500 people --
without New York City's growth.

New Jersey's population increased more robustly last year, to 8.1 million
people, an increase of about 57,000, or seven-tenths of 1 percent. Eighteen of
the state's 21 counties grew, with Somerset County leading the way, growing by
2.3 percent. Cumberland, Salem and Essex Counties lost population.

Connecticut's population barely inched up last year, growing by about 7,000, or
two-tenths of 1 percent, to 3.27 million. All eight counties in the state showed
modest growth except New London, which saw its population decline by 1.2
percent.

Despite the city's growth, the new census figures show that the New York
metropolitan region, along with the entire Northeast, continued to lag well
beyond the rest of the nation. While the Northeast grew by three-tenths of 1
percent, the West grew by 1.6 percent, the South by 1.3 percent and the Mountain
states by 2 percent.

If current growth trends continue, New York's Congressional delegation is
projected to shrink by 2 seats in the House of Representatives, to 29, after the
2000 census. Connecticut is expected to lose one seat, falling to 5, while New
Jersey's delegation is projected to remain steady at 13 members.

According to the new census estimates, California led the nation in actual
population growth last year, increasing to about 32.5 million , a rise of
roughly 480,000 people, or 1.5 percent. Four California counties -- Los Angeles,
Orange, San Diego and Riverside -- were among the top 10 counties nationwide in
population growth.

Nevada was the fastest-growing state, gaining about 68,000 people, or 4.1
percent, to reach 1.74 million. But 4 of 10 fastest-growing counties with more
than 10,000 people were in Georgia, led by Forsyth County near Atlanta, which
grew at a pace of 13 percent last year.

For New York City, the new census figures confirm again that immigration is the
demographic engine shaping the city. The Census Bureau estimated that about
102,000 new immigrants settled in the city last year, just below the 107,000 who
arrived the year before.

Largely because of new immigrants from Asia and Latin America, Queens grew more
last year than Manhattan, which has been the major source of the city's
population growth through most of the 1990's.

Without new immigrants, the city would have lost nearly 360,000 people since
1990 -- about 23,000 last year alone -- because large numbers of people continue
to leave the five boroughs for the suburbs or other states.

"The city continues to gain most of its population through immigration, and that
will probably be the case for years to come," Mr. Frey said.

But the new census estimates also show that the city lost fewer people -- about
125,000 -- to its suburbs and other cities in 1998 than in any other year this
decade.

Demographers said that was probably a result of the Wall Street boom, which has
created new jobs and attracted younger people to the region, as well as the
city's declining crime rate, which may have encouraged more elderly residents
and families to remain in the five boroughs.

After the city reached its peak population of 7,894,862 in 1970, it shrank
drastically as families fled to the suburbs and the elderly moved to the South
and West.

By 1980, the city's population had fallen to 7,071,639. Immigration helped raise
it to 7,322,564 in 1990 and to about 7.4 million in 1998, according to the new
estimates.

But just as the stock market crash of 1987, along with rising crime rates,
helped prompt a sharp increase in migration away from the city, another plunge
in the market could reverse the city's recent growth and begin another period of
contraction, demographers said.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Immigration is shaping New York City's growth. Cultures mingled
yesterday in Jackson Heights, Queens. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. B10)


Graphs: "KEEPING TRACK: If I Can Make It There . . ."
Graphs shows change in New York City's population from the previous year, from
1991 through 1998 and percentage change in population, by borough, for 1997 and
1998. (Source: Queens College Sociology Department)(pg. B10)


                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 13, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
A Heedless Court

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 747 words

DATELINE: BALTIMORE


It is the year 2002, and violence has erupted again in Northern Ireland. The
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service decides to target for deportation
all resident aliens who have endorsed or contributed to Noraid, an American
support group for the Irish Republican Army.

One of those targeted is Padraig Phelan. He came to the United States legally 22
years ago from Ireland and has a green card; his wife and three children are
American citizens. Over the years he has attended some rallies for a united
Ireland, and given money to Noraid drives for schools and hospitals. Citing
those activities, the I.N.S. takes him into detention. He goes to court, but the
court says it is powerless to intervene. He is deported.

That could not happen here, could it? Yes it could, thanks to a Supreme Court
decision last month. It was a decision with great potential impact, yet the
Court reached it almost off-handedly, in a way that mocked its judicial process.

The case involved eight aliens, resident in Los Angeles, whom the I.N.S. has
been trying to deport for 12 years. Various grounds for deportation were
asserted. But the underlying point was that the eight were connected to the
Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine.

The P.F.L.P. is a faction of the Palestine Liberation Organization that has
opposed peace deals with Israel and carried out terrorist acts. But the I.N.S.
did not assert that the eight had anything to do with terrorism. The claim,
rather, was that they had distributed P.F.L.P. literature and raised money for
such things as schools and hospitals.

The eight asked the Federal courts to stop the deportation process on the ground
that they had been selectively targeted in retaliation for political activities
protected by the First Amendment. The trial judge, after extended hearings,
found that they had been, and enjoined the I.N.S. A Court of Appeals panel
agreed.

The I.N.S. asked the Supreme Court to review the lower court decision, asserting
two claims: (1) that the First Amendment rights of the eight had not been
violated, and (2) that they had gone to court too soon. The Supreme Court
refused to hear the first but granted limited review of the second claim, saying
it would consider whether the Immigration Act of 1996 barred the eight from
going to court until they were under final orders of deportation. The parties,
following the rules, briefed and argued only that question.

When the Supreme Court decided the case, it held that the 1996 law did bar the
eight's lawsuit. That won the case for the I.N.S. But the Court went on to
address the question it had told the parties it would not consider.

Justice Antonin Scalia, writing for a 6-to-3 majority, said an alien against
whom the I.N.S. moved had "no constitutional right to assert selective
enforcement as a defense against his deportation." In other words, targeting a
group of aliens because of their politics did not violate the First Amendment.

Justice Scalia went further, saying that the Government could pick out a group
of aliens for political reasons but keep the reasons secret. "The executive," he
said, "should not have to disclose the 'real' reasons for deeming nationals of a
particular country a special threat -- or indeed for simply wishing to
antagonize a particular foreign country by focusing on that country's
nationals."

That sweeping language gives the Government unreviewable power to target legal
immigrants for political reasons. In the time of Richard Nixon and Henry
Kissinger, the Administration could have deported Chilean exiles who
demonstrated against the dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet.

Even legal immigrants who have done nothing political can be targeted to
"antagonize" their country of origin. The I.N.S. would deport them for technical
violations of their status.

Justice Scalia said selective targeting by the I.N.S. was not a constitutional
problem because deportation is not criminal punishment. But the Supreme Court
has held that a government agency violates the First Amendment when it fires
employees on a political basis. That point would have been argued by counsel if
the Court had not misled them by saying it would not consider the issue.

The Supreme Court's great power in our system is justified by a process of
decision that is principled and fair. In this case the Court subverted its
process and broke its word. For those of us who revere the institution, it was a
depressing performance.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 14, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

FAR FROM HOME, ALONE -- A special report.;
Young Immigrants Find a Hard New Land

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2834 words


Monir was hardly among the huddled, hungry masses of Bangladesh when he arrived
at Kennedy International Airport three years ago. His father was an engineer;
everyone expected Monir would go to college and study accounting.

What drove him from home was neither poverty nor war, just the sure specter of a
dead-end future. Back in Dhaka, all but the wealthiest toiled through college
only to hunt in vain for decent jobs. At 15, Monir took flight, in search of an
American education, another life.

Now 18 and still struggling through his sophomore year of high school, Monir
works late every night, packing takeout orders of Thai food. The fear of failure
follows him like a ghost. It is there when he cannot get to school on time, when
he realizes how far behind he is on his homework, when he spots a classmate who
dropped out a while back, handing out fliers for an Indian restaurant in the
East Village.

"I have those worries," Monir confessed quietly. "Maybe I'll end up like him."

They are elusive to official institutions, but youngsters like Monir are
everywhere. They deliver pizza on rickety bicycles. They cut flower stems at the
corner greengrocer. They peddle fake-label watches on the sidewalks of Manhattan
and sprint at the sight of the police.

Over the last several years, a small but growing number of teen-agers --
virtually all boys, some as young as 14 or 15 -- have arrived without their
parents, much like the child immigrants of a century ago. Once here, they become
New York's youngest immigrant workers, their cheap, nimble labor easily absorbed
by the city's thriving service economy.

They come from countries where the poor go to work young. They know they are
trading one hard life for another, but at least this one seems to come with
options. Here, on their own, they are free, and yet they are trapped in an
underground ruled in large measure by fear -- of the immigration authorities,
child welfare agencies, smugglers, thugs and bosses, past and potential. (That
is why all of the youngsters interviewed for this article would give only their
first names; some refused to be photographed.)

And immigration scholars and social workers wonder if they will ever be able to
break free. Most are in this country illegally -- and with rare exception, seem
destined to remain so. Many come for education, and its promise of opportunity
unimaginable in Dhaka, or whatever place they left behind. And yet, working
long, hard hours to stay alive, they often find themselves too tired and tied
down, and simply too poor, to get the education they need to move beyond the
margins of the economy.

In short, they are like a lot of new immigrants. And yet they are not -- because
they are children, and they are alone.

Just how many there are cannot be known, but the few institutions that encounter
them offer piecemeal evidence of their growing presence. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service reports a fivefold increase in the number of
unaccompanied minors entering the country illegally over the last five years. In
fiscal year 1998, the agency had 4,284 such children in detention, the vast
majority between 15 and 18. Officials say they expect many more to come from
parts of Central America ravaged by Hurricane Mitch.

At the Chinatown Health Center, doctors report seeing many more children coming
alone, especially from Fujian province, over the last four years. English
teachers at The Door, a SoHo youth center, say they have seen rising numbers of
teen-agers coming alone from Mexico and Central America.

"It's really spiked, starting about three years ago," said Christopher Ambrose,
the center's co-director. "It's just incredible to me that they're doing what
they're doing all by themselves."

Among the ranks of teen-age immigrants to the city was a young man from Guinea
named Amadou Diallo, whose American adventure began three years ago at age 19
and ended last month when, unarmed, he was killed by the police at the door to
his apartment building in the Bronx. There are boys like Francisco, from Mexico,
who run away defiantly, and those like Abdoulaye, from Senegal, who come with
their parents' blessings. There are those like Monir who live on their own,
perhaps with a roommate, and those who are taken in by relatives, like Jian, a
Fujianese farmer's son, who shares a two-room tenement in Chinatown with an
uncle and eight other men.

All are keenly, constantly aware of the gulf between them and the young people
around them -- many of them also poor, many also immigrants, but none quite so
peculiarly alone. Jian is struck by this every time he runs into schoolmates
from Qianyang, his village outside the city of Fuzhou. If they work, it is not
to pay the rent. Their parents take care of that, and harangue them to finish
their homework so they do not have to work in sweatshops all their lives.

Once, Jian invited his old best friend over to his apartment, and his friend
gasped. "He said, 'I can't imagine you live here,' " Jian recalls. "We are like
strangers."

A Life of Work
Long Hours And Long Odds

Francisco's day begins in the blue light before dawn, as the steel accordion
gates of a lower Manhattan diner roll open for business. Francisco's territory
is the grill, where he hovers over burgers and B.L.T.'s. To his left sits a vat
of gurgling hot oil that has pocked his arms with a trail of burns. A Yankees
cap shields his boyish, blessedly acne-free face.

Except Sundays, when he makes sandwiches at another deli, this is Francisco's
world all week, from 4:30 A.M. till 3:30 in the afternoon. After work, there are
lessons at The Door, where he has learned English and is now, after nearly a
decade without a formal education, preparing for the high school equivalency
exam. Then, home by 8 to his room in a basement apartment near Yankee Stadium,
so he can shower, sleep and rise by 3 A.M. for another day at the grill.

He is 21 now, but Francisco's childhood died young, in the Oaxacan village of
Etla.  By the time he was 10, he was hopping trains to faraway towns, where he
passed himself off as an orphan and ran errands in exchange for food, spare
change, a set of new clothes.

His parents tried to wring the restlessness out of him, but without success.
With the help of a friend already living in the Bronx, he found a smuggler, who
for $900 led him across the border and onto a plane to New York. Francisco
thinks he was 15 then.

Within weeks, he was sweeping the floors of a midtown garment factory, 10 or 12
hours every day, for $190 a week.

Finding work was always a breeze, though the terms of his employment were
completely illegal. Under state law, school is mandatory for all those under 17.
And youths between ages 16 and 18 are barred from working more than 28 hours a
week when school is in session.

Once, cutting a swatch of linen, Francisco accidentally sliced off a piece of
his left index finger. His boss dropped him in front of a hospital emergency
room and left. When Francisco returned to work, the boss refused to take him
back, saying he was too young.

"They really took advantage of me, huh?" Francisco said, chuckling. "I learned
that after I left that job."

In Francisco's fiercely self-protective world, there is little time or
inclination to play. Fear keeps him on the straight and narrow. Sometimes, he
hangs out with young Mexicans who live in his building, but he will not drink
with them, for fear he will not make it to work on time. There are clubs he
could go to, but he won't, for fear he will be swept up in a drunken brawl.

Perhaps what also keeps Francisco on his path of self-restraint is boys like
Marcos. The two are strangers, but in a way, they are mirror images.

When Marcos left Oaxaca at age 12, he, too, was searching for money and
education.  Seven years later, he has not known a day of school, nor has he
managed to learn English. He has been a dishwasher, a pizza deliverer and a prep
cook. He has also been to Rikers Island and back.

Marcos has never really been out of trouble. At first, he was taunted in his
East Harlem neighborhood as a "mojado," a wetback. Thugs repeatedly jumped him,
taking what little money he made.

Soon, though, another band of thugs came to his rescue. They called themselves
Los Vagos, the vagabonds, and they became his family. They tattooed a tricolor
Virgin on his left arm; they made sure he was never attacked again.

But trouble continued to trail him. Within months, a knife fight at a soccer
match got him six months in jail. And in December, one of Los Vagos was shot and
killed at a club on 116th Street; Marcos said he and seven other gang members
were charged. He is out on bail, awaiting trial.

"We say this is the lost generation," said Brother Joel Magallan, a Jesuit who
works for the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York as its liaison to Mexican
immigrants.  "I know a lot of parents who are trying to keep them in Mexico.
They don't want their kids coming here."

Francisco may have run away at 15, but he never intended to stay away so long,
he said. His goal was to earn enough money to establish a family business. Last
year, he wired home $11,000 in savings so his father could set up a garment
factory. He had read that clothing was one of Mexico's chief exports. Nowhere
had he read about the hurdles.

"You have to have big capital," he says now. "You have to have connections."

The lessons came too late. The five sewing machines bought with his savings now
collect dust in Etla.

Changing Opportunity
The Road Narrows For Immigrants

The stories of Francisco and the others are a distant echo of the flood of
teen-age immigrants a century ago. Back then, at the crest of the last great
wave of immigration, Italian boys landed by themselves at Ellis Island and went
to work hawking newspapers or hauling produce. Girls from Russia came alone to
work in garment factories.

But if their aspirations are in many ways the same, today's teen-age immigrants
are landing on drastically changed shores.

Nancy Foner, an anthropologist who studies the city's immigration history,
offered her own family's example. In 1905 or so, when he was 8 or 9, her
grandfather came alone from Russia and joined a brother in Hartford. The sum of
his American education was some time in night school as a working teen-ager, but
by the time he retired, he was running a lucrative construction business in
Queens.

Certainly, few immigrants of that era bounded up the economic ladder in one
generation. Still, those with little schooling could find a factory job --
often, a dirty job for low pay, but a job for life. Some could move from
unskilled factory jobs to semi-skilled labor at slightly better pay. Some could
even open small shops or factories. And since, with few exceptions, even those
without formal papers did not face the constant threat of deportation, even the
immigrant who did not succeed economically could establish a firm, legal
foothold for the next generation.

"It's much harder to get ahead today, with as little education as my grandfather
had," Ms. Foner explained.

Today's teen-age immigrants, by contrast, are unlikely to be legal and have few
ways to change that. Unlike adults with marketable skills, they are unlikely to
be sponsored by an employer, and few have resident family members to help them
obtain a green card. And their immigration status, compounded by poverty, makes
it extremely difficult to get the higher education that is ever more crucial to
economic success. For illegal immigrants, a secure job of any kind has become
harder to find.

So, while some will find a way to get ahead, most seem likely to drift from way
station to way station in New York's economic underground, hoping, at best, to
save enough money to set up a decent life back home.

"My guess would be that if you do not have fluency in English, if you do not
have skills, if you do not have legal papers, you're going to work in a
marginal, shadow economy," said David Reimers, a historian at New York
University. "I don't see these people, in their lifetime, improving that much."

Whether most will end up staying or returning home is anyone's guess. For now,
out there on the margins, they tend to fall below the radar of government
agencies that deal with children. Given the choices here and at home, some
academics and advocates say, it is probably just as well.

"It's a pretty sad thing to say that perhaps the best outcome would be let them
work, leave them alone," said Hector Cordero-Guzman, a sociologist at the New
School for Social Research. "Increased enforcement might not mean better life
chances for these kids."

The Education Barrier
Many Lack Tools To Get Ahead

If college is the dream, Jian would seem closer than most. Even so, he feels it
slipping away.

The first in his family to learn his letters, he is 20 credits shy of a high
school diploma. Eight hours a day, he is in class at Manhattan Comprehensive
Night and Day School, a school for older teen-agers. Four years after leaving
China at age 17, his time is running out. He can attend public school free only
until the end of his 21st year; he has just turned 21.

Weekends are spent behind the Plexiglas of a Chinese takeout restaurant in New
Jersey: 12-hour shifts both days, $70 a day. At first, his priorities puzzled
his roommates.  "They said: 'Why you want to study? You're not born here,' " he
recalled.

Many young immigrants like him rarely venture outside Chinatown or learn
English, he says. The prospect terrifies him. "You don't know English, you know
how difficult life is," Jian said. "How about the future?"

For now, Jian pays $50 a month for a bed in a sixth-floor walk-up. The apartment
is so cramped that he does morning sit-ups in bed, so noisy that he starts
studying at the kitchen table only after everyone is asleep.

Jian says he has no regrets about coming here. And recently, he was granted a
rare boon -- political asylum on the ground of religious persecution. He is a
Christian, with the dangerous habit of preaching to his classmates back home. He
can become an American citizen in a few years.

Still, even with the security of asylum, even with a diploma, he says he will
have to postpone college until he can climb his mountain of debt: the $40,000
that his parents borrowed from family and from the bank to have him smuggled to
America. So after high school, Jian plans to get a full-time restaurant job and
start repaying the loans. He does not know anyone who has gone to college here.
He says it probably costs too much. "I'm not sure," he concluded, "but I think
it's a lot of money."

Longing for Home
Isolation Amid the Crowd

By the time Abdoulaye felt that adolescent urge to take flight from Senegal,
nearly every house on his block in Kaolack had sent a young man abroad -- to
France, Italy and, in recent years, to the United States. At 19, made restless
by a long strike at his university, Abdoulaye joined the odyssey.

"The new generation -- you have to go out and discover," his father had told him
before his death. "To be more lucky than us."

Abdoulaye knew America long before he got here. He knew the rhymes of Public
Enemy and Tupac Shakur and the names of fashionable sneakers. He also knew how
much money his compatriots had made here and taken back to Senegal.

Today, at 20, Abdoulaye is luckier than many of his peers. He lives with his
uncles and their wives in the Bronx. He works at the family business, selling
color televisions to fellow Africans. He just wasn't prepared for the
loneliness.

In a palm-size photo album, he keeps snapshots of his friends back home.
Abdoulaye misses their company terribly. On the subway, he listens to Youssou
N'Dour on his headphones and writes to them, telling them the truth about this
place they all once dreamed of. Recently, he wrote about attending his first
American demonstration, in front of the house where Amadou Diallo died.

"You know, in my country, every time I walk the street, I was with one of my
friends," he said. "Here, when I get out of school, I walk by myself. Nobody
talks to me. I don't talk to nobody. I feel, 'Where I am? Where I am?' "

Monir calls home whenever he is blue, which is evidently often, considering he
sometimes runs up a $200 phone bill. Often, the conversation turns to his future
here, though, in typical immigrant fashion, he is less than candid about the
fine points of his new life. "I don't really tell them how much I work," he
confided.

For a year and a half, he has worked seven hours a night, six nights a week at
the Thai restaurant. At the end of each shift, he pockets $45.

His mother still presses him to come home, but so far, his more pragmatic parent
has prevailed. "My father says, 'What is he going to do here?' " Monir
explained.

More and more, he asks that same question of himself.

"I think a lot about whether to stay," he said, "or whether to go back."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: For teen-agers like Monir, of Bangladesh, work and poverty are
the markings of life alone in New York. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York
Times)(pg. 1); Abdoulaye, right, struggles with loneliness and yearns for his
friends in Senegal. "Nobody talks to me," he said. "I don't talk to nobody."
Jian, the son of a Chinese farmer, taking part in a Bible class in Chinatown. At
21, his dream of a college education seems out of reach. (Photographs by Nicole
Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. 42)

TYPE: Special Report

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 14, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

From Brighton Beach to America;
The Wave of Immigrants Began 25 Years Ago. Soon Russian Filled the Streets. Now,
the Tide Is Ebbing.

BYLINE: By EDWARD LEWINE

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 3248 words


AN arc of gray seagulls banked against a cold gust of wind and wheeled high
above Brighton Beach toward the Atlantic Ocean. Sofia Garber followed the birds
with her big blue eyes and pulled the fur collar of her coat to her cheeks.
Standing on an expanse of boardwalk between a line of apartment buildings and
the sand, Ms. Garber, 51, reflected on her life as a new immigrant, part of the
first wave to arrive in Brooklyn from the Soviet Union in 1973.

"I used to work all day in the city," said Ms. Garber, who emigrated from
Odessa, a Ukrainian resort city on the Black Sea. "Then I would come out here on
the sand to think and cry. I didn't know what my future would be and my
children's future. I would stare at the seagulls and think: 'They are so free.
They can fly to Odessa to see my mother and I cannot.' "

The first years were hard for Ms. Garber, but things improved. She and her
husband worked 14-hour days at a variety of jobs, made some money, moved to a
larger apartment in Brighton Beach, brought her mother over and sent two
daughters to college. Brighton Beach is her home, Ms. Garber said, but she is
glad her daughters, 31 and 25, have moved to suburban Westchester and Long
Island.

"I feel that life has to go on," she said. "I wouldn't be happy if my children
should stay in Brighton Beach. Maybe different people should be able to come to
Brighton Beach and start over. That is what America is about."

It has been about 25 years since the first immigrants from the Soviet Union came
to this small neighborhood in southern Brooklyn, where the rents were cheap and
you could walk by the sea, and turned it into a Russian-speaking hub.

Brighton Beach has been many things to these people: at first a disappointment,
then a beachhead in a big city, then an economic launching pad. And now, for
many of them, it seems to have become a stepping stone to somewhere else.

Many residents say Brighton Beach is on the cusp of a slow decline as a
Russian-speaking neighborhood. The children of the immigrants are chasing the
American dream to Manhattan, to other parts of Brooklyn and to the suburbs. "Old
people live in Brighton Beach," said Lyudmila Reyngach, the owner of Oceanview
Optical on Brighton Beach Avenue. "The young people are moving out." She said
that she had been doing more and more business on weekends, when people who have
moved away return to shop.

And while immigration from the former Soviet Union has slowed in recent years,
people from Mexico, Pakistan and the Middle East have been moving in. "It's
going to be different," said Marina Shapiro, the executive director of the
Brighton Beach Business Improvement District. "It will be a multinational
neighborhood, not just a Russian one."

Recent census surveys suggest that 200,000 immigrants from the former Soviet
Union live in the five boroughs, said Andrew A. Beveridge, a sociology professor
at Queens College. And Brighton Beach still throngs with Russian-speaking
people. More than half the stores on Brighton Beach Avenue are owned by
immigrants from the former Soviet Union, and many residents say it will take
decades for the neighborhood to lose its flavor.

Sofia Vinokurov takes a positive view. She arrived with her family of 27 in 1975
and owns a food store called the International -- the Zabar's of the
neighborhood -- as well as a smoked-fish business and a nightclub. "Young people
aren't moving out that much from this neighborhood," she said recently, as
customers bustled around her. "You see young people with carriages and babies."

Yet like Little Italy and the Lower East Side before it, many residents said,
Brighton Beach is falling victim to the very success of its recent settlers.
Lydia Vareljan, the chairwoman of the Russian Division of the United Jewish
Appeal, who came from Odessa in 1976 and lived for a decade in Brighton, said:
"Ask me what will happen to Brighton Beach. What happened to Hester Street in
the Lower East Side? But not yet. We have another 25 years, and I am sure that
something will still be there, but not like it was from 1983 to 1990."

In the Shadow of the El, Memories of the Baltic Sea

The neighborhood of Brighton Beach bridges the 20 blocks between the gimcrack
attractions of Coney Island and almost suburban Manhattan Beach. Its main
street, Brighton Beach Avenue, is shadowed by the elevated D and Q subway lines.
There are apartment buildings on the ocean side of the avenue and small houses
on the other.

Eastern European Jews began moving into the neighborhood in the 1920's, and
Jewish refugees after World War II. By the 1970's, many of the older Jews had
died or moved to Florida or to their children's homes in the suburbs. Shops
along Brighton Beach Avenue were small and old, longtime residents said. "It was
very dirty," Ms. Garber recalled.

But rents were cheap. The shopkeepers could communicate with the new residents
in Yiddish or Polish. And the many immigrants from seaside cities like Odessa
and Leningrad appreciated the shore atmosphere. "It was ocean side, and I was
growing up on the Baltic Sea," explained Leonid Bogorad, who came from Leningrad
in 1973. "It made me feel better."

The story of Brighton Beach as a Russian-speaking enclave began in the mid-60's,
when rumors spread through the large Jewish populations of the Soviet Union,
from Leningrad to Ukraine to Belarus to Moldavia, that the Government might
allow some people with family in Israel to leave. Mr. Bogorad said he heard the
rumor in 1970. He was in his mid-20's, and like many of the first immigrants was
prosperous by Soviet standards. "Believe me, I was doing O.K.," said Mr.
Bogorad, who managed a furniture store. "In Russia if you had access to imported
furniture you can make money."

Like Mr. Bogorad, the early immigrants were not fleeing severe deprivation but
anti-Semitism. On one hand, the Soviet Union suppressed the practice of Judaism,
so most Russian Jews knew little about their religion. On the other hand, Jews
could not forget who they were. They were often called Zhid, a Russian curse for
Jew, beaten up in school and denied access to scholarships and the best jobs.
The internal passports of most Soviet citizens indicated what region they were
from, while the passports of Jews read "Jewish," no matter where they were from.

"There was anti-Semitism everywhere," Mr. Bogorad said. "Whenever you apply for
anything you have to show your passport that says you are Jewish."

Officially no one was supposed to want to leave the Soviet paradise, but small
numbers of Jews were allowed to emigrate beginning in the 50's. Emigration
gained momentum in the mid-60's when American Jewish organizations and the
United States Government pressured the Soviet Union to let the Jews go. The
Israeli defeat of Soviet-backed Arab forces in the Six-Day War of 1967 slowed
things a bit, but by the early 70's the American policy of detente and the
Soviet Union's need for American grain opened the gates.

According to the National Conference on Soviet Jewry, in Washington, 17,000
people left the Soviet Union from 1968 through 1971. Most headed to Israel, but
a few thousand went to the United States. Soon reports were filtering back to
the Soviet Union of a strange place called Brooklyn. "In Odessa everyone was
talking about Brooklyn," Ms. Vareljan said. "A letter would come, and we would
all read about it."

Dr. Lawrence Avramenko, 54, who has the crew cut and broad chest of an army
sergeant and the stern demeanor to match, said he was an emotional mess on the
day in 1973 when he, his wife and child left Kiev on a train bound for Austria.
Dr. Avramenko, a dentist, and his family were leaving their relatives, friends
and possessions for a world they had never seen. They were allowed to take out
$100 a person and some clothes. Going back was not an option. "I couldn't
sleep," Dr. Avramenko said of that first night on the train. "I was crying as we
checked into Austria."

Most immigrants went to Vienna, where they were met by Israeli officials. Some,
however, decided to go to the United States instead, because they had family
there or they figured economic opportunities would be better, or because they
feared becoming enmeshed in Middle East tensions. The Hebrew Immigrant Aid
Society, a nonprofit group that resettles refugees, helped them get to the
United States, via Italy.

New York did not make a good first impression on many of the 1970's immigrants.
To Simon Feldman, 63, a Russian who spent seven years in a Soviet prison during
the 1950's, the city he glimpsed on the way from John F. Kennedy International
Airport seemed depressing. "It was cold," he said from his home in Florida. "It
was dark. I was disappointed to see all the painting on the subway trains."

The New York Association for New Americans, a private, nonprofit agency,
arranged for housing, health care, language training and social services for the
immigrants during their first few months and sometimes up to a year. Those who
could not be connected with family in the city were sent to
single-room-occupancy hotels until they could find a place to live.

Ms. Garber does not remember the experience fondly. "It was mices and
cockroaches," she said. "Don't ask. It was hot, but I was afraid to open a
window. I think someone is going to kill me." After a few days, she said,
someone suggested that she look for an apartment in a neighborhood called
Brighton Beach.

From Factories and Diners To Chandeliers and Wallpaper

Two and a half decades later, in early February, the United Jewish Appeal held a
glittering fund-raising party at a restaurant called Cabaret Lido in Marine
Park, Brooklyn, a few miles east of Brighton, to celebrate the 25th anniversary
of the arrival of Sam and Ludmila Kislin, who came from Odessa and made a
fortune in commodities.

Guests were greeted by an actor in a Russian commissar's outfit who interrogated
them and gave them a "visa." They then passed through a curtain marked "Vienna"
in Cyrillic letters and into a buffet room marked "Italy." Finally doors marked
"America" were opened, and the 150 guests dined in a hall decorated with Stars
and Stripes and Statues of Liberty.

There were grand bouquets of flowers and bottles of vodka and cognac on each
table. The guests came dressed to kill. Women wore lots of makeup. Suits and
dresses were cut in untraditional ways. Some men wore diamond studs in place of
ties. The buffet featured Russian pastries, pates, seafood, sushi (a Russian
favorite), vegetables, breads, cheeses, cold cuts and caviar. And that was
before dinner.

But amid the festivity there was also a note of nostalgia. "It is a time of
mixed feelings," one guest said. "Twenty years ago it was not such a happy time.
It was hard work."

For the new immigrants, life in New York was initially about getting through the
day, learning English and making some money at whatever job they could find and
keep. Mr. Bogorad spent his first five years in factory jobs in the garment
district. Ms. Garber was a waitress on the 4 A.M. shift at a local diner. Later
she took a job kneading dough at a knish shop. When Ms. Vinokurov, a friend,
wrote to her from Odessa asking if she should follow, Ms. Garber told her not
to, delaying her by a year.

"I told her, I'll get down on my knees," she said. "I am suffering here, do not
come. This is another tragedy for the Jewish people."

The first immigrants in Brighton Beach, no more than a few hundred, according to
old-timers, were so busy eking out an existence that few had the time, energy or
money for much in the way of communal life. But things slowly improved. Ms.
Garber's mother came from Odessa and helped take care of the children so that
Ms. Garber could go to school and acquire office skills, and eventually a job in
the diamond district. Her husband, from whom she is now divorced, and a friend
opened a wallpaper and chandelier shop on Brighton Beach Avenue.

Mr. Bogorad took a job driving a taxi 15 hours a day, and also sold real estate
in the evenings. "I was exhausted," he said. "But I was young, and if you are
trying to raise a family you can't be tired."

By 1975, some emigres were buying buildings with storefronts along Brighton
Beach Avenue, which sold for as little as $5,000. Not that the businesses were
an immediate success. Many struggled to learn how to make things work in a new
place. "Those who opened in 1975 and '76, they failed," Ms. Vareljan said. "But
by 1978 and '79 those that opened, they succeeded."

The Soviet Gates Open And Then Close Again

In 1978, Soviet immigrants began pouring into Brighton Beach. The Soviet
authorities, courting the world in preparation for the 1980 Olympics in Moscow,
loosened restrictions, and from 1978 to 1980 some 23,000 came to New York, more
than twice the number that had arrived in the previous five years. This influx,
bringing thousands of new customers, was a boon for owners of Russian-speaking
businesses.

They also had people to advise. "The first ones who came, everybody called us,"
Ms. Garber remembered. "They called my house the Red Cross."

From 1982 to 1986, when the Soviet Union was occupying Afghanistan and President
Ronald Reagan was getting tough on what he called "the evil empire," immigration
to New York slowed to a trickle: fewer than 500 people a year. But there were
already so many immigrants in Brighton Beach that the area hopped with ethnic
shops. The restaurants, in particular, became a center of social life as they
never had been in the Soviet Union. There, people ate at home. In New York, the
immigrants learned to let someone else cook.

Many, though, had a difficult time adjusting to American life. Mark Handelman,
the executive vice president of the New York Association for New Americans, said
that refugees from the Soviet Union mistrusted the Government and yet expected
the Government to do things for them. They often withheld information from their
social workers, whom they considered to be government agents, Mr. Handelman
said, and became indignant when housing and jobs weren't provided for them.
"They didn't understand that when they went for an interview they didn't have
the job yet," he said.

American Jews had donated tens of millions of dollars to assist the Soviet Jews
in settling in the United States, yet there was resentment on both sides.

"There was a great clash between the American Jewish community and the
Russians," said Pauline Bilus, director of resource development at the
Shorefront Y.M.-Y.W.H.A. of Brighton-Manhattan Beach, an American who has worked
with Russians since the 70's. "The Americans wanted them to be the humble,
traditional Jews of their grandparents' generation."

Unlike the rural religious Jews who came from Eastern Europe a generation or
more before, most Soviet Jews were well-educated city dwellers with little
religious feeling. Some resented criticism of how they practiced Judaism from
Americans who, as they saw it, had had it easy. Yet there were also hurt
feelings when the Americans got angry. "They kept their shops open on the major
Jewish holidays," Ms. Bilus said. "And they wondered why the American Jews
didn't embrace them." Today, Ms. Bilus said, the shops close on Yom Kippur.

These days, the crowds who wander underneath the el on Brighton Beach Avenue
still speak Russian as they browse the little stands that sell pastries from all
regions of the former Soviet Union. They still stop before the hulking marble
facades of fancy restaurants and read the announcements of performances by the
latest Russian stars. A co-op complex going up at the east end of the
neighborhood, by Coney Island Avenue, has a long waiting list with many Eastern
European names.

The last big wave of Russian-speaking immigrants arrived in the late 80's and
early 90's after the Soviet Union collapsed. More than 20,000 came to New York
in 1992 alone. But these new immigrants were different. They were better
educated, had more money and knew more about the United States. Not all of them
were Jewish, and greater numbers of them were illegal immigrants, coming in from
their now open country on tourist visas and staying. Yet, residents say, the
old-timers and the newer immigrants seem to coexist well.

Still, the neighborhood is changing, residents say. Though no figures are
available on how many immigrants from the former Soviet Union currently live in
Brighton Beach, locals say many immigrants, and particularly their children, are
leaving or have already left. Leonid Bogorad, who continues to work in Brighton
Beach, moved to Long Island in 1978. Simon Feldman lives in Florida. Lydia
Vareljan moved to suburban New Jersey. None of their children lives in Brighton.

Now people from other lands are moving in. "Years ago the plane would come into
New York from Russia, and they would come to my office with the luggage," said
Mr. Bogorad, referring to his real estate business. "Now we have all different
groups of clients: Pakistanis and Indians, Spanish. The neighborhood is mixing
up."

Immigrants from the former Soviet Union have spread out to Manhattan Beach, Bay
Ridge and Bensonhurst in Brooklyn, Bergen County in northern New Jersey and
Nassau County, Long Island. That has hurt Brighton, Mr. Bogorad said.

Even the Russian mafia has been forsaking Brighton Beach. "In the 70's Russian
organized crime concentrated mostly in New York," said Raymond Kerr, the
supervising agent in the Federal Bureau of Investigation's Eastern European
Organized Crime Unit. "Now it's in cities all over the country."

'The Right Time For the Right People'

But more threatening to Brighton's identity over the long term, some say, is the
decline in immigration. The executive vice president of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid
Society, Leonard S. Glickman, said he expected the trend to continue. He
attributed it to tighter American immigration policies and the fact that many
people in the former Soviet Union who have family in the United States (a
prerequisite of legal immigration) have already come.

"There is a dwindling number of people in Russia who could qualify," Mr.
Glickman said. "And the Government has made it harder for them to assert a
credible fear of persecution."

The director of refugee programs for the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
Kathleen Thompson, agreed that immigration had declined, but said the rules had
not changed. "There is a dwindling number of people in Russia who would qualify
for the U.S.," she said. Yet she acknowledged that rising anti-Semitism could
spur new immigration.

So far the effects of the decline have been small, Brighton business leaders
said,, though the founder of the Brighton Neighborhood Association, Pat Singer,
said some restaurateurs had told her they were seeing fewer customers. "But they
aren't strangling," she said. "They are doing well." She pointed out that new
restaurants have opened in recent years.

Russian Brighton Beach has come further, and more quickly, in its first 25 years
than other ethnic neighborhoods in New York. Perhaps that is one reason many
old-timers do not seem worried about its future. They have gone through too much
to be overly sentimental. If the blessing that Brighton has been to them is
passed on to another group, so be it. As Mr. Bogorad said: "Brighton Beach came
by at the right time for the right people. It was our place for so many years.
One day it will be for someone else."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: "I used to work all day in the city," said Sofia Garber, who
emigrated from Odessa, a Ukrainian resort city on the Black Sea. "Then I would
come out here on the sand to think and cry. I didn't know what my future would
be." (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Guests at a United Jewish
Appeal fund-raising party, left, portray stock characters from Soviet society.
Like many immigrants to Brighton Beach in the 1970's, Leonid Bogorad, right,
fled anti-Semitism, not deprivation. The night Lawrence and Clara Avramenko left
Kiev, they knew there was no going back. Among 27 family members who arrived
from Odessa were, left to right, Sofia Vinokurov, Lara Akkerman and Bella
Rakhman. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 10);
Brighton Beach's boardwalk is a hub for Russian-speaking immigrants. (Norman Y.
Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 11)

Chart/Graph: "KEEPING TRACK -- THE RUSSIANS WERE COMING"
Arriving in waves... Immigration from the former Soviet Union to New York City
from 1973 through 1998:

As the cold war continues, few Soviet citizens are permitted to leave.
Immigration slows further during the Reagan years.

Restrictions are relaxed before the 1980 Moscow Olympics.
Immigration soars from 1989, during glasnost, through the collapse of the Soviet
Union in the early 90's.
In recent years, immigration has declined
. . . And Settling In
A look at immigrants from the former Soviet Union in New York City*

AGE
YOUNGER THAN 18: 23%
18-35: 23%
36-50: 25%
51-65: 12%
65 AND OLDER: 17%

HOUSEHOLD INCOME (in thousands)
LESS THAN $ 20: 44%
$20-30: 11%
$30-40: 13%
$40-50: 8%
$50-60: 6%
$60+: 17%

RECEIVES PUBLIC ASSISTANCE
YES: 20%
NO: 80%

EDUCATION (age 25 and older)
LESS THAN HIGH SCHOOL: 17%
NO SCHOOL: 4%
HIGH SCHOOL GRAD: 24%
SOME COLLEGE: 13%
COLLEGE DEGREE OR HIGHER: 41%

*Figures are from a 1996 Census Bureau survey of New York City housing.

Note: Totals may not add to 100 because of rounding.

(Sources: Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society; Queens College Department of
Sociology)(pg. 10)

Map of New York shows location of Brighton Beach (pg. 1)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 15, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Mayor Expresses Regret Over Police Shooting of Immigrant

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 618 words


At the invitation of a coalition of African immigrant groups, Mayor Rudolph W.
Giuliani and Police Commissioner Howard Safir attended a religious service in
Brooklyn yesterday that was described by its organizers as an "interfaith prayer
and community healing" event after the shooting of Amadou Diallo.

At the end of the nearly two-hour service, Mr. Safir and Mr. Giuliani both spoke
emotionally about the death of Mr. Diallo, the Guinean immigrant shot by four
police officers, as a profound tragedy affecting all New Yorkers. The Mayor and
the Police Commissioner addressed an audience of about 150 people at the
Brooklyn Academy of Music after remarks and prayers by several clergy members
from many faiths.

During the service, Mr. Giuliani stepped from behind the lectern to be closer to
the audience. He expressed regret over the shooting of Mr. Diallo, who was
unarmed, and spoke about the importance of immigrants to New York City. "The
loss of an innocent person, the loss of anyone, is a terrible, terrible rending
tragedy," he said.

But the Guinean Association of America, which is a member of the coalition that
held the service, the United African Congress, and the Rev. Al Sharpton both
distanced themselves from yesterday's event and said they would continue
protests against police brutality unless the four officers who fired 41 shots at
Mr. Diallo were arrested.

Mohamed S. Jalloh, the president of the Guinean Association of America, said the
service did not include the people closest to Mr. Diallo and his family. "We
have nothing to do with it," he said. Of the African Congress, he said: "They
represent themselves. They are doing this for their agenda and their own
purpose. The protests will continue."

In the days after Mr. Diallo's death, the Mayor and the Police Commissioner met
with the United African Congress and pledged to work together to bridge cultural
gaps between members of the police force and African immigrants. Mr. Safir has
continued to meet with the group in recent weeks, Mr. Giuliani said.

But almost immediately after the initial meetings, leaders of the Guinean
Association of America, which represents immigrants from Mr. Diallo's native
country, sought to distance themselves from the United African Congress,
complaining that the coalition's leaders had been too conciliatory toward the
Giuliani administration.

Mr. Sharpton, who became an adviser to Mr. Diallo's parents and convinced them
to turn down all offers of assistance from the Mayor, has been leading frequent
demonstrations against police brutality since returning from Mr. Diallo's
funeral in Africa. Yesterday, Mr. Sharpton accused the Mayor of trying to
manipulate public perception.

"This group has nothing to do with the Guinean Association or the family and I
think it is a charade to act like you are healing people when the injured are
not involved or invited," Mr. Sharpton said. "The Mayor is absolutely trying to
politically manipulate the public by using this group as if any Africans speak
for all Africans."

Speaking to reporters before attending the service, Mr. Giuliani said he had
accepted the invitation "out of respect" and accused his critics of playing
racial politics. "Had I not gone, all the race baiters would have said the Mayor
is snubbing the event," Mr. Giuliani said. "I have gone through this game with
the race baiters for too long to fall prey to it."

Mr. Sharpton pledged to continue his protests and said he expected to be joined
by Representative Charles B. Rangel of Harlem at a demonstration outside Police
Headquarters at noon today. Former Mayor David N. Dinkins has also said that he
would consider joining the demonstrators.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Police Commissioner Howard Safir
at a service for Amadou Diallo. Sidique Wai, president of the United African
Congress, is between them. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 17, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

His Lawyer Says Diallo Lied on Request for Political Asylum

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 603 words


Amadou Diallo, the Guinean immigrant who was killed in a fusillade of police
bullets last month, had applied for and received political asylum under false
pretenses, one of his family's lawyers said last night.

The lawyer, Kyle B. Watters, said Mr. Diallo had claimed to be from Mauritania
on his application for asylum, and had said his parents were killed in fighting
there. The application had been approved last year by an immigration judge, Mr.
Watters said, but the Immigration and Naturalization Service was appealing the
decision.

Family members, friends and lawyers have said previously that Mr. Diallo had a
three-year work or study visa that was to expire next month. Apparently, Mr.
Diallo applied for asylum because he "was seeking to stay here on a long-term
basis," Mr. Watters said.

"He said he was from Mauritania and his parents had been killed in fighting to
buttress his claim that he had credible fear of going back to his country," Mr.
Watters said.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service describes someone eligible for asylum
as "an alien in the United States who is unable or unwilling to return to his or
her country of nationality because of a persecution or a well-founded fear of
persecution." There is no indication that Mr. Diallo, who came from a
well-educated and relatively well-off Guinean family, feared persecution in
Guinea, and Mr. Watters said he did not believe Mr. Diallo had ever tried to
apply for asylum as a Guinean citizen.

Immigration officials say it is not uncommon for immigrants to apply for asylum
even though their main motivation for wanting to settle here is economic.

In the early 1990's, barely a dozen Mauritanians annually were granted asylum by
immigration service district directors and asylum officers, one of several ways
applicants can receive asylum. But in 1995, the figures took a sudden jump, with
275 Mauritanians receiving asylum that year, and 407 the next year.

Mauritania is a country of about two million people that has been dominated by
light-skinned Arabic-speaking Moors since shortly after it attained independence
from France in 1960. There is a large black minority, but the country officially
promotes itself as an Arab republic. It has long been under attack by human
rights groups as one of the last bastions of slavery in the world.

Mr. Watters said that the asylum information should have no effect on the
investigation into the shooting of Mr. Diallo, whose death has become a cause
celebre in the city and beyond. "I don't think it has any effect on whether
these officers were justified," he said, adding that he thought it would be
"offensive" if the immigration situation became an issue in the case.

The officers who fired at Mr. Diallo as he stood in the vestibule of his
apartment building knew nothing about his immigration status, Mr. Watters said.
Nor did he think the situation would have made Mr. Diallo more fearful of the
police. Mr. Diallo's asylum application was fictitious, Mr. Watters said, "but
he was here legally" because of his temporary visa.

Marvyn M. Kornberg, the lawyer for one of the officers involved in the shooting,
Sean Carroll, said that the fraudulent asylum application might have caused Mr.
Diallo to react nervously to the police.

"When he saw the police officers approaching he started to run because he felt
that they were coming after him because of his fraudulent entering of this
country," Mr. Kornberg said, "and the cops react to his actions. It's the first
step in a series of steps that led to the shooting -- his actions in not
stopping when told to stop."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 19, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

An Early Start on the Census;
Bureau Focuses on Those Least Likely to Be Counted

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1777 words


Eun Joo Kim, diminutive and demure in a black jacket and white blouse, surveyed
the audience of elderly Korean immigrants who beamed up at her like indulgent
grandparents and then, grabbing her microphone and turning to her marker board,
got down to business.

In a rat-a-tat delivery in Korean spiced with English, she raced through the
history of the Federal census, its role in the distribution of social services
and money for schools, and its bearing on political representation.

At the end of her speech at the Korean-American Senior Center in Corona, Queens,
a skinny man rose shakily to his feet. "You give too much information," he
scolded her gently. "You don't know how old I am, but believe me, I'm old and I
don't have time for all this talk. What's the key point?"

The point for Ms. Kim and her employer, the United States Census Bureau, is to
sell the year 2000 census, particularly to the vast numbers of immigrants who
typically are not counted because they fear or misunderstand what the census is
all about.

Undercounting of minorities, particularly black, Asian-American, Hispanic and
American Indian groups, is a chronic problem for census takers. Officials say
they fear it could be particularly acute next year because of the big wave of
immigration that has transformed urban centers like New York City and Los
Angeles since the last national head count, in 1990.

In Washington, Congressional Republicans and the Clinton Administration
continued their sparring this week over how best to minimize the undercount,
with the bureau urging the addition of statistical sampling to the census
takers' tools.

But out in the urban neighborhoods where immigrants cluster, in their houses of
worship and centers for the elderly, in the offices of the foreign-language
newspapers they read, people like Ms. Kim, herself a first-generation Korean
immigrant who recognizes the cultural idiosyncrasies of her parents' and
grandparents' generations, have already started reaching out to those least
likely to be counted.

"I say, look, do you want to do something for the next generation? This is the
easiest way," said Ms. Kim, who also deals with Indian and Bangladeshi
immigrants in New York City. "It's about time to start mobilizing and get
concrete."

The outreach effort, the most ambitious in the Census Bureau's history, comes at
the end of a decade that has seen the biggest wave of legal immigrants entering
the United States since World War I. Nearly 26 million people in the country,
about one in 10, are believed to be foreign born, the highest percentage
nationwide since 1960.

Immigrants have posed a chronic problem for census takers, not only because many
do not speak English. Some also bring with them a fundamental mistrust of
government and fear that census information will be shared with tax and
Immigration and Naturalization Service officials.

The national tally is also structured as a count of households, making it all
the harder to find and count immigrants who often spend their first years in the
United States in shared rooms, crowded into apartments that house many families
at once or as transients.

"A lot of immigrants are in weird household structures, living in flop houses,
group apartments and such, and it can mount up," said Andrew A. Beveridge, a
professor of sociology at Queens College. "If you take an Ozzie and Harriet
household, living in a small city or suburb -- they never miss those people," he
added. "But as you roll away from that, it gets worse and worse."

The census agency has already hired about 300 of the 600 people it eventually
wants to put on the streets nationwide to promote and explain the census to
immigrant groups. The workers are an eclectic bunch that includes people of
Russian, Haitian, Filipino, Korean, Chinese, Mexican, Vietnamese and Portuguese
backgrounds.

By the time the census questionnaires are mailed out on April 1, 2000, officials
said, an additional 15,000 people will be hired for temporary part-time work in
census assistance centers, where explanatory material will be available in 32
languages. The census form itself will be printed in six languages, although
Congressional critics of the Census Bureau's plans want them in many more
languages.

"We're hiring indigenously, hiring people that look like populations that are
historically undercounted," said Brenda August, chief of the census agency's
partnership and data services branch in Washington.

For the 1980 census and again for the 1990 census, the bureau also used such
insiders to contact minority and immigrant groups. But for the 2000 census, the
outreach has started earlier, employs at least 100 more people nationwide and
aims at a broader spectrum of foreign-born residents.

"It was there," said Tony Farthing, the New York City regional director,
speaking of the program in previous census years, "but it just didn't hit the
mark."

Mr. Farthing is a geographer by training and has developed a mental map of the
evolving demographics of his territory, which sprawls from New York City to Long
Island, to Westchester and Rockland Counties, and on to Northern New Jersey. He
can say just where a particular neighborhood in, say, Brooklyn, changes from
Chinese to Russian to Caribbean, and takes his staff on bus tours to train them
to recognize the signs and adjust their pitch.

It is the toughest region in the country for census takers, Mr. Farthing said,
and not only because it is possibly the most diverse.

"We have a vertical city -- you can't just drive up to the house in a driveway
and see if the lights are on," he said. "You can think you have a two-bedroom
apartment, but you don't know what you've got behind the door -- family or
friends or people completely unrelated to one another."

New York is also one of five states -- the others are California, Florida, New
Jersey and Texas -- where there are proportionately more foreign-born residents
than in the country as a whole. While nationwide, one in 10 people are foreign
born, in New York State, nearly one in five residents were foreign born as of
1997, the latest Census Bureau figures available.

In big cities, the proportion of people born outside the country is even bigger.
In the New York City metropolitan area, which includes Long Island and parts of
Connecticut and New Jersey, the Census Bureau said nearly 24 percent, or one in
four people, are foreign-born.

Some experts expect the 2000 census to show an even starker picture because of
the recent outflow of native-born people and a simultaneous influx of immigrant
newcomers. Joseph B. Rose, head of the New York City Planning Commission, said
his projections show that 33 percent of city residents by next year will be
foreign born.

That will make it all the harder to find and count everyone, a problem that Dr.
Beveridge said could cost New York City a Congressional seat after
reapportionment.

In California, 24.8 percent of the population is foreign born, while in the Los
Angeles metropolitan area more than 30 percent, nearly one in three, of the
population was born outside the United States.

So, to carry the census message in much of Southern California, the Los Angeles
census office has hired, among others, Reuben Treviso, 51, a former Roman
Catholic seminarian and Army veteran who speaks Spanish as well as both the
northern and southern Vietnamese dialects and who is a practicing Buddhist.

"The rooted Hispanics and Latinos that are second and third generation know what
it's all about," Mr. Treviso said. "But your recent immigrants, particularly
from wartime conditions in Central American countries, are very reticent and
skittish and tend to believe anyone representing the Federal Government is an
agent of the I.N.S."

His message to immigrants is what he called "empowerment."

"You tell them you've got to be counted if you want representation and you want
to be heard in this country," Mr. Treviso said. "If you are counted, it will
translate into political empowerment."

The census workers who have roots in a foreign culture say they understand how
best to approach immigrants.

Milagros B. Mendez, a Filipino-American, works with both Filipino immigrants and
Greek-Americans in New York and New Jersey. "I have been adopted by the Greek
community," she said. "They're so responsive because they've met a person who
feels with them that they are greatly undercounted."

She said the key to reaching such people is to find an issue that is personal
and local, like overcrowded or poorly equipped schools.

"I always say that the bottom line of this question is that some of you guys did
not fill out the census form and mail it back," Ms. Mendez said.

Haitian and Caribbean immigrants had the lowest rates of participation in New
York City in the 1990 census. Aladin Larrieux, a Haitian-American, said the
suspicion and political divisions in his New York City community are so
deep-rooted that only another Haitian who is known as a neutral figure, as he
is, could make any inroads for the coming census.

"First, the Haitians speak another language," he said. "Second, Haitians who
come here really do it to get away from government persecution. So there is a
real fear of government in general in the Haitian community. When they deal with
the Federal Government, the mistrust is still there."

Mr. Larrieux has translated material for the 2000 census into Creole and spends
his days visiting Haitian churches, radio stations and social clubs. "My job is
to go to every group," he said. "My name says something to people -- it's purely
French, purely from the community itself."

The outreach workers also face a general reluctance on the part of immigrants to
commit personal information to writing.

"It's implicitly understood there's resistance to any kind of paperwork," said
Ms. Kim, who took account of Korean traditions by first introducing herself to
the elders and letting them set up meetings with a wider circle of immigrants.
"The first generation is less willing to put anything down on paper. I see it in
my parents."

At the Korean-American Senior Center, in the basement of a Korean church, she
also had to tone down her naturally brisk professionalism in favor of a
respectful deference to the elderly men and women who sat drinking corn tea and
gossiping.

It is a delicate balance, but the key to penetrating her insular and
tradition-bound community. "There's a certain protocol in the Korean hierarchy,"
Ms. Kim said, "and I'm young, I'm a woman and I'm not married. At the same time,
the first generation sees me as someone who has made it. They see my position."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Immigrants have posed a chronic problem for census takers. As
part of an effort to promote a more accurate count among minority groups, Eun
Joo Kim explained the significance of the survey at the Korean-American Senior
Center in Queens. Ms. Kim told her audience that participating in the census,
with its social and political effects, was a way to help the next generation.
(Photographs by Richard Lee for The New York Times)(pg. B1); The Census Bureau
intends to have explanatory material available in 32 languages, and the form
itself in 6. Critics say those numbers are too low. (Richard Lee for The New
York Times)(pg. B12)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 25, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

CONFLICT IN THE BALKANS: SERBIAN-AMERICANS;
U.S. Kith and Kin Feel the Attack Themselves

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 502 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, March 24


William Rupich, a Serbian-American World War II veteran who earned a Bronze
Star, fought back the tears today. The land of his forebears had been made the
enemy.

"It hurts," said Mr. Rupich, unable to speak for a moment as he stood in a
Serbian-American hall in northwest Chicago.

Mr. Rupich and many Serbian-Americans, some of them recent immigrants, gathered
in anger and sorrow as United States jets bombed Yugoslavia.

"The Serbs are only fighting for their own land," Mr. Rupich said, as he
trembled with anger. "People in America should remember -- during World War II,
the Serbs were there for us."

As a radio, turned up loud, carried accounts of the air strikes, people came
looking for solace and for a chance to express their outrage.

Chicago has one of the largest centers of Serbian immigration, and people here
expressed shock over the actions ordered by President Clinton, even though they
had anticipated them fearfully for days. The telephones rang ceaselessly in the
Serbian hall here.

"They threatened, but I never expected this to happen," said Michael Stankovich,
a 74-year-old retired accountant who came to the United States in 1959. "People
are calling and saying they are so upset."

He said the United States had no right to meddle in affairs halfway around the
world.

"What if Ohio or Indiana revolted against the union?" he said, saying Serbian
leaders were simply trying to keep order in their land.

People of Serbian descent said bitterly that President Clinton's actions would
harm innocent people.

Maja Lausevic, 38, who came to Chicago from Yugoslavia just four months ago,
said she was certainly no admirer of the Yugoslav President, Slobodan Milosevic.
But she said the hostilities had a much more complex history than most Americans
understand.

"It's not as black and white as they make it sound," said Ms. Lausevic, who sat
near a telephone and waited to call her mother and brother in Montenegro, which,
with Serbia, makes up what remains of Yugoslavia. "Kosovo is the land that was
sacred to our country. It's the cradle."

Jack Pergovich, a lanky 84-year-old who came to the United States in 1950, said
he had only two words to share. "America -- shame," he said, shaking his head.

Serbian people turned out for Lenten prayer services, some of them too shaken to
talk.

In the eyes of the world, some people said, the Serbs were being made to look
like monsters.

"It's always the Serbs who are at fault -- why?" said Mr. Pergovich.  "You must
remember, we took the Albanians as refugees."

The hall here was decorated with posters, some of them nearly a century old,
that hailed the struggle of their homeland.

"The Battle of Kosovo -- June 23, 1916," read one poster.

To Mr. Pergovich, a retired crane operator, the view of Albanians as victims was
distorted. "The Albanians chased our people out of there," he said.

In the hall, a flier was posted advertising a talk by a priest about reconciling
with old foes. "Love your enemies," it read.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Milwaukee, protesters marched at the home of a Democratic
Congressman, Thomas M. Barrett, who endorsed the NATO air strikes. (Nicole
Bengiveno/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 26, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Outgrowing the Salmon

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 142 words



To the Editor:

Robert Sullivan ("And Now, the Salmon War," Op-Ed, March 20) doesn't quite
understand the problem of the endangerment of the Northwest salmon. It's not a
case of people versus salmon, but one of a growing human population versus
dwindling salmon runs.

We're on an immigrant binge now, with about a million new immigrants a year, and
these million and their descendants are driving the United States population up
at record rates. According to the Center for Immigration Studies, immigration
has been responsible for 70 percent of our country's population growth in the
1990's.

If we do everything possible to save the salmon but nothing to derail this kind
of population growth, we'll still have to have salmon museums so we can show our
children what salmon look like.

MARVIN GREGORY
Renton, Wash., March 20, 1999

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              246 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 28, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

An Inmate's Family of Strangers;
Bonds Sustain 12-Year Quest for a New Murder Trial

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 2033 words

DATELINE: AUBURN, N.Y.


On a snowy afternoon in March 1986, someone fatally stabbed an inmate named
Tyrone Julius at the Clinton Correctional Facility in Dannemora. Sixteen months
later, David Wong, an illegal Chinese immigrant who was serving time for armed
robbery, was convicted of second-degree murder in Mr. Julius's death and
sentenced to 25 years to life in prison.

Ordinarily, the case of Mr. Wong, prisoner No. 84-A-5320, would not attract much
notice. But this story is different, not only because interviews with prison
employees, inmates and Mr. Julius's widow strongly suggest that Mr. Wong is
innocent of murder, but also because Mr. Wong has found unconditional support
from a group of indefatigable strangers in New York City.

For the last decade, members of the David Wong Support Committee have huddled
every few weeks to fight for his release. They have talked to Chinese Government
officials and college audiences around the country. They have hired lawyers to
handle his appeal. And they have organized fund-raisers for his defense --
including a banquet in Chinatown this month that drew 230 supporters and $8,000
in donations.

They have been so moved by Mr. Wong's case that at least eight members have
become lawyers to fight for people like Mr. Wong and against a justice system
that they believe is tilted against immigrants and members of minority groups.

What has ultimately sustained this long-running, long-distance relationship,
though, is not just philosophy or politics.

It is something simpler: an unexpected flowering of trust and friendship through
handwritten letters, late-night phone calls and occasional prison visits,
proving that the most intimate of connections can sometimes emerge in the most
trying of circumstances.

"As the years wear on, the political issues are still there, but at another
level it's really a human relationship, because we're like a family now," said
Patti Choy, 45, a career counselor at the Fashion Institute of Technology in
Manhattan and a member of the committee. "He knows our life; he knows all these
little things. And his letters? Just amazing. We sometimes can't get over how
we've all aged together."

Now, Mr. Wong's cause has taken on even more urgency. In weeks, maybe days, a
State Court of Appeals judge, George Bundy Smith, is expected to decide whether
to hear one last appeal for a new trial.

If the answer is no, which seems likely, then the last resort is a Federal
habeas corpus petition, said Gabor Rona, Mr. Wong's lawyer at the Center for
Constitutional Rights in Manhattan.

In such a petition, Mr. Wong would argue that his Federal constitutional rights
have been violated and that he should be released. But such petitions are rarely
granted, so there is a gathering sense that Mr. Wong's uphill battle may soon be
over.

But oddly enough, Mr. Wong's supporters are fretting more than the soft-spoken,
diminutive Mr. Wong is.

"I look at success or failure not in terms of whether my appeal will succeed,"
Mr. Wong, 35, said during an interview at the Auburn Correctional Facility,
where he is now incarcerated. "I think my success is how much I and those
wonderful people accomplish to make the system a little bit better.

"Before, I didn't care about anybody, and nobody cared about me," said Mr. Wong,
who grew up poor in the rural Fujian province of China and in Hong Kong before
being smuggled to New York as a teen-ager. "But now, they have made me see the
good side of human nature."

One reason so many people believe Mr. Wong is that he did not reach out to them
initially.

Instead, another inmate at Dannemora, Tse Kin Cheung, wrote to people active in
Asian-American affairs to say that Mr. Wong, who barely speaks English, had been
framed.

To Asian-Americans, A Fight for Justice

In 1990, Yuri Kochiyama, a longtime civil rights advocate, visited Mr. Wong in
prison. Mr. Wong told her that yes, he had participated in an armed robbery on
Long Island in 1983. But no, he said, he did not kill Mr. Julius; he had never
even met him. Impressed, Mrs. Kochiyama established the David Wong Support
Committee. Eventually, the committee persuaded William M. Kunstler, the famed
civil rights lawyer, and the Center for Constitutional Rights to take the case.

"David was just straightforward," said Mrs. Kochiyama, 77, who acts as host for
the committee's two- or three-hour meetings at her Harlem apartment. "We knew
that he was a guy who had been unjustly treated, and that he needed support."

He has received that support from a mostly Asian-American assortment of more
than 40 students, professionals and blue-collar workers.

Norman Wong, for instance, covered David Wong's murder trial as a reporter for a
Chinese-language newspaper in New York City. Angered by the verdict, he quit
journalism and eventually became a lawyer specializing in asylum cases. (He is
not related to David Wong.)

For Wayne Lum, a postal clerk, the case has been so inspiring that he
occasionally shepherds his wife and three children to the meetings.

"I see this as a defining element in my life," said Mr. Lum, who speaks to Mr.
Wong regularly on the phone.  "Before, it's like, you go to work, you have
dinner, watch a little TV, go to sleep. But now, I'm committed to these justice
issues."

Those emotions crested at the recent Chinatown banquet, which featured speeches,
music, a raffle. But the highlight, no doubt, was a recording of Mr. Wong's
voice, reiterating his innocence.

A Knife to the Neck Amid Prison Chaos

About 4 P.M. on March 12, 1986, someone used a five- or six-inch blade to stab
Mr. Julius, 32, a recent arrival at the state prison in Dannemora who had been
convicted of second-degree murder in Manhattan. The nape wound was so severe
that Mr. Julius did not finish his step, and he collapsed. He died 11 days
later.

Of the 70 to 100 inmates in the prison yard who hovered over Mr. Julius, only
Mr. Wong and Mr. Cheung were searched. Investigators found no weapon and no
blood on either man.

Mr. Wong's trial began in July 1987 in Clinton County Court, and hinged on the
testimony of Richard LaPierre, a prison guard who had spotted Mr. Wong near the
scene through his binoculars, from a tower more than 100 yards away, and Peter
DellFava, an inmate with a long record of forgery, grand larceny and other
crimes. A week later, an all-white jury convicted Mr. Wong.

In a recent interview, however, a former prison employee said the consensus
among employees and inmates was that Mr. Wong "did not do it." And a guard who
works at Dannemora now and was in the yard that day said the scene was too
hectic, with many similarly dressed inmates milling about, to discern what had
happened.

"My personal self, I could not pin that incident on that guy," said the guard,
speaking on the condition of anonymity. "I was surprised, because he got along
with people and he was never a problem."

Several former inmates were more blunt: They said they had seen who killed Mr.
Julius, and the killer was not Mr. Wong.

Gary Ballinger, who was released from prison in 1996 after serving a sentence
for burglary, said Mr. Julius was attacked by two Hispanic men from New York
City in retaliation for an earlier scuffle at Rikers Island.

"It was payback time," said Mr. Ballinger, who now lives in North Carolina. "It
was so quick and smooth that the average person wouldn't have noticed it. They
were standing there, laughing."

At the time of the stabbing, though, few people vouched for Mr. Wong because
they were worried about prison grudges, said Mr. Cheung, who now lives in Hong
Kong.

"A C.O. told me that they got the wrong guy," said Mr. Cheung, referring to a
correction officer. "A lot of inmates knew it, too. But anybody who snitches,
they can get killed."

In New York City, Sharon Julius, Mr. Julius's widow, said she, too, had heard
that her husband was killed because of an altercation at Rikers Island. A friend
of her husband's even warned her that his killer had not been caught, and that
she should exercise caution in pursuing a wrongful-death lawsuit against the
state, she said.

A year or so after her husband's death, she said, she received an anonymous
letter and two threatening phone calls from men who told her to stop
investigating the incident -- or else. She complied, fearful for the safety of
her three young children.

"I've always assumed that the real killers were still out there," said Mrs.
Julius, who had never even heard of Mr. Wong -- much less been informed that
anyone had been convicted -- before a reporter contacted her. "Whoever really
did it, I'd really like to know. I want to see justice served. Absolutely."

A Shaky Translator And a Weak Defense

To prosecutors in Clinton County the record has always been clear, however.
Since his conviction, Mr. Wong has lost every major appeal, District Attorney
Penelope D. Clute said. Even the County Judge, Charles H. Lewis, described Mr.
Wong as "coldblooded" as the trial ended.

Even so, Mr. Rona says, Mr. Wong's defense in a case so dependent on the
credibility of witnesses was compromised by several factors. He listed the
following:

Mr. Wong's original lawyers failed to interview potential witnesses like Mr.
Ballinger. The jury did not know that prosecutors had recommended parole for Mr.
DellFava. And there were weaknesses in Mr. LaPierre's testimony, including his
acknowledgment that he did not see the stabbing or the weapon. Finally, Mr. Rona
said, Mr. Wong did not have a translator who could speak his native Fuzhou
dialect. Jo-An Ting, a secretary who had never worked as a translator before,
spoke Mandarin -- a dialect that Mr. Wong, who received only a middle-school
education, could barely speak.

"I was nervous to do the job; I was not a professional," said Mrs. Ting, who has
yet to return to any courtroom since the trial. "If some outside person
evaluated my work and said that I was not competent, then I accept."

After the trial, Mrs. Ting gave some money to Mr. Wong. She said she had felt
sorry for him and he had seemed like a decent person who had had a rough, lonely
life.

For the most part, Chinese who have recently immigrated to the United States
have shunned Mr. Wong, wary, perhaps, of associating with an illegal immigrant
convicted of a crime. Even Mr. Wong's closest blood relative here -- a niece who
lives in Binghamton -- has visited him in prison only once.

In addition, committee members have had to overcome language problems, since Mr.
Wong's English is uneven and few committee members can speak Chinese.

But that has not prevented supporters and Mr. Wong from developing siblinglike
bonds.

Joannie C. Chang, one of several students-turned-lawyers, has mailed care
packages to Mr. Wong stocked with Chinese goods like wheat gluten and grass
jelly. A few years ago, she drove seven or eight hours from Manhattan to remote
Clinton County, in northern New York about 10 miles from the Canadian border, in
an attempt to persuade Mrs. Ting to acknowledge formally that she had botched
the translation.

And while she now lives in San Francisco, Ms. Chang still corresponds with Mr.
Wong. Once, after she excitedly mentioned her participation in an approaching
fund-raiser for AIDS patients, Mr. Wong mailed her a small donation.

"I was so touched by that," said Ms. Chang, 30. "It makes you admire him even
more."

Maggie Ho and Ricky Sin personalized their connection in another way, visiting
Mr. Wong's family during a trip to Hong Kong in 1996. His mother, they said, had
been despondent about her only son, but came alive when she discovered that
others cared about him, too.

"It was extremely emotional for everyone; our eyes were really watery," said Ms.
Ho, 31, a social worker who now lives in Toronto. "We basically represented her
son, and she didn't want to let go."

Should Mr. Wong's appeal prevail, he would be deported to Hong Kong or China.
Should it fail, he would be eligible for parole on Jan. 15, 2017.

But he is not circling that date just yet. Instead, he is looking forward to
April 10, when as many as 20 committee members plan to make the six-hour drive
to Auburn to help celebrate his 36th birthday.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yuri Kochiyama, left, formed the David Wong Support Committee
after visiting Mr. Wong in prison in western New York, where he is serving 25
years to life for murder. The committee met in her Harlem apartment in February.
(Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times (above); Michael J. Okoniewski for The New
York Times (below)); David Wong says he never met the inmate he was convicted of
killing in 1986. Below, a button worn by his supporters. (pg. 41); At a
fund-raiser for David Wong held this month in Chinatown, Josh Weiner
entertained. The benefit raised $8,000 and drew 230 people. (Nicole
Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. 48)

Map of New York shows location of Dannemora: Tyrone Julius was stabbed to death
at the Clinton state prison. (pg. 48)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 29, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Makeshift Pharmacies Are Dispensing Death

BYLINE: By DON TERRY

SECTION: Section A;  Page 19;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1585 words

DATELINE: TUSTIN, Calif., March 26


No one knows for sure how many there are. A police officer who is trying to
track and close them before any more babies die says it is almost impossible to
say.

"It's like counting the speakeasies in Chicago in the 1920's," the officer said.
"They don't advertise in the Yellow Pages."

They are unlicensed makeshift pharmacies and clinics, dispensing from the back
room of the corner butcher or gift shop or mom-and-pop bodega the promise of
help and health that even a poor family can afford.

They cater to Southern California's huge and often uninsured immigrant
population, which turns to this underground health care system, experts say,
because of poverty, fear of deportation and old habits brought to the new
country.

Within the past year, two toddlers in Orange County have died after receiving
back-room injections. The most recent child to die -- the most recent one that
the authorities know about, at any rate -- was 18-month-old Selene Segura Rios,
her family's first American citizen.

Selene died on Feb. 22, two hours after a clerk in a Tustin gift shop, Los
Hermanos, gave her a $37 injection of illegally imported drugs. The syringe was
supposed to be filled with penicillin but the authorities are not sure what it
contained.

"We basically have a child with the flu who is suddenly dead," said Lieut.
Michael Shanahan of the Tustin police. "What we're waiting to find out is do we
have a murder?"

The 23-year-old clerk, who had no medical training or credentials, was arrested
the next day but released, pending the outcome of toxicology tests.

The baby's uninsured parents took her to the gift shop on the advice of a friend
who told them that lots of people took their children there. That was the word
on the street.

"The parents are devastated," Lieutenant Shanahan said. "All they were trying to
do was help their daughter get over a cold."

Nothing close to precise numbers are available. But the police and health
officials in Los Angeles County and neighboring Orange County, where Los
Hermanos now sits locked, say that the bogus pharmacies are widespread in
struggling neighborhoods with large immigrant populations. The pharmacies are
popular in Latino immigrant neighborhoods, where the lack of health insurance is
especially high.

Over the past year both counties have set up special task forces to find the
clinics and shut them down and to educate the public about the dangers and the
alternatives. Since last June, Los Angeles County authorities have conducted
nearly 160 raids of back-room pharmacies, seizing $2 million worth of medication
and arresting more than 50 people. The public education part is harder,
officials say, because for many poor people, the practical side wins out.

"I'm afraid what we're seeing now is the proverbial tip of the iceberg," said E.
Richard Brown, the director of the Center for Health Policy Research at the
University of California at Los Angeles. "I'm afraid there are a lot of people
risking their health and even their lives by going to these places, largely
because they don't have health insurance."

There are seven million people in California without health insurance, Dr. Brown
said, including two million children. He said that California had the largest
number of uninsured people in the country and one of the highest rates of
uninsured.

In the city of Los Angeles, 39 percent of all people under age 65 are uninsured,
and 71 percent of uninsured workers are employed by businesses that offer no
health insurance at all. Dr. Brown said his studies show that Latinos are more
likely than any other group to work for employers who do not provide coverage.
Latinos are the largest immigrant population in Los Angeles.

A recent study by the Latino Coalition for a Healthy California based in in San
Francisco estimated that 9 out of 10 uninsured Latinos were in working families.
The coalition also found that 35 percent of Latinos statewide who are not
elderly are uninsured. For Latino immigrants who are not citizens, the rate is
52 percent, which is three times the rate for citizens, even though 86 percent
of Latino noncitizen immigrants are in working families, the group said.

Lack of insurance is only one reason people use the clinics. In rural areas of
Mexico and other countries, it is not uncommon to buy prescription drugs at a
gift shop or a bogeda, experts say.

"Using the back-room pharmacies is not tradition or culture, it's habit," said
Mary Watson, executive director of the Free Health Plan, a licensed clinic in
Santa Ana. "They don't think the clinics are doing anything illegal."

Many immigrants also risk their health, experts say, because they are afraid of
risking their chance at a better life in the United States.

"People are afraid of using the system and being labeled 'welferieros,' which
they are afraid could hurt their chances at citizenship," said Dr. America
Bracho of Latino Health Access in Orange County.

Legislation like restrictions on immigrant access to public health services and
school programs and the ban on bilingual education has chased many Latinos into
the back rooms.

"I don't think people are aware of the risks," Dr. Bracho said. "They say to
themselves that this fever or pain will go away after an injection or a few
bills. For them, the real risk is not to offer a better future for their kids."

So they go to places like Los Hermanos.

Baby Selene had been sick with a cold for about 48 hours. Her parents treated
her with over-the-counter medication, but the cold seemed to be getting worse.

By the time Selene's father got home from his construction job on Feb. 22 at 6
P.M., the doctor's office was closed. Then the father, Alberto Ramirez Segura,
remembered that a friend had told him about a gift shop in Tustin, 20 minutes
from their home in Anaheim, where they could take Selene for treatment.

At the gift shop, Lieutenant Shanahan said, they asked to see the doctor and
were taken into the back room, where a woman examined the child and said she had
a fever and needed an injection, but that everything would be all right.

But at 8 P.M. Selene began having "something like a seizure," Lieutenant
Shanahan said. Her parents took her to the emergency room at Anaheim Memorial
Medical Center, across the street from their home, where doctors tried to revive
her, but it was too late.

Lieutenant Shanahan said the father told investigators that if they had taken
Selene to the emergency room in the beginning they would have run up an
expensive bill that they would have difficulty paying.

The next day, the police shut down Los Hermanos and carted away hundreds of
packages of illegally imported prescription medication from the back room.

Lieutenant Shanahan said that the shop opened in 1997 and was licensed to sell
toys, greeting cards and other items. But hundreds of people also went there to
buy illegally imported prescription medication.

"The place was very busy," the lieutenant said. "Some of the employees we talked
to said they were giving dozens of shots every day."

In the raids since last June, the authorities in Los Angeles County have
targeted gift shops, grocery stores, garages and private homes, where illegally
imported prescription medication was being sold and unlicensed treatment, from
dentistry to prenatal care to plastic surgery, was being offered.

The authorities have confiscated more than $2 million in illegally imported
prescription medications, much of it brought from Mexico and Central America in
a prescription drug pipeline that Federal law-enforcement agencies are
investigating. Many of the seized drugs are banned in the United States. Some of
the drugs had expired and some had been stuffed into the wrong packages. And
many of the drugs seized -- like Viagra, Valium and penicillin -- can be sold
legally only with a doctor's prescription.

"Some of these places are better stocked than a chain drug store," said Gregory
Thompson, a pharmacist with the County Department of Health Services, who goes
on many of the raids.

Most of the more than 50 people arrested, including a Russian immigrant and, the
other day, three Chinese immigrants in a store selling herbs in Chinatown, have
been charged with misdemeanors.

On Thursday, a team of Los Angeles County public health officers and deputy
sheriffs raided a house in a weary-looking block in Los Angeles, and came out
with several large plastic bags filled with illegally imported prescription
medications, including the same kinds of vials of penicillin that were said to
have been used on Selene. They also came out with several thousand dollars in
cash.

The word on the street is that the back-room pharmacies are cheaper than the
licensed health clinics set up for the poor. That is not true, said Sachi Hamai,
head of the Los Angeles County task force.

"Many of these businesses," she said, "are raising their prices sometimes up to
five times the amount they would get from a real clinic."

Pedro Pontanillo, 49, used to buy his diabetes medicine from a back-room
pharmacy before he started seeing a doctor at a hospital clinic.  Mr. Pontanillo
says buying the medicine in the back room was at least half as expensive. He
collects cardboard for recycling, taking home about $35 after 10 to 12 hours
work.

If he were ever to have to stop going to the hospital clinic, he said, he will
return to the back rooms.

"I will have no choice," Mr. Pontanillo said. "I am a poor man and this is an
expensive disease."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Employees of the County of Los Angeles Department of Health
Services dragging a stash of drugs confiscated from a clinic operating out of a
home. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times); Pedro Pontanillo used to buy his
diabetes medicine for less at a back-room pharmacy. (Ted Soqui for The New York
Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 31, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

NEWS SUMMARY

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1188 words



INTERNATIONAL   A3-12

NATO Agrees to Bomb Sites in Belgrade
The United States and NATO agreed to an escalated air campaign that would
include government buildings in downtown Belgrade as targets, two senior
American officials said. Western officials admitted that air strikes had failed
to halt the Serbs' assault in Kosovo or to damage their military sufficiently.
   A1

NATO warplanes bombarded Serbian ground forces, airfields and supply depots
around the clock, but did not knock out the Serbs' air defenses or blunt their
offensive.   A11


The growing exodus of refugees from Kosovo has left Clinton Administration
officials and NATO officials wondering whether they will ever be able to achieve
the goal of a province in which Serbs and ethnic Albanians can live in peace.
A1

The refugees are overwhelming neighboring countries, leading to long delays at
the borders and, at worst, orders to turn back.   A8

A day of mediation by the Russian Prime Minister, Yevgeny M. Primakov, produced
a flurry of ideas but no evidence of a breakthrough.   A9

President Boris N. Yeltsin told Russian political leaders that while he
condemned the NATO strikes, he would not let Russia be drawn into a military
conflict in Yugoslavia.   A12

Ruling on Chinese Immigrants
A Hong Kong court ruled against 17 mainland residents who had claimed the right
to live in Hong Kong. The decision reflects fears about a flood of immigrants
from the mainland.   A6

Advice on Iraq Sanctions
A report commissioned by the Security Council did not recommend that sanctions
against Iraq be lifted, but it did suggest specific ways to ease them to help
relieve the suffering of the Iraqi people.   A6

Struggle for Ulster Compromise
Prime Ministers Tony Blair of Britain and Bertie Ahern of Ireland were again
unable to persuade Protestant and Roman Catholic leaders to compromise on the
bitter dispute over the disarmament of the Irish Republican Army. A third round
of talks is to be held today.   A5

World Briefing   A6

NATIONAL   A14-22

Jury Awards $81 Million To a Smoker's Survivors
An Oregon jury ordered the largest award in a smoking-related lawsuit, deciding
that Philip Morris should pay $81 million to the family of Jesse Williams, a
former janitor who smoked Marlboro cigarettes for four decades and who died at
age 67 in 1997.   A14

Alabama Political Settlement
The Alabama Senate found its way out of the monthlong procedural chaos that had
prevented any legislation from being passed and threatened to paralyze state
government.   A14

Report on Bottled-Water Safety
People who buy bottled water cannot be sure that it is purer or safer than tap
water, an environmental advocacy group said in a report of a survey that sampled
1,000 bottles of water sold under 103 brand names. The group said that some
samples of bottled water contained unsafe levels of bacteria or chemicals.   A14


U.N. Report on U.S. Prisons
A United Nations special investigator for violence against women reported that
sexual misconduct by prison guards was common in women's prisons in the United
States. The investigator, a lawyer from Sri Lanka, based her findings on visits
last June to state and Federal prisons in six states and Washington, D.C.   A16

Airlines Faulted on Disabled
Disabled air travelers are often mistreated by airline personnel and denied
special accommodations, including access to wheelchairs and escorts, in
violation of a 1986 law, according to a report by the National Council on
Disability, a Federal advisory agency.   A16

Longer Solvency Foreseen
The Government issued actuarial studies extending the date at which Medicare
could be expected to run out of money by seven years, to 2015, and Social
Security insolvency by two years, to 2034.   A22

Gun Prosecutions Clarified
The Federal offense of using a gun during "any crime of violence" may be
prosecuted anywhere the underlying crime took place and not only where the gun
itself was used, the Supreme Court ruled.   A20

NEW YORK/REGION   B1-6

Privatization of Hospitals Is Dealt Setback in Ruling
The state's high court said the Giuliani administration exceeded its powers in
trying to lease Coney Island Hospital to a private company.   B1

Voyage of the Damned: A Tally
Researchers at the Holocaust Memorial Museum say that about half the Jewish
refugees aboard the St. Louis, a ship turned away by the United States in 1939,
survived the war.   B1

Giuliani Defends Web Site
Mayor Giuliani, an as-yet-undeclared candidate for Senate, said a Web site set
up by his supporters was not intended as an attack on Hillary Rodham Clinton,
who is also considering a candidacy.   B4

Diallo Indictments to Be Opened
The grand jury indictments in the police killing of Amadou Diallo are to be
unsealed at 2 P.M. The victim's family is to meet earlier with the Bronx
District Attorney for a preview. About 400 off-duty officers rallied outside the
courthouse to support the four officers who are expected to be charged with
second-degree murder.   B3

Fertility Clinic Inquiry
The State Health Department has started an investigation into an embryo mix-up
that caused a Staten Island woman who underwent in vitro fertilization to give
birth to two boys, one black and one white.   B3

EDUCATION   B7
A Campus Labor Movement
Graduate teaching assistants, long the workhorses in the teaching of
undergraduates, are making gains in their efforts to unionize.   B7

ARTS   E1-14

SPORTS   D1-8

OBITUARIES   B8

Joe Williams
The blues and ballad singer, one of the most important singers in jazz, was 80.
   B8

BUSINESS DAY   C1-26

The Fed Leaves Rates Alone
The Fed's policy-setting Open Market Committee, composed of the Fed's governors
and regional bank presidents, left interest rates unchanged and signaled no
concern about inflation.   C1

Plea in Medicare Investigation
The Olsten Corporation, a provider of home health care and temporary office
workers, will plead guilty to criminal charges and pay $61 million, including
$10 million in fines and penalties, to settle a Federal inquiry into Medicare
billing practices.   C1

No Quick Entry for China Seen
American officials in Beijing dampened hope for a quick agreement on China's
entry into the World Trade Organization, saying that "difficult and complex
issues remain across all areas of trade."   C1

Web Site's Stock Soars
Priceline.com, the Web site that lets customers bid on airline tickets, jumped
from an offering price of $16 a share to $85, before settling at $69 in its
first day of trading.   C1

Business Digest   C1

DINING   F1-16

EDITORIAL   A24-25

Editorials: Answering Mr. Milosevic; respectful law enforcement; the hungrier
Huskies; when mental patients are at risk.
Columns: Maureen Dowd.

Crossword   E11

TV Listings   E13

Public Lives   B2

Weather   D5


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              249 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 1, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Supervisor Is Moved In Customs Bias Case

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 207 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, March 31


A white customs supervisor at the Atlanta airport was replaced with a black
supervisor after the agency was accused of unfairly singling out black travelers
for searches, an inspector said today.

Dale O'Connor, the white supervisor of the 16-member passenger inspection team,
was transferred to the cargo inspection division, said Cathy Harris, a Customs
Service inspector who in a lawsuit accuses the agency of discriminating against
blacks. Ms. Harris said that Robert White, who is black, would be assigned to
head the passenger inspection team.

In Washington, a Customs Service spokesman, Jack Murphy, would not confirm the
personnel moves, but said the agency had reassigned some staff members at
Hartsfield Atlanta International Airport.

Last week, Representative John Lewis, Democrat of Georgia, asked the Treasury
Department to investigate accusations, including Ms. Harris's, of racial
discrimination by Hartsfield inspectors.

Ms. Harris, a customs inspector in Atlanta and Miami for 13 years, has filed
several complaints over the last four years, alleging discrimination in
inspections and saying she has been subjected to discrimination and sexual
harassment. Customs officials have declined to discuss her case.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 2, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

The Immigrant Cycle

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 124 words



To the Editor:

Marvin Gregory (letter, March 26) warns that immigration will make the United
States overpopulated, but such fears are unjustified.

The highest rate of population increase in our history occurred between 1790 and
1820, a time of little immigration. The population growth of the countries
providing immigrants accelerated, so that by the 1920's, the number of people
living in Italy, for instance, had multiplied enormously.

But wherever the immigrants settled in this country, the birthrate of the
earlier immigrant groups (the English, say, or the Germans) declined.

Immigration was, to a considerable degree, a replacement of earlier groups by
new arrivals.

HERBERT DIENSTAG
New York, March 28, 1999

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 4, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Snows Claim Another Life Along Border With Mexico

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 297 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 3


A 10th body has been found in a mountainous area of the Mexican border east of
San Diego where more than a hundred immigrants, who had been working their way
north on foot through deep canyons, became trapped by a spring snow storm.

The victim, a man, was found at dusk on Friday on the United States side of the
border by a team that had been trying to save the immigrants since their
predicament became known late Thursday night. The body was in the same general
area where other bodies had been discovered earlier in the day, said Mario
Villarreal, a spokesman for the United States Border Patrol. He said search
crews reported knee-deep snow in the area.

Eight of the bodies were found in the United States and two by the Mexican
authorities on their side of the border. About 50 people were rescued on the
American side and 80 in Mexico.

Though the search was called off as darkness approached on Friday, one search
party did not arrive back at the command post until 3 A.M. today, an officer
said. The formal search for victims has ended, but routine patrols by the Border
Patrol and Sheriffs Department will be made in the area starting today.

The rescued immigrants were treated for hypothermia or exposure. They were then
taken into custody by the Border Patrol and are expected to be returned to
Mexico. The immigrants had set out from Mexico earlier in the week, traveling
into rugged, unfamiliar territory, some dressed only in jeans, T-shirts and
tennis shoes.

More than 140 illegal immigrants died last year crossing from Mexico into San
Diego and Imperial Counties in California, Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for
the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service, told The Associated Press.
About 20 had died this year before the latest fatalities.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 4, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The Nation: Fighting Mandatory Deportation;
Veterans Lead a New Charge

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 984 words


FEAR of crime and resentment against immigrants are perennial themes of American
politics, and Congress touched both when it revised American policy toward legal
residents in the mid-1990's. Non-citizens, even permanent residents, were made
subject to deportation for a wide range of crimes that had previously been
considered too minor.  There was, at least according to immigration officials,
no flexibility in deciding whom to deport.

The Draconian nature of the change brought immediate cries from civil
libertarians and advocates for immigrants, but so far court challenges have had
little effect.

Now a new tactic is being pursued, and last month it reached the floor of the
Senate, where Senator Patrick Leahy, a Democrat from Vermont, spoke on behalf of
five legal residents who face deportation even though they have served in the
United States military, some of them in combat.

"The zealousness of Congress and the White House to be tough on aliens has
successfully snared permanent residents who have spilled their blood for our
country," Senator Leahy said.

The five, and other veterans, have come forward as extreme examples of the law's
inflexibility. Some earned medals fighting in Vietnam, and at least one is
disabled as a result of service there. Through legal challenges and a campaign
for public attention, they have targeted what they hope is the law's Achilles
heel: its rigidity.

Can enforcement of the law stand up to public scrutiny in their cases? If it
can't, will exceptions be made? And if that happens, they argue, wouldn't it
undermine the notion of mandatory deportation without exception?

Take, for example, the case of Rafael Ramirez, a 35-year-old New Yorker. Nine
years after his honorable discharge from the Army as a sergeant, he faces
deportation to the Dominican Republic. His offense: In 1990, just months after
leaving the Army, he pleaded guilty to possessing marijuana.

Mr. Ramirez left the Dominican Republic 28 years ago, and today his life is in
the United States. He has a home in Washington Heights, four children, a job and
a small construction business. His Army record as a truck driver in Germany and
the United States -- he enlisted in 1984 and left six years later -- is
unblemished.

Immigration officials in Washington have been unmoved by such cases, aware that
making an exception can demolish the principle behind its enforcement policies.

"There is nothing in the law that says if you are a veteran and a criminal you
are exempt from deportation," said Russell A. Bergeron, an Immigration and
Naturalization Service spokesman in Washington. "It is inconceivable to me that
someone who is willing to die to defend the Constitution of the United States
can then turn around and violate it."

MR. RAMIREZ, of course, argues just the opposite: He says that when he enlisted,
his superiors did not ask where he came from, and that his loyalty to the United
States was assumed. His offense, he says, hardly amounts to an assault on the
Constitution, and the fact that he was sentenced to five years probation and
never went to prison proves the point.

The lawyers and veterans involved in the campaign don't argue against using
criminal behavior as grounds to deport people who endanger American society. But
they argue that the I.N.S. should only go after hardened criminals. Even these
cases, they say, should be open to judicial review.

Immigration officials say they have no choice but to follow the mandate of
Congress. In the past two years, 106,442 immigrants have been deported. But
advocates for immigrants, their lawyers and some members of Congress insist that
the immigration service distorts the law.

"Both Congress and the Administration want to wash their hands," said Lucas
Guttentag, director of the Immigrants' Rights Project of the American Civil
Liberties Union. "Both are responsible and, by neither one accepting
responsibility, nothing gets changed."

What Congress did in 1995 and 1996 was to expand the definition of a felony and
make all felonies and crimes of moral turpitude punishable by deportation. It
stripped immigration judges of the power to reverse deportation orders. The
immigration service, for its part, chose to apply the law retroactively,
although the law is not specific on that point. The agency has also chosen to go
after all convicted immigrants.

"The law goes too far," said Laura Kozuba, who heads an anti-deportation group
in Dallas. "We want to change it for all, but it seems particularly egregious to
try to deport someone who has served this country." She is married to Danny
Kozuba, a 46-year-old kitchen installer, who has been ordered deported. He came
to the United States from Canada when he was 5 and was in the Army from 1970 to
1973. He has been convicted of possessing methamphetamines several times, the
last in 1990, and spent three years in a Texas state prison.

Students at the Clinical Law Center at New York University School of Law, under
the guidance of Prof. Nancy Morawetz, are focusing on several other veterans.
One is Perry Gumbs, 35, of Newburgh, N.Y., who was born in St. Kitts and served
in a field artillery unit during the gulf war. In 1995, he was convicted of
conspiracy to distribute cocaine and served a year in jail. Another is Ralph
Hesselbach, who came to the United States from Germany when he was 11 and was
disabled while serving in Vietnam. At 49, he is H.I.V. positive and has been
convicted several times of possessing heroin.

Professor Morawetz said the I.N.S. could have chosen to leave Mr. Hesselbach and
Mr. Gumbs alone. They are not in jail now, are not involved in crime and are not
abusing drugs, she said.

"I don't see anything in the law that says that the I.N.S. doesn't have
prosecutorial discretion," she said. "Where does it say that you have to deport
everybody that you can deport? Why would you want to?"


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ralph Hesselbach, Vietnam veteran and candidate for deportation
in 1999 (left)(Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times), and as a soldier at Ft.
Benning, Ga., in 1967.

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 4, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

IN BRIEF;
Immigrants' Group

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 7; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 119 words


Following the lead of other chapters of the American Jewish Committee, the White
Plains group of the national organization is forming an immigrants' advocacy
coalition, called the Westchester Immigration Network.

Ann Schaffer, the executive director of the chapter, said her organization has
contacted groups representing Hispanic, Arab, Chinese, Korean and Indian
populations to form the coalition to lobby for fair immigration policies, fight
negative stereotypes, monitor public policy in health, housing and labor issues
and seek reform in welfare policies.

"We want to counteract the stereotypes that persist about immigrants and
highlight their contributions," Ms. Schaffer said.   ELSA BRENNER

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 6, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Boosts Our Economy

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 146 words



To the Editor:

George J. Borjas's warning about the fiscal consequences of large-scale
immigration of both unskilled labor and "high-tech braceros" (Op-Ed, April 2)
runs contrary to the experience of the United States over the last two
centuries, when the large influx of immigrants contributed to America's economic
growth and made it the world's major economic power.

Restrictive immigration laws enacted during the 1920's, along with other
factors, helped precipitate the Great Depression.

Despite the lack of high levels of education among most undocumented workers,
they fill jobs like short-order cook, cleaner, gardener, farm worker and nanny
at wage levels that do not trigger inflationary pressures.

VEDULA N. MURTI
Middletown, Pa., April 3, 1999

The writer is an assistant professor of economics, Pennsylvania State
University.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              255 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 7, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Let Immigrants Organize for Better Wages

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 128 words



To the Editor:

George J. Borjas (Op-Ed, April 2) urges immigration reform during our relatively
prosperous economy.

But curiously muted in the discussion of such changes is the low replacement
fertility rates among native-born Americans, which has been the case in the
United States for 24 consecutive years, and for several decades in most
developed countries. Heavy immigration has delayed or diminished some of the
negative effects of below-replacement fertility rates.

Responsible demographers consider continued immigration as an imperative in
order for developed countries to survive should present native-born birth rates
hold.

(Rev.) JOSEPH A. FAHY
Atlanta, April 6, 1999

The writer is Hispanic apostolate, Archdiocese of Atlanta.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              256 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 8, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Wanted

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 152 words



To the Editor:

Re "Immigration, the Issue-in-Waiting" (Op-Ed, April 2):

Suppose we wanted the economy to grow at 2.5 percent a year in real terms over
the next two to three decades.

If productivity growth were to average 1.5 percent (about what it did over the
last 30 years), we would have to increase our labor force by about 1 percent a
year.

Estimates from the Census Bureau suggest that over the next 10 years our
population growth, including current immigration, should achieve this rate.
However, beginning in about 2006 we will start to fall short and the problem
will grow from that point on.

Rather than worrying about the welfare costs of our current rate of immigration,
we should be concerned about the lost opportunity owing to the worker shortage
of the future.

MARTIN A. REGALIA
Vice President and Chief Economist
U.S. Chamber of Commerce
Washington, April 6, 1999

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              257 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 9, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

NYC;
Diallo's Tale Raises the Bar For Refugees

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 730 words


IN death, Amadou Diallo has become an important symbol on several fronts, but
one is not much to brag about. He was -- and there is really no polite way to
say it -- an immigration cheat. When you talk to immigration lawyers, you
realize that in filing a fraudulent claim to political asylum, he did no favor
for foreigners genuinely in need of a haven from oppression.

"A case like this," said one experienced lawyer, who insisted on anonymity to
avoid any whiff of trouble for her clients, "can make it much more difficult for
people who are true asylum-seekers."

Her point was fleshed out by John Assadi, another New York lawyer specializing
in these matters. "Every time you have a high-profile negative case like this,"
he said, "there's a perception among everyone involved that the next guy may be
lying."

Mind you, nothing about Mr. Diallo's bogus search for asylum seems likely to
affect the central questions about police performance that have arisen since he
was shot 19 times on Feb. 4 by officers of the Street Crime Unit.

Nonetheless, his blatant falsehoods to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service are not easily shrugged off by some advocates for refuge-seekers. Even
with no evidence yet of anyone being caught in a bureaucratic backlash since Mr.
Diallo's asylum situation became known in mid-March, the advocates worry that
anti-immigration forces have been handed free ammunition.

Mr. Diallo, 22 at his death, came here from Guinea, in West Africa. He had a
legitimate visa to work or study, which had been due to expire this month.

Apparently hoping to stick around longer, he filed an asylum claim with the
I.N.S. It turned him down. He then went before a judge working under the aegis
of the Executive Office for Immigration Review, a branch of the Justice
Department. This time, he pushed all the right buttons.

He was from Mauritania, Mr. Diallo said. That was a good choice for the man from
a prosperous family in Guinea. Mauritania is considered a disaster area by
human-rights groups: a bastion of slavery, they say, where the dominant
light-skinned Moors have rounded up black citizens, stripped them of their
papers and property and deported them.

He was a victim of "ethnic cleansing," Mr. Diallo said in a sworn deposition,
asserting that Mauritanian soldiers killed his parents and made prisoners of him
and an uncle, who later died of torture. "They beat us with sticks, tied us and
dragged us to their trucks and took us to the military camp," he said. After
"two cruel weeks," he was taken at gunpoint to Senegal, and from there made his
way to the United States.

The entire story was untrue. Among other things, Mr. Diallo's parents are alive
and highly visible these days in New York. But he told his tale well enough to
convince an immigration judge, though the I.N.S. was appealing the decision when
Mr. Diallo was killed. "This is somebody who took a system to help people who
truly need help, and just scammed it," one official said.

HOW widespread is this kind of fraud?

Not very, lawyers for asylum-seekers contend.

More than the advocates may care to admit, Government officials respond.

"People come here from very desperate circumstances, and they will do anything
to survive," said Richard L. Kenney, a spokesman for the immigration review
office. "It's human nature. And the more resourceful find ways to tell the
better story. There are a lot of people coming from China, and they all know
what to say: they're fleeing the one-child-per-couple rule."

It is no secret that the national mood toward illegal immigrants is hardly a
smile button. Last year, the review office disposed of 231,194 cases, and in
200,261, or 87 percent of them, people were deported or left the country
voluntarily.

And Mr. Diallo's use of Mauritania underlined a particularly thorny problem. He
had no documents to back up his claims. But many genuine asylum-seekers from
that country also arrive without papers. A similar situation is unfolding with
the refugees from Kosovo, who have been systematically stripped of proof of
identity.

So what may well be the result of the Diallo affair?

"I imagine lawyers representing people from Mauritania are finding themselves
more closely scrutinized," said Kerry Bretz, an immigration lawyer in Manhattan
who used to work for the I.N.S. "After a case like this, antennae go up."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              258 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 15, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Baby Sitter In Boston Takes Prize In Lottery

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 743 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, April 14


It was last Wednesday that Chris Gabrieli, a venture capitalist, discovered that
his live-in baby sitter was a multimillionaire like him.

The baby sitter, a 54-year-old Chilean immigrant named Maria J. Grasso, told Mr.
Gabrieli's wife, Hilary, who then told him, that she had won the $197 million
Big Game jackpot, the largest lottery prize won by one person in the United
States.

The Gabrielis were among the few people who knew her secret until today when,
after a week of rumor and speculation about who had bought the winning ticket at
the Star supermarket in the Fenway neighborhood last week, Mrs. Grasso, a
modest, soft-spoken mother of two, claimed her prize at Massachusetts Lottery
headquarters in Braintree.

"I'm a very down-to-earth person," she said at a news conference, with the
Gabrielis standing nearby, beaming. "I work hard in my entire life. I'm one of
six children, and so I always try to be low, down-key, and I'm going to continue
that way."

Mrs. Grasso, who said she was an occasional lottery player, chose an immediate
lump sum payment of $104 million, instead of 26 annual payments that would have
totaled $197 million, and collected a check today for $70,244,814 after taxes.
It was the nation's second-largest jackpot. The largest, a $295 million
Powerball jackpot last July, was won by a group of 13 machinists in Ohio.

Mrs. Grasso did not give details about her plans, other than to say she would
like to keep helping children, and she declined to give any interviews beyond
the news conference.

A spokesman, Raymond P. Howell, said Mrs. Grasso came to the United States in
1971, found work as a live-in baby sitter in New York City, earned a high school
equivalency degree, attended LaGuardia Community College and the College of
Staten Island, and eventually got a job as a teaching assistant in the city's
public schools. She also worked part time for United Cerebral Palsy.

Mrs. Grasso, who is divorced, has a son and daughter, both in college. She moved
to Boston in 1996 and went to work for the Gabrielis.

Mr. Gabrieli had only praise for the woman who became his former employee last
Thursday with what was apparently some reluctance on her part. "She's a very
warm and caring person," he said.

"She's extremely family oriented. She has two children she's very proud of.
She's got a large family in Chile. When I talked to her, she said, 'How can I
make this a blessing for them?' "

Mr. Gabrieli said Mrs. Grasso was in her apartment in his home in the Beacon
Hill neighborhood watching the 11 P.M. news last Tuesday when she saw the
winning number flash across her television screen, "It matched," he said. "She
couldn't believe it could be true. She confirmed it on the second go-round at
11:30.

"She had a sleepless night, and the first thing in the morning, she called up to
our room on the intercom."

With Mr. Gabrieli already gone, Mrs. Grasso spoke to Mrs. Gabrieli, a lawyer who
is at home, raising the couple's four children. "My wife's first thought was:
'Are you sure?' "

Mrs. Gabrieli congratulated Mrs. Grasso, put her in touch with a lawyer and then
phoned Mr. Gabrieli.

"I had the same reaction as my wife: 'Are you sure, darling?' " he said.

The new multimillionaire, meanwhile, insisted on putting in a full workday. "She
actually worked Thursday as well," Mr. Gabrieli said. "Her first reaction was,
'I'll work until you get a replacement.' "

"I told her, 'I think this is going to be something that will take all your
psychic time. We'll muddle through.' " And so on Thursday night, Mrs. Grasso
moved out.

Today's announcement put to rest persistent reports that the lottery winner was
a Boston cabdriver, Patrick Okusanya.

A distraught Mr. Okusanya insisted he was not the winner, but even his friends
and family did not believe him, said John Ricci, a lawyer Mr. Okusanya retained
last Friday to help him deal with the attention.

The rumor seems to have begun with a group of cabdrivers, who said Mr. Okusanya
was the winner. Mr. Ricci said he was working free for Mr. Okusanya, who drives
his cab 60 to 70 hours a week to get by.

Mr. Okusanya was working today, and could not be reached for comment. Mr. Ricci
said Mr. Okusanya had stopped by his office to say he was happy for Mrs. Grasso,
and glad to be out of the spotlight.

All Mr. Okusanya wanted was a coat hanger, his lawyer said. The nonwinner had
locked his keys in the cab.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              259 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 18, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

ASIA-PACIFIC ISSUE;
Among Hill Tribes In Northern Thailand

BYLINE: BY MARTHA STEVENSON OLSON;  MARTHA STEVENSON OLSON writes frequently
about Southeast Asia.

SECTION: Section 5; Page 11; Column 3; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2823 words


TRAVELERS to the mountainous rural province of Mae Hong Son, near Thailand's
northwest border with Myanmar, will find it still wild and exotic, populated by
Chinese and Burmese ethnic immigrants and protected by its remote location in
the Himalayan foothills. Waterfalls, caves, raft able rivers, working elephants
and vast tracts of teak forests make it attractive for adventure travelers, as
well as some group tours.

Of the several towns in the province, the capital, also called Mae Hong Son, is
the most visited, not only for its cool morning mists and temple-fringed lake
but also because it is linked to Chiang Mai by Thai Airways. The capital is also
a good place to get a look at the various border groups and ethnic immigrants
who help make the north so colorful while still providing the resources of a
small city.

The smaller towns of Pai and Soppong, about halfway and two-thirds of the way
(148 miles) from Chiang Mai to Mae Hong Son, provide a streetside intimacy with
everyday rural mountain life.

On an April day last year, my husband, Jinx, and our daughters, Allie, 6, and
Katherine, 3, along with a friend from San Diego, Mike Winston, prepared to flee
the madness of Songkran, the Buddhist new year, when it is customary for those
celebrating to douse one another with water during this most sweltering season.
We departed from Chiang Mai, where we had been living off and on for a year and
a half, for the relative serenity and coolness of the western hills.  We had
rented a Mitsubishi sedan, and soon outside Chiang Mai, we were curving and
climbing through rice fields and orchards to Pai.

Pai is one of those friendly little towns that invite travelers with more time
than money to linger. Just a few streets next to the Pai River, which can vary
from a clear trickle to a brown torrent, the town nevertheless has good
restaurants, comfortable, inexpensive guesthouses and many trekking agencies.
Two-story teak shop houses, built by Chinese traders from Yunnan, line the
streets. Several Buddhist temples are next to the river, and nearby is a small
mosque serving the Muslim population. Enterprising members of the Lisu, a
regional ethnic group, meander the streets in rainbow clothing, selling their
technicolored woven hats and bags. Backpackers on push bikes and motorbikes
negotiate the lightly trafficked roads. Bars offer live jam sessions nightly.

We headed for the Pai Mountain Lodge, a rural resort of rustic bungalows with
fireplaces and porches overlooking a small lake about a mile from town, with
sawtoothed mountains to the west. In the peak season, from November to March,
Pai is cold enough for a fire in the fireplace, and the location is tranquil,
starry and moonlit at night and buzzy with cicadas and sunny in the daytime.

The day after we arrived, I walked up to the nearby waterfall, about a mile
along a red-dirt country road past a Lahu village with as many piglets as
people. The waterfall is not sensational, and the grounds around it are
littered, but it makes a nice walk, with a couple of places along the way
offering drinks and snacks.

In fact, a major attraction of Pai is its variety of country expeditions. None
of them lead to world-class attractions, but getting there is fun: you can walk
or bike through the countryside and hill-tribe villages with a small map,
available at most guesthouses. Though overnight adventures should be booked
through a trekking agency, the day hikes out of Pai are well known enough among
villagers and tourists to be unthreatening, yet scattered and numerous enough to
assure a certain amount of solitude.

We found the Pai Mountain Lodge a bit too peaceful, and the next morning we
moved to Charlie's, a guesthouse in town. While not luxurious, Charlie's is a
reliable stalwart with clean rooms and comfortable beds.

Mike Winston and I signed on for a tour that included an elephant ride and a
visit to a hot springs. The tour operator deposited us, along with Jacky, a
traveler from Belgium, about 10 miles out of town, where we watched our elephant
being prepared for the trip. We next climbed to the top of a small platform,
and, after a bit of prodding from the mahout to link the elephant's forehead to
the tower, we clambered aboard.

Mike and I got the howdah, and Jacky took the spot atop the elephant's neck, her
freckled ears flapping against his knees. We lurched off through a landscape
made sepia by fire and leafless by drought, and the mahout trailed behind.
Epiphytes were the only growth on the bare branches, and we could see great
distances into what, in a different season, would be impenetrable forest.

Little black gnats hummed around our necks and eyes. At odd moments the elephant
would stop completely, and the mahout would bark commands, then segue into what
sounded like pleading on the order of, "Please, darling, you're making me look
very bad here."

We were happy to finally clamber off onto a log atop a ridge, and headed off in
the direction indicated by the mahout. We forded a small stream with
exclamations of surprise -- the water was warm! The hot springs on our agenda
were obviously nearby, and we loitered there, until the mahout waved us back.

The trip back seemed shorter, and we took a different path that led past a
little spring, where our mount imbibed a snootful of black sludge and promptly
sprayed it back at us.

The next day I wandered along the riverfront, revisiting temples and other
attractions, like the place where I received a Burmese massage -- excellent if
you don't mind a mat on the floor. In April the river was placid and shallow; in
the high season, from November to February, it is downright boisterous, and
river trips by bamboo raft or canoe can be arranged to go as far upriver as Mae
Hong Son (or in the reverse direction, from Mae Hong Son to Pai).

After three nights in Pai, we drove 28 mountainous miles to Soppong for a quiet
stay at T. Rex House, a pleasant bungalow resort surrounded by tropical gardens
and run by a German expatriate and his Thai wife. There the girls played in the
clean little swimming pool while I explored some caves, collectively called Tham
Lot. Caves usually make me claustrophobic, but this complex was supposed to be
special, with a river running its 436-yard length, several separate chambers,
ancient coffins and prehistoric paintings. The road to the cave is in itself a
scenic marvel, passing through fields and forest and across two plank bridges,
before becoming a dirt track the last quarter-mile.

AT the park's entrance, three German tourists and I hired a guide with a
kerosene lantern who proved invaluable, though her English was limited. The
caves are vast, with 70-foot-high columns, sheets of glistening calcium
carbonate and one very faded prehistoric painting of the sun and a human figure.
On the crystal-clear river, teeming with fat carp, a flotilla of boatmen stood
in the gloom to ferry passengers through. There were several other groups
visiting that day, but because of the cave's size, it never felt crowded. I wish
I'd bypassed the last cave, however, the one with the coffins, which was fetid
and tick infested.

On Easter Sunday, the girls and I bade farewell to Jinx and Mike, who wanted to
experience Songkran at its peak in Chiang Mai, where it is celebrated
exuberantly.  Soppong is a very small town, comprised chiefly of general stores
that provide a wide range of goods -- hammers, flavored ices, you-name-it -- to
the hill-tribe people of the surrounding mountains; a trip to the small day
market in Soppong gives glimpses of cultures more Tibetan than Thai.

A few days later, the girls and I waited roadside for a public bus to Mae Hong
Son. We managed to persuade the Songkran-celebrating youths who were soaking
everyone with water to spare us until, finally, climbing aboard the bus, I got a
bucketful from behind. "Oh well," I said to the girls when we were seated, "at
least they didn't get my face -- though I almost wish they had, it's so hot." A
canful of water through the bus's open door provided the punchline.

The ride to Mae Hong Son was wet but spectacular, the jungle denser and the
mountains higher the farther we got. Finally, after a long and steep descent
into the Mae Hong Son Valley, the bus pulled into the station and we found a
taxi-van to take us to the hotel where we'd arranged to meet Jinx, Mike having
already boarded a plane back to San Diego.

Originally a trading and elephant-herding outpost established in the early 19th
century, Mae Hong Son was designated a city in 1874. In 1893, after the British
annexed the neighboring Shan state into their Burmese holdings, the Thai
Ministry of the Interior made the region a province, and Mae Hong Son its
capital.

When I first visited nine years ago, the city had a slightly dangerous feel
about it, with the drug warlord Khun Sa a major player nearby, warring Burmese
factions across the Salween River, and illegal teak logging and smuggling both
major commerce. Thailand's national anthem was broadcast at the town's main
intersection every morning and evening, seemingly to remind the polyglot crowd
which country's rule they were under.

It's still a bit wild, but frequent and very cheap flights (about $10 one way
from Chiang Mai) have brought many more tourists here. Illegal logging
continues, the area south of Mae Hong Son is dotted with camps of refugees
fleeing the same conflict, and, although Khun Sa ostensibly has retired, the
Shan and Wa armies continue the opium, and now amphetamine, trade, mostly on the
Burmese side of the border. The entire region is peppered with hill-tribe
villages, and a visit to the morning market on Panetawattana Road will find
Lisu, Hmong or Lahu among a long list of ethnic minorities, each with
distinctive tribal clothing, trading in agricultural products and handicrafts
(especially beautiful are the woven shoulder bags of the Karen and Lahu tribes).

Overlooking Mae Hong Son on a hill 4,265 feet above sea level, the temple Wat
Phra That Doi Kong Mu with its two bright white Shan-style stupas is a peaceful
place to get an overview of the town; at night it's illuminated like a beacon. A
couple of Burmese-style temples, Wat Chong Kham and Wat Chong Klang, are on the
south side of the town's central lake. At Wat Chong Kham, I saw the abbot
reclining on a lawn chair, joking with visiting Thai matrons, and outside Wat
Chong Klang, with its mechanized games of fate and carved wooden statues, were
three young novices squirting each other with pink water pistols. On the other
side of the lake, there is a park with pavilions overlooking the water and
tables for picnics.

Among the interesting excursions nearby is Tham Pla, or Fish Cave, a small
crevice in a rocky hill, with a river flowing under it, where schools of fat,
powder-blue carp nibble offerings. The adjoining park is itself an attraction,
with expanses of green grass and wooden walkways and groups of Thai families
toting picnic baskets. About 16 miles north, near the Burmese border, is the
Chinese Kuomintang village of Mae Aw, a stark, treeless place with snuffling
pigs that is now home to aged refugees from Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalist army.

Those with a taste for the exotic can visit one of the Padaung villages, home of
the so-called Giraffewomen, whose coiled bronze necklaces make their necks look
strangely elongated. The atmosphere of the dusty village I visited was one of
embarrassment on the part of the Padaung women for being objects of such
scrutiny and on my part for being there at all. They are refugees from Myanmar,
speaking more English than Thai, and I found I was more comfortable talking with
them than trying to take photographs.

My memories of this region tend to be dreamy, slightly bizarre snapshots: a shy
Padaung girl practicing her guitar as a stream of shutter-clicking Westerners
files by her house; a duo of elephants crossing the hilly landscape, then
fording the river behind a modern Mae Hong Son hotel; an ancient Lahu woman
outside the Tham Lot caves, selling orchids from a handwoven basket on her back.
It's somewhat of a jolt to board a plane in Mae Hong Son, with these and other
memories still fresh, and debark half an hour later in cosmopolitan, bustling
Chiang Mai.

Natural wonders and rural mountain life in the foothills of the Himalayas

Getting There

Thai Airways flies between Mae Hong Son and Chiang Mai five times daily, at
$10.50 one way (calculated at 37 baht to the dollar) if the ticket is bought in
Thailand.

North Wheels, 127/2 Moon Muang Road, Chiang Mai 50000; (66-53) 216189, fax
(66-53) 221709, is a reputable car rental agency that will drop off and pick up
cars at your hotel; a two-door Mitsubishi sedan is $32.50 a day, with a $54
drop-off fee if you want to leave the car in Mae Hong Son.

Lodging

Pai Mountain Lodge has 20 clean rooms; bungalows overlooking the pond are $16.25
a night; 84 Moo 4, Pai District, Mae Hong Son 58130; (66-53) 699068; in Bangkok,
(66-2) 435-5146.

At Charlie's House, 20 rooms, half with bath, half with shared facilities, are
in five separate buildings in a small garden with fat dogs, cats and caged doves
and mynas. Doubles with fan and bath are $5.50. Charlie's is at 9 Rungsiyanon
Road, Pai, Mae Hong Son 58130; (66-53) 699039.

In Soppong, T. Rex House has nine small A-frame bungalows facing a tropical
garden and small swimming pool, with a few larger rooms in the owners'
fieldstone house. There is a small restaurant and bar with whimsical
19th-century European decor. Bungalows with two single beds, fan and bath are
$9.50; the VIP rooms in the house are $12.15. Popular dishes at the restaurant
were the spaghetti with coconut cream tomato sauce, and mu aroi, a pork and
peanut curry. The hotel is at 295 Moo 1, Tambon Soppong, Pangmapa, Mae Hong Son
58150; (66-53) 617054, fax (66-53) 617053.

In Mae Hong Son, the 104-room Imperial Tara was the grandest hotel in town, with
doubles listed at $68.50, with breakfast. It backs onto a lovely teak-forest
park and has a pool, sauna and exercise room. The Imperial Tara is at 149 Moo 8,
Tambon Pang Moo, A. Muang, Mae Hong Son 58000; (66-53) 611021, fax (66-53)
611252.

The Mae Hong Son Riverside Hotel, like the Imperial Tara only 5 years old, is
about three miles out of town overlooking its own 164-foot pool and a scenic
section of the Pai River that is popular with elephant treks. Its 40 rooms are
$40.50, including breakfast.  The hotel is at 165 Ban Huey Dair, A. Muang, Mae
Hong Son 58000; (66-53) 611504, fax (66-01) 5100373.

Restaurants

In Pai, the new open-air Prik Waan, translated roughly as "robust chili pepper,"
holds sway on a quiet corner. The gracious owner, Thongpak Wongsawan, can
suggest specials or help describe the intriguing selection of Thai dishes.
Dinner for two with drinks, about $20. Open daily. The restaurant, at 24 Moo 1
Wangtai, Pai District, recently opened and has no telephone number.

At Chez Swan, the menu focuses on Continental classics, but the Thai food here
is good also. Dinner for two with wine might run about $25. Open daily. At 13
Moo 4, Rangsiyanon Road, Amphoe Pai; (66-53) 699274.

In central Mae Hong Son, the Swiss Chalet specializes in fondue, raclette and
rosti in a garden setting. Open daily. A meal for two with drinks is about $20.
At 3 Singhanatbarnrung Road; (66-53) 612050.

Also in central Mae Hong Son, the Fern Restaurant, with traditional teak decor,
serves excellent Thai food. Open daily. Lunch or dinner for two with drinks will
cost about $15. At 87 Khunlumprapas Road, T. Jongkum, A. Muang; (66-53) 611374.

Excursions

Elephant rides can be booked in Pai through the Pai Elephant Camp, 5/3 Moo 4,
Rungsiyanon Road, Pai, Mae Hong Son 58130, telephone and fax (66-53) 699-286,
cell phone (66-1) 951-8008. Day tours with various options, including elephant
rides, range from $13.50 to $27.

In Mae Hong Son, numerous tour agencies can arrange itineraries for any taste. A
day's tour to the hill tribes, the fish cave and the waterfall with a car and
driver costs about $54, with extras like elephant rides or admission to a
Padaung village increasing the fee.

Wilderness treks out of Soppong can be organized by guides associated with the
various guesthouses, but are not advertised as widely as elsewhere.

Caveat

 The latest State Department consular information sheet, issued March 11, warns
United States citizens of potential dangers in northern Thailand, specifically,
threats against American officials in Chiang Mai Province north of Fang and
Chiang Rai Province north of Chiang Rai.

Additional information about travel in Thailand is available on the United
States Embassy's Web site at www.usa.or.th or by contacting the embassy in
Bangkok at (66-2) 205-4000 or the consulate general in Chiang Mai, (66-53)
252629.   MARTHA STEVENSON OLSON


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rustic Pai Mountain Lodge, a mile from the town of Pai. Lisu
sell handicrafts along the pass between Pai and Soppong. (Photographs by Martha
Stevenson Olson); A mahout riding along the road to Mae Hong Son. (pg. 11); At
an entrance of the vast Tham Lot caves in Soppong. (Martha Stevenson Olson)(pg.
12)

Map of Thailand showing the location of Mae Hong Son and other sorrounding
cities. (pg. 11)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              260 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 23, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: IMMIGRANTS;
Kosovars Relocated to U.S. Would Be Eligible to Remain

BYLINE: By BLAINE HARDEN

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1040 words


A White House plan to bring 20,000 refugees from Kosovo to the United States
will make all of them eligible for permanent legal residence, a senior
Administration official said yesterday. He said the Clinton Administration
expects that many of the refugees will choose, after the war in Yugoslavia ends,
not to go back to Kosovo.

Some Albanian-American groups and private refugee organizations objected to the
relocation plan, arguing that while it was a humane offer, it sent a signal to
the world that the United States Government did not expect that refugees would
be able to return to Kosovo any time soon.

The relocation plan, announced Wednesday by Vice President Al Gore in a speech
at Ellis Island, would screen Kosovo Albanians who have fled to refugee camps in
Macedonia to find 20,000 who have family in America or who are at risk because
of illness. Mr. Gore said the refugees would not be granted political asylum.
"We anticipate their return to Kosovo," he said.

But an Administration official involved in planning the relocation program said
yesterday that the refugees would be accepted into the United States under a law
that each year provides about 75,000 refugees from around the world with Federal
housing, health and job-assistance benefits, and the right to work for at least
12 months. After the first year, all refugees admitted under this program are
eligible, under the law, for a green card, which confers permanent resident
status.

"Historically, the refugee program is used when it is clear that the situation
at home isn't resolvable," said the Administration official, who spoke on the
condition that his name not be used. "We are going to try to create conditions
in Kosovo for these people to return, but the choice will ultimately be theirs."

The relocation plan, a repackaging of much-criticized White House proposal to
fly tens of thousands of Kosovo refugees to the naval base at Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, grew out of President Clinton's decision that the Albanian refugees under
American Government care should not be confined in a prison-like camp, the
official said.

The plan, the official said, also grew out of a desire in the White House to
relieve pressure on the Macedonian Government, which has been alarmed by a flood
of about 130,000 ethnic Albanian refugees who have been pushed out of Kosovo by
the forces of President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia.

The Slav majority in Macedonia has frequently come into conflict with the ethnic
Albanian minority, which makes up about one-third of the population. Fearing
that the ethnic Albanian refugees from Kosovo will join forces with Macedonia's
ethnic Albanians, the Macedonian Government has alternately closed its borders,
harassed the refugees and cooperated sporadically with international groups
building refugee camps.

All the while, it has complained bitterly that refugees should be flown to third
countries.

"There is some basis to the Macedonians' concern," said the Administration
official. "It is a very new Government. The last thing we want to do is create
another Kosovo."

By Tuesday, about 17,000 refugees from Macedonia had been sent to 11 countries,
with about 10,000 going to Germany. The White House did not know yesterday if
those countries were offering the same permanent resident status to Kosovo
refugees as the American Government plans.

While some Albanian-Americans will undoubtedly welcome the chance to get their
relatives to the United States, refugee groups have criticized the relocation of
Kosovo refugees to third countries, saying that it splits up families and that
some refugees do not want to leave the region. Television pictures two weeks ago
showed weeping refugees boarding a plane for Turkey.

The White House said that its new program would be voluntary and carefully
coordinated with refugee groups and that it was not intended to change the basic
goals of NATO's war against the Milosevic Government.

"This is a small part of a larger strategy to get people back to their homes and
that is the point of the military operation," said David Leavy, a spokesman for
the National Security Council. "This is designed to give the Kosovars a number
of options. No one will come that doesn't want to. All will have their return
flights paid, so they can go back."

Albanian-Americans who are raising money to help the refugees said yesterday,
however, that they did not think the White House had thought through the
consequences of the program.

"We are disappointed because this stuff all supports Milosevic's plan for ethnic
cleansing," said Avni Mustafaj, director of the Kosovo Relief Fund, a New York
group. "It gives some people relief, and for that we are glad. But once you
start sending people out of the region, the odds of them returning become
smaller and smaller."

Vera Osmani of the Albanian Media Group, a public relations firm that represents
several Albanian-American groups, said, "It is a better choice than Guantanamo,
but in the long range, you worry 'Are these people going to be able to go back?'
"

Some human rights groups were critical of the program because, they said, it
appeased the Macedonian Government's mistreatment of refugees and sends a signal
that Washington accepts ethnic cleansing as a fait accompli.

"The signal we are sending to Milosevic is a disaster," said Holly Burkholter,
advocacy director for Physicians for Human Rights, a Boston group that has eight
monitors in the Balkans. "This program is minuscule in comparison to the problem
and its humanitarian usefulness is eclipsed by the political signal it sends --
that we don't expect these people to be able to come home soon."

The United States Committee for Refugees, a private group that defends the
rights of refugees worldwide, was less critical, although a spokesman conceded
it was unlikely that refugees admitted to the United States would want to return
to their destroyed home.

"The Administration deserves credit for showing flexibility," Bill Frelick,
senior policy analyst for the group, said yesterday. "It switched from the
Guantanamo plan for immediate evacuation and is putting together a voluntary
plan that will look for family connections."



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              261 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 24, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Official Charged With Taking Bribes to Grant Immigrants Political Asylum

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 475 words


A Federal employee with the power to award political asylum has been charged
with taking bribes from immigrants seeking to stay in the United States.

The employee, John Shandorf, is one of eight supervisors for the Asylum Division
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Queens. He was arrested at his
office on April 8 and charged with conspiracy and accepting bribes, according to
the F.B.I. and the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

In an affidavit seeking Mr. Shandorf's arrest, Special Agent Daniel Lyons of the
F.B.I. said Mr. Shandorf had accepted between $500 and several thousand dollars
from at least 30 foreign nationals, and then either approved their asylum
applications himself, oversaw a subordinate who did so, or overturned someone
else's denial of an application. It was not clear whether any of those people
faced charges or deportation.

"Several aliens have admitted to me that on their asylum applications they had
lied and stated that, in the past, they had been subject to persecution in their
native land for their political beliefs," Agent Lyons said in the affidavit,
referring to some of those believed to have given bribes.

"One alien in particular admitted to me that his asylum application contained
specific allegations of persecution that were purportedly directed at the alien
and his family when they resided in Albania," Agent Lyons said. "At the time
that the acts of political persecution had allegedly occurred in Albania, this
alien had already entered, and was residing in, the United States."

Three of the five foreign nationals Agent Lyons interviewed were from Albania;
one was from Yugoslavia.

At least two other people, whose identities are being withheld by the F.B.I.,
have been charged as intermediaries in the scheme. One pleaded guilty to bribing
a public official and another was charged with conspiracy to influence, obstruct
and impede a governmental proceeding.

It was not immediately clear whether the other defendants worked for the
immigration agency.  Both are cooperating with the Federal investigation,
according to court papers.

According to the affidavit, the other two people charged prepared asylum
applications for the aliens, coached them about how to handle their interviews
with Immigration and Naturalization service employees and assured them their
applications would be approved if they paid.

"Act like it's legal," one of those other defendants told the applicant,
according to court papers.

Several of the aliens lived in New Jersey but provided false addresses so their
applications could be processed in the Queens office where Mr. Shandorf worked,
according to authorities.

Mr. Shandorf is free on bail. A message was left on the answering machine of the
only John Shandorf listed in New York directory. No one returned the telephone
call.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              262 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 25, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Asylum Plea Denied For Woman in Fear

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 75 words


Three years ago, the practice of female genital cutting was outlawed in the
United States, and immigration authorities recognized the practice -- performed
on millions of women in about 26 African nations -- as a form of persecution
that those seeking asylum could claim. But advocates for refugees say the story
of Adelaide Abankwah, a 29-year-old woman who fled Ghana, shows that those
decisions have had little effect.

 Article, page 35.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              263 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 25, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

No Asylum for a Woman Threatened With Genital Cutting

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1854 words


For more than two years, Adelaide Abankwah's waking hours have felt like living
nightmares. Slumber, she said, is her only refuge.

"I dream that I am stepping out of a dark, dirty room into a light, beautiful
room, where everyone is eating a lot of food," she said, closing her brown eyes
as if trying to keep the vision from getting away. "When I sleep, that is when I
feel free."

Ms. Abankwah, a 29-year-old native of Ghana, has been held in a detention center
in Queens since March 1997, shortly after she arrived at Kennedy International
Airport with a false passport, racked with fear. Sobbing and speaking in broken
English, she told United States officials that she had fled her homeland because
the elders of her village were going to cut her genitals. She had lost her
virginity to a man who was not an approved mate for her, which violated her
tribe's customs.

After dozens of hearings, an immigration judge and the Board of Immigration
Appeals denied Ms. Abankwah's petitions. The officials found that while Ms.
Abankwah's fear of returning home was genuine, she had not proved that she would
be subjected to genital cutting if she returned.

Ms. Abankwah's plight sounded a distress signal familiar to advocates for
refugees across the country. Three years ago, after advocates waged a highly
publicized campaign, the practice of female genital cutting was outlawed in the
United States. That same year, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
recognized the practice -- performed on millions of women in about 26 African
nations -- as a form of persecution that those seeking asylum could claim. The
decision became part of guidelines on sex-based oppression that were issued to
immigration judges.

But advocates for refugees and some members of Congress say Ms. Abankwah's case
shows that the guidelines are inadequate because they are not binding.
Immigration judges are not required to rule that persecution based on an
applicant's sex constitutes a valid claim for asylum, and they rarely do so
without public pressure, the advocates said. Furthermore, the advocates said,
the judges often ask for unreasonable forms of evidence to support women's
reports of genital cutting.

And they worry about the effect that detention will have on women like Ms.
Abankwah. While she is free to return to Ghana, Ms. Abankwah remains in
detention because she is pressing her case. The I.N.S. generally detains people
whose cases are similar to Ms. Abankwah's because they are deemed likely to flee
to avoid deportation.

"The long-term detention of asylum seekers raises questions about the
humanitarian aspects of the law," said Karen Musalo, an expert on refugees at
the University of California at San Francisco's Hastings College of the Law. "Is
it wise to imprison individuals whose only crime is to flee persecution?"

Ms. Abankwah is to make her final plea on May 3 before the United States Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Manhattan. If her appeal is rejected, she
will probably be deported.

When she goes into court this time, however, Ms. Abankwah will not be alone. Her
ordeal has attracted mounting support from feminists, advocates for refugees and
members of Congress who have posted her picture on the Internet and circulated
petitions and letters of support. She is being represented by a lawyer from a
prestigious law firm and has been visited by New York celebrities and
politicians, including Gloria Steinem, United States Senator Charles E. Schumer
and Representative Carolyn B. Maloney of Manhattan.

"I think this is just a matter of too much bureaucracy," said Mr. Schumer, a
Brooklyn Democrat. "The I.N.S. isn't used to claims like this. It's not the
traditional kind of persecution, but it's just as bad. And they need to get with
it."

Mr. Schumer and Ms. Maloney, also a Democrat, are scheduled to hold a news
conference today at Federal Plaza in Manhattan to release a letter they have
written to Attorney General Janet Reno supporting Ms. Abankwah's request for
asylum, and asking that she be freed for humanitarian reasons while she awaits a
final judgment.

I.N.S. officials said they would not comment on Ms. Abankwah because they did
not discuss pending cases. And although more than 35,000 people applied for
asylum in the fiscal year that ended in September, they could not say how many
of those applicants were being detained or how many were claiming persecution
based on sex. Advocates also had no firm statistics; however, they said Ms.
Abankwah's case was not unique.

Since Ms. Abankwah entered Wackenhut, the Queens detention center, her petite,
athletic figure has turned bony and fragile. She weighs less than 100 pounds,
down about 20 pounds from her previous weight, she said. And medical records
indicate that she has developed ovarian cysts and ulcers.

Jonathan W. Rauchway, a lawyer with the firm of Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe
in New York City who is representing Ms. Abankwah, said two petitions to have
her paroled to the custody of a Pentecostal minister in the Bronx who has
befriended her had been denied.

During an interview at Wackenhut arranged by Mr. Rauchway, Ms. Abankwah looked
tired and weak. "If you talk to the I.N.S.," she begged a reporter, "please tell
them I am not a criminal. I just want to be free."

In the interview and in testimony before the immigration courts, she described
her flight for freedom. She was born into the Nkumssa, a tribe of about 600
people who live in an isolated region in central Ghana. Ms. Abankwah said her
mother was designated the tribe's "queen mother," leading most religious rituals
and setting rules for the other women.

In the fall of 1996, Ms. Abankwah said, her mother died and the tribal elders
decided that she would succeed her mother. Ms. Abankwah protested, refusing to
accept an arranged marriage and to perform rituals intended to determine whether
she was a virgin.

"I had a boyfriend," she said. "I did not want the elders to marry for me. I
wanted to marry for myself."

Ms. Abankwah said she revealed the relationship to her grandmother, who warned
her that the elders would cut or kill her if they discovered the truth. "If the
elders find out I am not a virgin, they will never forgive me and they will cut
my clitoris," she said, recalling the fears that made her flee. "And they would
look for the boy, and they would not forgive him. So I had to run away."

Asked if she had ever seen the elders kill someone, she said: "You don't see it.
You just see a person one day. And the next day you do not see that person."

She fled to the Ghanaian capital, Accra, she said, where she worked for people
who took pity on her and eventually helped her get a false passport and a plane
ticket to New York because tribal elders had gone to Accra to find her. She had
no relatives here, but her friends gave her the phone number of a Ghanaian
minister in the Bronx. The minister, her friends told her, would take her in and
help her start a new life.

But Ms. Abankwah did not make it past immigration officials at the airport. "I
was thinking that they thought I took something," she said. "Then one of them
said, 'This passport is not for you.' And they put a chain on my leg."

Michael Gilhooly, director of public affairs for the Eastern region of the
I.N.S., said asylum is granted to people who can show a "well-founded fear of
persecution because of their race, religion, nationality, political beliefs or
membership in a social group." And, he said, applicants bear the burden of
proof.

Decisions by immigration judges and the brief filed by I.N.S. lawyers with the
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit indicate that officials believed that
Ms. Abankwah had a genuine fear of returning home, a fear one judge described as
"intense."

But the courts did not believe Ms. Abankwah's claims of persecution. On July 30,
the Board of Immigration Appeals ruled: "We find the applicant's claim that she
will be killed because she fled from her village to avoid becoming the queen
mother is unbelievable. The applicant has offered no evidence that the
punishment for not becoming queen mother is death."

And an earlier ruling by an immigration court in Jamaica, Queens, drew a
distinction between Ms. Abankwah's petition for asylum and that of Fauziya
Kassindja, who fled Togo in 1994 because of similar fears. She was detained for
more than a year while her case was being reviewed. Publicity about her ordeal
led to protests that prompted the I.N.S. to recognize female genital cutting as
a form of persecution.

The October 1997 decision said female genital cutting had been "imposed
uniformly on a particular class of people" in Ms. Kassindja's village but had
apparently been abolished in Ms. Abankwah's, "and would be imposed as a matter
of individual punishment, rather than as a matter of general practice imposed on
a particular social group."

The courts also found that while State Department reports indicate that 15
percent to 30 percent of women in Ghana are subjected to genital cutting, the
ritual has not been practiced as widely in recent years because the Ghanaian
Government criminalized it in 1994 and has prosecuted at least one person under
the new law.

The idea that the police would protect Ms. Abankwah may seem plausible to a
board of administrative judges in America, her lawyer said. But in Ghana, he
said, it is little more than fantasy. "The place where she lives is not the
suburbs," Mr. Rauchway said. "It's rural, isolated Africa.  The elders govern
the tribe. The police and the Government don't have any control."

Mr. Rauchway and other advocates said Ms. Abankwah's case demonstrated how
difficult it was for asylum seekers to meet the evidence requirements of
immigration courts.

In places like Ghana, Mr. Rauchway said, people do not have basic identification
papers, like birth certificates or driver's licenses. Ms. Abankwah's
identification is a tattoo on her forearm that reads "Marmenorman Briwa." The
first word, she said, translates loosely as "older sister." The second is the
name of her village. "If I am dead somewhere," she said, showing the tattoo,
"they can look at this and they will know where I come from."

While she waits for her court date, Ms. Abankwah, who has skin the color of
coffee and neatly braided hair, passes the time watching television, reading
books and playing Monopoly with other detainees.

Although she is almost 30, her manner of speaking and her shy smile make her
seem childlike. But smiles were rare during the hourlong interview. Most of the
time, Ms. Abankwah fretted about her asylum case and her deteriorating health.

She has been in Wackenhut longer than any other detainee in the center now, so
long that guards said they call her by her first name rather than by her
immigration number.

It is clear, however, that time has not made Ms. Abankwah comfortable there. The
walls of the converted brick warehouse are starting to feel like a tomb to her.
"I feel like I am dead here," she said. "There is no fresh air. I cannot eat. I
feel that this is where I will die."



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: An image from a Web site devoted to Adelaide Abankwah's battle
for asylum.

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              264 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 28, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE READINESS;
U.S. Balkans Effort Points Up Difficulty Of Quick Response

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT and STEVEN LEE MYERS

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1373 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 27


Ever since the Persian Gulf war, the Pentagon has tried to transform its forces
into lighter, mobile units able to intervene swiftly in the world's trouble
spots. But as the war in the Balkans has shown, the military is anything but the
"expeditionary" force it wants to be.

Despite spending billions of dollars through the 1990's on ships and aircraft
meant to give the American military rapid global reach, the Pentagon's war
effort in the Balkans has still struggled to overcome the obstacles inherent in
moving military might thousands of miles.

Even sending two dozen Apache helicopters from Germany to Albania has taken a
month as the Pentagon juggled the need to provide aid to refugees with the
austere conditions of Albania's airfield, while wrestling with NATO's
bureaucracy.

The reasons for such delays vary -- from the fact the Pentagon has only recently
begun to reshape its transportation to the fact that no one, after the end of
the cold war, envisioned fighting a major land war in the Balkans. Instead, the
Pentagon shifted much of its attention and its heavy equipment to preparing for
wars in the Persian Gulf and the Korean peninsula.

Some critics have accused the Pentagon of moving slowly to create smaller, more
mobile forces. But officials say that no matter what the shape of Army
divisions, sending large numbers of troops, and the food, fuel and supplies to
sustain them, has always and will always take time.

The United States and many NATO allies still oppose putting ground forces into
Kosovo in anything but a peacekeeping role. But with prodding from Britain and
France to update the assessment of what troops could be needed to wage a ground
war, NATO has signaled a new willingness to at least consider using ground
forces to evict Yugoslavia's army from Kosovo.

But there is still no political will to mount an invasion of Yugoslavia or the
ability to do so any time soon. Pentagon and NATO officials said it would take
two to three months to assemble a force large enough to do the job, depending on
its exact mission. NATO planners would need at least a couple of weeks just to
prepare the details.

When NATO first addressed the issue last fall, the planners estimated that the
allies would need 75,000 troops to invade Kosovo and as many as 200,000 ground
forces to take over all of Yugoslavia. Now these numbers are likely to grow as
aides to NATO's Supreme Commander, Gen. Wesley K. Clark, update their assessment
in the next few weeks.

"If we had an option -- a planned option for ground forces -- it would be a long
and drawn-out proposition from the deployment to using it," Gen. Henry H.
Shelton, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told Congress recently.

No nation has the means to move military forces around the globe the way the
United States can. But American strategy still rests on a simple fact: that even
the best forces are of little use if they cannot get to the front quickly
enough.

The time needed is such that winter could arrive just as NATO assembled a ground
force large enough to rout Serbian forces in Kosovo, which is accessible from
the south only through narrow passes.

Some military experts say NATO and the Pentagon have the ability to move more
rapidly into the Balkans but, so far, lack the will to do so.

Michael O'Hanlon, an analyst at the Brookings Institution in Washington, said
that the Pentagon could chose to deploy a smaller force -- like an assault
division -- within a month rather than waiting for a large buildup, though a
fear of casualties was driving planners to consider only using overwhelming
force. He added that a lack of foresight -- as much as logistics -- contributed
to the delay in moving forces.

"If the Administration had had its head anywhere above water when this began,
they would have already been thinking about the need for ground forces," he
said. "If they had started to send, say, a week into the war, they'd be there by
now."

The collapse of the Soviet Union -- followed by the Pentagon's struggle to amass
the forces necessary to drive Iraq out of Kuwait in 1991 -- forced the military
to rethink how it dispatches forces to deal with crises in far-flung parts of
the world.

After the Persian Gulf war, all of the armed services moved to make themselves
more agile. But many of the new methods are still evolving.

The Navy, for example, is spending $6 billion to build 19 new cargo ships
designed to haul heavy weapons and supplies, as well as the supplies they carry.
The first five of these ships are now in the Persian Gulf, carrying a heavy Army
brigade's worth of M1-A1 battle tanks, Bradley Fighting Vehicles, mortars and
other equipment, but the last of the ships are not scheduled to be ready to join
the fleet until 2001.

The Air Force, with the strong support of the Army, is building 120 C-17 cargo
planes, an aircraft large enough to carry almost the same payload as the giant
C-5's but nimble enough to operate from austere landing strips that previously
only smaller C-130's could manage. Only 48 C-17's have been built, and about a
dozen are flying in the Balkans.

But flying in materiel has inherent limitations. The Pentagon says it will take
several hundred C-17 loads to fly in the rockets and other equipment supporting
the two dozen Apache helicopters that have been sent to Albania.

Until all these faster, more mobile cargo planes and ships are ready, the
military is relying heavily on equipment and supplies stockpiled in strategic
parts of the world. Since the cold war, the Pentagon's planning for major wars
has focused on the Persian Gulf and the Korean peninsula. Because planners
failed to anticipate a major war in the Balkans, the Army withdrew much of its
stockpiles from Europe.

The Army now has stocks for only three Army brigades -- not even a full division
-- in several European countries, including the Netherlands, Germany and Italy.
That means that any significant ground force deployed to fight Yugoslavia would
have to rely on equipment hauled from the United States.

The Army has outlined a strategy for moving its forces, something known as the
Strategic Mobility Program. Under this plan, the Army sets goals for moving
different sizes and strengths of troops. A light infantry division of 11,000
soldiers, which can be flown most anywhere fairly quickly, is supposed to arrive
within 12 days. The heavier divisions take longer. Two heavy armored divisions
-- with 34,000 troops and 101,342 tons of equipment -- should be able to arrive
in Europe from the United States within 30 days.

But the heaviest force under the strategy -- five divisions and more than
100,000 troops -- would not be expected to arrive for 75 days.

Even if NATO had the ability to move its forces faster, physical and political
difficulties abound.

There are few seaports that can accommodate the deep-draft cargo ships the Navy
would like to use. Albania's main port in Durres is too shallow for the ships
carrying tanks and other heavy equipment, officials say. And the roads leading
from the port to the Kosovo border are so poor that when NATO drew up its
assessments last fall for a land invasion of Yugoslavia, they eliminated Albania
as staging area for heavy forces.

Albania, however, could be developed into a base for long-range artillery and
attack helicopters, like the 24 Apache gunships now in country.

The major port for NATO to pour forces into Kosovo would be Thessaloniki in
Greece, which is about 140 miles south of Kosovo, on good roads that run through
Macedonia. Equipment sent from Germany could be trucked or sent by rail to
Adriatic ports like Trieste. From Trieste, for instance, it would take ships
three to four days to dock in Thessaloniki.

Hungary is giving NATO use of its air bases, but its leaders have deep
misgivings over massing a large NATO force. They fear that such a step could
unleash a crackdown against the 300,000 ethnic Hungarians in Vojvodina, the
other province in the republic of Serbia that, like Kosovo, lost its autonomy in
1989.

"We'd like to avoid using ground troops," Gen. Ferenc Vegh, Hungary's chief of
defense, said in an interview. "It could cause strong ethnic cleansing in the
Vojvodina."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Albanian schoolboys passed G.I.'s on patrol yesterday near the
air base at Tirana, Albania. NATO has signaled a new willingness to at least
consider using ground forces to evict Serbian forces from Kosovo. (John Gaps
3d/The Associated Press)(pg. A16)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              265 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 28, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Asylum Seekers' Plight

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 157 words


To the Editor:

"No Asylum for a Woman Threatened With Genital Cutting" (news article, April 25)
points out the difficulties that women and girls face when trying to find
protection from persecution based on sex. You highlight another serious concern
about the United States' response to asylum seekers: detention.

I have toured the Wackenhut detention center, where Adelaide Abandwah, the
Ghanaian woman denied asylum, is, and conditions are harsh. The detainees are
allowed outside for only an hour a day. They are handcuffed and shackled when
transported. Their medical care is limited.  There is rarely a guard who speaks
their language.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is detaining 16,000 people on any
given day, hundreds of them asylum seekers and many of them women, children and
torture survivors.

MARY DIAZ
Exec. Dir., Women's Commission
for Refugee Women and Children
New York, April 25, 1999

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              266 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 2, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Fire in a Crowded Home of Immigrants Kills 3 and Injures 16 on L.I.

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 51;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 1394 words


A roaring fire that may have been touched off by gas fumes engulfed a one-family
house crowded with 33 Salvadoran immigrants in Huntington Station, N.Y., early
yesterday, killing 3 people, including a mother and daughter, and leaving 16
injured and 30 survivors homeless, Suffolk County officials said.

The cause of the fire was undetermined, but a fire official said this morning
that the blaze was considered suspicious. Officials said the fire erupted about
3:35 A.M. at 28 West Hills Road, near Jericho Turnpike, and spread quickly
through the two-story, white-shingle house, which had been subdivided into five
apartments, each occupied by 5 to 10 people.

Residents told of awaking to strong odors of gas, and then of a thunderous
explosion and jangling smoke alarms and screams throughout the house as men,
women and children stumbled about in the darkness, trying to get out through
billowing smoke and gathering heat.

Most succeeded. But Maria Chicas, 35, a restaurant cook, and her daughter,
Maria, 4, were trapped and died in their upstairs apartment. Their cousin, Luis
Cruz, 40, who arrived from El Salvador only four days ago to make a new life in
America, fell burning from a second-story window, unable to reach the
outstretched hands of a firefighter, and he also died.

"I saw black smoke coming from the building," Anthony Molina, 32, who ran out of
his mother's house next door, recalled. "I wanted to go in, but then the whole
place burst into flames. I saw a guy in the window. His legs were on fire.

"A fireman got up on a van and tried to grab him, but couldn't reach him, and
the man fell. He was on fire when he fell."

Last night, a Fire Department official said Mr. Molina's two sisters, Jacqueline
Molina, 26, and Anita Valentin, 19, said they called 911 twice to report the
fire, but were not taken seriously by a dispatcher at first. They and their
brother and another neighbor, Jean Field, said Huntington Manor firefighters
took 15 to 20 minutes to reach the scene.

But Assistant Chief John Glidden and Brian O'Shaughnessy, a dispatcher for the
Huntington Manor Volunteer Fire Department, insisted that firefighters were on
the scene two minutes after the department was notified at 3:42 A.M. by the
Suffolk police, who recorded the first 911 call at 3:38 A.M.

Detective Sgt. Robert P. Doyle of the Suffolk police homicide squad said that
the first fire units were on the scene at 3:44 A.M., that 67 firefighters
arrived within minutes and that 300, including members of departments from
nearby communities, were there before it was brought under control at 6:27 A.M.

Mr. O'Shaughnessy noted that the Huntington Manor firefighters, most of whom
were at home, were summoned simultaneously by a radio pager that directed them
to the fire scene or to the nearest fire station a quarter of a mile away. He
said there appeared to have been a delay in reporting the fire because the
flames had engulfed the house by the time the first units arrived.

"From what I've heard, the fire had a head start before we had a chance to do
anything," he said. "The volume of fire on arrival was extensive."

The police said 33 people were in the building when the fire broke out -- 10 in
a basement apartment, 5 each in two first-floor apartments and 6 and 7 in the
two second-floor apartments. Sergeant Doyle said the police would look into
reports that the house had been illegally subdivided and occupied.

"Thirty-three people living in the building is excessive," the sergeant said.
"The town is looking into violations. It was obviously a lot more people living
here than should be in a dwelling of that size."

The Suffolk County police arson and homicide squads were investigating because
fatalities occurred and because the fire's cause was unknown, according to
Officer Sonny Di Stefano, a police spokesman. This morning, First Assistant
Chief Charles Hoffmann said that the investigators considered the fire
suspicious.

It was unclear where the flames broke out. But Faustino Bonilla, who lived with
his family on the first floor, said he awoke to a strong odor of gas, then heard
an explosion and quickly gathered his wife and children and fled through the
gathering smoke and heat. Moments after he reached the street, he said, the
whole house burst into flames.

The causes of the deaths were to be determined by the Suffolk County Medical
Examiner in autopsies.

Elvancia Flores, 40, who suffered critical injuries, was airlifted to the
University Medical Center at Stony Brook. Thirteen other residents sustained
injuries that were described as not life-threatening. Ten were taken to
Huntington Hospital, 2 to North Shore Hospital at Plainview, and 1 to Stony
Brook.

Two Huntington Manor firefighters, Chris Manzanillo and Brian Winzer, were taken
to Huntington Hospital, where they were treated for smoke inhalation and
released.

The Red Cross said that those left homeless by the blaze were being put up at
the Deer Park Hotel in Commack, and neighbors and churches in the Huntington
Station area were taking up collections of food, clothing and money for the
victims.

A flier put out by a neighbor who identified herself only as Margarita said
contributions were being taken to send the bodies of Maria Chicas and her
daughter back to El Salvador. The flier said that donations could be sent to her
at 32 West Hills Road, and it listed her telephone number as (516) 421-0701.

Residents of the house said that Ms. Chicas had five children besides the one
who died -- one who lived with her and survived the blaze, and four living in El
Salvador.

Last night, as the fire-blackened building gaped open to the sky, some of the
victims were allowed to go back into the ruins to retrieve what possessions they
could find. One came out with a yellow piggy bank, another with remnants of
clothing, a third with singed and soggy photographs. Mr. Bonilla said, "I'm in
the street now, but at least my family came out all right."

Across the street, Ms. Field took in some of the victims and gave them food and
comfort. Others said the house that burned had been a terrible home for its
occupants -- a place where there was often no heat or hot water, where windows
were nailed shut to keep out the cold. But residents were afraid to complain,
neighbors said, because some were illegal aliens.

Jeff Lester, the manager of the building, which he said was one of several in
the area owned by Harvey Vengroff, a Florida resident, at first declined to
comment on whether the house had been illegally subdivided. Later, however, he
said, "I'm hearing rumors that it's not O.K., but I don't know for sure."

He said he had rented the building to five families, and that he believed there
were 27 occupants at the time of the fire, not 33. He also voiced regrets and
spoke of trying to help victims.

"We're going to pay for the funerals, and fly the bodies back to El Salvador,"
he said. "I have no idea what caused this, but I know all these people, and I'm
as distraught as anybody else." He said he had given each of the displaced
families $200 to meet emergency expenses.

Mr. Vengroff, who lives in Sarasota, Fla., said he had not visited his
properties in nine years. He said that the management company he employs,
Diamond Rock Realty, oversees rentals and maintenance. "I was stunned when I
heard that there were 30 or more people living there," he said last night. In
addition to providing the $200 to each family, Mr. Vengroff said that he would
try to find apartments for those who are now homeless.

It was the worst fire in Huntington Station since May 16, 1991, when flames
deliberately set by a 22-year-old security guard raced through a McCrory variety
store in the Walt Whitman Mall, killing two employees who were trapped and
injuring 28 others.

The guard, later convicted of arson and murder, admitted starting the fire by
tossing a lighted cigarette into a display of artificial flowers. He said he had
set three fires at the store so he could extinguish them and appear to be
efficient in his work. Two of the fires caused minor damage and no injuries, but
the third spread too swiftly to be controlled.

Huntington Station, 35 miles east of Manhattan in northwestern Suffolk County,
is a community of about 28,000 that is best known as the birthplace, on May 31,
1819, of the poet Walt Whitman.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Survivors of a house fire in Huntington Station, N.Y., tried to
salvage some of their possessions from the ruins of the house yesterday. The
fire killed three people in a house that held 33 Salvadoran immigrants.
(Associated Press)(pg. 54)

Map of New York shows location of Huntington Station: Huntington Station, site
of a deadly fire, is 35 miles from Manhattan. (pg. 54)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              267 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 2, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

IN BRIEF;
Push-In Robberies

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 7; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 289 words


The police in Port Chester are trying to track down Spanish-speaking robbers
who, they say, are entering apartments of immigrant laborers by force, tying up
the occupants and stealing their money. Six such incidents have occurred in the
village since last fall, Chief Joseph M. Krzeminski of the Port Chester Police
Department said.

He added that almost all of the victims are migrant workers -- "groups of men
living together in apartments, landscapers with no bank accounts and all that
they own on their person or in the apartment."

The robbers have forced their way into the apartments, sometimes posing as the
police. They have tied up their victims at gunpoint and ransacked apartments,
the chief said. Some of the victims have been beaten, and some have been taken
to the hospital with scalp lacerations.

The police said they believe the robbers are from Stamford and Bridgeport,
"although that is still just an intelligent guess at this point," Chief
Krzeminski said, without elaborating.

He also speculated that some victims -- who may be illegal aliens -- may not
have reported the crimes out of fear of deportation. He said the police are not
interested in the immigration status of the victims.

Sometimes the robbers have covered their victims' heads, and in one case, Chief
Krzeminski said, a victim jumped from a second-story window but was not injured.
"If someone covered my head, I would be concerned that they were going to shoot
me," the chief said. In all, the attackers have taken "tens of thousands of
dollars," Chief Krzeminski added.

Crime Stoppers has offered a reward of up to $5,000 for information leading to
an arrest. The number to call is (800) 898-8477. Callers may remain anonymous.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              268 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 3, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Arson Is Suspected in Fire That Killed 3 in Suffolk

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1008 words

DATELINE: HUNTINGTON STATION, N.Y., May 2


The early morning fire that killed three Salvadoran immigrants on Saturday and
left another fighting for his life appeared to have been deliberately set with
gasoline, law enforcement officials said today.

The police did not declare the fire the result of a criminal act, but
investigators at the scene said this afternoon that there was strong evidence of
arson.

As the investigation by Suffolk County homicide and arson detectives continued,
donations of cash, groceries, furniture, toys and other objects piled up amid
the ashes in front of the wood-frame building. The fire apparently started just
after 3:30 A.M., when some of the 34 residents reported being awakened by a
blast.

Housing advocates said today that Huntington Town officials had failed to act
over the years as hundreds of Central American immigrants have crowded into
illegal apartments created in basements, attics and garages with plywood and
sheets.

Town officials said the building was zoned only for commercial use, but the
landlord, Harvey Vengroff, said in an interview today that the building was
zoned for dual use and that the residences were legal.

Mr. Vengroff said the building, at 28 West Hills Road, near Jericho Turnpike,
had already been divided into five apartments when he bought it 25 years ago.
Mr. Vengroff, a millionaire who lives in Longboat Key, Fla., said he was not
aware that so many people were living there, and blamed tenants for violating
their leases, which he said limited each apartment to three residents.

The Suffolk police declined to provide further details today on the cause of the
fire, which was raging when the first volunteer firefighters from nearby
Huntington Manor arrived at 3:44 A.M., six minutes after the county police
recorded the first 911 call. (The Huntington Manor fire house is a quarter-mile
from the scene.) But one official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said
firefighters noticed a strong smell of gasoline in the building even after the
fire had been declared under control at 6:27 A.M.

The official said that, judging from the wreckage and from firefighters' and
survivors' accounts -- one resident described flames leaping at him when he
opened his apartment door -- the fire had apparently traveled up a flight of
stairs on the north side of the building. "It was like a chimney," the official
said of the wooden staircase, which burned quickly, the official said.

Most of the 34 residents, who had jobs like washing dishes and mowing lawns and
working in factories, managed to escape. But Maria Chicas, a 35-year-old cook at
a nearby bodega, and her daughter, Maria, 4, died in their upstairs apartment.
Their neighbor, Luis Cruz, 40, died in trying to escape through a second-story
window.

Another man, Elvancia Flores, 40, was burned on two-thirds of his skin and was
in critical but stable condition tonight at University Hospital and Medical
Center at Stony Brook, said Ellen Barohn, a hospital spokeswoman.

Most of the survivors spent today resting in a motel in Deer Park, where they
ate bagels provided by the Red Cross and began to contemplate how they would
begin to reassemble their lives.

A few, like Clemente Chicas, the brother of Maria Chicas, arrived in cars at the
scene, where neighbors, aid workers and passers-by milled about. Dozens of
people walked up or jumped out of cars and left bags of food, detergent, stuffed
animals and other gifts. One woman left a frozen turkey atop the pile,
admonishing bystanders to make sure it reached a refrigerator or a stove before
it spoiled.

Others, ignoring a hand-scrawled sign that read, "Please leave food and clothes
only here, thank you," quietly stuffed $10 and $20 bills inside the
charcoal-black remnant of a jewelry box. Kaitlyn Fry, 7, carefully set down a
plastic margarine container stuffed with her accumulated pocket change.

Officials and advocates for the poor said there were sure to be more fires and
deaths unless better solutions were found to the problem of illegal housing, not
only here but in other areas of Long Island that have attracted immigrants from
Central America, among them Port Washington, Brentwood, Glen Cove, Hempstead and
Riverhead.

Huntington officials said the burned building was zoned for offices, a store, or
some other commercial use. "No one should have been living there," said Frank
Petrone, the town supervisor. The town's small staff of 21 building and safety
inspectors make periodic visits to public gathering places like meeting halls,
restaurants and theaters, but not small commercial buildings, officials said.

"Unfortunately, illegal housing like this is all over Long Island," said Bruce
Richard, director of Huntington's Department of Public Safety.  "And when you
have a situation where landlords are taking advantage of undocumented aliens, it
makes our job all that much harder."

Mr. Vengroff, the landlord of the burned building, said he had not taken
advantage of tenants. He said that the town supervisor, Mr. Petrone, was
mistaken about the zoning and that the tenants were responsible for
overcrowding, because their leases were for fewer than than half the number who
were actually living there. He said he himself had lived there with his family
for two years in the 1970's.

"I bought it as a five-family," Mr. Vengroff said. "Nothing has been changed,
except that we changed the heating system and put new siding on it."

Town officials said the incident illustrated the problems of overcrowding and
immigrants' awareness of their rights.

"The aliens are afraid to come forward to report the terrible conditions they
are forced to live under because of the very nature of their undocumented
status," Mr. Richard said. "We circulate pamphlets written in Spanish urging
them to come forward anonymously, but they are still afraid to do so."

Mr. Richard said the town had closed down two illegal housing operations
recently, one in a private home and another in a commercial building that had
been converted into small apartment cubicles.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of Suffolk County showing the location of Huntington Station:
Huntington Station, site of a deadly fire, is 35 miles from Manhattan.

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              269 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 3, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

After Deadly Fire, Hard Lives Get Harder Still;
Obstacles Mount for Salvadorans, Alive but Homeless

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1626 words

DATELINE: DEER PARK, N.Y., May 2


For 14 months, ever since she swam across the Rio Grande to come to New York,
Ana Estela Lopez has lived in fear. Fear that the police may stop her and report
her to the immigration authorities because she had come to the country
illegally. Fear that she may lose her $5.55-an-hour job in a chocolate factory.
Fear that a car may run over her husband, who used to ride his bicycle to work
every day before it was stolen.

Any of those events would have shattered Ms. Lopez's version of the American
dream: the opportunity to save $40,000 in a few years to return to her country,
El Salvador, with enough money to open a clothing store and build a brick house
with three bedrooms and a white-tiled bathroom.

"Do you think that's too much?" asked Ms. Lopez, 36. "I don't know. Maybe I
dared to dream too much. I get carried away sometimes."

On her list of apprehensions, Ms. Lopez said, it never occurred to her to
include the fear of a raging fire. For in the end it was a fire, roaring through
her building before dawn Saturday, that derailed Ms. Lopez's careful plans. The
fire, which the authorities suspect was deliberately set, killed 3 of the 34
residents, including a 5-year-old girl, injured 16 others and left every
surviving tenant in the two-story building homeless.

The Red Cross took the survivors to the Deer Park Motor Inn, a nondescript motel
on Commack Road, where they will sleep tonight and perhaps another night, Red
Cross officials said. After that, it is not clear what will happen to the 30
survivors from 28 West Hills Road, many of them undocumented immigrants from El
Salvador who worked long hours washing dishes or mowing lawns to make ends meet
and send money home. The plight of Salvadoran immigrants is especially
difficult; for a long time, they and their advocates have argued, to no avail,
that they deserve legal residency because many of them came to the country as
refugees of United States-backed wars in Central America in the 1980's and early
90's. Many applied for political asylum years ago but are still awaiting
resolution of their cases.

Yet, except for a few moments of sadness when they remember the dead, the people
who are staying in the motel do not seem to despair over their fate. "God will
provide" is their mantra. Their experiences -- years of poverty, a devastating
war in their country and many months, in some cases years, of hard work in the
United States -- has made them resilient and reluctant to complain even after
tragedy.

"It is strange," Ms. Lopez said about her apparent lack of emotions, "but I've
seen worse."

Ms. Lopez, who lived in apartment No. 2 on the first floor with her husband and
a friend, arrived in New York in February of 1998, bruised and famished. A
friend had to nurse her back to health. Her legs and arms were infected, thorns
deeply embedded in her skin. Her toenails had been torn during a 49-day trip
from El Salvador to Houston, which included a hike through mountains for four
days and nights and a 16-hour ride inside a locked truck.

In Santa Maria Ostuma, her hometown, she left her 21-year-old daughter and a
2-year-old grandson. It is in part for their sake, Ms. Lopez said, that she
dared to come to the United States alone. She found work in a chocolate factory,
making $5.15 an hour -- subsequent raises have increased her salary by 40 cents
an hour. Her husband, Cristobal Vasquez, 37, joined her last August. Mr. Vasquez
works as a dishwasher from 4 P.M. to 2 or 3 A.M. every day to support his own
children, ages 14 and 8, and his parents, all of whom remain in El Salvador.
Between the two, they send $475 home every month.

Undocumented immigrants like him have little choice but to silently endure the
long hours, he said. "When it comes time to punch the clock at work," he said,
"those who have papers leave, and those who don't stay and work the long nights.
We never say no."

Ms. Lopez and Mr. Vasquez shared the $700 rent for their one-bedroom apartment
with a friend, 20-year-old Aracely Zelaya. They bought plywood and carved a room
for her out of the hallway and a section of the living room.

Together, the couple had been able to save $4,800, which Ms. Lopez kept in the
pocket of her one pair of good trousers, hanging in the closet. The fire
destroyed the pants and the money. The couple had not opened a bank account
because they do not have a Social Security number or any other paper that
identifies them as living and working in the United States.

"I know it doesn't sound like much to most people, but to us it is more than
we've ever had," Ms. Lopez said. "It was everything."

Homeland Difficulties

 Next door to them, in apartment 3, a couple with two children had carved an
extra room out of the living room to accommodate four men, relatives and
friends, who needed a place to stay after their long days at work. The four men
-- Reynaldo Giannis, 33; Arcides Bonilla, 17; Jose Oscar Bonilla, 18, and Irno
Acosta, 38 -- are from the same town in El Salvador, Canton Ocote, on the border
with Honduras, and work as dishwashers or busboys in a Greek restaurant in
Huntington Station.

The men shared the $600 rent while the couple, Faustino and Adoracion Bonilla,
paid for their grocery bills and all the utilities. That there was only one
bedroom was not a problem, they said. The men were never around long enough to
use it.

Everybody sent home large portions of their paychecks.

"People return to El Salvador telling stories of how jobs are plentiful here and
how everybody is well paid," Mr. Giannis said. "But it is not true.
Unfortunately, I didn't find out until I was here already."

Seven months after he arrived in New York three and a half years ago, Mr.
Giannis was run over by a car while he rode his bicycle to work. He was in a
coma for eight days. After 14 months of therapy, he was able to raise his right
arm up to his elbow. By now, he proudly reaches his nose.

But the accident left him incapacitated to work too hard and, therefore, unable
to send more than $200 a month to his family, a wife and three children, ages 8,
7 and 5.

"I'm thinking of returning home," Mr. Giannis said. "But it is unclear what I
will do there."

The return is difficult, Mr. Giannis said, because to pay part of the $5,500 it
cost him to come to the United States through the Mexican border, he sold the
family's only possession: three cows whose milk supplemented the family's diet
of rice, beans and corn. Besides, he said, with a weak arm, it is doubtful that
he can ever work the land again.

In the basement, the only apartment in the building large enough to accommodate
two bedrooms plus the addition of a third, lived a family of 11 people -- a
couple and their six children, one of whom is married and has two little girls
of her own, Roxana, 3, and Maritza, 18 months.

They had been living in the building for seven years, said Adelaida, the mother,
who declined to give her last name. The family was just getting used to life
together after 12 years of separation.

Adelaida's husband left El Salvador in 1987. She followed a year later.
Together, they started to bring their children, one at a time, as they saved the
$4,500 that smugglers charged to guide them from El Salvador to New York. The
last child, a 13-year-old boy, arrived two months ago. They paid $865 in rent,
which they found especially difficult these days with so many mouths to feed and
not enough jobs for everybody. Adelaida said her husband's factory closed last
month and he had not been able to find another job.

Responsibilities Left Behind

 When she thinks of complaining, though, she thinks of Maria Chicas, the
37-year-old woman from apartment 5 who died in the fire while trying to rescue
her 5-year-old daughter, Maria Aurora.

Ms. Chicas's brother, Clemente Chicas, paced in front of the charred building
yesterday, talking to anyone who would listen about how much he loved his
sister, the youngest in a family of seven.

He tried to save her, he said. He remembers hugging her burning body in the
darkened hallway and trying to get her to jump out the second-floor window. But,
at the last minute, she screamed, "Mi nina!" -- my girl! -- and ran off to get
her. The two died in the fire.

Ms. Chicas's other daughter, 1-year-old Agustina Elizabeth, escaped in the arms
of her father, Jose Pineda, who is not the father of Ms. Chica's six other
children. A friend who shared the apartment with the family, Paola Perla, who
had been in the country for only a few months and took care of the girls while
Ms. Chicas worked, jumped from the window too and survived.

Next door, in apartment 4, a 40-year-old man, Luis Cruz, jumped to his death.
But the people he lived with, Hector and Pilar Vasquez, their two boys, 8 and
10, and Elvancia Flores, a friend, survived. Mr. Flores, 40, remains in critical
condition at University Hospital and Medical Center at Stony Brook, with burns
that cover two-thirds of his body. Mr. Vasquez, 51, is also in the hospital with
an injured arm.

Mr. Chicas, 42, knows he is lucky to have survived practically unscathed.  He
pats his chest, where it hurts, and raises his shirt to show a big scratch from
the fall. But his heart hurts the most, he said, heavy with pain over his
sister's death and with worry over his new responsibilities.

Ms. Chicas left behind five children in El Salvador. Because she was their sole
provider, she sent them money every month from her job as a cook in a deli. Mr.
Chicas, who followed his sister to the United States so that he too could
support his family -- eight children and a wife -- said that his sister's
children are now his responsibility.

"I just have to work harder," he said, dry-eyed. "It's what I've always done."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Clemente Chicas, above, described his unsuccessful effort to
save his sister, Maria, who died trying to save her daughter. Neighbors and
friends left donations of food and other items yesterday in a heap at the fire
site. (Photographs by Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times)(pg. B1); Ana
Estela Lopez, left, and Aracely Zelaya, two of the survivors of the blaze on
Long Island that killed three immigrants in a crowded house. They and other
survivors are being put up in a nearby motel. Maria Chicas, 37, and her daughter
Maria Aurora, 5, were two of the people killed. Ms. Chicas died when she went
back to save her child. (Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times)(pg. B5)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              270 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 3, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Owner Says He Didn't Know 34 Were Living in House That Burned

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1056 words


Harvey Vengroff, the real estate developer who owns the Huntington Station,
N.Y., house where three people died in a suspicious fire over the weekend, said
yesterday that he had not known that 34 Salvadoran immigrants had been living in
the place, which he said he and his family called home in the mid-1970's.

"I was amazed to learn there were that many people living there," the
58-year-old multimillionaire businessman said in a telephone interview from his
home in Longboat Key, Fla. "Each of the five apartments was supposed to have no
more than three people. The leases say that."

He also insisted that he bore no responsibility for the fire, and felt
compassion for the survivors, who have been put up by the Red Cross at a motel
in nearby Deer Park, N.Y. "I intend to give each of the families their security
deposit and $1,000 until they find something else," he said. "I will help them
in any way I can, even though it is not a responsibility."

Huntington town officials said yesterday that the house that burned early
Saturday at 28 West Hills Road had been an illegal death trap for its tenants:
zoned C-6 for commercial use only, but illegally subdivided into apartments and
occupied by immigrants who could not complain of substandard conditions because
they feared being exposed as undocumented aliens.

But Mr. Vengroff, who retired recently as chief executive of the nation's
second-largest corporate collection agency and from active management of more
than 80 properties he owns, insisted that he had not subdivided the house, that
it was zoned for residential as well as commercial use and that it had been
properly maintained and legally leased to residential tenants.

"That property has split zoning -- multifamily in the back and commercial in the
front," Mr. Vengroff said. "When I bought it 25 years ago, it had five
residential apartments. I bought it as a five-family. Nothing has been changed,
except that we changed the heating system and put new siding on it."

Mr. Vengroff, who has owned or partly owned as many as 166 commercial and
residential properties, said he knew the house on West Hills Road well because
he and his family lived in one of its apartments for two years after he acquired
it.

While some survivors of the fire had described terrible living conditions --
periodic leaks, a lack of heat and hot water and other problems -- Mr. Vengroff
contended that the conditions were not substandard and that the tenants, who he
said paid an average of $650 for the apartments, had, by overcrowding, created
their own worst problems, besides violating the terms of their leases.

"That building was properly maintained," Mr. Vengroff said. "There were fire
alarms. It had oil heat. The plumbing and electric were all working fine. There
was nothing wrong with any of the apartments to the best of my knowledge. People
are suggesting that I'm a slumlord. That's not the case."

A quick survey of other Vengroff properties in the Huntington area yesterday
seemed to confirm his statement. Most were once one-family homes that had been
divided into apartments, and while they were not the sprightliest homes on their
blocks -- several needed paint jobs -- neither were they out of character.

At one, obviously run-down, plastic covered a cracked window and a woman who
answered the door withheld her name, though she said her family had been there
four years and paid $750 a month for a two-bedroom apartment. But at another,
more well-kept house, Madeline Feliciano said she had lived there 10 years and
had nothing but praise for her landlord. "That's not his fault," she said of the
crowded conditions at the home that burned.

Raised in the Huntington area, Mr. Vengroff attended Walt Whitman High School in
Huntington Station, graduated from C.W. Post College in 1963 with a degree in
premedical studies and enrolled in law school at the University of San Diego,
but did not finish. Instead, he began a janitorial supplies business, but got
into debt-collection when he became disgusted with his own nonpaying clients.

He began by collecting for individuals and small companies, and, as he told
Forbes magazine in a 1997 interview, he sometimes used a Great Dane and his own
fists to collect debts. It proved to be lucrative. With some of his profits, he
began buying older homes in the Town of Huntington, renovating them and renting
them out. His real estate and debt-collection businesses both prospered.

Like many successful businessmen, Mr. Vengroff often found himself fighting
lawsuits and charges by tenants, community groups and public officials who
accused him of being greedy, of violating building codes or zoning ordinances,
of endangering his workers or tenants. In Centerport, N.Y., for example, he
bought a boat yard in the harbor in 1984 and turned it into a busy marina that
clashed with the area's quiet ambience. A beach association sued him over
parking encroachments; he sued another group for allegedly libeling him, and
threatened to bring a navy of ugly houseboats, with their specter of raw sewage,
and alarmed residents further by saying he might bring in two supertankers he
had repossessed, or enormous railroad barges.

His flamboyant personal style also offended many. He owned a luxury car for
every day of the week; five boats, including a 64-foot ketch on which he often
sailed for months at a time. His various homes included one in Centerport, N.Y.,
where the actress Mary Pickford had once lived.

Over the years, his debt-collection company, Vengroff Williams & Associates,
established offices in Centerport, Mobile, Ala., Huntington Beach, Calif.,
Northbrook, Ill., and Sarasota, Fla. It also switched to collecting corporate
debts for major clients, including I.B.M., Nextel Communications, Sun
Microsystems and Nynex, insurers like Geico and Prudential and major utilities.

Last year, the Standard & Poor's Register of Corporations reported that the
company -- 40 percent of it owned by Mr. Vengroff -- had about 250 employees and
national sales of $350 million. Married, the father of five children, Mr.
Vengroff said he sold his interest to his employees and retired about two months
ago, and turned over the management of his remaining properties to Diamond Rock
Realty, of Huntington.

"I'm not active in anything now," he said.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              271 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 4, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Police Are Said to Have a Suspect In Long Island Fire That Killed 3

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 855 words


HUNTINGTON STATION, N.Y., May 3 -- A fire that destroyed a two-story house here
Saturday and killed three of the 34 immigrants living in it was apparently set
by a man who had been having a dispute with one of the tenants, officials close
to the investigation said today.

Investigators are said to have determined that the blaze was not only arson, but
also homicide, since it killed Maria Chicas, 35, and her daughter, Maria, 4, and
Luis Cruz, 37. The Chicases and Mr. Cruz lived in separate apartments on the
second floor of the wood building, at 28 West Hills Road.

The police were said to know the name of the intended victim, a man who lived in
the building, and the identity of the man with whom he had been feuding. It was
not yet known what the dispute was about, officials said, but investigators were
attempting to locate the suspect.

Detective Lieut. John Gierasch, chief of the Suffolk County homicide squad,
declined to comment on the investigation earlier today, saying through a
spokesman that the cause of the fire had not yet been determined. But officials
said late this afternoon that there would be an announcement once an arrest was
made.

Arson investigators who gathered evidence from the charred remains of the
building on Saturday and Sunday said they strongly suspected arson because they
could smell gasoline fumes. They said there were indications that gasoline had
been poured on the stairwell leading from the entrance of the five-apartment
building to the second floor.

In addition to the three people killed in the fire, 16 residents were injured,
and 10 of them were taken to hospitals. Victor Flores, 41, remained in critical
but stable condition today at the University Medical Center at Stony Brook.
Hector Vasquez, 51, was reported in stable condition at the same hospital. The
eight other victims who were rushed from the scene of the fire to North Shore
University Hospital in Plainview and Huntington Hospital were treated for slight
injuries and released, a hospital spokeswoman said.

Several victims of the fire fled the scene, officials said, because they were
illegal aliens from El Salvador and feared arrest and deportation.

"It is difficult to reassure them that they will not be turned over to
immigration officials," said George Hoffman, a spokesman for the Town of
Huntington. He said that the town's department of human services had been
working with the local chapter of the American Red Cross to make certain that
the fire victims were provided temporary housing until more permanent lodgings
could be found.

"At least 15 of them have registered with human services and know they can get
help if they need it," Mr. Hoffman said.

He said that this morning the owner of the burned building, Harvey Vengroff,
gave each of the displaced families $200 in cash and returned the $1,000
deposits they had made on their apartments. Rents on the apartments ranged from
$600 to $800 a month.

Mr. Hoffman said that the money was given to the victims by Mr. Vengroff's son,
Joseph, of Centerport, and the property manager, Jeffrey Lester, at the Deer
Park Motor Inn on Commack Road where Mr. Vengroff has been paying the cost of
the victims' motel rooms.

Mr. Hoffman said that Mr. Vengroff had also paid for airline tickets for two of
the victims to return to El Salvador and had promised to pay for the funerals of
the three people who died and for the return of their bodies to El Salvador.

Mr. Vengroff, 58, who lives in Longboat Key, Fla., has insisted that the
building had been well maintained. He said he was shocked to learn that more
than three people had been living in each of the five apartments. Between 5 and
7 tenants were living in each apartment on the first and second floor, and there
were 10 in a basement apartment, according to investigators.

Mr. Vengroff has denied any responsibility for the fire, and insists that the
building was zoned for residential use. Huntington records show it was zoned as
commercial and should not have been used for housing.

Mr. Hoffman said the Huntington chapter of the Red Cross had quickly sent an
ambulance to the scene of the fire around 3:30 A.M. Saturday and that the Red
Cross had opened a file on each of the survivors, who can return for help
whenever needed.

He said the town had also reached out to the Hispanic Family Institute, which is
part of the Family Service League, a private not-for-profit services agency. "We
want them to tell us if there is anything more we should be doing to help these
people," Mr. Hoffman said.

Clemente Chicas, a survivor of the fire, paced in front of the ruins of the
building this afternoon, showing a photograph of his sister and her daughter,
who died in the fire. He said that he tried to get his sister to jump from a
second-floor window, but that she went back to look for her daughter and never
returned.

The windows of the building are now covered with plywood. The partly burned
belongings of the tenants are in a pile to the right of the boarded entrance. A
piece from a white baby crib sits atop the pile, next to a small pink tricycle.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              272 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 6, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

BASEBALL;
'Tardy' Cubans Return Home

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 358 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 5


Six former baseball players from Cuba who missed a flight on Tuesday carrying a
Cuban delegation back to the island returned home today after assuring officials
they were leaving the United States voluntarily, a Government spokesman said.

A Cuban pitching coach who chose not to go back was interviewed by immigration
officials about his request for asylum.

Don Mueller, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
confirmed that six Cubans were interviewed by I.N.S. officials and said that no
Cuban diplomats were present at the time. "All assured the I.N.S. that their
return to Cuba was voluntary," Mueller said.

The six said they overslept on Tuesday morning and missed the dawn flight from
Baltimore-Washington International Airport that carried more than 300 of their
compatriots home, including a team of all-stars that beat the Baltimore Orioles
in an exhibition game Monday night.

Few details emerged today about the status of Rigoberto Herrera Betancourt, the
Cuban pitching coach who defected after Monday night's game. Except to say that
the I.N.S. interviewers conferred with him, officials declined additional
comment. His precise whereabouts was not disclosed. At some point, officials
said they expected that his request for political asylum would be granted.

Herrera, 54, a former pitcher, wandered the streets of downtown Baltimore much
of early Tuesday after the game before turning up at a police station at 10 A.M.
and asking for asylum, The Baltimore Sun reported today.  Luis Fernandez, a
spokesman for the Cuban diplomatic mission in Washington, said the Cuban
Government would facilitate communication between Herrera and his family on the
island. Herrera reportedly has a former wife and children there. United States
officials promised to pass on messages between Herrera and his family.

As for the six who flew home today, Fernandez said he was caught by surprise
when a reporter told him the group had been interviewed by I.N.S. agents at the
airport. Fernandez said it would be a provocation for the interviews to have
taken place without previous communication with Cuban officials.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              273 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 8, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW YORK;
Ruling Allows U.S. To Try Follower of Sheik

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 231 words


A Federal judge in Brooklyn refused yesterday to drop an indictment against an
Egyptian man whose lawyer had claimed that he was being unfairly prosecuted
because of his political and religious associations.

The ruling, by Judge Carol B.  Amon of Federal District Court, clears the way
for a trial of the man, Nasser K. Ahmed, a follower of Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman,
the cleric convicted in 1995 in a conspiracy to blow up landmarks in New York
City.

Mr. Ahmed has been involved in a bitter three-year battle with the Immigration
and Naturalization Service over its attempts to deport him based on classified
information that the agency refuses to make public. In that case, which is
pending, Mr. Ahmed has been detained without bond for more than three years.

A Federal grand jury indicted Mr. Ahmed in December on charges of making false
statements in a decade-old immigration matter; with yesterday's ruling, he now
faces trial in June. The case involved an application from Mr. Ahmed for
residency status under a special program for farm workers.

Roger L. Stavis, who is representing Mr. Ahmed in the false-statements case,
said his client had been the victim of selective prosecution because of his
links to Mr. Abdel Rahman.

Herbert Hadad, a spokesman for Mary Jo White, the United States Attorney in
Manhattan, said there would be no comment on the ruling.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              274 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 8, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

More Kosovo Refugees Reach U.S.

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 347 words

DATELINE: FORT DIX, N.J., May 7


An additional 407 ethnic Albanians, among more than a million pushed out of
their homes in Kosovo by Serbian security forces, arrived at this training camp
turned immigration center today.

The newcomers appeared more exhausted than exhilarated by their journey to a new
life so far from home. Some hobbled down the steps of the blue-and-white Boeing
747 charter plane that brought them here, and a toddler burst into tears upon
seeing an American soldier on the runway.

Most of the refugees who arrived today, like the first group of 453 Kosovar
Albanians who arrived Wednesday, are beginning a lonely journey. They do not
have relatives in the United States and will remain at Fort Dix for weeks.

Serb forces stripped many Albanians of their identity documents before expelling
them and threatened them with death if they return to their homes, the refugees
here said. As today's newcomers stepped off the buses that brought them here
from nearby McGuire Air Force Base, those refugees who arrived on Wednesday
crowded toward them, searching for friends and relatives. Several embraced the
new arrivals.

The refugees are being housed in barracks outfitted to accommodate families,
with rows of iron beds and lockers that remain largely empty of personal
belongings. Today, many of the families who arrived Wednesday spoke with
reporters, while children played in a field dotted with swing sets and a
volleyball net.

While the parents and teen-agers seemed shaken, describing shooting sprees and
terror at the hands of masked Serbian soldiers and paramilitaries, the children
smiled and called out "Hello."

While the refugees are at Fort Dix, immigration inspectors will screen them to
make sure they are, indeed, refugees from Kosovo and have no criminal records,
while doctors examine them.

Afterward, resettlement agencies are expected to find housing for them, and help
them find jobs and schools for their children.

Donna Shalala, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, said the United
States would spend up to $100 million caring for the refugees.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: As Kosovo refugees hobbled off a plane at McGuire Air Force Base
yesterday, a toddler burst into tears upon seeing a soldier. (Keith Meyers/The
New York Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              275 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 12, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Taking Cash to Honduras Is Killed

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 753 words

DATELINE: LEVITTOWN, N.Y., May 11


A 37-year-old immigrant who was on his way home to Honduras to take money he had
saved to his wife and two children was shot and killed here early Monday. The
police believe that the attack may have been planned.

The victim, Daniello Martinez, who worked at the Townhouse Diner in Bethpage,
N.Y., for the last 18 months, was carrying what was believed to be several
thousand dollars in cash in an envelope when he was attacked and killed by two
gunmen in a fast-paced assault that the police said looked like a setup.

Mr. Martinez left his apartment on Amber Lane here around 4:30 A.M. and was
picked up by a friend in an olive-green van. They headed for Kennedy
International Airport, where Mr. Martinez was to catch a flight to Honduras.

The van had traveled less than 150 yards down Amber Lane when it developed a
flat tire. His friend, who was driving, pulled the van over to the curb and Mr.
Martinez got out and began gathering tools to change the tire. Suddenly, two
gunmen appeared from a nearby driveway.

"The two guys appeared from nowhere," the friend later told investigators,
according to Sgt. William Cocks of the Nassau County homicide squad. "They had a
heated exchange of words with Martinez, shot him numerous times all over his
body with two different guns, then ran off into the dark."

The driver of the van, who was not injured and was not identified by the police,
told investigators that the two gunmen fled in a dark vehicle parked about a
block away on Amber Lane.  An ambulance rushed Mr. Martinez to the Nassau County
Medical Center, where he died of multiple gunshot wounds at 6:30 A.M.

"Suffice it to say, we think we're looking at a murder-robbery," Sergeant Cocks
said. "Money might have been the motive, but we're not sure yet."

Investigators said that at least two bullets had been recovered from the scene,
along with nearly $4,000 in cash from inside the van.

Sergeant Cocks said it was not known how much money Mr. Martinez was carrying,
but co-workers believed that it was several thousand dollars. He said it was not
yet clear whether the gunmen fled with any of the cash or other items Mr.
Martinez may have been taking to Honduras.

In addition to his own money, Mr. Martinez was carrying $4,000 to Honduras for a
friend, the police said.

Sergeant Cocks said that the friend who was giving Mr. Martinez a ride to the
airport was not a suspect. He also said the police were trying to determine what
caused the van tire to go flat.

Neighbors who lived in the single-family homes along Amber Lane told
investigators that they called 911 after being awakened by a series of popping
sounds and angry voices.

"We think we live in a safe area," said one neighbor, Rosemary Sanabria, who
lives on Amber Lane. "But I guess no place is absolutely 100 percent safe."

Mr. Martinez split his time between Long Island and Honduras. Mr. Martinez would
work at the diner for six months or a year or more and then go home to his
family in Honduras for a while, Sergeant Cocks said. Sometimes he would take
money home and sometimes he would send it, Sargeant Cocks added.

Co-workers at the Townhouse Diner said Mr. Martinez had been moving back and
forth for three years.

Joseph Abraham, who owns the Townhouse Diner, described Mr. Martinez as a "good
and decent person." He said that Mr. Martinez had worked as a cook's helper for
almost a year and a half and that this was his second extended leave. He said he
had expected that Mr. Martinez would remain in Honduras with his family for
about six months before returning to work at the diner.

"He was one of the best employees we had," Mr. Abraham said. "He was a very hard
worker. This is a very sad tragedy."

Nadia Marin, a lawyer for the Workplace Project in Hempstead, a nonprofit
organization that helps Hispanic workers in Nassau and Suffolk Counties, said it
was not unusual for immigrants like Mr. Martinez who save up large sums of cash
to become victims.

"This cash makes them a target of robbers and all kinds of scams," Ms. Marin
said.

She recalled that several families of Salvadoran immigrants recently made
homeless by a fire that quickly engulfed a house in Huntington Station lost
thousands of dollars in savings that they had hidden in their mattresses.

"While a bank account and bank checks would be a safer way to save and transfer
large sums of money, most immigrants would just rather hold on to it," Ms. Marin
said. "Their whole world is based on cash, and that makes them vulnerable."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              276 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 15, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Gaiman Journal;
Just Think of It as a Little Wales With Cactuses

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1001 words

DATELINE: GAIMAN, Argentina, May 11


When guests arrive at the Hosteria Gwesty Tywi, a local bed-and-breakfast, Gwyn
and Monica Jones pass around a gourd of mate, the potent herbal tea that
Argentines drink communally to establish friendship.

Mr. Jones, 36, a recent immigrant from Wales, has picked up better than passable
Spanish, developed a taste for beef and taken to drinking more wine and less
beer.

"He's very Argentine," Mrs. Jones, 38, who though born here is of Welsh
immigrant stock, said with a laugh. "And I am very Argentine, too."

But the Joneses speak Welsh with each other and with their 2-year-old son,
Macsen. And in a twist on Argentina's history of repeated waves of European
immigration, they have set up a Web site in Welsh and Spanish in which they
advertise their lodging and chronicle how the English stole the Celtic crown
from the Welsh at the turn of the 14th century.

"Every day," Mr. Jones said, "someone from Wales is faxing, E-mailing, phoning
or arriving here. Gaiman is a Welsh home away from home."

It was the desolation of this windswept corner of Patagonia, where the land and
even the cactuses are dry and cracked, that attracted 153 hardy Welsh shepherds
and coal miners here in 1865. Colonists kept arriving in central Patagonia until
the eve of World War I, as word got back to Wales that Argentina was a place
that welcomed the Welsh.

The Chubut Valley colonists' goal was to gain some measure of independence from
the English, speak their native Welsh without interference and let their
identity blossom.

The original colonists accomplished all that, and more, in establishing a
lasting cultural enclave with roots deep enough to defend against time and
assimilation.

This is a town of low mud-brick houses trimmed with ivy, of Protestant churches
marked by signs in an ancient language that only 600,000 people in the world
speak today. The place has become a beacon for Welsh people from the British
Isles and the United States. And the lyricism and practical lessons of Celtic
folklore, fables and poetry have attracted the interest of a growing number of
Argentines who have no Welsh ancestors at all.

Welsh is taught in the local public schools, and learning Welsh is becoming the
fashionable thing to do for adults here and in neighboring towns -- even among
the non-Welsh.

Community festivals known as eisteddfod, which are marked by friendly
competitions of choir singing and recitations of Welsh poetry, are attracting
Argentine visitors and tourists from all over Patagonia and even from as far
away as Buenos Aires. In recognition of the melding of cultures, tango contests
have been added to the festivities.

At a local school this week, eight Gaiman teen-agers spent a morning around two
tables attaching pseudonyms to children's drawings to be judged at an
eisteddfod. Although only two students were of Welsh descent, four are taking
Welsh language classes, and all said Welsh cultural activities were the center
of their social lives.

"Without Welsh, Gaiman would be boring," said Romina Urios, 17.

Carlos Blasetti, a 27-year-old Welsh-language teacher who was supervising the
youths, said: "As cultures around the world become more and more homogenized,
what we are doing here is very important. If you don't go back to your roots,
you lose your identity."

The Welsh renaissance here began in 1965, on the 100th anniversary of the first
Welsh landing in Patagonia on board the ship Mimosa. Cultural interchanges with
the old country were started, and the eisteddfod, not held in decades, were
re-established.

The next breakthrough came in 1991, when retired Welsh teachers began to come to
give language courses. The practice has been stepped up in recent years, with
younger teachers staying for a year or more, on full-time salaries ultimately
paid for by British taxpayers.

Juan Carlos Davis, 28, an administrator at the local government pension office
whose father was of Welsh descent, recalled the moment eight years ago when he
was working in a grocery store and a retired teacher from Wales came up to him.

"After asking what was my last name," Mr. Davis said, "he asked me why I didn't
speak Welsh. It was as if he stabbed me in the back. Then, when he invited me to
join him, of course I said yes."

Today, after dedicating himself to several years of language study, Mr. Davis
teaches Welsh to other adults in his spare time.

"It's hard to explain what the attraction is," he said. "But I'm noticing that
my generation and even more those younger than us have this urge to find our
roots."

In 1992, 60 Argentines in and around Gaiman took Welsh lessons. That number has
increased to more than 200 students today. Although no survey has been taken, an
estimated half of the 5,000 people in Gaiman speak at least some Welsh and 20
percent can carry on more complex conversations. And fluency, once common only
among the elderly, is on the rise.

A recent adult Welsh class in Gaiman, in which two students and their teacher
worked on verbs while translating a simple story about a tranquil Welsh lake in
summer, was a mix of good fun and serious study, but also food for the soul.

For one of the students, Irma Sara da Graca, a 64-year-old retired teacher,
taking Welsh lessons since 1992 has been an opportunity "to discover the genes
of the grandmother I never knew."

She added: "My life has been so enriched, because I identify with this culture.
Why? Don't ask. It's something special."

Welsh spoken in Argentina has evolved little in a century and a half. But the
Patagonian Welsh has a few modifications, some of which have added poetry.

"Awrlais," the Spanish Welsh word for clock, for instance, literally means "the
voice of the hour." A teacher from Wales said she had never heard the word
before she came here.

"The flourishing of our language is like the Welsh legend of the red dragon,"
said Mrs. Jones, the lodge owner. "Every time it fought the white dragon, it
would disappear, only to return and flourish again."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thanks to hardy colonists who started arriving in 1865, Welsh is
alive and well in Gaiman, Patagonia, where Ana Pinciroli, left, and Irma Sara da
Graca, right, learn the language from Sandra Day. (Horacio Paone for The New
York Times)

Map of Argentina showing the location of Gaiman: In Gaiman, Welsh colonists
built a home away from home.

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              277 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 18, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

CRISIS IN THE BALKANS;
U.N. Team Arrives to Study Kosovars' Plight

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 239 words

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, May 17


A United Nations mission has arrived here on its way to Kosovo, where it hopes
to establish the fate of tens of thousands of refugees in the Serbian province.

Headed by the Under Secretary General for Emergency Relief, Sergio Vieira de
Mello, the 13-member team plans to spend two to three days in Kosovo, despite
NATO's refusal to guarantee its safety.

"We cannot wait for a settlement of the problem to assist the immense need of
the people inside Kosovo," Mr. Vieira de Mello said at a news conference.

NATO supported the mission and had given assurances, but not guarantees, for its
safety, he added. NATO had advised the group to give 48 hours' notice of its
itinerary, to use clearly marked vehicles and to travel only by day.

"Many say this mission is madness," Mr. Vieira de Mello said.

A United Nations official said none of the parties had welcomed the mission. The
Yugoslav Government, which will escort the mission throughout, had nevertheless
promised a certain flexibility, Mr. Vieira de Mello said. The mission had also
informed the Kosovo Liberation Army of its plans, and it awaited a response.

The main aim is to review civilians' conditions like shelter, food and health,
as well as human rights. "Human rights are everything," Mr. Vieira de Mello
said.

One objective is to find people reportedly taking refuge in the hills, he said,
but he conceded that such work would be extremely difficult.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              278 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 20, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

NEWS WATCH;
Where Miss Liberty Welcomed Huddled Masses, Now on CD

BYLINE: By Michel Marriott

SECTION: Section G; Page 3; Column 4; Circuits

LENGTH: 101 words


Just as Ellis Island was the port of entry for millions of immigrants, South
Peak Interactive in Cary, N.C., is hoping that its new CD-ROM, The Ellis Island
Experience, will be the port of entry for millions of computer users when it is
released next year.

The CD-ROM, created with the help of the History Channel and the Statue of
Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation, contains images of hundreds of artifacts, newly
released documents and photographs. There are also three hours of audio from the
Ellis Island Oral History project as well as a 3-D virtual tour of the island
and lots of video.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              279 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 22, 1999, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Something Out of Kafka

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 752 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Bonnie Blackwell is a Canadian scientist, the inventor of a new technology for
dating ancient objects. She was in New York earlier this year when her mother
became fatally ill in Canada. This is the story of how employees of the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service kept her from seeing her mother before
she died.

Ms. Blackwell is married to an American, Joel Blickstein, a New York City high
school teacher. She has what is called a trade Nafta visa, which entitles her to
work in the United States on her specialty. And she has a U.S. National Science
Foundation grant for that work.

Last October her husband applied to bring her in as a relative. They sent their
documents to the I.N.S. office in New York. They got a letter back from an
I.N.S. office in Vermont saying they needed also to apply for a change in her
visa status to permanent resident: the holder of a green card. It took them more
than a month to find out, in many telephone calls, how to do that. They filed in
February.

Meanwhile Ms. Blackwell, who was in New York, made a visit to Canada to do
research at McMaster University. On her way back to the U.S., a border agent
warned her that once she had applied for a green card, she should not leave the
United States for Canada again without first getting "advance parole," a form
I-130. If she failed to get that, she could be barred from re-entering the U.S.
for years.

Ms. Blackwell spent many hours on the telephone finding out how to get form
I-130. She waited on hold for as long as two hours. In February she mailed the
application to the Vermont I.N.S. office. She got a form back saying it should
go not there but to "the appropriate office." After two more days of telephoning
she found out that that was New York.

In April Ms. Blackwell learned that her mother, who was 90 years old, was dying
of cancer. The I-130 form said processing it would take 30 days. It was more
than that since she had filed, so she made a series of fruitless telephone calls
to the I.N.S. in New York to see what was happening.

On April 22 Ms. Blackwell went to the I.N.S. office in New York. After waiting
in line for hours, she reached a woman who slapped a paper on the counter
saying, "It will now take 75 days to process an I-130." When Ms. Blackwell said
her mother was dying, the woman said: "The only thing we accept over the counter
is proof that there has been a death in the family. Anything else has to be done
by mail." Ms. Blackwell went home and sent an Express Mail letter.

Her mother died on Saturday, April 24. On Monday, Ms. Blackwell got the death
certificate and went back to the I.N.S. office. After waiting in line, she got
to the counter at 11:30 -- to be told that she had to be there by 11. But
another I.N.S. man said he would see what could be done.

She sat in the dank, overcrowded waiting room until 4:30 in the afternoon. Then
another I.N.S. person called her name and told her, "We've lost your papers;
you'll have to come back tomorrow."

The funeral was the next day. That morning at 9, Ms. Blackwell put in a new
I-130 application. At 2:30 P.M. she was told, "We don't have your pictures --
we've lost your entire file." She went downstairs to a photo shop and got
pictures of herself. At 4:45 she was given the form I-130.

"It took me two days to recover enough to drive to Canada," Ms. Blackwell said
when I spoke to her. "Every week my mother would ask, 'When are you going to
come home and see me? I want to see you one more time before I die.'

"I don't understand it. The I.N.S. presents a horrible view of America, nasty
and heartless. And individually Americans are so nice -- they do all sorts of
wonderful things for you."

I asked I.N.S. headquarters for a comment on Ms. Blackwell's case. Bill Yates,
deputy executive associate commissioner, telephoned me and said the New York
office had told him Ms. Blackwell had not filed correctly. But he did not stop
there. At my suggestion he talked with Ms. Blackwell on the telephone. Then he
called me back.

"I believe every word she said," Mr. Yates told me. "I feel terrible for what
happened. This is a woman who followed the rules. We failed her.

"I told her we had plans under way to improve training and to set up a national
service center, with an 800 number where you can talk to someone within 15
seconds."

Bill Yates was impressive. But it will be hard to change the culture that too
many people encounter at the I.N.S.: a culture of indifference and hostility.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              280 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 23, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

America's Promise, Found in the Army;
To More Immigrant New Yorkers, A Better Life Begins in Uniform

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1468 words


It was only four years ago that Fernando De Souza and his family arrived in New
York from Lima, Peru. Mr. De Souza, the eldest of four children, scrambled to
learn English at John Bowne High School in Flushing, Queens, kept his grades in
the high 80's, and dreamed of studying medicine in college.

But disappointments quickly tumbled in: A guidance counselor questioned whether
he could succeed in a pre-med program. And Mr. De Souza's father, a condominium
maintenance worker, could hardly afford college tuition in any case. Mr. De
Souza never bothered to apply. Instead, he enlisted in the Army.

Mr. De Souza, 17, plans to head off to basic training in Oklahoma by summer's
end, and after training hopes to join an artillery unit. It was not the lure of
being a soldier that changed his mind -- it was the regular paycheck and the
Army's promise of $19,000 for college. Mr. De Souza plans to send his first few
paychecks -- $800 a month -- back home to help his family with the rent. He
hopes to take college courses near the Army base and eventually graduate from
the Brooklyn campus of Long Island University.

"I don't like shooting people and stuff like that," Mr. De Souza said. "I
thought I had to work for college, pay for my education. I didn't think I was
going to be able to take that. That's why I thought the Army was the best
decision."

Because many more high school graduates have been heading directly to college or
landing jobs in New York City's booming economy in recent years, military
recruiters say persuading young men and women to enlist is harder than ever. But
for more and more immigrants, even legal residents who are not yet citizens, the
military has come to represent a step up the American social ladder, much as it
has long been for working-class youths born here.

At the Army station in Flushing, where Mr. De Souza signed up, officials
estimate that half the recruits today are immigrants -- youngsters from India
and Korea, Jamaica and Guyana. About a third of the recruits from New York City,
where 13 percent of the children under 18 were born outside the United States,
hold green cards.

Nationwide, the percentage of immigrants in the Army is still small: about 5
percent last year, up from 2 percent a decade ago. But Army officials say they
believe that the children of immigrants, too, are enlisting in greater numbers.
Since they do not keep statistics on immigrants who are naturalized citizens,
that belief is supported not by hard numbers but by anecdotal evidence and by
inference based on such signs as the growth in the percentage of Hispanic
soldiers. More than 10 percent of the roughly 70,000 recruits in fiscal year
1998, for instance, were Hispanic, up from 4 percent in 1987. The Secretary of
the Army, Louis Caldera, is himself the Texas-born son of Mexican immigrants.

At the Flushing station, Hojin Pak, 17, a Korean-American who immigrated at age
4, said he signed up for the Army because his parents could not afford to send
him to the State University of New York at Buffalo, where he had been accepted.
In the fall, he will be stationed in Virginia and work as a logistics
specialist. He said he hoped that his stint would help pay for college and earn
him a measure of self-confidence.

Amos Dobrowski, who was born in Poland before the fall of Communism, said he
enlisted because he did not want to subject his parents to financial hardship.
In exchange for $50,000 for college, Mr. Dobrowski, 17, who once dreamed of
going to culinary school, has agreed to a four-year assignment in Fort Hood,
Tex., where he will be a tank gunner.

Margaret Rodriguez, a Dominican immigrant at John Bowne High School who wanted
to study law at George Washington University, said she signed up because no one
else was offering what Sgt. Marc Ross, a recruiter in the Flushing station, did:
$50,000 for college.

So Ms. Rodriguez, a strong-willed, serious 17-year-old with a delicate coif of
curls, will spend the next four years as an Army chemical operations specialist,
testing for toxic chemicals on the battlefield and, she hopes, attending evening
classes at a college near her base.

Talking to Sergeant Ross one afternoon earlier this year "opened a whole new
world," she said.

It is that glimpse of opportunity, Sergeant Ross said, that explains the Army's
appeal to young people -- not only to native New Yorkers like him, but also to
the immigrants of Queens. As he trolls for potential recruits, he peppers them
with questions: Do you have any major health problems? Are you a high school
graduate?

And then he adds: Were you born in this country? If not, do you have a green
card?

The sergeant, a jovial, fast-talking man with a close military haircut and a
pencil-thin mustache, grew up in Bushwick, Brooklyn, and now lives with his wife
and their three sons on the Army base in Fort Hamilton, Brooklyn. When he was
the age of his young immigrant recruits, Sergeant Ross, 30, said, his world was
actually not all that different from theirs. He was not exactly brimming with
patriotic fervor as a teen-ager. All he wanted after high school was a good job
and a way to provide for his girlfriend, now his wife. When a recruiter told him
that the Army could help him do just that, he signed up.

He said he often wondered how many of his old friends were in jail, or dead. He
still sees some of them hanging out on street corners, he said, and his
conversations with them usually go like this:

"Why don't you join the Army?" he asks.

"No, man, I don't want to join the Army," they reply. "You got $20?"

Today, even though the Army is smaller than it was a decade ago, finding
soldiers has never been harder, recruiters said. In New York City, they said, it
has become harder to attract young people with a high school diploma (the Army
can take a few with only equivalency degrees) and without a criminal record.
Even among high school graduates, finding applicants who can pass the military
entrance exam is a formidable challenge, recruiters said.

And then there is the challenge of competing with the lure of a college
education. Compared with previous generations, many more high school graduates
are going to college.  One recent morning Sergeant Ross went recruiting at La
Guardia Community College. On campus, Sergeant Ross passed a young man dressed
in camouflage pants. "You want the whole suit?" he asked.

"Nah," came the nonchalant reply.

Sergeant Ross pointed to a table where young men were playing cards. "That's
what college is all about -- playing," he said, barely hiding his contempt.

Down the hall, he ran into Brandon Baxter, a student he has been trying to
recruit for months, and resumed the hard sell.

Deeply ambivalent about joining the Army, Mr. Baxter, 20, is ambitious and
thoughtful. He said he wanted to be like the billionaire investor, Warren E.
Buffett. "Rich people inspire me," he said. "Maybe 'cause I'm broke."

Sergeant Ross reminded Mr. Baxter that the Army was a $64 billion business, and
that jobs in finance were available to candidates like him.

Mr. Baxter told Sergeant Ross that he wanted to move out of his mother's
apartment and was thinking about taking the Army test soon.  Sergeant Ross
pressed him to act before it was too late -- before he ended up with a criminal
record. Mr. Baxter insisted that he was not involved in criminal activity.
Sergeant Ross simply shrugged and reminded him of Amadou Diallo. "He probably
wasn't into anything either," he said.

Sergeant Ross is much like his recruits in focusing on the security of Army
life, rather than its rigors. Many of the young men and women who have signed up
at the Flushing recruiting station say they give little thought to the dangers
they may face in the Army or the violence of combat.

Mr. De Souza, for instance, said that even though his mother cried for him every
time she saw television reports about the war in Yugoslavia, he was confident
that he would not be in danger. "I'm not scared about that," he said.

Assembled at the recruiting station one afternoon last week, the newest recruits
from Flushing reflected on the lives they will be starting soon.

Lnu Geevarghese, 18, an Indian immigrant, said he knew that combat could be part
of the bargain. "It's your job to defend," he said. "Obviously, you have to be
prepared."

That evening, Mr. Dobrowski said the war in Yugoslavia had prompted him to think
long and hard about serving the United States Government. He became an American
citizen two years ago. "I'm seeing it as another Holocaust," he said. "It's good
they're helping the people."

But he was also a bit cynical about the American military action. "From
history," said Mr. Dobrowski, who plans to major in the subject, "I see they get
interested where they have an interest."



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Immigrants are increasingly drawn to Army service. From left on
the couch, Hojin Pak and Tony Ham, Korean-Americans, and Amos Dobrowski, a
Polish-American, listened to Sgt. Nathan Thompson, a recruiter in Queens.
Fernando De Souza, 17, whose family left Lima, Peru, for New York four years
ago, recently enlisted in the Army with an eye toward paying for college.
(Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              281 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 26, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Khrushchev's Son Seeks To Become American

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 120 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE, May 25


The son of Nikita Khrushchev is taking the step to become an American citizen.

Sergei Khrushchev, 63, and his wife, Valentina Golenko, are scheduled to take
the citizenship exam on June 23 at the Immigration and Naturalization Service
regional headquarters in St. Albans, Vt., said Dan Danilov, Mr. Khrushchev's
immigration lawyer, in Seattle.

"I thought about this decision and I had the freedom to make this decision," Mr.
Khrushchev said on Monday from his home in Rhode Island.

Mr. Khrushchev, who came to the United States in 1991, is a rocket engineer and
computer scientist who once headed the Soviet Missile Design Bureau. He is
currently a senior research scholar and lecturer at Brown University.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              282 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 28, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

The Military's Myopia

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 145 words



To the Editor:

Re "America's Promise, Found in the Army" (news article, May 23):

It only seems right that many of our new immigrants are taking advantage of the
economic opportunities that the United States armed forces offer in exchange for
a recruit's commitment to defend our country.

A young man or woman facing a life of limited earning power can turn his or her
life around with the college tuition and vocational training provided by the
military.

What a shame it is, then, that the armed forces and Congress have joined ranks
to deny this economic opportunity to gay American citizens, while aggressively
seeking to recruit immigrants, many of whom are not yet citizens. At a time of
dangerously low enlistment rates, the military's anti-gay policy is inexcusable
as well as morally bankrupt.

JEFFREY OEBERST
Nelsonville, N.Y., May 25, 1999

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              283 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 31, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Women Accused of Baby-Selling Used a Friendly Approach

BYLINE: By MIKE ALLEN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1696 words

DATELINE: MEDFORD, N.Y., May 30


They could have been selling Amway, or Avon. Wearing light makeup and casual
clothes, Arlene Lieberman and Arlene Reingold sought clients at the mall, served
coffee and doughnuts at meet-and-greet sessions, and invited prospects to their
split-level homes, which are three doors apart on a shady street here on Long
Island.

The clients also recalled that the women, both in their 40's, threw a "God bless
you" or two into most conversations. Mrs. Lieberman kept the books on a computer
in her son's bedroom.

The two women said they were adoption consultants. Now Federal prosecutors say
that they were baby sellers, bringing children from Mexico to New York for
couples so desperate for children that they overlooked or ignored signs of
trouble, including the delivery of a baby to adoptive parents in the parking lot
of a 7-Eleven store. No immigration papers were provided in some cases, leaving
parents terrified that their children could be deported.

"They kept saying, 'You're the nicest couple we've ever met,' " said Rosalie
Liberto of Miller Place, a Suffolk County village, who along with her husband,
John, the owner of a Carvel ice-cream store, adopted three Mexican children with
the women's help. "They must have thought we were the biggest suckers."

On Thursday, the two women, known to their clients as the Arlenes, were arrested
at their homes here in Suffolk County and charged with conspiring to violate
immigration laws and to commit mail and wire fraud.

The authorities also arrested a lawyer, Mario Reyes, who practiced in Mexico and
Arizona. He is said to have paid Mexican women to pose as the mothers of infants
being sent to the United States so that the children would be allowed across the
border.

Although the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service has said the
parents may keep the children while efforts are made to naturalize them, several
parents said they fear losing the children, who lack visas or passports and in
some cases have forged birth certificates.

Mrs. Liberto said that the day after they had picked up one of their adoptive
children at the airport in Islip and made a celebratory stop at McDonald's, she
started looking through the manila folder of papers she had been given by the
two women.

"I said, 'Johnny, there's no visa in here. Let me call the Arlenes -- maybe they
just forgot it,' " Mrs. Liberto recalled. She said Mrs. Lieberman told her, "The
laws have changed -- you get the visa when the adoption is completed."

Not only did some of the babies lack proper paperwork, but some also had serious
health problems. A boy who was said to have a rash turned out to have a rare
skin disease that can be fatal.

One girl, who had been described as cute but shy, had a distended stomach, and
kept licking the walls. According to the adoptive parents, Arlene Lieberman said
the girl just needed "a little love and good food." A doctor later determined
that she was mentally retarded and probably had been sexually abused.

Several parents who were interviewed over the weekend said that they at first
had regarded Mrs. Lieberman, 48, and Mrs. Reingold, 46, as friendly housewives
who had an interesting sideline.

"They told us they were adoptive mothers themselves and because they had been
burned, they wanted to do this so other people would not get hurt," said Sara
Kruchkow, 48, of Flushing, Queens, who along with her husband, David, adopted a
little girl through the women.

The Kruchkows, the Queens couple who adopted Shelly, now 3, through the women,
said the women reminded them of the sort of neighbor they might ask to take care
of their cat during a vacation.

Mrs. Kruchkow said that after one placement fell through, Mrs. Lieberman
"offered to meet me halfway for coffee, to console me."

The authorities say that when the women started their business, the adoptions
they helped arrange were legal. Incorporation papers for one of their businesses
said the purpose was to "offer support and assistance to adoption agencies." The
Arlenes did not have state approval to arrange adoptions themselves.

The women founded a nonprofit organization called Stork International Inc. in
1989, and in 1993 hired an advertising and public relations firm in Port
Jefferson, N.Y., to help promote it. They dissolved Stork after the State
Department of Social Services ordered them to stop placing children.

According to state and Federal law enforcement officials, the women repeated the
pattern with Adoption Choice Inc., which they started in 1992.

In 1995, according to state officials, the State Department of Social Services
denied the women's application to authorize Adoption Choice to place children.

Beginning in 1996, the women operated as International Adoption Consultants
Inc., from an office building here in Medford, where the main thoroughfare has
dueling dinette dealers, and one motel asks customers whether they want a
single, double or water bed.

The Arlenes stayed busy. According to a prosecution affidavit, they assisted in
500 international adoptions during the last nine years, operating under names
that included Stork International Inc. and Adoption Choice Inc.

At least 17 of those infants were brought illegally from Mexico, according to
prosecutors.

The women are free on bond and have returned to their homes on Blackine Drive,
in a maze of middle-class homes. This weekend, Mrs. Lieberman was wearing a
T-shirt and shorts, as she came to the door of her home, which has a white
plastic bench out front. "I'm fine," she said, curtly referring further
questions to a lawyer, Peter Mayer, who could not be reached by telephone.

At Mrs. Reingold's house, where the shutters are festooned with American eagles,
several family members were outside, enjoying the sunshine and the spray from a
sprinkler. They ordered a visitor to leave.

Some former clients said they believed that even though the women apparently
live modestly, their motivation seemed to be money. Many parents paid $20,000 or
more for their services and the authorities in New York and Mexico did little to
intervene, even though some adoption groups said they had been steering people
away from the women because they required cash in advance, which is not
customary in adoptions.

After meeting one couple at his office in Mexico, according to Federal
prosecutors, Mr. Reyes gave them a ride back to Arizona, "waving at a border
official as they crossed," and turned to the parents and said, "See how easy
that was."

In retrospect, several of the parents say they should have seen signs of
trouble. Why would adoptive parents accept a baby from the two women in the
parking lot of a 7-Eleven on Long Island, or from Mr. Reyes at a gas station on
the Arizona side of the border?

Why would the adoptive parents believe a claim that Mexican law allowed a parent
to pick up the baby first and take care of the paperwork later? Why would
prospective parents pay thousands of dollars for surprise charges that kept
cropping up after agreeing to a much lower fee that was supposed to take care of
everything?

Mrs. Liberto said she thinks she knows why.

"All they have to do is show you a picture, and you feel like it's yours," she
said. "You want children. They don't even have to convince you."

Aaron Britvan, a lawyer in Woodbury, N.Y., who is representing six couples who
adopted babies through Mrs. Lieberman and Mrs. Reingold, said that one of his
clients became skeptical after a demand for $6,000 in cash and $14,000 by check,
and asked the women "Is this a scam?"

"They acted offended that she should suggest such a thing," Mr. Britvan said.
Mr. Britvan, chairman of the adoption committee of the New York State Bar
Association, said at least one of his clients was charged $3,500 for a
consultation, which consisted of looking at pictures of children.

According to parents, the women and their husbands offered to bring a baby back
from Mexico, then demanded reimbursement for their stays at fancy hotels and
restaurants.

In some cases, according to prosecutors, the women billed two sets of parents
for the same trip. In other cases, prosecutors assert, the women charged parents
for a trip that never took place.

Mrs. Liberto, who has adopted two other daughters, said that at times, Mrs.
Reingold played good cop and Mrs. Lieberman played bad cop.

Mrs. Liberto said that when she was meeting with the women after one promised
adoption fell through, Mrs. Lieberman all of a sudden said, "Should we tell
her?"

"Let's tell her," she says Mrs. Reingold replied.

"No, maybe we shouldn't," she says Mrs. Lieberman teased.

It turned out that they had a 9-year-old girl available and wondered whether
Mrs. Liberto might want her, even though the girl was older than a child in
which Mrs. Liberto had expressed interest.

The Libertos took in the girl, but she asked to go back to Mexico. The couple
wound up with Gabriella, now 5, who goes by Gabby and is happily taking dance,
swimming and gymnastics.

The Kruchkows said that another of the women's strategies was to play a husband
off against a wife. The couple had been promised two girls who never arrived,
leaving them devastated after spending months fixing up a baby room and
marveling over the children's photos on their refrigerator.

"They had burned us twice, and I didn't think we should give them a third
strike," Mr. Kruchkow said. But his wife pleaded to work with the Arlenes once
again. "I finally decided to try to have peace in my marriage. I knew if I put
my foot down and we ended up not going to someone else, Sara would regret if for
the rest of her life, and maybe resent me for it."

The gamble worked. They are having a delightful time with Shelly, a mischievous
toddler who still throws a few Spanish words into her chatter. She loves to hide
something in one hand and then hold them both out as she asks, "Esta? Esta?"

Mrs. Kruchkow, now scrambling to make sure her daughter can stay here legally,
said that losing her now would be like a death in the family. "She can sense
that something is wrong," the mother said. "She has started telling us a hundred
times a day that she loves us."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              284 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 2, 1999, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

ON HOCKEY;
The Sabres Cross Over The Border to Finals

BYLINE: By Joe Lapointe

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 684 words

DATELINE: TORONTO


When travelers cross the border between Canada and the United States, the
customs and immigration officers usually pose the same set of questions,
including: How long have you been in the other country? Did you acquire any
goods? Do you have anything to declare?

Imagine what it must have been for the traveling Buffalo Sabres, who early
Tuesday morning crossed the bridge over the Niagara River at the end of their
two-hour bus trip from Toronto. A few hours earlier, they had defeated the Maple
Leafs, 4-2, to clinch the Eastern Conference finals by 4 games to 1.

The Sabres had been in the Canada only two days, long enough to qualify for
their first trip to the finals in 24 years. What goods did they acquire? Only
the Prince of Wales trophy, which the captain Michael Peca refused to touch when
it was presented. As for declarations, they do declare that they want to win one
more trophy before calling it a summer.

"It's the big one they want to carry around," said Lindy Ruff, the Buffalo
coach. "They are focused on the big, silver trophy."

That would be the Stanley Cup, won the previous two seasons by the Detroit Red
Wings, who were eliminated this spring in the second round. The Sabres played
for it only once, in 1975, but lost in the finals to the Philadelphia Flyers.
Although they will probably be underdogs to either the Colorado Avalanche or the
Dallas Stars -- who played each other in Game 6 last night -- the two Western
Conference teams have worn each other down in a stirring series and Buffalo will
be healthy and rested.

An Avalanche victory in Game 6 would have meant the finals between Colorado and
Buffalo would have begun on Saturday night in Denver. But the Stars' 4-1 victory
forced Game 7 on Friday night in Dallas, meaning the championship round will
begin on Tuesday night in the home rink of the Western Conference winner. No
matter whom they face, the Sabres will be in good shape.

Dominik Hasek, Buffalo's star goalie from the Czech Republic, seems to be over
the groin injury that kept him out of the first two games of the Toronto series.
Peca, their leader from North York, Ontario, centers a powerful two-way line
with Vaclav Varada and Dixon Ward on the wings. This threesome can score and
check the best opposing attackers. The Sabres' top defensive pairing combines
Aleksei Zhitnik, from Ukraine, and Richard Smehlik, from the Czech Republic, who
are approaching the prime years of their careers.

Their leading scorer during the season was Miroslav Satan, who led the team in
regular-season goals with 40 but missed most of the tournament with a bruised
foot. He returned three games ago.

The Sabres are a young team, with only five regular players over age 30. In the
past two seasons, they have endured turmoil and churn, changing uniform designs,
arenas, a half-dozen key players, a coach, a general manager and franchise
ownership. Because they play in a mid-sized, Eastern city that is overshadowed
by news media centers like Toronto and New York, the Sabres have snuck up on
casual sports fans, even though Hasek has won the Hart trophy for the past two
seasons as the most valuable player in the sport, even though the Sabres reached
the third round last season before losing to the Washington Capitals.

Pat Quinn, the Maple Leafs' coach, noted that perception of the Sabres changed
slower than the reality.

"Usually, all the credit went to Dom and he is terrific," Quinn said of Hasek.
"But they allowed their team to grow."

The scoring is balanced, making it hard for opponents to focus on any one player
or line to stop. The leading point-producer in the playoffs is defenseman Jason
Woolley, with 13 points, 3 of them goals. The leading goal-scorer is Curtis
Brown, a center, with 7. Three players have 12 points and two have 10. In only
six playoff games, Satan has 3 goals and 4 assists. As a group, they should make
a good opponent and could produce a good series. The National Hockey League.
certainly needs one. The last four finals have ended in four-game sweeps, with
the Western Conference team winning the past three.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              285 of 285 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 6, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

UP AND COMING: ERNESTO PUJOL;
An Immigrant Artist At Home in Memory

BYLINE: By EDWARD M. GOMEZ

SECTION: Section 2; Page 27; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 645 words


MOODY, meticulously staged and filled with introspective symbolism, the
room-size works of Ernesto Pujol have been fixtures on the international art
circuit in recent years and, in the eyes of many, examples of installation art
at its most evocative.

His work is composed of original, sculptured-clay pieces and, as shown at the
1997 Havana Bienal, of articles of furniture or clothing that he borrows from
families in the cities where he goes to create installation works for public
display. His art has been shown at several biennials, including those in South
Africa and even Estonia, and in museum shows in the United States and Europe.
But with the exception of two recent shows, Mr. Pujol's largest works have
rarely been seen in New York.

Now, in his newest work, he has branched off into fine-art photography, and the
Linda Kirkland Gallery will present his first photographic efforts in a group
show titled "Some Like It Hot" -- hot as in sexy, seductive or fetishistic. The
exhibition opens Saturday and runs through Oct. 17.

"Some people describe installation as a strategy for making art," said Mr. Pujol
at his studio in Brooklyn Heights. "But for me it's a medium of expression in
its own right that, at best, is made up of other art forms, and of basic
elements such as color, light, design and sculptural space."

As an immigrant child -- he was born in 1957 in Cuba and grew up in Puerto Rico,
where his parents fled when he was 4 -- he wrestled with the meanings of
displacement, nationality and cultural identity. After earning a fine-arts
degree in Puerto Rico, Mr. Pujol came to New York to study media and art therapy
and, as an openly gay man, became immersed in AIDS activism. Lessons from that
experience also informed his mature art, which looks at the way in which society
and the family shape popular notions about masculinity, race and culture. "All
of this is wrapped up in memory," the artist explains. "Memory is my big theme."

Lydia Yee, a curator at the Bronx Museum, noted that "Ernesto doesn't lift
directly from advertising or pop culture; his work has a psychic charge that
comes from common references linked to the home."

For example, his recent installation called "The Picnic" alludes to how gender
roles are shaped within the family during childhood. The work consists of
side-by-side picnic tables, one covered with hunters' tools ("Father's Table"),
the other by plates and silverware ("Mother's Table"), and prepubescent
phalluses sculptured from clay. (Mr. Pujol will re-create the installation next
spring at the Kunsthalle in Vienna.)

"Ernesto's work is intimate; you feel a real poetic sense of the materials he
uses," said the artist Faith Wilding, a visiting professor at Carnegie Mellon
University who has exhibited alongside Mr. Pujol.

With his new photographic works, Mr. Pujol has shifted his focus from childhood
to adulthood. His triptych "Front and Back," for example, takes on an
anti-fashion, even clinical look at the male figure, which he depicts from the
waist down clad only in underwear, socks and a businessman's leather shoes.
"They're not erotic, but they address the idea of maleness," said Mr. Pujol, who
will teach this fall at the Cooper Union and lecture at the Art Institute of
Chicago on Oct. 5.

As much as Mr. Pujol is enjoying his foray into photography, his efforts, he
said, remain deeply rooted in the ideas that have fueled his installation
projects. "I found my voice in installation art, which is part spectacle, part
poetry and often very ephemeral," he said. "Because in its use of found objects,
it echoes who we are at this historic moment: we're all inescapably consumers,
and in that way it's very relevant." In a modest tone that quickly becomes
assertive, Mr. Pujol added: "There are still those of us who believe that any
art must be relevant to something."

NAME: Ernesto Pujol

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: FETISHISTIC -- Ernesto Pujol in his Brooklyn studio with a new
work, a photograph showing men's feet, shod and unshod. (Nancy Siesel/The New
York Times)

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company
