
                               1 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 30, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Meatpacker Is Fined Nearly $10 Million

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Weather; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 570 words


State labor authorities levied nearly $10 million in fines Wednesday for wage
violations at an Iowa meatpacking plant where nearly 400 illegal immigrant
workers were arrested in a raid in May.

The fines against Agriprocessors Inc., one of the country's largest kosher
meatpackers, were the largest wage violations penalties ever levied in Iowa,
state officials said.

About $9.6 million of the fines were for illegal paycheck deductions the company
made for protective jackets and other uniforms that packinghouse workers were
required to wear. Iowa inspectors found 96,436 deductions for uniforms from the
paychecks of 2,001 workers, and brought fines of $100 per incident.

The workers' wages had been reduced by $192,597, Iowa officials said.

''You cannot legally deduct for clothing required by the company,'' said Kerry
Koonce, a spokeswoman for Iowa Workforce Development, the state's labor
department.

Agriprocessors was also fined $339,700 for illegally deducting more than $72,000
from the paychecks of 1,073 workers for ''sales tax.''

The company also failed to give final paychecks to 42 workers arrested in the
raid and owes $264,786.45 in back wages, Iowa officials said.

The fines cover violations from January 2006 through June of this year,
including six weeks after May 12, when immigration authorities arrested 389
workers at the Postville plant, mostly illegal immigrants from Guatemala.

''Once again, Agriprocessors has demonstrated a complete disregard for Iowa
law,'' Iowa's labor commissioner, Dave Neil, said in a statement.

Last month the Iowa attorney general brought criminal charges against
Agriprocessors for more than 9,300 misdemeanor child labor violations, involving
32 under-age workers. According to those charges, the company hired workers as
young as 13 and put them to work using saws, knives and other equipment
prohibited for young workers.

Agriprocessors' chief executive, Bernard Feldman, said the company would fight
the charges. ''We have grave doubts as to the appropriateness of the claimed
violations, and we also take issue with the intended sanction imposed per
claim,'' said Mr. Feldman, who was named to his post in September, after the
child labor indictments were announced.

Also on Wednesday, a human resources manager from the Postville plant pleaded
guilty in federal court in Cedar Rapids to harboring illegal immigrants and
identity theft. The manager, Laura Althouse, 38, helped illegal immigrant
workers obtain false resident visa numbers  so they could be hired at the plant,
according to her plea.

The charge of identity theft  carries a mandatory two-year  minimum prison
sentence. Ms. Althouse also faces a maximum sentence of 12 years on the
harboring charge and fines of up to $500,000. Another human resources manager,
Karina Freund, faces similar charges.

Ms. Althouse is the first Agriprocessors manager to be convicted on the identity
theft charge, which was also brought against many workers. In plea bargains,
more than 200 immigrants pleaded guilty to lesser charges of document fraud.
Most finished serving their sentences of five months in prison earlier this
month, and were deported.

No federal charges have been brought against senior managers and owners of
Agriprocessors. The owner, Aaron Rubashkin, and his son Sholom, the top manager
of the plant at the time of the raid, have been indicted in the child labor
case.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 15, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

No Rebates for You

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 558 words


Immigrant restrictionism is stiffing hundreds of thousands of American citizens
and legal residents out of their tax-rebate checks.

Hard-liners were so intent on keeping the cash out of the hands of undocumented
workers that they restricted the rebate to people with Social Security numbers.
An Individual Taxpayer Identification Number, issued by the Internal Revenue
Service to people who pay taxes but do not qualify for Social Security numbers,
will not do. If a married couple files jointly, and one spouse is not eligible
for the rebate, neither gets the money.

This hurts all manner of people who are working and paying taxes: American
soldiers stationed abroad who happen to have married foreigners; high-tech
immigrants in Silicon Valley and other places whose spouses are not authorized
to work or have not yet had their paperwork processed. These are people who are
perfectly legal, economically vital and politically inconvenient.

The government should fix the law so spouses get their money. It is a technical
repair that even this Congress should manage. But why shouldn't undocumented
immigrants with taxpayer numbers get the cash too? The checks are not rewards
for good behavior; they are taxes returned as a means to an end. Illegal
immigrants constitute about 5 percent of the work force and earn much less than
the native-born. They are just the sort of group the stimulus should be aimed
at, if the purpose is to get the most economic bang for every rebate dollar.

Arguments like that do not fly in the polluted atmosphere of immigration
politics, which has produced toxic byproducts so extreme that they make the
rebate glitch seem like a mere annoyance.

Industries across the country are suffering and crops are rotting for lack of
workers. Congress is debating a national right-to-work system that could
mistakenly ensnare countless Americans and seriously overburden the Social
Security bureaucracy. Federal agents and local police officers around the nation
are rounding up the usual immigrants.

Such crackdowns have forced thousands of harmless people into a fast-growing,
secretive detention system that is shockingly deficient in basic rights and
decent health care. In a disturbing  article, The Washington Post reported on
Wednesday that the United States government had injected hundreds of
undocumented foreigners with mind-altering drugs to render them docile while
they were being deported. This practice violates every imaginable standard of
decency, not to mention a few international laws and treaties.

Smart efforts to minimize the ill effects of illegal immigration die political
deaths, meanwhile, like putting the undocumented into New York State's
motor-vehicle database, registered and insured instead of anonymous and
unaccounted for. That was also the fate of the Dream Act, a modest bill to ease
the way to college for the guiltless children of illegal immigrants so they
would not be condemned to dead-end jobs. A model identity-card program in New
Haven, hailed for lowering crime, is under legal attack from nativist groups.

Efforts at deliberate, proportionate and responsible immigration reform provoke
paralysis, but restrictionist tactics are greeted with exuberance. The itch to
do something about illegal immigration is being scratched. Note to country:
Scratching never cured anything.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 13, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Shame of Postville, Iowa

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 454 words


Anyone who has doubts that this country is abusing and terrorizing undocumented
immigrant workers should read an essay by Erik Camayd-Freixas, a professor and
Spanish-language court interpreter who witnessed the aftermath of a huge
immigration workplace raid at a meatpacking plant in Iowa.

The essay chillingly describes what Dr. Camayd-Freixas saw and heard as he
translated for some of the nearly 400 undocumented workers who were seized by
federal agents at the Agriprocessors kosher plant in Postville in May.

Under the old way of doing things, the workers, nearly all Guatemalans, would
have been simply and swiftly deported. But in a twist of Dickensian cruelty,
more than 260 were charged as serious criminals for using false Social Security
numbers or residency papers, and most were sentenced to five months in prison.

What is worse, Dr. Camayd-Freixas wrote, is that the system was clearly rigged
for the wholesale imposition of mass guilt. He said the court-appointed lawyers
had little time in the raids' hectic aftermath to meet with the workers, many of
whom ended up waiving their rights and seemed not to understand the complicated
charges against them.

Dr. Camayd-Freixas's essay describes ''the saddest procession I have ever
witnessed, which the public would never see'' -- because cameras were forbidden.

''Driven single-file in groups of 10, shackled at the wrists, waist and ankles,
chains dragging as they shuffled through, the slaughterhouse workers were
brought in for arraignment, sat and listened through headsets to the interpreted
initial appearance, before marching out again to be bused to different county
jails, only to make room for the next row of 10.''

He wrote that they had waived their rights in hopes of being quickly deported,
''since they had families to support back home.'' He said that they did not
understand the charges they faced, adding, ''and, frankly, neither could I.''

No one is denying that the workers were on the wrong side of the law. But there
is a profound difference between stealing people's identities to rob them of
money and property, and using false papers to merely get a job. It is a
distinction that the Bush administration, goaded by immigration extremists, has
willfully ignored. Deporting unauthorized workers is one thing; sending
desperate breadwinners to prison, and their families deeper into poverty, is
another.

Court interpreters are normally impartial participants and keep their opinions
to themselves. But Dr. Camayd-Freixas, a professor of Spanish at Florida
International University, said he was so offended by the cruelty of the
prosecutions that he felt compelled to break his silence. ''A line was crossed
at Postville,'' he wrote.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 15, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration and Gang Violence Propel a Crusade by a Grieving Father

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1610 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Jamiel Shaw Sr. never gave much thought to the immigration status of gang
members in his South Los Angeles neighborhood. With his military wife deployed
to Iraq and two sons to raise, there were football practices to manage, shoes to
buy, college applications to consider.

But in the two months since his older son, Jamiel Jr., was gunned down by a man
the police say is a gang member who was here illegally from Mexico, Mr. Shaw has
been able to think of little else.

''I don't care about illegal people who are working here and taking care of
themselves,'' Mr. Shaw said. ''I just feel I am obligated to target illegal
aliens in gangs.''

A preliminary hearing in the killing of Jamiel Shaw Jr. is set to begin here on
Thursday. Jamiel Jr. -- who was black and, according to the police, not known to
be affiliated with gangs -- and a simmering unease about illegal immigration
have unleashed a swell of opposition to the city's hands-off policy toward
immigration enforcement.

The Los Angeles Police Department was one of the first in the nation -- nearly
three decades ago -- to institute a procedure that prohibits officers from
initiating contact with people for the sole purpose of learning their
immigration status. The procedure, known as Special Order 40, was designed in
part to reassure illegal immigrants who historically had shied  from reporting
crimes and assisting police investigations.

But in the context of contemporary immigration politics, the procedure is now
perceived in black neighborhoods and beyond as a roadblock to using immigration
laws as a tool against Latino gang violence. A push to reverse the procedure,
led by Mr. Shaw and viewed by many as a symbol   of  deeper racial conflicts in
South Los Angeles, has inflamed tensions between many blacks and Hispanic
immigrants,  groups long resentful of each other as shifting demographics and a
smattering of racially motivated killings have racked South Los Angeles.

''I think you can assume the resentments are pretty widespread,'' said Connie
Rice, a civil rights activist and lawyer. ''There has been a huge turnover in a
20-year period, and so the tensions get expressed in a lot of other ways. The
African-American community is feeling under siege, and it is always easier to
strike out at the 'other.' ''

Councilman Dennis Zine, a former police officer, has proposed amending Special
Order 40 to require that gang members found to be illegal immigrants be reported
to federal authorities. Judicial Watch, a conservative legal group based in
Washington, has filed a suit in federal court seeking to do away with the order,
arguing that it unconstitutionally impedes cooperation between the local police
and federal immigration agents.

And Mr. Shaw and other grass-roots activists have called upon the police chief,
William J. Bratton, to intervene.

''All we are saying is that when an officer encounters an individual who is in
the gang file, they would check the name through the system,'' Mr. Zine said.
''If they are a known gang member, they would then inquire of their immigration
status.''

Over the last year, law enforcement agencies across the country have begun to
revisit policies like Special Order 40 after public pressure over crimes by
illegal immigrants. Most notably, the sheriff of Maricopa County, Ariz., has
conducted immigration sweeps, and last summer, the New Jersey attorney general
told law enforcement agencies to begin asking about the immigration status of
criminal suspects.

But the assault on Special Order 40 has brought sharp criticism from some
immigrant advocacy groups and a rebuke from Chief Bratton, who said he viewed
the alternative as institutionalized racial profiling.

Nothing in the order prevents law enforcement officials from asking people about
their immigration status when arrested, or reporting people charged with crimes
to immigration officials; but the order prohibits the police from pursing
illegal immigrants for their illegal status alone.

''We make very concerted efforts to deal with the criminal element in the
immigrant community,'' Mr. Bratton said. ''But I'm not going to aggressively
pursue people whose only crime is to come into this country illegally.''

Further, Mr. Bratton said, ''stopping everyone who looks like an immigrant to
inquire about their gang status would only inflame racial tensions.''

''This is a city that's extremely race conscious,'' he said.

Many police officials and others believe that small pockets of racial tension
are being exploited by anti-immigrant groups.

''What we largely see are people living together, going to school together,
intermarrying and living together just fine,'' said Deputy Chief Sergio Diaz,
who oversees police operations in many gang-infested Los Angeles neighborhoods.
''Why would we let gang members define race relations in this city?''

The police say the man charged with murder in the killing of 17-year-old Jamiel
Shaw Jr. had entered the United States illegally and was a member of the
notorious 18th Street gang. The man, Pedro Espinoza, 19, had recently been
released from jail after being convicted of weapons possession and resisting
arrest.

The day after his release, Mr. Espinoza made his way to the Shaws' street in the
mid-city section of Los Angeles, rival gang territory.

The police, citing the investigation, would not say why Mr. Espinoza went there,
but they did say  he approached Jamiel, a high school football star who was
making his way home from the mall, and asked him what gang he belonged to, a
well-known code among gang members that shots are coming.

Before Jamiel could answer, the police say, Mr. Espinoza shot him twice, in the
chest and head, and he died on the sidewalk.

The police say that they have no reason to believe that Jamiel had ever been in
a gang, but that his accused assailant ''thought his victim was a rival gang
member,'' said Detective Frank Carrillo.

But suspicions in many parts of Los Angeles that the case might not be so
clear-cut have been fueled by a posting on myspace.com that appears to have been
written by Jamiel. Alex Alonso, a Los Angeles blogger who writes extensively
about gangs, has interpreted the posting to indicate that Jamiel was associated
with gang members. For instance, the posting reads, ''IM A TRU G,'' which Mr.
Alonso said means ''true gangster.''

Jamiel's family has strongly denied that he had any gang associations and has
insisted that prosecutors pursue hate-crime charges against Mr. Espinoza,
because, they say, their son was attacked because he was black.

Some gang experts say it is not uncommon for nongang members to associate with
gang members in their neighborhoods.

''It is so easy to be mistaken for a gang member if you've grown up in an area
where people you've known all your life are from this gang or that gang,'' said
Celeste Fremon, who has written books on Los Angeles gangs. Having childhood
friends and associates who have gone on to join gangs could lead to ''someone
mistaking him for a gang member,'' Ms. Fremon said.

Though the killing has brought Special Order 40 into stark relief, the procedure
did not actually apply to Mr. Espinoza; his prior run-in with the police was in
Culver City, a separate city with its own police force that does not use the
order.

And even when the police alert federal immigration officials that they have an
illegal immigrant in custody, the officials do not always act on it, the police
said.

''He was not identified by immigration,'' Deputy Chief Diaz said of Mr.
Espinoza. ''But I suspect had he been identified, nothing would have happened.''

In recent years, the Los Angeles police and county sheriff's departments have
worked more closely with federal immigration officials on the problem. The
number of inmates in Los Angeles County jails who were interviewed by
Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials more than doubled to 8,754 in the
fiscal year 2007, from 4,079 in 2004. Last year, 4,815 of the interviewed
inmates were detained -- held without bail and flagged for possible deportation
while their charges played out. In 2004, 3,121 inmates were detained.

''Like any law enforcement agency, we have finite resources and we have to
prioritize things,'' said Virginia Kice, a customs spokeswoman. ''But given the
import of gang activity here in L.A., if we have information that someone is an
active member of a street gang, that is a priority.''

Gang violence has formed some negative racial perceptions among blacks and
Latinos, even though 87 percent of the 394 killings  in Los Angeles last year
were by people of the same race as the victim, according to police records.

Antonio Cabrera, who pushes a small ice cream cart near the park where Jamiel
went to high school, said he had been robbed three times by black gang members.

''The truth is, that makes me think that other blacks are going to bother me,''
Mr. Cabrera said, though he added that he generally viewed gang members of all
races as equaling threatening.

In recent days, Mr. Shaw has found himself able to recount, somewhat matter of
factly, the ordeal of hearing  gunshots, opening his front door and seeing his
son on the sidewalk in a pool of blood, bits of his head scattered near his
fallen iPod.

But then he opens his car trunk and sees the half-empty bottle of cranberry
juice that his son discarded before a recent football practice, and Mr. Shaw
finds his breath gone, consumed by the tugging agony of loss.

''Every day I just see that boy laying in the street dead,'' he said, sobbing.
''I just want to get him back. That's why I can't stop. I'm on a mission. I
can't stop.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jamiel Shaw Sr., right, in his living room with his son's
athletic awards. Jamiel Jr. was killed in early March by a man the police say
was a gang member and an illegal immigrant
 Althea Shaw, Jamiel Jr.'s aunt, hung balloons at the makeshift memorial where
he was killed. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 28, 2008 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Iowa Rally Protests Raid And Conditions at Plant

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 980 words

DATELINE: POSTVILLE, Iowa


About 1,000 people, including Hispanic immigrants, Catholic clergy members,
rabbis and activists, marched through the center of this farm town on Sunday and
held a rally at the entrance to a kosher meatpacking plant that was raided in
May by immigration authorities.

The march was called to protest working conditions in the plant, owned by
Agriprocessors Inc., and to call for Congressional legislation to give legal
status to illegal immigrants. The four rabbis, from Minnesota and Wisconsin,
attended the march to publicize proposals to revise kosher food certification to
include standards of corporate ethics and treatment of workers.

The march drew a counterprotest by about 150 people, organized by the Federation
for American Immigration Reform, which opposes illegal immigrants and proposals
to give them legal status.

At one point, tension surged as the two sides shouted slogans at each other
through bullhorns from opposite sidewalks of the main street of this town with a
population of about 2,200. The marchers said, ''Stop the raids!'' Protesters
across the street responded, ''Illegals go home!''

No incidents of disorder were reported by the police.

The debate over kosher standards has intensified since the May 12 raid at the
plant, in which 389 illegal immigrants, the majority from Guatemala, were
detained. Reports by many of those workers of widespread labor violations in the
plant have been prominent news in the Jewish media, provoking discussion of
whether Jews should buy meat and poultry products made there.

Agriprocessors, owned and operated by Aaron Rubashkin and his family, is the
largest kosher plant in the United States. Its products, sold as Aaron's Best
and Rubashkin's, among others, dominate the nation's market for kosher meat and
poultry.

The plant had been cited for state and federal labor violations before the raid,
including inadequate worker safety protections and unpaid overtime. Since the
raid, immigrants under 18, the legal age in Iowa for working on a meatpacking
floor, have said they worked long hours at Agriprocessors, often at night.

Agriprocessors' beef and poultry are killed and packaged using procedures
specified by strict Jewish dietary laws, and are certified by rabbis who are
recognized authorities on kosher food.

In 2006, after reports in The Forward, a Jewish newspaper, of harsh working
conditions at Agriprocessors, a commission of inquiry organized by Conservative
Jewish leaders criticized the plant's operations and called for more safety
training and increased inspections by state labor officials.

A member of that commission, Rabbi Morris Allen of Mendota Heights, Minn.,
proposed a new system of kosher certification that would include consideration
of working conditions in plants where the food is produced.

Rabbi Harold Kravitz, from the Adath Jeshurun synagogue in Minnetonka, Minn.,
said on Sunday that the health and safety issues raised by the commission did
not appear to have been addressed. Speaking to the rally on a dusty driveway in
front of the plant, Rabbi Kravitz said that Jewish laws governing the kosher
processing of animals should not be separated from Jewish ethical principles.

''Proper business conduct and treatment of workers also are important Jewish
values,'' Rabbi Kravitz said.

He and several Jewish community activists met on Sunday morning here with Chaim
Abrahams, a top manager of the plant. Aaron Goldsmith, a Postville resident who
participated in the meeting, said Mr. Abrahams reported that about 360 of the
arrested workers had received all payments that they were owed and that
Agriprocessors was making weekly deliveries of food to about 30 immigrant
families in Postville.

Although Agriprocessors executives have largely avoided speaking to the news
media, Getzel Rubashkin, 24, a grandson of Aaron Rubashkin, emerged from the
plant and approached the rally.

''There's no argument here,'' said Getzel Rubashkin, who said he works in the
plant but was not a representative of Agriprocessors and was speaking for
himself. Agriprocessors managers, he said, ''treat their workers well and they
pay their workers well and there is no other policy.''

''The company is not on the other side of any of these people,'' he said,
referring to the immigrants lined up behind banners across the street from the
plant.

Getzel Rubashkin said a large number of illegal immigrants had been hired
because they presented identity documents that he called convincing forgeries.

''The high number of illegal people who were working here is more a testimony to
the quality of their deceit, of their papers,'' Getzel Rubashkin said. He said
the company did not criticize immigration authorities for the raid.

''Obviously some of the people here were presenting false documents,'' Getzel
Rubashkin said. ''Immigration authorities somehow picked it up and they did what
they are supposed to do, they came and picked them up. God bless them for it.''

On Postville's main street, the protesters opposing the immigrants' march
praised Iowa federal prosecutors, who convicted 297 illegal immigrant workers
from the plant, most on criminal document fraud charges.

''It's a felony when you take someone's identity, and we think that needs to be
out there when you talk about the supposed injustices against undocumented
workers,'' said Susan Tully of the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
an organizer of the counterprotest.

Like the marchers, the protesters were also angry at Agriprocessors managers. To
date, the only managers arrested were two floor supervisors, on immigration
harboring charges.

''It's cheap labor, that's what they're getting away with,'' said Ruthie
Hendrycks, 48, of a group called Minnesotans Seeking Immigration Reform. ''I
want to see these employers that hired children and illegal aliens do serious
jail time.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rabbi Harold Kravitz, below, from Minnetonka, Minn., addressed
a rally on Sunday in Postville, Iowa, where people protested working conditions
at a kosher meatpacking plant that was raided in May by immigration authorities.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW HOLST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 23, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Authorities' No-Jail Offer Is Withdrawn

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 620 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Immigration authorities on Friday ended a trial offer not to jail illegal
immigrants who had been ordered to leave the country if they surrendered at
government offices. In the three weeks that the federal immigration agency
tested the program in a handful of cities, only eight people came forward.

How, why and even whether the program flopped was debated by the agency,
Immigration and Customs and Enforcement, and advocates for immigrants. The
latter called the program a publicity stunt and predicted that the agency would
now stage more of the raids that have forcibly removed record numbers of illegal
immigrants over the last few years.

Jim Hayes, who supervises deportation for the agency, said advocacy groups had
undermined the program by counseling immigrants not to take part as a protest
against immigration laws.

''What the advocates state is that what we don't like is enforcement of the law
itself,'' Mr. Hayes said in a telephone news conference. ''Congress has mandated
enforcement of the law, and that is what we are going to continue to do.''

Under the program, Scheduled Departure, illegal immigrants who had been ordered
to leave the country but did not have criminal records could avoid arrest and
detention by going during certain hours to agency offices in Charlotte, N.C.;
Chicago; Phoenix; San Diego; and Santa Ana, Calif., near Los Angeles.

The immigration agency would then set a departure date within 90 days and help
make arrangements for the immigrants to return home -- in some cases paying for
transportation -- and requiring them to check in with a case officer until they
left.

None of the eight who came forward have yet departed, Mr. Hayes said. They are
an Estonian, two Indians, two Guatemalans, a Lebanese, a Mexican and a
Salvadoran.

There are 457,000 ''fugitive aliens'' who would have been eligible for the
program, he said, and about 30,000 in or near the cities in the program, which
was promoted largely in the Spanish-language news media.

The agency spent $41,000 on the program, Mr. Hayes said, but he asserted that it
actually netted a $13,000 savings because it avoided the expense of detaining
people who accepted the offer.

Mr. Hayes said, ''I don't consider the program a failure'' because the agency
learned that such an offer would be largely ineffective and that its nearly 100
units assigned to capture fugitive illegal immigrants produced more results.

Those units have arrested 29,000 people at homes and workplaces so far in the
year beginning last October, and Mr. Hayes predicted that they would surpass the
30,000 arrested in the previous year.

Mr. Hayes  rebuked those who suggest allowing people to stay who have been
ordered to leave.

''In order to have laws and have them have meaning, there has to be consequences
for violating those laws,'' he said. ''If you have laws and no consequences for
violating it, you have anarchy.''

Advocates for immigrants said there had been no widespread effort to undermine
the program, though many had called it futile because immigrants would be
reluctant to leave behind family and jobs and could usually leave the country on
their own when they wanted to.

''Plenty of us said it was a silly idea and not going to work, that the
undocumented may be illegal but they are not stupid,'' said Joshua Hoyt,
executive director of the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights.

Mr. Hoyt suggested that the  agency used the program to justify more hard-line
tactics.

''A cynic would say they are going to say, 'See, we tried to be nice,' '' he
said. '' 'We don't abuse people. Now we're going to get tough because they
didn't come forward when we tried to be nice, so now we're going to be mean.' ''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 28, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Iowa: Guilty Plea In Immigration Case

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING MIDWEST; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 121 words


A second supervisor arrested after a big  immigration raid at the Agriprocessors
meatpacking  plant in Postville has pleaded guilty to immigration charges. The
man, Martin De La Rosa-Loera, appeared in federal court in Cedar Rapids and
pleaded guilty under an agreement with prosecutors to aiding and abetting the
harboring of illegal  immigrants. He was arrested in July after a raid at the
plant two months earlier. Federal officials said Mr. De La Rosa-Loera, 43,
assisted others in harboring illegal immigrants ''while knowing and recklessly
disregarding the fact that'' the workers were in the country illegally. A
sentencing date was not immediately scheduled. He faces a maximum of five years
in prison and a $250,000 fine.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 24, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Effort to Tighten Rules On Immigrants' Employers

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 616 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said Thursday that he would try
again to overcome a judge's objections to a proposal to force employers to
dismiss workers whose Social Security numbers do not match their names.

The proposal has been stymied for months by a federal district judge in
California who blocked the rule after several groups sued. Mr. Chertoff said his
agency had addressed the judge's concerns with some additions to the proposal,
including an analysis of the economic costs of the rule.

Mr. Chertoff said he expected continued opposition from the groups that sued,
like the United States Chamber of Commerce.

''Groups like the Chamber of Commerce have told us; they haven't been coy about
it,'' he said. ''There are many businesses that rely on illegal migration in
order to carry out their activities, and it would hurt them if they had to carry
out the rule. In my experience, making money is not a sufficient justification
for violating the rule since most people break the rule in order to make
money.''

Mr. Chertoff spoke at a news conference held to list his agency's immigration
enforcement achievements. He said the stepped-up enforcement had helped stall
illegal immigration, and possibly decrease it. But to control illegal
immigration for the long term, enforcement must be part of comprehensive
immigration reform, he said.

Angelo Amador, the chamber's director of immigration policy, dismissed Mr.
Chertoff's comment, saying the need for illegal workers is not an argument in
the lawsuit.

''The bottom line is this case has never been about illegal workers,'' Mr.
Amador said. ''It has been about the cost of a badly thought-out rule and the
cost on legitimate businesses following all the rules and complying with it.''

He said the department's own analysis, which it was forced to do after the judge
blocked the rule, shows that 37,000 to 165,000 legitimate workers would not be
able to work because of the rule.

The Social Security Administration regularly sends ''no match'' letters to
employers when a Social Security number provided by an employee does not match
the name of the employee in their database. The problem can be a clerical error,
perhaps the failure of a woman to update her last name after she marries or some
other issue. But the no match process is also used to identify workers who may
be using someone else's Social Security number or a fake number.

The administration's plan is to penalize employers who do not fire workers
unable to resolve the no match.

''There are many instances where the reason for a no match is we have an
unauthorized worker using phony documentation,'' Mr. Chertoff said. ''What the
regulation originally proposed is, in that instance, an employer cannot simply
put his or her head in the sand, but must take steps to make sure they are
brought into compliance.''

But groups like the American Civil Liberties Union, the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the
National Immigration Law Center and the chamber say the plan could lead to
discrimination, racial profiling and illegal firing of legitimate workers in the
same way that babies and Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts,
mistakenly ended up on the government's ''no-fly list.''

Mr. Amador said the administration's requirement that employers fire workers
with a no match does not protect them from prosecution for civil rights
violations.

Lucas Guttentag, the A.C.L.U.'s immigration rights project director, said,
''Instead of fixing the database, the Bush administration has turned a blind eye
to reality by using the same fatally flawed information that will punish
American workers and businesses in the middle of an economic meltdown.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 29, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Cools as Campaign Issue

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1090 words


On the stump, Senator Barack Obama and Senator John McCain rarely talk about
immigration, and it  was never raised in their three debates.

Yet as this thorny issue has receded from the presidential campaign, the two
candidates continue to refine their approach to it -- especially in regards to
illegal immigration, the most politically sensitive piece of the equation.

Mr. Obama, the Democratic nominee, has hardened his tone on how to deal with
illegal immigrants, while Mr. McCain, the Republican nominee, has made
immigration enforcement a priority, a position in line with the Bush
administration's. Both candidates are responding to the anger many Americans
feel about uncontrolled illegal immigration, including working-class voters whom
Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama are trying to attract in the final days of the
campaign.

Because of persisting political rifts and a crush of priorities related to
reviving the economy and unwinding the Iraq war, advisers to the campaigns say
it is increasingly unlikely that either candidate would propose to Congress an
overhaul of the immigration system during the first year in office, something
both Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama had pledged to do.

On the assumption that immigration legislation ''is not likely to be the first
thing out of the box'' for the new president, Doris Meissner, who was
commissioner of the immigration service under President Bill Clinton, said she
was working with a bipartisan group of experts to identify changes  that the new
president could make without Congress.

''The reforms we need to put in place are so sweeping and the political
environment is so hostile to consensus, I think we will be in a phase of
longer-term building of public understanding,'' said Ms. Meissner, a senior
fellow at the Migration Policy Institute, a research group in Washington.

Both Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain continue to support legislation that would include
a path to legal status for the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in the
country.

As a result, groups that oppose legal status for illegal immigrants, who
mobilized a wildfire movement of largely Republican voters against a
comprehensive immigration bill last year, are sitting out the presidential race.
Instead, they are focusing on Senate and House races, where they hope to stop
the Democrats from winning large majorities.

''We're going to have an incredibly bad White House, so we're in for some tough
defensive battles,'' said Roy Beck, president of NumbersUSA, which favors
reduced immigration. ''We have to make sure we've got at least 41 senators so we
can block any Obama or McCain amnesty.''

Seeking to broaden support for legalization, Mr. Obama embraces new
law-and-order language adopted in the Democratic Party platform at the
convention. Although Americans are ''welcoming and generous,'' the platform
states, ''those who enter our country's borders illegally, and those who employ
them, disrespect the rule of law.'' Instead of the Democrats' emphasis, as
recently as last year, on integrating illegal immigrants into society, the
platform says, ''We must require them to come out of the shadows and get right
with the law.''

Heather Higginbottom, the Obama campaign's director for policy, said Mr. Obama
had not altered his basic views. If elected, Mr. Obama would insist that illegal
immigrants pay back taxes and fines, learn English and go to the back of the
immigration line to become legal.

For Mr. McCain, there has been a sharper turn from the past. He was unable to
stop the Republican Party from adopting a platform at the September convention
that directly rejected his support for legalization. ''We oppose amnesty,'' the
platform states, describing ''the American people's rejection of en masse
legalizations'' as ''especially appropriate.''

Some Republicans have not forgiven Mr. McCain for joining Senator Edward M.
Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, to write a bill, known as comprehensive
immigration reform, which passed the Senate in 2006. Mr. McCain stayed on the
sidelines last year as a version of that bill stalled in Congress. Then, under
pressure from rivals in the Republican primaries, Mr. McCain said early this
year that he would not vote for that bill if it came up again.

He has supported the Bush administration's aggressive enforcement campaign
against illegal immigration, calling it a necessary first step to persuading
Americans to accept any legalization program. In recent weeks his campaign has
avoided the term ''path to citizenship'' to describe the option Mr. McCain would
offer illegal immigrants, saying only that he would deal with them in a humane
way.

The McCain campaign is hoping that his differences with the Republican Party
will help to reinforce his image as a maverick, especially among Hispanic
voters. One of his television advertisements in Spanish shows Mr. McCain
speaking of illegal immigrants as ''God's children,'' as Representative Tom
Tancredo of Colorado, the Republicans' most outspoken foe of illegal immigrants,
looks on, scowling.

''Senator McCain risked his own political career to get a bill in the Senate
that would benefit Latinos,'' said Cesar Martinez, a producer of the McCain
advertisements in Spanish.

Obama supporters say they do not mind his campaign's silences, since they are
confident he remains committed to an overhaul including legalization, and debate
has often proved polarizing.

''We feel very comfortable with where he stands,'' said Eliseo Medina,
international executive vice president of the Service Employees International
Union, who has been barnstorming for Mr. Obama. ''We do not have to have it
repeated to us over and over again.''

Ms. Higginbottom, the Obama policy adviser, acknowledged that high unemployment
in coming months could make an immigration overhaul a harder sell but said Mr.
Obama would argue that American workers would benefit if millions of
unauthorized immigrant workers, currently vulnerable to exploitation, gained
their labor rights.

While the candidates have skirted the immigration issue in speeches and
town-hall-style- meetings, they are clashing head on over it in the Spanish
language media, in negative advertisements that have played heavily in swing
states with growing numbers of Hispanic voters like Colorado, Florida, Nevada
and New Mexico.

In those advertisements, Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama each tries to show that the
other was less consistent in supporting legislation to change the system,
including provisions to legalize illegal immigrants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: A Political Tightrope: Some battleground states have high
proportions of Hispanic voters, others have high numbers of blue-collar workers.
Hoping to draw support from Hispanics without alienating white workingclass
voters, both presidential candidates have played down their immigration
views.(Sources: Immigration Policy Center
 Census)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 2, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Smaller Numbers, Marchers Seek Immigrants' Rights

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD; Contributing reporting were Ana Facio Contreras
in Los Angeles, C.J. Hughes in New York, J. Miner in Milwaukee and Katie Zezima
in Boston.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 751 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Thousands of immigrants and their supporters marched in several cities on
Thursday to demand civil rights at a time when crackdowns against illegal
immigrants are rising.

The May Day demonstrations were significantly smaller than in previous years,
and gone were calls for a nationwide boycott of businesses and work, as protest
leaders had urged last year. The Spanish-language D.J.'s who had heavily
promoted previous marches stuck largely to their regular programming. And
disagreements among advocates over the best approach to winning legal status for
illegal immigrants had diminished organizing firepower, with many groups turning
their attention to voter registration and citizenship drives.

In many cities, including New York, Chicago, Houston and Los Angeles, crowds
were a small fraction of those in previous years, with few people outside
protest areas even aware that marches were under way.

Some supporters said they had lost a rallying cry in the stalled effort in
Congress to revamp immigration law. At the same time, with the government
stepping up border and immigration enforcement, a cloud of fear has settled over
immigrants who were worried that the rallies would lead to more sweeps.

Milwaukee had one of the more robust turnouts, with thousands of people
gathering, as they did last year. Protesters called on the presidential
candidates, each of whom has supported Congressional efforts to allow a way for
certain illegal immigrants to gain legal status, to make immigration issues a
priority.

''We want a commitment from the three presidential candidates to pass humane
immigration reform in the first 100 days in office,'' said Christine
Neumann-Ortiz, director of Voces de la Frontera, the main organization behind
the Milwaukee march.

In Los Angeles, where riot police officers beat and shoved demonstrators and
journalists last year, some marchers were concerned about trouble, though across
the nation the marches were largely peaceful.

''Today the police didn't bring their batons,'' Jorge Reyes called out in
Spanish from a truck in downtown Los Angeles. ''Today they came in peace to help
us legalize the 12 million immigrants in this country.''

Messages on T-shirts and signs and protest leaders with bullhorns demanded an
end to immigration raids that have led to an increasing number of deportations.
The United States deported 280,000 people last year, a 44 percent increase over
the previous year.

Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa of Los Angeles, who has called on the Department
of Homeland Security to halt most workplace raids, joined business and labor
leaders on Wednesday to announce the results of a study that found the raids
harmful to the economy. The study said 50 percent or more of workers in some
local industries were in the country illegally, and it projected great harm to
the region if businesses closed or moved because of the immigration sweeps.

Supporters of tighter controls on immigration said the rallies had done little
but energize their backers. Leaders of NumbersUSA, one of the larger groups
advocating a clampdown on illegal immigration, urged its members to call members
of Congress and use the rallies to help make their case.

''The marchers say suspend the rule of law and reward illegality,'' said Roy
Beck, executive director of NumbersUSA, which says its membership has swelled to
more than 600,000 from 112,000 three years ago.

''Our callers say what your constituents really want is enforcement,'' Mr. Beck
added. ''We want to take away the jobs magnet and basically create an
inhospitable environment for immigration law breakers so more and more will
decide to go home or not come.''

Counterdemonstrators appeared at some rallies, including in Boston, where the
police had to separate demonstrators who became embroiled in profanity-laced
exchanges.

Though meager, the crowds were often festive and melded a variety of causes. A
rally in Union Square Park in Manhattan drew several hundred people invoking
socialism, police violence and Sept. 11 conspiracy theories, in addition to
immigrant rights.

Lisa Melendez, a community-college librarian from Long Island, said she attended
the Union Square rally to advocate legalization for her students, many of whom
are Mexican or Ecuadorean.

''For young women, it's especially difficult, because you study so hard to get
an engineering degree and then you end up having to baby sit or clean houses,''
Ms. Melendez said as she stood by five students who had come with her.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LOS ANGELES: Demonstrators downtown at the May Day march.
Police beat and shoved protesters last year, but the procession was peaceful
this year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MILWAUKEE: The turnout, one of the more robust, was about as strong as it was in
previous years, with thousands gathering.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK WOOD/THE MILWAUKEE
JOURNAL SENTINEL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
NEW YORK: Protesters at Union Square Park, where the rally drew several hundred
people invoking several causes.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK
TIMES)
WASHINGTON: Sonia Umanzor, left, of Takoma Park, Md., and Delia Alvarez, of
Manassas, Va., at the rally, near the Capitol.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JACQUELYN
MARTIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 CHICAGO: Marchers across the country said they were seeking civil rights for
immigrants at a time of rising crackdowns.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID BANKS/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 24, 2008 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

270 IMMIGRANTS SENT TO PRISON IN FEDERAL PUSH

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1553 words

DATELINE: WATERLOO, Iowa


In temporary courtrooms at a fairgrounds here, 270 illegal immigrants were
sentenced this week to five months in prison for working at a meatpacking plant
with false documents.

The prosecutions, which ended Friday, signal a sharp escalation in the Bush
administration's crackdown on illegal workers, with prosecutors bringing tough
federal criminal charges against most of the immigrants arrested in a May 12
raid. Until now, unauthorized workers have generally been detained by
immigration officials for civil violations and rapidly deported.

The convicted immigrants were among 389 workers detained at the Agriprocessors
Inc. plant in nearby Postville in a raid that federal officials called the
largest criminal enforcement operation ever carried out by immigration
authorities at a workplace.

Matt M. Dummermuth, the United States attorney for northern Iowa, who oversaw
the prosecutions, called the operation an ''astonishing success.''

Claude Arnold, a special agent in charge of investigations for Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, said it showed that federal officials were ''committed to
enforcing the nation's immigration laws in the workplace to maintain the
integrity of the immigration system.''

The unusually swift proceedings, in which 297 immigrants pleaded guilty and were
sentenced in four days, were criticized by criminal defense lawyers, who warned
of violations of due process. Twenty-seven immigrants received probation.  The
American Immigration Lawyers Association protested that the workers had been
denied meetings with immigration lawyers and that their claims under immigration
law had been swept aside in unusual and speedy plea agreements.

The illegal immigrants, most from Guatemala, filed into the courtrooms in groups
of 10, their hands and feet shackled. One by one, they entered guilty pleas
through a Spanish interpreter, admitting they had taken jobs using fraudulent
Social Security cards or immigration documents. Moments later, they moved to
another courtroom for sentencing.

The pleas were part of a deal worked out with prosecutors to avoid even more
serious  charges. Most immigrants agreed to immediate deportation after they
serve five months in prison.

The hearings took place on the grounds of the National Cattle Congress in
Waterloo, in mobile trailers and in a dance hall modified with black curtains,
beginning at 8 a.m. and continuing several nights until 10. On Wednesday alone,
94 immigrants pleaded guilty and were sentenced, the most sentences in a single
day in this northern Iowa district, according to Robert L. Phelps, the clerk of
court.

Mr. Arnold, the immigration agent, said the criticism of the proceedings was
''the usual spate of false allegations and baseless rumors.''

The large number of criminal cases was remarkable because immigration violations
generally fall under civil statutes. Until now, relatively few immigrants caught
in raids have been charged with federal crimes like identity theft or document
fraud.

''To my knowledge, the magnitude of these indictments is completely
unprecedented,'' said Juliet Stumpf, an immigration law professor at Lewis &
Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., who was formerly a senior civil rights
lawyer at the Justice Department. ''It's the reliance on criminal process here
as part of an immigration enforcement action that takes this out of the
ordinary, a startling intensification of the criminalization of immigration
law.''

Defense lawyers, who were appointed by the court, said most of the immigrants
were ready to accept the plea deals because of the hard bargain driven by the
prosecutors.

If the immigrants did not plead guilty, Mr. Dummermuth said he would try them on
felony identity theft charges that carry a mandatory two-year minimum jail
sentence. In many cases, court documents show, the immigrants were working under
real Social Security numbers or immigration visas, known as green cards, that
belonged to other people.

All but a handful of the workers here had no criminal record, court documents
showed.

''My family is worried in Guatemala,'' one defendant, Erick Tajtaj, entreated
the federal district judge who sentenced him, Mark W. Bennett. ''I ask that you
deport us as soon as possible, that you do us that kindness so we can be
together again with our families.''

No charges have been brought against managers or owners at Agriprocessors, but
there were indications that prosecutors were also preparing a case against the
company. In pleading guilty, immigrants had to agree to cooperate with any
investigation.

Chaim Abrahams, a representative of Agriprocessors, said in a statement that he
could not comment about specific accusations but that the company was
cooperating with the government.

Aaron Rubashkin, the owner of Agriprocessors, announced Friday that he had begun
a search to replace his son Sholom as the chief executive of the company.
Agriprocessors is the country's largest producer of kosher meat, sold under
brands like Aaron's Best. The plant is in Postville, a farmland town about 70
miles northeast of Waterloo. Normally it employs about 800 workers, and in
recent years the majority of them have come from rural Guatemala.

Since 2004, the plant has faced repeated sanctions for environmental and worker
safety violations. It was the focus of a 2006 expose in The Jewish Daily Forward
and a commission of inquiry that year by Conservative Jewish leaders.

In Postville, workers from the plant, still feeling aftershocks from the raid,
said conditions there were often harsh. In interviews, they said they were often
required to work overtime and night shifts, sometimes up to 14 hours a day, but
were not consistently paid for the overtime.

''We knew what time we would start work but we did not know what time we would
finish,'' said Elida, 29, a Guatemalan who was arrested in the raid and then
released to care for her two children. She asked that her last name not be
published because she is in this country illegally.

A 16-year-old Guatemalan girl, who asked to be identified only as G.O. because
she is illegal and a minor and was not involved in the raid, said she had been
working the night shift plucking chickens.  ''When you start, you can't stay
awake,'' she said. ''But after a while you get used to it.''

The workers said that supervisors and managers were well aware that the
immigrants were working under false documents.

Defense lawyers, who each agreed to represent as many as 30 immigrants, said
they were satisfied that they had sufficient time to question them and prepare
their cases. But some lawyers said they were troubled by the severity of the
charges.

At one sentencing hearing, David Nadler, a defense lawyer, said he was ''honored
to represent such good and brave people,'' saying the immigrants' only purpose
had been to provide for their families in Guatemala.

''I want the court to know that these people are the kings of family values,''
Mr. Nadler said.

Judge Bennett appeared moved by Mr. Nadler's remarks. ''I don't doubt for a
moment that you are good, hard-working people who have done what you did to help
your families,'' Judge Bennett told the immigrants. ''Unfortunately for you, you
committed a violation of federal law.''

After the hearing, Mr. Nadler said the plea agreements were the best deal
available for his clients. But he was dismayed that prosecutors had denied them
probation and insisted the immigrants serve prison time and agree to a rarely
used judicial order for immediate deportation upon their release, signing away
their rights to go to immigration court.

''That's not the defense of justice,'' Mr. Nadler said. ''That's just
politics.''

Christopher Clausen, a lawyer who represented 21 Guatemalans, said he was
certain they all understood their options and rights. Mainly they wanted to get
home to Guatemala as quickly as possible, he said.

''The government is not bashful about the fact that they are trying to send a
message,'' Mr. Clausen said, ''that if you get caught working illegally here you
will pay a criminal penalty.''

Robert Rigg, a Drake University law professor who is president of the Iowa
Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, said his group was not consulted when
prosecutors and court officials began to make plans, starting in December, for
the mass proceedings.

''You really are force feeding the system just to churn these people out,'' Mr.
Rigg said.

Kathleen Campbell Walker, president of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, said that intricate issues could arise in some cases, for example
where immigrants had children and spouses who were legal residents or United
States citizens. Those issues ''could not be even cursorily addressed in the
time frame being forced upon these individuals and their overburdened counsel.''

Linda R. Reade, the chief judge who approved the emergency court setup, said she
was confident there had been no rush to justice. In an interview, Judge Reade
said prosecutors had organized the immigrants' detention to make it easy for
their lawyers to meet with them. The prosecutors, she said, ''have tried to be
fair in their charging.''

The immigration lawyers, Judge Reade said, ''do not understand the federal
criminal process as it relates to immigration charges.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 28, 2008



CORRECTION: An article on Saturday about the convictions of illegal immigrants
who worked in an Iowa meat-packing plant misstated the sentence or crime for
some of them. Of the 270 immigrants who were sent to prison, 260 were sentenced
to five months for using false work documents; 2 were sentenced to 12 months and
1 day for that crime; and 8 received five-month sentences for re-entering the
United States illegally after deportation. All 270 immigrants were not sentenced
to five months for using false documents.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Immigration officials lined up illegal immigrants on Thursday at
the National Cattle Congress grounds in Waterloo, Iowa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW
PUTNEY/WATERLOO COURIER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. A15)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 29, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Voids An Ordinance On Immigrants

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 240 words

DATELINE: FARMERS BRANCH, Tex.


A federal judge found Wednesday that a local ordinance prohibiting apartment
rentals to illegal immigrants was unconstitutional and could not be enforced.

The judge, Sam A. Lindsay, said Farmers Branch, a suburb of Dallas, tried to
create its own classification to determine which noncitizens could rent in the
city.

Judge Lindsay also wrote that an effort by the city to salvage the ordinance
would have required that the court draft laws.

The ordinance, passed last year, would have required landlords to verify the
legal status of applicants. It would have exempted minors and applicants 62 or
older from having to prove their immigration status or citizenship.

Families would have been allowed to renew an apartment lease if they met three
conditions: they were already tenants; the head of a household or a spouse was
living legally in the United States; and the family included only the spouse,
their minor children or parents.

Residents endorsed the measure by two to one in May 2007 in the nation's first
public vote on a local government measure meant to combat illegal immigration.
But a group of apartment complex operators, residents and advocates sued, saying
the ordinance was so poorly drafted that it could exclude legal immigrants and
citizens from renting. It also  failed to provide clear guidance for apartment
managers and owners and improperly tried to turn property managers into policing
agents, the group said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 18, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

More Illegal Crossings Are Criminal Cases, Group Says

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 791 words


Criminal prosecutions of immigrants by federal authorities surged to a record
high in March, as immigration cases accounted for the majority -- 57 percent --
of all new federal criminal cases brought nationwide that month, according to a
report published Tuesday by a nonpartisan research group.

Immigration cases also made up more than half of new federal prosecutions in
February, reflecting a major emphasis on immigration by the Bush administration
and a policy shift to expand the use of criminal, rather than civil, charges in
its efforts to curb illegal immigration.

In March, according to the report, narcotics cases, the next largest category,
were 13 percent of new prosecutions by the Justice Department. The third-largest
category, weapons cases, were 5 percent.

The report, by the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, a data analysis
organization affiliated with Syracuse University, was based on figures from the
Justice Department's Executive Office for United States Attorneys. The group
obtained the figures through the Freedom of Information Act.

The record number of 9,350 new immigration prosecutions in March was part of a
''highly unusual surge'' that began in January, the report said, and represented
73 percent more new immigration cases compared with March 2007. Most cases were
in districts along the border with Mexico and were part of a rapidly expanding
program by the Border Patrol and the Justice Department to press criminal
charges against virtually all immigrants caught crossing the border illegally in
some sectors.

''We've never seen such a surge at the national level,'' said David Burnham, a
co-director of the Syracuse group. ''They are deciding that the use of criminal
law is the way to solve the border patrol problem.''

In a crackdown that has accelerated since last June, when immigration
legislation supported by President Bush failed in Congress, the administration
has sought to show it is serious about enforcing immigration laws. In a new
strategy, the authorities have brought an array of criminal charges against
illegal immigrants stopped at the border or rounded up in raids at factories and
other workplaces. Previously, illegal immigrants were generally charged under
immigration law with civil violations, not criminal ones.

Justice Department officials would not confirm the Syracuse group's conclusions,
repeating criticism they have made in the past of the group's reports. A
department spokeswoman, Carolyn M. Nelson, said in a statement that the
clearinghouse ''has a pattern of omitting certain statistics, resulting in
misleading information regarding prosecutions.''

''Nonetheless,'' Ms. Nelson said, ''it is certainly true that the department has
prioritized immigration-related crimes over the last few years and that we have
successfully prosecuted an increasing number of these cases.''

In another striking finding, the report said that 99 percent of people referred
to federal prosecutors for immigration offenses in March were charged. ''Any
immigration case that comes through the door is going to be prosecuted,'' Mr.
Burnham said. ''That's astonishing.''

But  sentences for those convicted were short, with the median being one month.

Under the border program, called Operation Streamline, prosecutors have brought
criminal misdemeanor charges against immigrants caught entering the country
illegally for the first time. Immigrants who were caught re-entering after they
had been deported have faced tough felony charges and longer sentences.

Immigration lawyers have warned that the widespread application of criminal
charges has resulted in overly hasty prosecutions and undermined immigrants'
abilities to exercise their immigration rights, which might allow them to avoid
deportation.

''The federal government has decided that it's O.K. in the criminal immigration
context to shortcut the normal process,'' said Kathleen Campbell Walker, the
president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, the national
immigration bar. ''What this means is, let's just run them through, to see how
fast can we expedite justice.''

Ms. Walker, a lawyer based in El Paso, said  immigrants in criminal proceedings
along the border might have criminal defense lawyers but often had no chance to
consult immigration lawyers. ''Those niceties, you don't have time to get to
them,'' she said.

Border Patrol officials say  Operation Streamline has reduced efforts by
immigrants to cross the border illegally in the limited sectors where it has
been applied. In the sector near Yuma, Ariz., one of the first places where the
program was put into practice, agents detained 447 illegal immigrants crossing
the border last month, down from 3,162 in May 2007.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHS: IMMIGRATION PROSECUTIONS HAVE SOARED . . . Justice Department
cases against immigrants . . .
 TO ABOUT HALF OF ALL NEW CASES: Immigrant prosecutions as share of department
cases. (Source: Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse)   Graphs showing the
increase in immigration cases.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 22, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Group Wields Racketeering Law Against Landlords to Combat Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 925 words

DATELINE: PLAINFIELD, N.J.


A federal lawsuit challenging the right of landlords to rent to illegal
immigrants has stoked tensions over immigration that have been rising for years
here.

A group opposed to illegal immigration filed suit against a Plainfield property
management company this month, seeking to set a legal precedent by using a
federal law normally employed against racketeers to punish landlords who rent to
illegal immigrants.

The lawsuit accuses the company, Connolly Properties, of allowing so many
undocumented tenants to live in its buildings that it amounted to unlawful
harboring and should be considered a criminal enterprise that encouraged illegal
immigration.

The suit was brought by the Immigration Reform Law Institute in Washington --
the legal arm of the Federation for American Immigration Reform. The institute
previously supported ordinances in Hazelton, Pa., and Riverside, N.J., that
tried to punish landlords who rented to illegal immigrants or businesses that
hired them.

A judge overturned the Hazelton ordinance, ruling it unconstitutional, and
Riverside rescinded its ordinance, with officials saying the town could not
afford the legal costs of defending it.

Flor Gonzalez, head of the Latin American Coalition in Plainfield, worries that
her city may become the latest battleground in the nationwide debate over
immigration.

She says that tensions over the city's large immigrant population have been
rising, with a recent series of beatings and robberies of immigrants, raids by
federal immigration officials and ticketing of day laborers by the police.

''This is the worst it's been. There is a lot of unfriendliness and disrespect
against immigrants, and a lot has been happening quietly,'' Ms. Gonzalez said.
''We need big help in this town.''

Plainfield's mayor, Sharon M. Robinson-Briggs said that she was not familiar
with the details of the lawsuit, but added that immigrants deserved respect,
regardless of their status.

''All our residents deserve to be treated fairly and equitably, whether they are
born here or not,'' she said.

The lawsuit was filed against Connolly Properties on behalf of a former Connolly
employee and two tenants who are American citizens. The tenants charge that they
were steered into buildings occupied by illegal immigrants who were too afraid
about their legal status to complain about decrepit conditions, according to
Michael M. Hethmon, a lawyer for the Reform Law Institute.

Connolly Properties has several rental complexes in northern New Jersey and
Allentown, Pa.

Ron Simoncini, a spokesman for Connolly, said executives were bewildered as to
why the company had become the target of the suit, which was filed under the
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, known as RICO.

He added that he could not comment further before the company filed a response
to the suit.

Mr. Hethmon said his group decided to take the case as part of its strategy of
''attrition through enforcement,'' or urging illegal immigrants to leave the
country by making it more difficult for them to find employment and housing.

''We have felt for a long time that the racketeering statute would be useful in
dealing with situations where businesses and commercial enterprises were heavily
involved with illegal immigration,'' Mr. Hethmon said.

''We've also felt that individual citizens, communities, neighborhoods and
law-abiding small businesses have always needed tools with which they can defend
themselves against the harmful effects of illegal immigration.''

Using anti-racketeering laws to prosecute landlords is a strategy that
immigration experts say they expect to be tried in other parts of the nation.

''I think it's a new tactic, because some of the other things haven't worked,''
said Donald W. Benson, a lawyer in the Atlanta office of the San Francisco labor
law firm Littler Mendelson.

''Congress couldn't reach a consensus to reform the immigration laws, states are
trying to fill in the gaps and they're having varied success, and local groups
are trying to work through local ordinances, so it's just one part of a much
bigger picture of immigration struggles in the U.S.,'' he said.

''I have no idea why they picked Plainfield,'' said Christian Estevez, a member
of the Plainfield school board who also sits on Gov. Jon S. Corzine's panel on
immigrant policy.

''This has caught us by surprise.''

Mr. Estevez said that he and other Plainfield residents were contacting national
immigration advocacy groups for help.

According to the 2000 census, Plainfield, a city of some 50,000 people, is about
60 percent black, with the remainder roughly split between white and Hispanic.

In the past decade, Ms. Gonzalez said there had been a large influx of Hispanic
immigrants, mostly from Central America.

The Plainfield City Council president, Harold Gibson, said he was unaware of the
lawsuit, but that city officials had been trying to address concerns over
immigration.

He cited the city's efforts to find a solution to the day laborer situation that
respected the laborers' right to look for work while addressing community
concerns.

''I think that the people in Plainfield, in terms of the City Council and the
general population, they frown on illegal immigration, they don't want
undocumented persons living in the town, generally speaking,'' he said.

''However, my position is that I don't think we should set ourselves up as an
immigration authority in terms of people who come from other countries and work
hard to better themselves and help their families.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Flor Gonzalez, of the Latin American Coalition, worries that a
lawsuit will worsen the immigration tensions in Plainfield, N.J. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
MIKE DERER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 20, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

How We Treat Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 712 words


To the Editor:

I was delighted to read ''The Shame of Postville, Iowa'' (editorial, July 13),
about the essay by Erik Camayd-Freixas, a professor and Spanish-language court
interpreter who bore witness to the legal aftermath of the Immigration and
Customs Enforcement raid at a meatpacking plant in Postville in May.

Professor Camayd-Freixas's powerful document describes ICE's new strategy of
transforming violators of immigration laws into criminal offenders by nabbing
hundreds of people at a time and charging them with crimes rather than with
civil violations of immigration law. This bolsters the statistics on removal
(deportation) of ''criminal aliens.''

As part of this tactic, the nearly 400 mostly Guatemalan workers in Postville
were shackled and herded onto the grounds of the National Cattle Congress in
Waterloo, Iowa, where they were offered complicated criminal plea bargains that
included an agreement to be subject to a rarely used method of fast-track
removal after the sentence is served.

Most were offered the choice of five months in jail followed by deportation. If
they fought their case, they faced a two-year sentence then deportation.

Everyone who cares about due process of law should read Mr. Camayd-Freixas's
vivid chronicle of the event.

Virginia E. Carstens  Hartford, Conn., July 14, 2008

The writer is an immigration lawyer.

To the Editor:

It is indeed sad that many of the workers picked up in the Postville, Iowa,
raids were jailed, but to characterize the arrest and jailing of illegal
immigrants who violated our immigration laws and committed document fraud as
''abusing and terrorizing'' them does not reflect the realities of our legal
system.

The law does not automatically bestow compassion and forgiveness on lawbreakers
based on the underlying motives for their crime. There is no difference between
stealing a Social Security number to commit identity theft or using it simply to
obtain employment. Both actions are crimes, deserving of the same punishment.

Last, ''under the old way'' of immediately deporting the illegal immigrants,
they would have been treated to a free, American taxpayer-assisted one-way ride
to Guatemala, most likely followed by their eventual return here via the coyote
express.

Henry C. Clifford III Wainscott, N.Y., July 15, 2008

To the Editor:

Re ''An Interpreter Speaking Up for Migrants'' (front page, July 11):

Several of my colleagues were sent to interpret the criminal prosecution of
immigrant workers from the Postville, Iowa, raid. All came home saddened and
indignant, with sympathy and respect for the detainees.

They realized that they had been used to persecute displaced people. Indeed, the
defendants were mostly Guatemalan Mayans, whose country was in shambles because
of a genocidal war, a reality never recognized by our country.

The preamble to the code of ethics of the National Association of Judiciary
Interpreters and Translators states, ''No code of ethics can foresee every
conceivable scenario.'' It therefore encourages interpreters to develop their
''own, well-informed ethical judgment.''

Confronted by the very prototype of an inconceivable, unforeseeable
circumstance, the interpreters had a duty to apply their own ethical judgment.
Erik Camayd-Freixas fulfilled that ethical duty.

Madeline Newman Rios Claremont, Calif., July 11, 2008

The writer is a court interpreter.

To the Editor:

There is another misgiving that should be mentioned about the immigration raid
that occurred in Postville, Iowa: the enormous cost to the taxpayer.

When undocumented immigrant workers are whisked away through immediate
deportation, the cost is relatively little. But to charge and convict the people
from the Postville raid with truly criminal offenses, the federal government had
to spend significant sums to process the litigation, manage the complicated
logistics and imprison more than 260 people, most for five months.

While the humanitarian toll of this charade is certainly worth condemning, it is
the continuous, senseless, vindictive, wasteful spending by the Bush
administration to satisfy its extremist ideologies -- amid economic upheaval and
an overpriced war -- that really unnerves me.

Ari Gerstman  Alexandria, Va., July 14, 2008

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 21, 2008 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pushing Back on Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 490 words


There is nothing good about the country's ever more merciless campaign of
immigration enforcement. But at least there are emerging signs of resistance,
from one of the most important, yet curiously disengaged, players in the debate:
employers.

States and cities complain about the broken immigration system, but they can't
create the intricate web of policies needed to fix it -- that's up to Congress.
All they can do is try to crack down locally on illegal immigrants and the
businesses that hire them. The result has been haphazard enforcement without
reform, which only makes the problem worse.

States have passed overly punitive laws to revoke the licenses of businesses
caught hiring the undocumented and to force employers to participate in
E-Verify, the deeply flawed federal system for checking workers' documents. More
than 175 bills relating to immigrant employment have been introduced by states
this year.

As Julia Preston reported in The Times, business has begun pushing back. In
Arizona, home to some of the most rabidly anti-immigrant politicians and
advocates, a business group had huge success gathering signatures for a ballot
initiative that would soften some of the most stringent employer punishments
enacted last year.

In other states, business groups have helped to kill tough immigration bills.
They argue that they need workers, that it is too hard to avoid hiring
undocumented ones, and that ill-conceived laws go overboard in punishing
well-meaning companies and their legal employees. They are also pushing measures
to bring in more legal workers and to fix the error-plagued federal system for
verifying documents of new employees.

Workplace raids by federal agents have vividly exposed the widespread hiring of
illegal workers, but many employers counter that they are not all scofflaws.
Antidiscrimination laws bar them from looking too closely at employees' identity
papers, or checking their immigration status after they are hired. ''The system
is just as broken for employers as it is for immigrants,'' a lawyer for two
California companies told Ms. Preston.

As with anything in the immigration debate, there are complicated truths at work
here. Many companies have operated with impunity in hiring and abusing
undocumented low-wage workers, people who are all the more compliant because
they are illegal. Like immigrants, good employers need a path to get right and
stay right with the law. Current immigration law -- with far too few visas and
no path to legalization for the undocumented -- does not provide one, and
misguided state and local enforcement efforts simply layer on the confusion.
They impose undue hardships on by-the-books businesses and reward the
exploiters.

If the country is ever going to emerge from the immigration chaos that Congress
bequeathed it last year, it will be because business interests -- largely seen
as AWOL in the bitter debate -- finally joined the fight.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 21, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Justices Take Case on Illegal Workers and Penalties for Identity Theft

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 742 words


WASHINGTON -- Federal prosecutors pursuing illegal immigrants have a favorite
tool: a 2004 law that imposes a mandatory two-year prison sentence on some
people who commit identity fraud. The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to decide
just how blunt that instrument is.

The question in the case, one that has divided the federal appeals courts, is
whether workers who use false Social Security and alien registration numbers
must know that they belong to a real person to be subject to a two-year sentence
extension for ''aggravated identity theft.'' Put another way: Is it identity
theft to pick nine random numbers out of the air and submit them as a Social
Security number if that number turns out to belong to a real person?

In the case the court agreed to hear on Monday, Ignacio Flores-Figueroa, a
Mexican citizen, used a counterfeit Social Security card bearing his real name
and a false Social Security number to get work at a steel plant in East Moline,
Ill. Though he did not know it, the number belonged to a real person, a minor.

The 2004 law makes it a crime to use knowingly, ''without lawful authority, a
means of identification of another person'' in connection with a variety of
other offenses. The United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, in
St. Louis, affirmed Mr. Flores-Figueroa's conviction, saying that the government
needed to prove only a knowing use of false information and not that the
defendant knew the fake number belonged to a real person.

Two federal appeals courts -- in Richmond, Va., and Atlanta -- have agreed with
the Eighth Circuit's interpretation. Three -- in Boston, San Francisco and
Washington -- have disagreed. They said prosecutors must prove the defendant
knew the fake number belonged to someone else.

Knowledge requirements often give rise to difficult issues in interpreting
criminal statutes. In a 1985 case, quoting a treatise on criminal law, the
Supreme Court summed up the problem this way: ''It is not at all clear how far
down the sentence the word 'knowingly' is intended to travel.''

Kevin R. Johnson, the dean of the law school at the University of California,
Davis, and an authority on immigration law, said the Supreme Court's decision in
the case, Flores-Figueroa v. United States, No. 08-108, is likely to have a big
impact.

''This is the tool that the federal government has been using in the recent raid
cases,'' Professor Johnson said. Many of the illegal immigrants swept up in a
raid at a meatpacking plant in Postville, Iowa, for instance, were offered a
choice between pleading guilty to a lesser charge, resulting in five months in
prison, followed by deportation without appearing before an immigration judge,
or the possibility of a two-year mandatory sentence under the 2004 law.

''It's given the federal government a huge lever,'' Professor Johnson said of
the law.

Also on Monday, the court turned down an appeal in a capital case, Walker v.
Georgia, No. 08-5385. In the process, it prompted a debate between Justices John
Paul Stevens and Clarence Thomas.

Though Justice Stevens agreed that the court should not have heard the case, he
wrote that it pointed to an important issue. State courts, he said, have an
obligation to review capital cases to make sure that death sentences are not
being imposed arbitrarily.

To do this, he said, courts must compare the murders that gave rise to death
sentences with how similar murders were treated. Lawyers call this
''proportionality review.''

Justice Stevens criticized the Georgia Supreme Court for conducting ''an utterly
perfunctory review'' in the case of Artemus R. Walker, who had been convicted of
luring a man from his home, killing him for money and then trying to break into
the home, where the man's wife and daughter were. The court, he said, had
considered only other cases in which the death penalty had been imposed to
satisfy itself that the death sentence was warranted.

Justice Stevens said United States Supreme Court precedents required a broader
comparison, one that includes cases in which juries had imposed life sentences
and cases in which prosecutors had not sought death in the first place.

Justice Thomas, who also voted to deny the appeal, said Justice Stevens had
misread the court's own cases. ''Proportionality review is not constitutionally
required in any form,'' he wrote. Indeed, he said, the Georgia court had applied
the United States Supreme Court's decisions ''faithfully and without error.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 27, 2008 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

after iowa raid, immigrants fuel labor inquiries

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1531 words

DATELINE: POSTVILLE, Iowa


When federal immigration agents raided the kosher meatpacking plant here in May
and rounded up 389 illegal immigrants, they found more than 20 under-age
workers, some as young as 13.

Now those young immigrants have begun to tell investigators about their jobs.
Some said they worked shifts of 12 hours or more, wielding razor-edged knives
and saws to slice freshly killed beef. Some worked through the night, sometimes
six nights a week.

One, a Guatemalan named Elmer L. who said he was 16 when he started working on
the plant's killing floors, said he worked 17-hour shifts, six days a week. In
an affidavit, he said he was constantly tired and did not have time to do
anything but work and sleep. ''I was very sad,'' he said, ''and I felt like I
was a slave.''

At first, labor officials said the raid had disrupted federal and state
investigations already under way at Agriprocessors Inc., the nation's largest
kosher plant. The raid has drawn criticism for what some see as harsh tactics
against the immigrants, with little action taken against their employers.

But in the aftermath of the arrests, labor investigators have reaped a bounty of
new evidence from the testimony of illegal immigrants, teenagers and adults, who
were caught in the raid. In formal declarations, immigrants have described
pervasive labor violations at the plant, testimony that could result in criminal
charges for Agriprocessors executives, labor law experts said.

Out of work and facing deportation proceedings, many of the immigrants say they
now have nothing to lose in speaking up about the conditions in the plant. They
have told investigators that they were routinely put to work without safety
training and were forced to work long shifts without overtime or rest time.
Under-age workers said their bosses knew how young they were.

Because of the dangers of the work, it is illegal in Iowa for a company to
employ anyone under 18 on the floor of a meatpacking plant.

In a statement, Agriprocessors said it did not employ workers under 18, and
would fire any under-age worker found to have presented false documents to
obtain work.

To investigate the child labor accusations, the federal Labor Department has
joined with the Iowa Division of Labor Services in cooperation with the state
attorney general's office, officials for the three agencies said.

Sonia Parras Konrad, an immigration lawyer in private practice in  Des Moines,
is representing many of the young workers. She said she had so far identified 27
workers under 18 who were employed in the packing areas of the plant, most of
them illegal immigrants from Guatemala, including some who were not arrested in
the raid.

''Some of these boys don't even shave,'' Ms. Parras Konrad said. ''They're
goofy. They're teenagers.''

At a meeting here Saturday, three members of the House Hispanic Caucus --
including its chairman, Representative Luis V. Gutierrez, Democrat of Illinois
-- heard seven immigrant minors describe working in the Agriprocessors plant.

Iowa labor officials said they rarely encounter child labor cases even though
the state has many meatpacking plants.

''We don't normally have many under-age folks working in our state,'' said Gail
Sheridan-Lucht, a lawyer for the state labor department, who said she could not
comment specifically on the Agriprocessors investigation.

Other investigations are also under way. The Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission is examining accusations of sexual harassment of women at the plant.
Lawyers for the immigrants are preparing a suit under the federal Fair Labor
Standards Act for wage and hour violations.

Federal justice and immigration officials, speaking on Thursday at a hearing in
Washington of the House Judiciary immigration subcommittee, said their
investigations were continuing. A federal grand jury in Cedar Rapids is hearing
evidence.

While federal prosecutors are primarily focusing on immigration charges, they
may also be looking into labor violations. Search warrant documents filed in
court before the raid, which was May 12, cited a report by an anonymous
immigrant who was sent to work in the plant by immigration authorities as an
undercover informant. The immigrant saw ''a rabbi who was calling employees
derogatory names and throwing meat at employees.'' Jewish managers oversee the
slaughtering and processing of meat at Agriprocessors to ensure kosher
standards.

In another episode, the informant said a floor supervisor had blindfolded an
immigrant with duct tape. ''The floor supervisor then took one of the meat hooks
and hit the Guatemalan with it,'' the informant said, adding that the blow did
not cause ''serious injuries.''

So far, 297 illegal immigrants from the May raid have been convicted of document
fraud and other criminal charges, and most were sentenced to five months in
prison, after which they will be deported.

A spokesman for Agriprocessors, Menachem Lubinsky, said the company could not
comment on an active investigation.

''The company has two objectives in mind: to restore its production to meet the
demands of the kosher food market and to be in full compliance with all local,
state and federal laws,'' Mr. Lubinsky said. Reports of labor violations at the
plant ''remain allegations only, that no agency has charged the company with,''
he said.

The Agriprocessors kosher plant here has been owned and operated since 1987 by
Aaron Rubashkin and his family. His son Sholom was the plant's top manager until
he was removed by his father in May after the raid. The plant's products are
distributed across the country under brands including Aaron's Best and Aaron's
Choice.

Most of the young immigrants were hired at Agriprocessors after they presented
false Social Security cards or other documents saying they were older than they
were.

But in an interview here, Elmer L. said he had told floor supervisors that he
was under 18. He asked that his last name not be published on advice of his
lawyer, Ms. Parras Konrad, because he is a minor in deportation proceedings.

''They asked me how old I was,'' Elmer L. said. ''They could see that sometimes
I could not keep up with the work.''

Elmer L. said that he regularly worked 17 hours a day at the plant and was paid
$7.25 an hour. He said he was not paid overtime consistently.

''My work was very hard, because they didn't give me my breaks, and I wasn't
getting very much sleep,'' he said. ''They told us they were going to call
immigration if we complained.''

Elmer L. said that he was clearing cow innards from the slaughter floor last
Aug. 26 when a supervisor he described as a rabbi began yelling at him, then
kicked him from behind. The blow caused a freshly-sharpened knife to fly up and
cut his elbow.

He was sent to a hospital where doctors closed the laceration with eight
stitches. But he said that when he returned, his elbow still stinging, to ask
for some time off, his supervisor ordered him back to work.

The next day, as he was lifting a cow's tongue, the stitches ruptured, Elmer L.
said, and the wound bled again. He said he was given a bandage at the plant and
sent back to work. The incident is confirmed in a worker's injury report filed
on Aug. 31, 2007, by Agriprocessors with the Iowa labor department.

Gilda O., a Guatemalan who said she was 16, said she worked the night shift
plucking chickens. She said she was working to help her parents pay off debts.

Another Guatemalan, Joel R., who gave his age as 15, said he dropped out of
school in Postville after the eighth grade and took a job at Agriprocessors
because his mother became ill. He said he worked from 5.30 p.m. to 6.30 a.m. in
a section called ''quality control,'' a job he described as relatively easy that
he got because he speaks English.

But he said he and other workers were under constant pressure from supervisors.
''They yell at us when we don't hurry up, when we don't work fast enough for
them,'' said Joel R. He and Gilda O. did not want their last names published
because they are illegal immigrants and they were not arrested in the raid.

Most of the young immigrants have been released from detention but remain in
deportation proceedings. Ms. Parras Konrad said she will ask immigration
authorities to grant them special four-year temporary visas, known as U visas,
which are offered to immigrants who assist in law enforcement investigations.
Iowa labor officials are considering supporting some of those requests, Ms.
Sheridan-Lucht said.

Agriprocessors executives said they had begun an overhaul of hiring and labor
practices, starting with hiring a compliance officer, James G. Martin, a former
United States attorney in Missouri. In an interview, Mr. Martin said the company
had contracted with an outside firm, the Jacobson Staffing Company, to handle
its hiring, and new safety officers, including one former federal work safety
inspector.

Mark Lauritsen, a vice president for the International Food and Commercial
Workers Union, which has tried to organize the plant, said he remained
skeptical. ''They are the poster child for how a rogue company can exploit a
broken immigration system,'' Mr. Lauritsen said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 3, 2008



CORRECTION: An article on Sunday about a raid at a meat packing plant in
Postville, Iowa, in May that captured more than 20 under-age illegal immigrant
workers misstated part of the name of a union that has tried to organize at the
plant. It is the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, not the International
Food and Commercial Workers Union.

An article last Sunday about under-age immigrant workers who were detained in a
raid in May at a kosher meatpacking plant in Postville, Iowa, misidentified the
position that Representative Luis V. Gutierrez, Democrat of Illinois, holds in
the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He is chairman of the caucus's immigration
task force, not chairman of the caucus. (The head of the caucus is
Representative Joe Baca, Democrat of California, who, like Mr. Gutierrez,
visited Postville on July 26.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gilda O., a Guatemalan who says she is 16, said she worked the
night shift at the Agriprocessors plant. Another young Guatemalan, Elmer L.,
said he worked 17-hour shifts, six days a week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN MALLY FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 31, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Decline Seen In Numbers Of People Here Illegally

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 631 words


The number of illegal immigrants in the country has dropped by as much 1.3
million in the past year, an 11 percent decline since a historic peak last
August, an immigration research group in Washington said in a report released
Wednesday.

The report, by Steven A. Camarota and Karen Jensenius of the Center for
Immigration Studies, found ''strong indications'' that stepped-up enforcement by
immigration authorities had played a major role in the decline.

The report, which is based on monthly census surveys as recent as May, added to
a growing body of studies indicating that the population of illegal immigrants
in the United States is dropping significantly.

The study's methods and conclusions were questioned by other demographers and
economists, who said the decline  might be less than the center reported and was
more likely the result of the weak economy, especially in low-wage construction
and manufacturing where illegal immigrants are generally  employed.

''The decline can easily be explained by changes in the economy,'' said Steve
Levy, senior economist at the Center for Continuing Study of the California
Economy in Palo Alto. He said California had lost 134,000 construction jobs
since the summer of 2006.

''The housing sector woes and weakening economy have been known for a long time
and can explain why unauthorized immigrants would stop coming and why some of
those here would leave,'' Mr. Levy said.

The Center for Immigration Studies is a policy advocacy group that favors
reduced immigration and opposes legislation to give legal status to illegal
immigrants. The study supports the center's contention that border enforcement
and a crackdown on unauthorized workers and their employers would lead many
illegal immigrants to leave the United States  without being deported.

''The evidence presented here suggests that it has been possible to cut the
illegal population by inducing a large number of people to leave the country,''
the study said.

Federal immigration officials praised the results. ''It reinforces what we
always thought, that comprehensive enforcement is a critical part of the
reduction,'' said Kelly A. Nantel, a spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.

The arguments provoked by the study reflected the difficulties of discussing
options for stemming illegal immigration, when researchers cannot agree on how
many illegal immigrants there are and how they are affected by immigration
enforcement.

Mr. Camarota and Ms. Jensenius based their findings on census figures for
foreign-born Hispanics ages  18 to  40 with a high school degree or less. They
estimated that three-quarters of those Hispanics were illegal immigrants, and
that they made up about two-thirds of the illegal immigrants in the United
States.

Using those estimates, they concluded that the illegal immigrant population had
dropped to 11.2 million, from a historic high of 12.5 million in August 2007.

Jeffrey Passel, a demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center in Washington who
studies illegal immigration, said his research also showed a decline in
immigrants. But because of recent changes in the census's data reporting, he
said it was too soon to make precise calculations.

Wayne Cornelius, director of the Center for Comparative Immigration Studies at
the University of California, San Diego, said Mr. Camarota and Ms. Jensenius had
applied ''highly arguable assumptions'' to their data.

''They offer no direct evidence that fewer undocumented immigrants are
attempting to come to the United States, or that fewer of them are getting in,
or that more of those already here are leaving the United States as a result of
enforcement efforts,'' said Mr. Cornelius, who has studied the impact of border
enforcement over the past 15 years.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 6, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Illegal Immigrant, in Need of Care

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 747 words


To the Editor:

''Deported, by U.S. Hospitals'' (''Getting Tough'' series, front page, Aug. 3)
presents the true complexities involved with providing health care for illegal
immigrants.

The article provided the personal history of a hard-working illegal immigrant
who was severely hurt in an automobile accident with a car driven by an
uninsured, drunken United States citizen.

There was no simple right versus wrong here. Rather than deal with the conflict,
we too often gloss over the surface by advocating that we ''do the right thing''
regarding financial costs but turn our backs on our own compassionate feelings
by compelling the illegal immigrant to leave the United States to get medical
assistance back home, in this case  in Guatemala, knowing full well that proper
medical assistance is not available in Guatemala.

Rather than resort to deportation, we can grapple with the problem by dealing
with the complexities. We can honor our compassionate regard for our fellow man
by footing the bill for medical costs. Since illegal immigrants can't afford to
repay us monetarily, they can repay us and legalize their status by doing public
service and/or service in our armed forces.

Our federal government should also require that every illegal immigrant's native
country repay us monetarily for whatever debt was incurred. Of course, any
employer who employed an illegal immigrant should be required to pay back pay
for full wages earned as well as make the necessary Social Security
contribution.

It doesn't have to be an ''either-or'' proposition. America can still be a
compassionate country and maintain fiscal responsibility.

Robert N. Shorin Syosset, N.Y., Aug. 3, 2008

To the Editor:

Your article did not convince me that the hospitals are behaving badly. The
brutal truth is that allowing unregulated millions of illegal immigrants into
the country can only result in the destruction of American institutions such as
hospitals and schools.

In time, the financial burden will also bankrupt the American taxpayers who pay
for them.

Spending more than a million dollars in medical care on an uninsured illegal
immigrant can hardly be considered cruel, and cannot continue indefinitely. When
a dozen such patients reside in the local hospital and it goes bankrupt, where
are Americans supposed to turn for care?

Our first obligation is to our own citizens. Americans cannot solve the problems
of the third world, but the unfettered flood of illegal immigrants into the
United States is capable of bringing down American living standards to the very
third-world level these people seek to flee.

Refusing to acknowledge the truth, however bitter, does not change it.

Leslie Dimmling  Garden City, N.Y., Aug. 4, 2008

To the Editor:

Your article about Luis Alberto Jimenez's deportation to Guatemala by the
Stuart, Fla., hospital that treated his brain injuries was a touching narrative
of a sympathetic victim, but he is more a victim of his native Guatemala's
health care system than he is of our own.

Mr. Jimenez, an illegal foreign worker injured in Florida by a drunken driver,
almost certainly got better acute care than he would have received in Guatemala
for the same injuries. The travesty is not that the Florida hospital discharged
him to his own country; it is that -- no disrespect to Mr. Jimenez or Guatemala
intended here -- his own country cannot effectively care for him.

What is the moral mandate for a Florida acute-care hospital that has already
spent $1.5 million of its own money caring for a foreign citizen to also provide
him with long-term care?

Scott Porch Savannah, Ga., Aug. 3, 2008

To the Editor:

For every seriously injured illegal immigrant, there are hundreds of similarly
traumatized uninsured Americans. The latter are just as difficult to place in
long-term care facilities. As a consequence, many acute-care hospitals in the
United States have opted to shun all trauma patients rather than risk admitting
a patient who cannot be placed: while not-for-profit, these hospitals are also
''not for loss.''

The few hospitals that still solicit and care for the seriously injured
constitute a national resource. Burdening them with long-term financial
responsibility for those who cannot pay will lead to further trauma center
closings. Such closings imperil us all.

Timothy G. Buchman St. Louis, Aug. 3, 2008

The writer is section chief of acute and critical care surgery at Washington
University School of Medicine.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEWIS SCOTT)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 9, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants' Speedy Trials After Raid Become Issue

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1200 words


Immigration and criminal defense lawyers were stunned in May when nearly 300
illegal immigrant workers who had been detained in a raid at an Iowa meatpacking
plant were convicted on criminal charges and sentenced to prison -- all in just
four days.

Now the legal blueprint for those extraordinarily swift proceedings has come to
light, and it is raising questions about the close collaboration in the months
before the raid between the federal court in Iowa and the prosecutors who
pressed the charges.

The blueprint is a 117-page compendium of scripts, laying out step by step the
hearings that would come after the raid at the Agriprocessors plant in
Postville, Iowa, the largest immigration enforcement operation ever carried out
at a single workplace.

The United States attorney's office in Iowa said the documents, recently posted
on the Web site of the American Civil Liberties Union, were not binding and were
prepared to assist defense lawyers with a sudden crush of defendants. Most of
the immigrants pleaded guilty to document fraud and were sentenced to five
months in prison. Some Iowa lawyers said they did find the scripts helpful.

But some critics of the proceedings say the documents suggest that the court had
endorsed the prosecutors' drive to obtain the guilty pleas even before the
hearings began. The scripts included a model of the guilty pleas that
prosecutors planned to offer as well as statements to be made by the judges when
they accepted the pleas and handed down sentences.

''This was the Postville prosecution guilty-plea machine,'' said Lucas
Guttentag, director of the Immigrants' Rights Project of the A.C.L.U. ''The
entire process seemed to presume and be designed for fast-track guilty pleas.''

One defense lawyer who received the scripts from prosecutors on the day of the
raid said he became convinced that the hearings had been organized to produce
guilty pleas for the prosecution. As a result, the lawyer, Rockne Cole, declined
to represent any of the arrested immigrants and ''walked out in disgust,'' he
wrote in a letter to a Congressional subcommittee that is scrutinizing the raid
and the legal proceedings that followed.

Mr. Cole wrote that he was most dismayed to see that the scripts specified the
particular plea agreements that would be offered to the defendants. ''What I
found most astonishing,'' he wrote, ''is that apparently Chief Judge Reade had
already ratified these deals prior to one lawyer even talking to his or her
client.''

Preparations for the hearings were overseen by Linda R. Reade, the chief judge
of the Northern District of Iowa court, who declined to comment for this
article. In an interview in May during the hearings, Judge Reade said she had
begun to organize them in December, when she was advised by the immigration
authorities to expect a ''major law enforcement initiative.''

The hearings were conducted in emergency courtrooms set up in the National
Cattle Congress, a fairground in Waterloo. Magistrate judges took guilty pleas
from immigrants in groups of 10, then the immigrants were immediately sentenced,
five at a time. Only a handful of the workers, mostly illegal immigrants from
Guatemala, had prior criminal records.

The scripts were compiled before the raid by court officials under the
supervision of Robert Phelps, the clerk of court, with input from the office of
United States Attorney Matt M. Dummermuth, prosecutors said. Iowa defense
lawyers said they were not included in any discussions before the raid.

Mr. Phelps declined to comment. A spokesman for Mr. Dummermuth said the
intention was not ''pushing people into pleading guilty.''

''These documents were there to make sure people were fully advised of their
rights and fully understood the consequences of their decisions to plead
guilty,'' said the spokesman, Bob Teig.

In the May interview, Judge Reade, a former federal prosecutor who was nominated
by President Bush in 2002, said she was surprised by how many Agriprocessors
defendants had pleaded guilty rather than contest the charges. She said she had
planned to spend the summer presiding over trials in those cases.

The scripts were presented by prosecutors to about two dozen defense lawyers who
were summoned by the court in meetings at the Cedar Rapids courthouse on May 12
while the raid was under way. Several lawyers who were present said prosecutors
told them that they might each be assigned more than two dozen clients.

The scripts specified that prosecutors would offer a particular type of plea
agreement that leaves no discretion to judges to raise or lower sentences. Some
defense and immigration lawyers said the inclusion of these plea agreements was
a sign of overly close cooperation between the court and prosecutors.

''Here you have a court communicating with one side and not the other about
substantive issues,'' said Robert R. Rigg, a Drake University law professor who
is president of the Iowa Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers. ''The court
had bound itself to the agreement before the plea was accepted.''

Professor Rigg and other legal scholars said such plea agreements were generally
negotiated between prosecutors and defense lawyers after a defendant was
charged, and were later approved by the judge. The rule governing the plea
bargaining says, ''The court must not participate in these agreements.''

Stephanos Bibas, a law professor at the University of Pennsylvania who is an
expert on federal criminal procedure, reviewed the scripts at the request of The
New York Times. He said that they contained nothing ''legally questionable,''
but gave an appearance that ''raises eyebrows.''

''It does make it look like the prosecutor and the judge have worked it out
ahead of time and made it a fait accompli,'' Professor Bibas said. ''The defense
can think the judge is behind this.''

The Agriprocessors hearings have become a national test case for the Bush
administration's crackdown strategy of bringing criminal charges against illegal
immigrants caught in workplace raids. Until recently, most illegal immigrant
workers, if they had no prior records, were swiftly deported on civil
immigration violations.

The hearings were the highest profile use of an expedited procedure, known as
fast track, in a court in the American interior. Such fast-track criminal
immigration proceedings, on a smaller scale, have become common in the last year
in courts near the Mexican border.

Prosecutors and judges said the Iowa court had used scripts in past criminal
hearings and had posted them on the court's Web site. Paul A. Zoss, a magistrate
judge who presided in the Agriprocessors hearings, said the court was seeking to
help defense lawyers prepare their cases.

Iowa defense lawyers said they had seen scripts, but never a complete playbook
like the one they were handed in May, describing a guilty plea process from
start to finish. But some lawyers who represented immigrant defendants said they
found the scripts useful.

''Whether the court prepared them or the prosecution prepared them does not
change the fact that they were helpful,'' said Christopher Clausen, a lawyer who
represented 23 immigrant defendants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: After nearly 300 illegal immigrants were taken into custody in
May in Postville, Iowa, they were tried, convicted and sentenced, based on
scripts prepared by the court and prosecutors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF
REINITZ/WATERLOO COURIER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW PUTNEY/WATERLOO COURIER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 10, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Stirs Up Bound Brook, Again

BYLINE: By JOSHUA BRUSTEIN

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; GOVERNMENT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 736 words


FOUR years after the federal government found that Bound Brook was unfairly
targeting Hispanic residents for housing violations, the borough found itself
once again embroiled in a debate about what municipalities can do to curb
illegal immigration.

At a packed Borough Council meeting last month, the council's president, James
Lefkowitz, proposed a far-reaching resolution that would require landlords to
obtain proof of their tenants' legal status, deny borough contracts to
businesses that hire illegal immigrants and require police officers to check the
status of people they arrest.

After a passionate debate that stretched on for hours, Mr. Lefkowitz could not
persuade any of his colleagues to second his proposal, so it went nowhere. Mayor
Carey Pilato, who opposed the resolution, loudly declared it ''dead'' as he and
Mr. Lefkowitz argued. Mr. Lefkowitz vowed to place the measure as a referendum
on November's ballot.

''A person once made the suggestion that, with the human suffering that's
involved, we should avoid this issue,'' Mr. Lefkowitz said. ''As a private
citizen that's your right. As an elected official, I don't believe I have that
right.''

Others at the meeting said that his measure would unfairly target all Hispanics,
and that the borough would end up having to spend money it could ill afford to
defend against legal challenges that would surely follow.

Bound Brook is not the only municipality in New Jersey or elsewhere that has
attempted to legislate limits on illegal immigration. In nearby Middletown,
Mayor Gerard P. Scharfenberger said in an interview that he was watching Bound
Brook because he, too, was considering introducing a measure to punish landlords
who rent to illegal immigrants.

Bound Brook, a community of about 10,000 people in Somerset County, has tried to
grapple with the issue of undocumented immigrants before. According to the 2000
census, 35 percent of its residents are Hispanic.

When Hurricane Floyd flooded Bound Brook in 1999, those left homeless included
Hispanic immigrants, many of them undocumented, who had previously lived
discreet lives in this working class borough and now were being helped by
agencies like  the Salvation Army and the Red Cross.  Many long-time residents
moved out of the flood-prone center of the borough and were replaced by illegal
immigrants looking for affordable housing.

While there is no accurate count of illegal immigrants  in the borough, a county
report said that at least 200 undocumented people were living in Bound Brook at
the time of the flooding.

In some cases, 8 to 15 people were living in a single-family  unit, the report
said. Some proponents of local legislation say that overcrowding puts residents
at risk and requires taxpayers to shoulder a disproportionate share of costs for
services like garbage pickup.

Others, like Carmen Salavarrieta, a community activist who aids Hispanics in
Bound Brook facing abuse from employers and landlords, said the emphasis on
overcrowding was an excuse to target all Hispanic residents. Ms. Salavarrieta
and others complained to federal officials when  borough housing inspectors
began making nighttime inspections accompanied by police officers.

The United States Department of Justice investigated, and eventually sued the
borough for unfair housing practices. Borough officials agreed to end the
housing inspections and to pay damages to some of those who had claimed
harassment.

Mayor Pilato said the settlement had cost the borough $600,000, about 10 percent
of its  annual tax revenue.

''If we follow along this path over the next couple of months, not only can we
expect to get a visit again from the D.O.J., I can see many other private
entities that may come and decide to visit us,'' he said.

Mr. Lefkowitz said the settlement with the Justice Department  established a
''sanctuary'' in Bound Brook for illegal immigrants by keeping inspectors from
pursing violations. Those who disagree with him say that existing ordinances on
overcrowding are sufficient and that new legislation will inevitably lead to
discrimination against all Hispanics.

''The feeling right now is very sour. People are afraid,'' said Ms.
Salavarrieta. ''They feel like they're not wanted here.''

Mr. Lefkowitz said going forward could be divisive and costly.

''It's an 'I don't really care what you think anymore' thing,' '' he said.
''It's personal for me.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: EMBROILED: James Lefkowitz, council chief. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON
HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 16, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

15 Illegal Immigrants Who Lost Loved Ones on 9/11 Receive Temporary Visas

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 667 words


Federal officials granted temporary legal status on Friday to 15 illegal
immigrants whose spouses or parents died on 9/11 but who have remained largely
invisible, living in the shadows of society for fear of deportation.

Those officials and the families' supporters said the decision would clear the
way for Congress to move forward on bills that would grant the immigrants
permanent legal status.

''When I told my clients about it, there were tears of joy,'' said Debra Brown
Steinberg, a lawyer representing several of the immigrants. ''They can show
their faces and say their names.''

''Now they can make 9/11 their story, too,'' she added. ''It's a great day.''

The immigrants have lived in limbo since the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001. They
were the wives, husbands and children of several victims in the World Trade
Center, some of whom were legal immigrants, the rest of whom were illegal
themselves.

While the families received payments from the Victim Compensation Fund, ranging
from $875,000 to $4.1 million, they have not been able to easily invest the
payments because they lacked Social Security numbers and other identity
documents, their lawyers said. Some of the immigrants were so fearful of being
extorted or robbed, with no recourse in the justice system, that they did not
tell some relatives and friends of their losses.

A bill introduced last year by two members of Congress from New York, Peter T.
King, a Republican, and Carolyn B. Maloney, a Democrat, would grant permanent
resident visas to the survivors.

Several Republicans in the House who opposed the measure demanded more
information about the immigrants to ensure that they were not terrorists or
criminals. But the immigrants' lawyers said they were reluctant to provide any
information that might expose their clients to deportation.

''Congress wanted to know the facts before they provided relief, and the
families wanted relief before they identified themselves,'' Stewart Baker,
assistant secretary for policy at the Department of Homeland Security, said in
an interview on Friday. ''So we really had a kind of standoff.''

In April, immigration officials worked out an arrangement with the families'
lawyers that allowed the illegal immigrants to provide the authorities with
biographical information and immigration history, though not their names,
without fear of deportation.

Mr. Baker said that after reviewing the information, Homeland Security decided
to grant the immigrants one-year temporary visas to remain in the United States,
''with the expectation that Congress will take up this matter within the year.''
He said that in the event the Congressional process was delayed, the relief
might be extended.

The lawyers had petitioned Homeland Security on behalf of 16 clients, but the
department granted relief to only 15. The 16th immigrant, despite having steady
employment and income, failed to pay taxes from 1999 to 2006, Mr. Baker said.

''Our view was that if, indeed, we are granting the relief because these
families ought to be part of the American story and American institutions, as we
believe, part of that is taking on the responsibilities of people living in the
United States lawfully,'' he said.

In an interview on Friday, Mr. King said that he had been briefed by Mr. Baker
on the department's decision and that it seemed ''equitable.'' But he said that
he was not able to predict how and when Congress would move forward on the
pending legislation regarding the immigrants, and that he planned to confer with
Ms. Maloney and others in Congress on the matter.

In order to finalize their new legal status, Mr. Baker said, the immigrants will
now have to identify themselves by name to the government so investigators can
double-check the personal information provided anonymously.

Ms. Steinberg said that her clients would identify themselves ''in the near
term,'' and that her  ''hope and plan and dream'' was for Congress to act
quickly and give them green-card status.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 21, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Iowa: Guilty Plea in Immigrant Case

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING MIDWEST; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 103 words


A supervisor arrested after a major immigration raid at an Iowa meatpacking
plant  has pleaded guilty to conspiring to hire illegal immigrants. The
supervisor, Juan Carlos Guerrero-Espinoza, left, who struck a deal with federal
prosecutors, could face up to 10 years in prison and a $500,000 fine for
conspiring to hire, and for aiding and abetting the hiring of illegal
immigrants. Magistrate Jon S. Scoles said  Mr. Guerrero-Espinoza, a legal
resident of the United States, would probably serve four to five years in prison
and could be deported after serving his sentence. The plant, in Postville, was
raided in May.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 25, 2008 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

That's 8 Out of 457,000

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 382 words


This month, the Bush administration rolled out a new strategy to solve illegal
immigration and just as quickly rolled it back in. It was called Operation
Scheduled Departure, and it was simply this: It asked people to turn themselves
in.

Those who showed up would have 90 days to get their affairs in order -- to find
foster parents for their citizen children; to settle mortgages and car loans; to
prepare themselves for new lives in the old country. Of the 457,000 people
facing deportation orders, eight took the bait. The program was scrapped after
three weeks.

It is tempting to mock the administration for naive conception and even worse
execution, but that would give it too much credit for sincerity. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement could never have expected to reap a big crop of undocumented
people this way.

We suspect what it really wanted was to lend cover to its continuing campaign of
raids and arrests. That is the real strategy. It is brutal, simplistic and also
ineffective, but it is the one the country is sticking with.

By capturing almost nobody, the report-to-deport program has bolstered the
talking points pushed by the immigration agency  and the restrictionist
hard-core: illegal immigrants are a vast class of criminal fugitives, and only
more enforcement can solve this problem.

One in 20 workers is undocumented. Federal   raids are seizing undocumented
workers only a dozen or a hundred at a time, a rate that will leave millions in
the shadows for decades to come. The raids are also sweeping up and terrorizing
citizens. Mass deportation is an impossible mission, and a recipe for family and
economic upheaval on a colossal scale: more than three million young Americans,
native-born children, live in households where one or both parents are
undocumented.

There is a better way. It is to build a system for immigrant workers and family
members that more closely matches demand and supply  -- a system that people
will go through, not around. It is to deal sanely with the hidden, hard-working
undocumented by requiring them to legalize and assimilate, and using enforcement
power to catch and deport the criminals.

That is the path toward a controlled border and a less vulnerable America  --
not quick fixes that sound good and solve nothing.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 26, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hundreds of Factory Workers Are Held in Immigration Raid

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 745 words

DATELINE: LAUREL, Miss.


In another large-scale workplace immigration crackdown, federal officials raided
a factory here on Monday, detaining at least 350 workers they said were in the
country illegally.

Numerous agents from Immigration and Customs Enforcement descended on a factory
belonging to Howard Industries Inc., which manufactures electrical transformers,
among other products.

As of late Monday afternoon, no criminal charges had been filed, said Barbara
Gonzalez, an agency spokeswoman, but she said that dozens of workers had been
''identified, fingerprinted, interviewed, photographed and processed for removal
from the U.S.''

The raid follows a similar large-scale immigration operation at a meatpacking
plant in Postville, Iowa, in May when nearly 400 workers were detained. That
raid was a significant escalation of the Bush administration's enforcement
practices because those detained were not simply deported, as in previous raids,
but were imprisoned for months on criminal charges of using false documents.

The mass rapid-fire hearings after the Postville raid took place in a temporary
court facility on the grounds of the National Cattle Congress in Waterloo, Iowa.
An interpreter was later sharply critical of the proceedings, saying the
immigrants did not understand the charges against them.

An immigrant rights group in Jackson, Miss., the state capital, was critical of
Monday's raid, saying families with children were involved.

''It's horrific what ICE is doing to these families and these communities,''
said Shuya Ohno, a spokesman for the Mississippi Immigrants Rights Alliance.
''It's just hard to imagine that this is the United States of America.''

In Laurel on Monday afternoon, several dozen family members of immigrants waited
for news of their relatives at the Immaculate Conception Catholic Church. There
were several small children. A priest at the church who identified himself only
as Father Sergio refused to allow interviews with the families or answer any
questions, saying only: ''People are afraid. We need to calm them. There are
mothers and children involved.''

Entrances to the sprawling plant, in an industrial section south of town, had
been blocked off by ICE. A nearby fast-food restaurant was full of the
blue-shirted agents, one of whom would say only that a ''little inspection'' was
under way at the facility.

A woman entering the church grounds with four small children said several of the
youngsters' parents had been detained. The woman, Mary Troyer, said she was a
translator for many of the families.

''I don't like this at all,'' Ms. Troyer said. ''I don't understand it. They
have come here to work. It's very sad.''

The ICE spokeswoman, Ms. Gonzalez, said the workers would be taken to an ICE
detention center to ''await the outcome of their cases.'' She said 50 would be
''released into the community'' instead of being sent to the center, for
''humanitarian reasons,'' including medical difficulties or the need to take
care of children.

She said no lawyers were present while the workers were being interrogated.
''Everyone will have due process under law,'' Ms. Gonzalez said.

Late Monday afternoon, the grim-faced workers, some of them handcuffed, were
lined up near white and silver buses as the rain poured down.

In a statement issued after the raid, Howard Industries, one of the largest
employers in the region, acknowledged that it was ''visited'' by immigration
agents trying to determine if its employees were citizens or otherwise legally
authorized to work in the country.

''Howard Industries runs every check allowed to ascertain the immigration status
of all applicants for jobs,'' the statement said. ''It is company policy that it
hires only U.S. citizens and legal immigrants.''

Bill Chandler, executive director of the Mississippi Immigrants Rights Alliance,
called the Laurel raid a violation of human rights.

''We're very disturbed at what's happened,'' Mr. Chandler said. ''It's a real
contradiction between our proclaimed values of hard work and family in
Mississippi and the actions of local law enforcement, and ICE. I think it's a
real affront to our values. They're creating their own terrorism by going after
workers.''

After the Iowa raid, the federal interpreter said many of the immigrants did not
understand the charges to which they pleaded guilty. But federal officials said
the judges in the cases believed that the guilty pleas had been made freely and
voluntarily.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Federal agents and handcuffed workers at the Howard Industries
plant on Monday in Laurel, Miss. Officials said at least 350 workers were in the
country illegally.
 Howard Industries, one of the largest employers in the region, manufactures
electrical transformers, among other products.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF HALLER FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 1, 2008 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

To End Illegal Immigration, Eliminate the Incentives

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 221 words


To the Editor:

Re ''That's 8 Out of 457,000'' (editorial, Aug. 25):

You claim that neither current enforcement activities nor ''mass deportation''
can adequately address illegal immigration. But you don't mention another
alternative, attrition through enforcement, that is working to put an end to
illegal immigration.

Illegal immigrants are voluntarily leaving states like Arizona and Oklahoma, and
counties like Prince William County, Va., because of recent laws aimed at
preventing illegal immigration.

Eliminating incentives for illegal immigrants is a step Congress must take. The
current practice of birthright citizenship -- granting automatic citizenship to
children born to illegal immigrants on United States soil -- creates a
tremendous incentive for people to come here illegally and stay.

America is the only industrialized nation that doesn't require at least one
parent to be in the country legally before a child becomes a citizen. Congress
should put an end to this practice.

Illegal immigration is not a problem without a solution. Enforcing current
immigration laws and eliminating incentives like the job magnet and birthright
citizenship would work over time.

Lamar Smith

San Antonio, Aug. 26, 2008

The writer, a Republican from Texas, is the ranking member of the House
Judiciary Committee.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 23, 2008



CORRECTION: A Sept. 1 letter from Lamar Smith, the ranking member of the House
Judiciary Committee, about illegal immigration, stated incorrectly that
''America is the only industrialized nation that doesn't require at least one
parent to be in the country legally before a child becomes a citizen.'' The
United States is not the only such country; Canada is another.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 16, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Texas: City Faces Lawsuit Over Rental Rules

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 118 words


Latino advocates and a civil liberties group have filed a federal lawsuit
against a Dallas suburb whose officials are trying to drive out illegal
immigrants. The groups say the plan by the City of Farmers Branch to ask house
and apartment renters to obtain a license is unconstitutional. Rental applicants
would be run through a federal database to check their immigration status. The
lawsuit filed by the groups, the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational
Fund and the American Civil Liberties Union Immigrants' Rights Project, is the
latest facing Farmers Branch. The suburb faces several other lawsuits in a
nearly two-year battle over measures trying  to prevent illegal immigrants from
living there.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 18, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona: Employer Sanctions Upheld

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 115 words


A federal appeals court upheld an Arizona law that penalizes businesses that
knowingly hire illegal immigrants and requires them to verify the employment
status of their workers. A three-judge panel of the United States Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit rejected a challenge by business and Hispanic
groups who contend that the law infringes on federal immigration powers. The
law, intended to lessen the economic incentive for immigrants to sneak into the
country, imposes civil penalties on employers by suspending or revoking their
business licenses when they are found to have knowingly hired illegal
immigrants. A lower court judge upheld the law in February, before it took
effect.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 28, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Challenges To a Sheriff Both Popular And Reviled

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1436 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


Joe Arpaio, a cherished figure in the movement against illegal immigration, is
running for a fifth term as the Maricopa County sheriff. But a referendum on his
contentious approach to law enforcement -- and the growing challenges to it --
is already under way in the public arena.

Sheriff Arpaio has raised more than $500,000, and he is mobbed by well-wishers
at campaign events, at which he signs autographs and poses for photographs. A
poll last month showed him with a comfortable lead over his challenger.

''It's exciting, taking on an issue that's really worldwide,'' said Sheriff
Arpaio, 76, whose deputies, often in the glare of television cameras, have been
instructed to pick up illegal immigrants across the county, the nation's fourth
largest and among the fastest growing.

The question is whether Sheriff Arpaio, one of America's most colorful law
enforcement officials, has overstepped his bounds.

A federal lawsuit by the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund
accuses the sheriff's department of racial profiling and detaining legal
residents and American citizens for long periods while their status is checked.
The Government Accountability Office, a watchdog arm of Congress, is
re-evaluating a program under which federal officials trained the deputies here
and elsewhere in immigration enforcement.

And the mayor of Phoenix, Phil Gordon, has asked the Justice Department to
investigate the tactics employed by Sheriff Arpaio, who first gained national
attention years ago for forcing inmates to wear pink underwear, housing them in
tents and feeding them food of a green hue.

''The sheriff always did his pink underwear and other publicity stunts,'' Mr.
Gordon said in an interview, in which he expressed regret over not speaking out
sooner. ''While they were funny, they weren't breaking the Constitution and they
weren't endangering lives.''

Mr. Gordon said he acted in April after meeting privately at a church with
Hispanic constituents who complained that Sheriff Arpaio, in routine patrols and
crime sweeps that included the arrest of large numbers of illegal immigrants,
had sown a fear of all law enforcement officials, raising concerns that crimes
were going unreported.

In addition, the mayor said, a Hispanic aide, who has since joined the racial
profiling lawsuit, complained to him of a sheriff's deputy singling her out to
produce a Social Security card while other, non-Hispanic motorists stopped along
with her for driving in a restricted area only had to show their licenses.

In the face of all this, Sheriff Arpaio, his voice a laconic baritone this side
of John Wayne, remains unbowed.

''I don't get any kicks because we locked up 30 guys, especially those coming
here for jobs,'' Sheriff Arpaio said. ''What overrides the compassion, I took an
oath of office to enforce that law. That's the difference. What right does an
official have to say, I will not defend the Constitution?''

For the better part of two years, it has not been uncommon for people in
Maricopa County stopped for traffic infractions to be asked about their
immigration status, particularly if they speak only Spanish and wear certain
clothing, including jeans and shirts that officials consider characteristic of
south of the border.

Most sheriff's deputies ''can make a quick recognition on somebody's accent, how
they're dressed,'' said Bruce Sands, chief of enforcement for the sheriff's
department, where deputies have received training from Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.

The sheriff's department says the crackdown has rid the county of hundreds of
illegal immigrants, including many with felony offenses, and Sheriff Arpaio
defends factoring in speech and dress as in line with the training of federal
immigration agents; an ICE spokesman would say only that ''we use a number of
factors'' to make such determinations.

Lately, Sheriff Arpaio's deputies have raided local businesses in an effort to
enforce a new state law that aims to punish employers for hiring workers in the
country illegally. So far, however, no employers have been charged, though
dozens of illegal immigrants have been arrested.

Sheriff Arpaio and his tactics have been closely watched by people on all sides
of the immigration debate as they play out in this border state, an incubator
for ideas on local enforcement of immigration law.

''What starts in Arizona spreads across the country,'' said Chris Newman of the
National Day Laborer Organizing Network, which has mounted protests of Wells
Fargo in Chicago, El Paso, Phoenix and San Francisco because it leases space to
the sheriff's office here.

Displaying what even critics call an uncanny knack for reading the popular mood,
nearly two years ago Sheriff Arpaio shifted much of his attention to the
region's illegal immigrant population, arresting scores of them during routine
and saturation patrols of selected areas and turning them over to federal
officials for deportation. He has arrested smugglers as well as the people they
were transporting, following state court rulings in his favor.

The Government Accountability Office investigation is examining the federal
program known as 287(g), which has provided training to 63 local law enforcement
agencies, with Maricopa County having the largest number of participants, in
detecting detainees' immigration status. The inquiry arose through a request by
the House Homeland Security Committee, whose members were approached by members
of the Arizona delegation concerned about possible civil rights violations.

Separately, ICE officials said the agency was auditing its program with
Maricopa, but they characterized that review as routine and not the result of
complaints. Richard Rocha, a spokesman for the agency, said it believed the
sheriff ''is acting within the scope'' of the agreement.

Already, however, Gov. Janet Napolitano, a Democrat who had welcomed an
endorsement from Sheriff Arpaio, a Republican, in her first race for governor,
this spring took away state money for his office that had gone in part to
immigration enforcement. But Ms. Napolitano, who declined to be interviewed, has
remained largely silent on the civil rights concerns raised in the Hispanic
community.

A new coalition of labor and community groups, Maricopa Citizens for Safety and
Accountability, has accused Sheriff Arpaio of retaliating against opponents.

After a night of saturation patrols in the small suburb of Guadalupe led to a
televised confrontation with Rebecca Jimenez, who was then mayor, Sheriff Arpaio
threatened to withdraw from a contract to provide policing for the community.
The Board of Supervisors approved the move last week but on Monday is to have a
revote after it excluded members of the public from its meeting because of
protests, possibly violating state law.

Sheriff Arpaio and a close ally, Andrew Thomas, the county attorney and a
Republican who has zealously prosecuted immigration law, have publicly sparred
with the state attorney general, Terry Goddard, a Democrat, who won his seat
over Mr. Thomas in 2002 in a heated campaign.

Sheriff Arpaio announced a corruption inquiry of Mr. Goddard's office in April
2007, but no charges have resulted.

''We are now a year and a half from that initial press conference where he told
the world that's what he was doing, an unusual way to start an investigation,
and we still don't have a result,'' Mr. Goddard said in an interview.

All the focus on immigration has shifted attention from one of Sheriff Arpaio's
primary duties, overseeing 10,000 inmates.

A federal judge is expected to rule soon on an effort by the American Civil
Liberties Union to keep in place the federal oversight of the jails that was
started in 1995, citing deteriorating conditions and lax medical care in five
jails that the A.C.L.U. says pose a risk of serious injury or death to pretrial
inmates.

But, despite the intense fire, which now includes daily protests accusing him of
failing to process thousands of warrants and costing taxpayers excessive amounts
in legal settlements, few here predict the sheriff will lose his job to the
challenger, Dan Saban. He is the former police chief in Buckeye and a longtime
nemesis who switched parties to run as a Democrat.

At a recent fund-raiser,  Robert Marino, a Democrat from Glendale, asked Sheriff
Arpaio to sign a copy of his book, ''Joe's Law.''

''Illegal immigrants are breaking the law, and he is enforcing it,'' said Mr.
Marino, echoing the mantra of his supporters. ''He is taking them away from
Arizona and back to Mexico. I just wish other people were behind him.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Janet Napolitano, once endorsed by Sheriff Arpaio, cut
some money for his office. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SANCYA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Joe Arpaio, Maricopa County sheriff, faces a federal lawsuit accusing him of
racial profiling. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROSS D. FRANKLIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 28, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fake Kidnapping Scheme Hits Illegal Immigrants in Arizona

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 462 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


Illegal immigrants in Arizona are increasingly being singled out by a so-called
virtual kidnapping extortion scheme in which criminals falsely claim to have
caught their loved ones as they tried to sneak across the border with Mexico,
federal officials say.

The extortionists typically strike during the three- to four-day journey from
Mexico through the remote desert when family members are cut off from one
another. Relatives are told their loved ones will be maimed or killed unless
they pay thousands of dollars in ransom.

One family paid $7,000 before calling the authorities.

The schemes started in Arizona five years ago and have escalated to an average
of one case a week, officials say.

''It's just an extension of what happens in Mexico,'' said Armando Garcia,
assistant special agent in charge of Immigration and Customs Enforcement in
Arizona. Investigators say the extortionists may buy the names and phone numbers
of their victims from smugglers or may pose as middle men who promise to connect
illegal immigrants with smugglers in Mexican border towns.

Once a ransom is paid, the criminals will often ask for more money and sometimes
even demand that families cover the cost of their cellphones.

Officials say the extortionists speak English well and use cellphones with a
Phoenix area code, even though they may be making the calls from Mexico, where
the extortion money is often sent.

The schemes have also been reported in San Diego. Immigration agents there
investigate two to three cases a year, said Lauren Mack, a spokeswoman for the
local Immigration and Customs Enforcement office.

It is easy to convince  families that a kidnapping has happened. Mr. Garcia
guessed that it works ''with 10 out of 100 people that they call.''

The relatives know that human trafficking is a violent business in which illegal
immigrants who have paid their smuggling fees are sometimes held captive while
smugglers try to squeeze more money out of friends and family.

Immigration agents cannot explain the increase in virtual kidnappings in
Arizona. In addition, the agents say, some cases probably go unreported because
illegal immigrants do not want to risk being deported or are embarrassed that
they are  victims.

The  schemes strain law enforcement resources because investigators must assume
that the ransom calls are valid. Potential extortion victims are advised to be
skeptical of ransom demands if the caller does not allow them to speak with the
captive. Smugglers who are holding an actual hostage will often let family
members speak to the relative.

In one case, a woman who was told that her former husband was kidnapped said she
would not speak with them if she could not speak with him. The criminals then
called the man's girlfriend.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 3, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fewer People Are Entering U.S. Illegally, Report Says

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 917 words


A report released Thursday by the Pew Hispanic Center indicates that fewer
people are trying to enter the United States illegally and that there has been
no growth over the last year in the number of illegal immigrants living here.

The Pew center report, which is based on census data, showed that for the first
time in nearly a decade, the number of people entering the country illegally was
lower than the number arriving through legal channels.

Experts said the loss of low-wage jobs in the American economy, combined with
intensified enforcement at the border and at workplaces across the country, had
caused those who might be considering an illegal border crossing to think twice
before risking what has become an increasingly dangerous journey. The result has
been a significant reversal after a decade of rapid growth in illegal
immigration.

Central banks from Mexico to Brazil have projected the biggest declines in
remittances from the United States in more than 10 years.

The Pew report found that illegal immigration to the United States had dropped
to about 500,000 annually since 2005 from an average yearly rate of 800,000 from
2000 to 2004. Since 2000, the average number of legal immigrants entering the
United States each year has remained steady at about 600,000 to 700,000.

At a news conference on Thursday, the report's authors said some 58 percent of
the illegal immigrants living in the United States are from Mexico, more than
any other country by far.

Migrant flows from Mexico have been erratic over much of the past decade, said
Jeffrey S. Passel of the Pew center, peaking in 2000, dropping in 2002, and
surging strongly since 2004.

From 2007 to 2008, however, Mr. Passel said, census data showed the increase
among illegal Mexicans was stagnant at about seven million people.

There was a marked decrease last year, Mr. Passel said, in the numbers of
illegal immigrants from the rest of Latin America and the Caribbean, which make
up about 22 percent of the illegal population. That population had also grown
erratically in the past decade from 1.8 million in 2000 to 3 million in 2007.
This year, according to the Pew report, the numbers dropped to 2.6 million.

Border Patrol officials and groups advocating tougher immigration controls
attributed the trend to crackdowns that include record numbers of workplace
raids and deportations.

The Border Patrol's arrest figures give some substance to that conclusion. An
agency spokesman, Jason Cilberti, said the latest arrest figures showed
significant decreases in the numbers of arrests along the nation's southwest
border, with apprehensions falling by 78 percent around Yuma, Ariz., and more
than 60 percent around El Paso, Tex.

Mr. Passel said the Pew study was not devised to explain why the inflows of
illegal immigrants had declined. He speculated, however, that the trend was the
result of a combination of factors, led primarily by a weakening economy and
rising rates of unemployment in the construction and service industries, which
rely heavily on immigrant labor.

Another report by the center also released Thursday studied household income and
found that the median annual income for noncitizen households -- more than half
of which are led by illegal immigrants -- fell 7.3 percent from 2006 to 2007,
while rising by 1.3 percent for all households.

Elaborating on the income report, its author, Rakesh Kochhar, said that
noncitizen households showing the biggest income declines were households headed
by Hispanics, immigrants from Mexico, those most recently arrived, men without a
spouse, those without high school educations, and those in construction,
production or service jobs.

''If the jobs are not there, then coming to the United States might be too big a
risk,'' said Jeffrey Davidow, president of the Institute of the Americas, which
is based in San Diego.

Mr. Davidow and Mr. Passel agreed that a harsher political climate has also
played a role in making the United States less attractive to illegal immigrants.

A Pew survey of 2,015 Latinos released in September showed that half reported
their lives had worsened in the past year. One in 10 said the authorities had
stopped and questioned them about their immigration status. One in seven of
those surveyed said they had trouble finding or keeping a job because they were
Latino; and one in 10 reported similar trouble finding housing.

The central bank reports suggested that effects of those trends were being felt
beyond America's border. A report released Wednesday by the Inter-American
Development Bank, which is based in Washington, projected that the value of
remittances from the United States to Latin America and the Caribbean would
decrease this year for the first time since the bank began tracking the figures
in 2000.

In Mexico, where remittances are the second-largest source of foreign income
after oil, officials projected a 12 percent drop this year, the biggest on
record.

Paradoxically, Augusto de la Torre, a chief economist at the World Bank, said
slight improvements in several Latin American economies, including those of
Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Panama and Peru, might have compelled some people in
the region to stay closer to home. ''For the first time in a decade, there are
economies in Latin America that are doing better than in rich countries,'' Mr.
de la Torre said. ''So people who were thinking of going to the United States,
might now be migrating to other countries in the region.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 8, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SOUTH: 300 DETAINED IN IMMIGRATION RAID AT PLANT

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 168 words


SOUTH

300 DETAINED IN IMMIGRATION RAID AT PLANT

Federal agents detained more than 300 workers suspected of being illegal
immigrants in a raid at a chicken processing plant in Greenville, S.C. No
charges had been filed, but the authorities were searching for evidence of
illegal hiring practices at the plant, the House of Raeford. The employees could
face deportation and prison time, said Barbara Gonzalez, a spokeswoman for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The raid followed months of investigation.
In June, arrest warrants were issued for 11 workers on charges of identity theft
and entering the country illegally. Seven have pleaded guilty, two are awaiting
trial and two are fugitives. The human resources director at the plant, Elaine
Crump, was also charged with instructing employees to provide fraudulent
documentation. A federal review showed that more than 775 of 825 employees at
the plant submitted false information, said Kevin McDonald, an assistant United
States attorney. ROBBIE BROWN

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 18, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona Sheriff Conducts Immigration Raid at City Hall, Angering Officials

BYLINE: By PAUL GIBLIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 368 words

DATELINE: MESA, Ariz.


A late-night raid of City Hall and the Main Library here by 60 heavily armed
sheriff's deputies and posse members searching for illegal immigrants has
escalated tensions between city officials and the county sheriff, who ordered
the raid.

The operation took place at 2 a.m. on Thursday, timed to catch suspected illegal
immigrants working as janitors on the overnight shift. Deputies did not find any
suspects at City Hall, but arrested three people at the library whom they
suspected of using forged identification to gain employment at a cleaning
company.

The raid angered city officials who have been at odds with Sheriff Joe Arpaio of
Maricopa County over his efforts to fight illegal immigration.

Mayor Scott Smith of Mesa criticized Sheriff Arpaio for sending the SWAT team
into his city without properly advising the Mesa police, who learned about raid
when an officer discovered sheriff's deputies assembling in a residential park
about 12:30 a.m.

''Law enforcement should never put the public at risk,'' Mr. Smith said.

The sheriff's office has jurisdiction across the county, but the Mesa police
chief,  George Gascon, had requested 48 hours' notice before immigration
enforcement operations in his  city.

Sheriff Arpaio questioned the value of giving city officials prior notices, when
in the past, he said, the Mesa police have interfered with immigration sweeps.

''There is a little lack of trust between our office and Mesa police,'' Sheriff
Arpaio said. ''They want to use the safety issue to put the blame on us on
safety, when we are out there doing things that they won't do.''

Deputies arrested 13 other people suspected of being illegal immigrants at their
homes and are seeking nine others in connection to the case, Sheriff Arpaio
said.

The raid followed an  investigation lasting many months that began with a tip
from a former Mesa city employee, Sheriff Arpaio said. The tipster had
approached the Mesa police with his information but was turned away, the sheriff
said.

Sheriff Arpaio, a Republican, is facing re-election in November. Protesters have
criticized his agency on issues that include slow response times to emergency
calls, and major crimes going uninvestigated.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 22, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

These Neighbors Are Good Ones Without a New Fence

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1102 words

DATELINE: IMPERIAL BEACH, Calif.


At a time of tumult over immigration, with illegal workers routed from
businesses, record levels of deportations, border walls getting taller and
longer, Friendship Park here has stood out as a spot where international
neighbors can chat easily over the fence.

Or through it, anyway. Families and friends, some of them unable to cross the
border because of legal or immigration trouble, exchange kisses, tamales and
news through small gaps in the tattered chain-link fence. Yoga and salsa
dancing, communion rites, protest and quiet reflection all transpire in the
shadow of a stone obelisk commemorating the area where Mexican and American
surveyors began demarcating the border nearly 160 years ago after the war
between the countries.

''It's hard to see each other, to touch,'' said Manuel Meza, an American citizen
sharing coffee and lunch through the fence with his wife, who was deported and
now drives three hours for regular visits at the fence. ''It's strange, but our
love is stronger than the fence.''

But in a sign of changing times, new border fencing that the Department of
Homeland Security is counting on to help curtail illegal crossings and attacks
on Border Patrol agents will slice through the park, limiting access to the
monument and fence-side socializing.

In addition to the fence, a second, steel mesh barrier will line the border for
several yards on the United States side, creating a no-man's land intended to
slow or stop crossings.

With construction expected to begin early next month, the federal and state
governments are still negotiating how to provide some access to the monument.
But more than a few San Diegans see a paradox in an area meant to celebrate
friendship taking on tones of distance and separation. Pat Nixon, the former
first lady, at a dedication here in 1971, declared, ''I hate to see a fence
anywhere'' as she stepped into Mexico to shake hands.

''It's harmful to the kind of family culture we have at the border,'' said
Representative Bob Filner, Democrat of California,  who has urged the department
not to build in the park. ''We have a friendly country at the border. We have
family ties across the border. It is one place, certainly in San Diego, where we
talk about friendship at the border.''

But Border Patrol officials, who regularly post agents there, said the park had
an underside.

Although much activity may be innocent, smugglers have taken advantage by
passing drugs and contraband through openings. People have even tried to pass
babies through ragged metal slats that mark the border on the beach, said
Michael J. Fisher, the chief patrol agent in San Diego. The agency now operates
a checkpoint to screen people leaving the park.

''It's a real shame,'' Mr. Fisher said, gazing down as a young boy playing on
the beach darted briefly across the border, then back again. ''It is a nice area
with the historical marker. Having people meet and mingle is good. But
unfortunately, any time you have an area that is open, the criminal
organizations are going to exploit that.''

''We cannot,'' he added, ''have it open, not at the expense of reducing the
ability to patrol the border.''

The new fencing is part of a 14-mile project to reinforce and build new barriers
from the ocean to areas east of the Otay Mesa port of entry. The project
includes filling in a deep valley known as Smuggler's Gulch, a notorious
crossing point just east of the park, with tons of dirt, to the dismay of
environmentalists.

Unlike the trend in the past year or two along most of the 2,000-mile Southwest
border, Mr. Fisher said, illegal crossings have increased in the San Diego area,
along with attacks on agents who encounter smugglers raining stones and other
objects on them and their trucks. One-fourth of all such assaults, he said,
occur in the San Diego sector, which more than a decade ago was one of the
hottest spots for illegal crossings.

While a flood of new agents and bolstered fencing has pushed much of the
crossings to the eastern deserts and the sea, where smuggling by boat is a
growing problem, people still regularly climb over, tunnel under or cut through
the fence, sometimes with blowtorches and sophisticated cutting tools.

But critics of the plan to extend the fencing in Friendship Park said the Border
Patrol had exaggerated problems there, one of a smattering of spots along the
border where the prospect of new fencing has dampened cross-border bonhomie.

Naco, Ariz., no longer plays an annual volleyball game using the fence as a net
because the ragged wire one has been replaced by a taller barrier of solid
plates. Residents of Jacumba, Calif., and Jacume, Mexico, who once freely
crossed back and forth, complain that reinforced fencing has severed
generation-long ties.

But Friendship Park, part of the surrounding Border Field State Park, had come
to symbolize the tight embrace of San Diego and Tijuana, the border's biggest
cities.

Already, construction of the new fence has cut off a long stretch of the old
one. But on a recent Sunday, a steady stream of people came to greet friends and
relatives there.

Jacqueline Huerta pressed her face against the fence on the Tijuana side to get
her first look at her 4-month-old niece, Yisell.

''Oh, how cute you are,'' she exclaimed, forcing her hand through an opening to
caress the baby's hair.

''Where else can she do that?'' said Ms. Huerta's mother, Socorro Estrada, who
drove six hours from Bakersfield, Calif., with family members to the fence. The
baby's father said he was on probation and could not leave the country and, in
any case, Ms. Estrada  had advised them against traveling into Mexico with such
a young infant.

Nearby, the Rev. John Fanestil, a United Methodist minister, offered his weekly
communion through the fence, passing the wafer through a hole to a small
gathering on the Mexican side. (Technically, that was a customs violation, but
Border Patrol agents nearby tolerate most casual contact.)

''Arresting a clergy person for passing a communion wafer through the fence
would be a public relations nightmare for them,'' Mr. Fanestil said with a smile
just before beginning.

Juventino Martin Gonzalez, 40, accepted the wafer. He had been deported to
Mexico a month ago after living and working in the United States for 20 years,
fathering three children, now teenagers, here.

He came, he said, for a glimpse of the American side he still considers home.

''It is hard because I was the one paying the rent,'' he said. ''I belong over
there, not here. But until then, this is the closest I can get, but it is not
close enough for them.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jacqueline Huerta, in Mexico, caresses her niece, Yisell,
through a fence along the border in Imperial Beach, Calif. Yisell's mother,
Rosalie Martinez, holds her. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)
Michael J. Fisher, the chief patrol agent in San Diego, said smugglers had
exploited the openness of Friendship Park. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES)
 Pat Nixon, the first lady, at a dedication at Border Field State Park in 1971.
''I hate to see a fence anywhere,'' she said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THE NIXON LIBRARY)
MAP: Fencing is to extend to the east of the Otay Mesa crossing.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 30, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pulling Back the Immigration Posses

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 334 words


Many parts of the nation have tilted severely toward harsh, unyielding policies
to catch and punish illegal immigrants, but not everyone has gone over the edge.
Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona on Monday pushed back, vetoing a bill that
would have required all police and sheriff's departments in the state to join
the federal immigration posse.

Governor Napolitano dismissed the bill as impractical and expensive. She said it
would have imposed an undue burden on local law enforcement, calculating that
the cost of training that many officers under the federal program known as
287(g) could total $100 million -- with no guarantee that the federal government
would pay.

She also could have called it dangerous. The bill would have turned practically
every level of law enforcement in Arizona into some form of the feared la migra.
Police chiefs across the country warn that would cripple their ability to
investigate crime in immigrant communities. The 287(g) program is also far too
prone to abuse.

That is already flagrantly clear in Arizona's most populous county, Maricopa,
where Sheriff Joe Arpaio has built the biggest 287(g) posse in the country --
160 officers -- and deployed it in Hispanic neighborhoods, pulling people over
for broken taillights and other traffic infractions and checking papers.

Defenders of the Maricopa raids deny accusations of racial profiling, but it is
hard to see it as anything else. The highly publicized sweeps have reaped bumper
crops of fear and anger among Latino Arizonans -- citizens and illegal
immigrants -- who have endured the stops, the flashing lights, the requests for
papers. They have been little use in the serious pursuit of criminals.

Governor Napolitano's veto of this repugnant bill will surely lead the Minutemen
and their allies to denounce her again. She is standing up for what is right for
her state and for what is right. The search for a rational immigration system
will not be resolved by simplistic, predatory enforcement schemes.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 1, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Los Angeles Police Expect Calm at Immigration Rally

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 562 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A day before thousands are expected to converge here as part of the annual May
Day pro-immigration rallies nationwide, police officials said Wednesday that new
technology, training for officers and better communication would prevent a
repeat of the melee that concluded demonstrations in Los Angeles last year.

Tens of thousands of immigrants and their supporters marched peacefully last
year across the country, and although organizers predict lower numbers this
year, they said marchers would again demand legal status for illegal immigrants
and an end to raids aimed at deporting them. Rallies are planned in New York,
Chicago, Boston, Houston, Denver and many other cities.

Here, three marches are expected to unite downtown into a rally of 20,000 to
80,000, a far cry from the one million, by some estimates, that marched at the
first demonstrations, in spring 2006.

Since then, Congress has failed to pass legislation revamping immigration laws,
while states have passed or proposed  1,000 bills aimed at cracking down on
illegal immigration.  Fencing along the Mexican border has proceeded, and
Immigration and Customs Enforcement has stepped up raids and deportations.

Joshua Hoyt, an organizer of some of the largest rallies, in Chicago, said
protest efforts had largely shifted to voter registration and citizenship
drives. He said the crowds this year might also be thinned by illegal
immigrants' seeking to keep a low profile and a sense that mass demonstrations
had run their course.

''This is going to be a long-term fight,'' Mr. Hoyt said. ''The demographics,
the economy and national security make some kind of legalization inevitable and
necessary.''

But people who support tougher enforcement of immigration laws have not been
impressed by the rallies.

''We need to secure our borders and hold accountable employers who knowingly
hire illegal aliens,''  Representative Brian P. Bilbray, a Republican from San
Diego, said in a statement, adding, ''To those who believe that we should reward
illegal aliens with citizenship, I ask: What part of the word 'illegal' don't
you understand?''

Whatever the political outcome of Thursday's demonstrations, the police here
recognize the damage its image and community relations suffered after riot
police  swooped in last year and trampled demonstrators and journalists in
scenes replayed on national television.

The city is facing legal claims from a few hundred people, and Chief William J.
Bratton of the Los Angeles Police Department, acknowledging poor training and a
cascade of leadership lapses, has shaken up his command.

Deputy Chief Michael Hillmann at a news conference on Wednesday promised new,
more restrained tactics would rule the day and said, ''I look forward to having
you all out there.''

He spoke of new ''constructs'' and ''fusion centers'' and ''surgical extraction
teams'' to remove troublemakers and keep the peace, bolstered by hours of new
training in crowd control for line officers and commanders.

To address the lack of Spanish-speaking police officers on the scene last year,
the department has brought in all-terrain vehicles, engineered by the Defense
Department, that electronically provide simultaneous translation to spoken
commands.

But, in the end, Chief Hillmann said, it boils down to this: ''You arrest the
bad people, and you let the good continue on with it.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A large May Day march is scheduled along Broadway in downtown
Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 4, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hard Times at the Golden Door

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 435 words


In these tough economic times, millions of Latino immigrants have stopped
sending money to their home countries, according to a survey released Wednesday.
That is bad news for a lot of people.

The survey, by the Inter-American Development Bank, found that only half of 18.9
million Latino immigrants in the United States send money to relatives abroad.
Two years ago, 73 percent did. Some countries saw remittances fall after years
of growth: money wired to Mexico declined nearly 3 percent for the first three
months of this year from the same period last year, the first drop since Mexico
started tracking transfers in 1995.

The survey found that the sagging economy and loss of low-wage jobs were mostly
to blame, particularly the downturn in the housing industry, but that crackdowns
on illegal immigration also played a role.

The report was full of bad news for immigrants, legal and not. Of the 5,000
Latinos surveyed -- about half citizens and legal residents, and half
undocumented immigrants -- 81 percent said it was harder to find a good-paying
job, and just under a third said they were thinking of leaving the country.

There are people on the restrictionist side of the immigration debate who will
cheer the news, arguing for more of whatever is causing it. Thanks to people
like them, the nation's de facto immigration policy is to try to make life
untenable for illegal immigrants, elevating their fear to shake them loose from
the United States.

Nobody should think of the decline in remittances, however, as anything but
unfortunate. Immigrant workers are not just vital to the American economy, their
money transfers are a critical bulwark against poverty for millions of people
south of the border. Cutting off that lifeline will lead to more misery in some
of the poorest parts of the hemisphere -- and it will feed the desperation that
sends more migrants to the United States.

If there was anything encouraging in the survey, it was the reaffirmation that
immigrants, ever resourceful, are also fundamentally hopeful. Many reported in
focus groups that they were ready to take lower-paying work or extra jobs to
make ends meet. While almost 40 percent said they had seen their incomes fall,
69 percent said that their financial situations were ''good'' or ''excellent''
compared with life back home.

Tough enforcement may succeed in cutting off opportunity so severely that even
some of these hard-working optimists uproot themselves and return home in search
of a better life. But if that happens, those exiles may well pass a stream of
compatriots heading north for the same reason.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 10, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Farm Workers Resort To Health Care in the Shadows

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1517 words

DATELINE: MADERA, Calif.


The curandera is weary from work. Three, four, five times a day, the immigrant
farm workers knock on her apartment door, begging her to cure their ailments.

They complain of indigestion, of rashes, of post-traumatic panic attacks. Then
there are the house calls that compel her to crate up her potions and herbs and
drive across town, often after midnight, to escape the notice of immigration
police.

''I've done so many cures that I'm exhausted; it gives me no time to rest,''
said Herminia L. Arenas, 55, the curandera, or traditional healer, who has
practiced in this Central Valley town since migrating 14 years ago from Oaxaca,
in southern Mexico. ''I want to retire, but I feel like I was sent here to help
these people.''

The people need help because they are in the United States illegally and because
they are poor. Few have health insurance, but the backbreaking nature of their
work, along with the toxicity of American poverty, insure that many are ailing.

They may visit a clinic or hospital if they are severely ill. But for many
illegal  immigrants, particularly indigenous Mexican groups like the Mixtecs,
much of their health care is provided by a parallel system of spiritual healers,
home remedies and self-medication.

Stories abound here of people who died -- of cancer, diabetes, even gangrene --
because they did not make it to an emergency room until it was too late. Public
health officials also worry that the lack of access to conventional care may
contribute to the spread of communicable diseases. They warn that the rampant
use of antibiotics, often without medical direction, may speed the development
of resistant bacterial strains.

While acknowledging that some traditional treatments can complement modern
medicine, they point out that others do considerable harm. Powders used to quiet
colicky babies, for instance, have been found to contain heavy doses of lead.
Without legal status, the immigrants have little protection against dangerous or
fraudulent practices.

Immigrants interviewed amid the vineyards of Madera and the cantaloupe fields of
Mendota said they had faced numerous obstacles to pursuing conventional medical
care. Above all, they said, was cost, but other factors included fear of
deportation, long waits for treatment in medically underserved areas, and
barriers of culture and language.

Some said they supplement their care on  trips to Mexico or Central America,
seeking out less expensive doctors and stocking up on pharmaceuticals before
trying the risky crossing back.

The healers, like their American counterparts, tend to specialize. There are
hueseros, who set bones, and sobadors, who massage away pain. The curanderos use
herbs and incantation to return the spirit to its equilibrium.

Farm workers, community leaders and health researchers said many immigrants
devised their own antidotes. They brew recuperative teas from exotic herbs and
roadside weeds. They enlist neighbors to inject them with vitamins and
antibiotics from Mexico. Some of the medicines are sold under the counter at
flea markets and botanicas, where amulets and incense share shelf space with
Advil and Afrin.

Though the unlicensed sale of pharmaceuticals is not legal, and though some
healers approach the edges of practicing medicine without a license, local
police say enforcement of the laws is rare.

A recent visit to Ms. Arenas's nondescript apartment found her in the middle of
an eight-day cleansing ceremony, or limpia, for Maria de Jesus, a 28-year-old
illegal  farm worker. Ms. de Jesus explained that she had been having headaches
since a car accident three months earlier.

''I feel like my heart is going to come out, it beats so fast,'' she said. In
visits to a clinic and an emergency room, she had been given pills for high
blood pressure, to little effect. She said the doctors also had no answer for
the grotesque swelling in the crook of her left arm, where she carries her
tomato bucket.

At wits' end, her husband delivered her to Ms. Arenas. ''I have faith in the
curandera,'' Ms. de Jesus said. ''That's why I am here.''

Ms. Arenas  stepped outside to collect herbs from her  garden. After mixing them
with dashes of a Mexican cologne, she wrapped the sodden clumps around Maria's
head, waist and limbs with cloth tourniquets. Her cures come to her, she
explained, in a flash of revelation, sometimes as she studies the movements of a
broken egg yolk.

''Please bless this lady,'' Ms. Arenas prayed. ''Take all the bad spirits out
and help me to heal her with your healing hands.''

Leaving her patient to rest, Ms. Arenas drove with Ms. de Jesus's husband to the
site of the accident, where he dug a hole and she sprinkled in rose petals, salt
and holy water dispensed from a Gatorade bottle. After stomping in dirt, she
waved Maria's clothing and prayed for her spirit to return home.

Over the next few days, Ms. de Jesus reported feeling calmer and said her
headaches were gone. The swelling in her arm had not subsided, however, so Ms.
Arenas recommended  seeing a physician. Ms. Arenas asked for $500 to cover her
fee, as well as room and board, and the woman's husband paid with a check (a
more typical visit costs $10 to $60 and lasts a few hours, she said).

Studies find that many Latino immigrants arrive in the United States healthy,
but then develop the trademark afflictions of their new home: diabetes, obesity,
asthma, high blood pressure and high cholesterol. Long hours in the fields often
leave them with muscular and skeletal injuries, as well as rashes and burning
eyes from pesticides and dust.

There is no firm projection of the medical costs incurred by the estimated 11.1
million illegal immigrants in the United States, a fourth of whom live in
California. A RAND Corporation study in 2000, the most recent year available,
pegged the cost  at $6.4 billion, including $1.1 billion from public sources. It
found the share of medical costs attributable to illegal immigrants was half as
large as expected for their share of the population.

Health demographers estimate that half to two-thirds of California's illegal
immigrants are uninsured. Women may receive occasional checkups because they
qualify for prenatal and obstetrical care under Medicaid. But RAND found that
half of illegal immigrant men had not seen a doctor in the previous year,
compared with  25 percent of men born in the United States; one in six illegal
immigrant  men had never seen a doctor.

Studies also find that newcomers are only half as likely as natives to use
emergency rooms, which are required to treat patients regardless of immigration
status. The California Hospital Association estimates that 10 percent of the
state's $9.7 billion in uncompensated care last year was for illegal immigrants,
said Jan Emerson, a  spokeswoman.

''A lot of people assume the emergency room overcrowding problem is due to
undocumented immigrants,'' Ms. Emerson  said. ''That's not what we see. They
show up when they truly need emergency care.''

Jurley Cortez, 20, an illegal  immigrant, has not been to an emergency room,
doctor or dentist in her nine years in the United States, except for the
perfunctory physical her school required for athletics. Now a high school
graduate, she picks tomatoes and cantaloupe near Mendota.

Three years ago, when Ms. Cortez  injured a knee in the fields, her mother could
not afford a doctor and took her to a sobadora. After $20 treatments of ointment
and massage, the swelling subsided. ''It still hurts when it's cold,'' Ms.
Cortez said. ''I just take Tylenol or Advil.''

Even if farm workers in Mendota can afford the local clinic's sliding-scale
fees, they often cannot afford to miss work while waiting up to six hours to be
seen. Sarah B. Horton, a University of Montana anthropologist who is studying
health care in the Central Valley, said the lack of access to conventional care
reinforced a culture of self-medication. There is a preference for potent
Mexican drugs, Ms. Horton said, delivered, if possible, by syringe.

Rosie Q. Valdovinos, 57, a lettuce picker, recently completed a self-prescribed
regimen of three penicillin injections, given by a friend, to combat a cough.

''Penicillin or ampicillin will work on anything: a cough, a problem with your
chest, or if you have an infection of your kidneys, even for a tooth,'' she
said. ''There's no choice but to take them sometimes. To go to a doctor, you
miss a day of work. You miss a day, and the next day you're gone.''

Ms. Valdovinos, an American citizen who said she had immigrated when she was 3,
is insured several months a year through the Dole Food Company, but still
prefers the ease and economy of Mexican medical care. In the few weeks between
the end of lettuce season and her policy's expiration, she hops a Greyhound to
Mexico and stockpiles pharmaceuticals -- including Prozac, Valium and
antibiotics -- for herself and others.

''You pay a doctor $30 for a prescription, and they'll give you the medicine,''
she said. ''I'll spend $500 down there, and that will take care of me for six
months.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Herminia L. Arenas, a traditional healer or curandera, applying
an herbal treatment to Maria de Jesus, an illegal farm worker
 Rosie Q. Valdovinos, 57, a lettuce picker, is insured for several months a
year, but still goes to Mexico for medicine and care. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM
WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A14) MAP: A traditional healer works with
immigrants in Madera. (pg. A14)  Map of Madera, California.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 11, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Life Term in Crash That Killed Migrants

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 139 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


A man who crashed an overloaded sport utility vehicle while fleeing Border
Patrol agents, killing 10 illegal immigrants, has been sentenced to life in
federal prison.

The man, Adan Pineda Doval, 22, a citizen of Mexico, was convicted in October by
a Phoenix jury of 10 counts of transporting illegal immigrants causing death and
two lesser charges.

A federal judge handed down the sentence on Thursday, according to the United
States attorney's office in Phoenix.

Mr. Pineda was driving a Chevrolet Suburban packed with 20 illegal immigrants
outside Yuma, Ariz., on Aug. 7, 2006, when he tried to flee from the border
agents, ignoring pleas from the passengers to stop. He crashed after swerving to
avoid a spike strip that the agents had placed in the road. Among those killed
was a pregnant 17-year-old. The fetus did not survive.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 20, 2008 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Worker Verification

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 280 words


To the Editor:

Re ''What Social Security Isn't Meant to Do'' (editorial, May 12):

Just about a year ago, the Times editorial board was among the most forceful
advocates of the so-called comprehensive immigration reform bill before the
Senate. A key component of that legislation -- in fact, the only component that
offered anything at all to law-abiding citizens and immigrants -- was the
promise that a secure work authorization system would deter future illegal
immigration.

Now that a stand-alone bill to implement the work authorization provision is
before the House with broad bipartisan support, suddenly you object on the
grounds of staggering costs (which actually amount to less, on an annual basis,
than California alone spends educating the children of illegal immigrants) and
the bureaucratic inefficiency of the Social Security Administration.

Oddly, staggering costs and bureaucratic inefficiency did not seem to The Times
to be an obstacle to a huge illegal immigrant amnesty and the implementation of
new guest worker programs. The cost and the bureaucratic infrastructure
necessary to process tens of millions of amnesty applications, to weed out the
fraudulent ones from the legitimate ones, to conduct background checks on tens
of millions of applicants, and more were never a concern when it came to
rewarding the people who broke our laws.

Imperfect recordkeeping on the part of the S.S.A. is not a valid reason for
avoiding implementation of a work verification system in this country. It is,
however, a very good reason for cleaning up the S.S.A.'s database.

Dan Stein  President, Federation for American Immigration Reform  Washington,
May 12, 2008

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 22, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Courage in Elm City

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 325 words


Last year, in an act of considerable political courage, New Haven began offering
a municipal ID card to all residents, including illegal immigrants. The reaction
from anti-immigrant forces was predictably ugly. Protesters disrupted hearings,
heckled and threatened city officials and tried to intimidate businesses that
supported the program, which is believed to be the first of its kind in the
nation. The city has held firm.

Now opponents are trying to use the state's Freedom of Information Law to force
New Haven to make public the names, addresses and photos of everyone who has an
ID card. This would chill -- even shut down -- the program. The state's Freedom
of Information Commission, which is considering the request, should firmly deny
it.

The ID card -- known as the Elm City Resident Card, from the city's nickname --
enables people to open bank accounts and is accepted by libraries and other
municipal services. In the last 10 months, more than 5,600 people, from college
students to undocumented workers have obtained them.

The positive benefits the card's supporters predicted for it have materialized.
More immigrants have emerged from the shadows and are participating in city
life. The streets are safer and crime has dropped because immigrants are now
putting their savings in banks instead of carrying them in their pockets,
reducing robberies. (Criminals had begun to refer to immigrants as ''walking
A.T.M.'s'' because so many carried large amounts of cash.) Immigrants who had
once feared the police are no longer reluctant to report crimes.

Critics have long complained that New Haven is too welcoming to undocumented
immigrants, especially since 2006, when the police stopped inquiring about the
immigration status of residents they interview. The ID card has made opponents
angrier -- no matter that it has made the city a safer, better place for all.
New Haven should be allowed to continue its innovative program.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 27, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Border Agents, Lured by the Other Side

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD and ANDREW BECKER; Lowell Bergman contributed
reporting from San Diego.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2834 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


The smuggler in the public service announcement sat handcuffed in prison garb,
full of bravado and shrugging off the danger of bringing illegal immigrants
across the border.

''Sometimes they die in the desert, or the cars crash, or they drown,'' he said.
''But it's not my fault.''

The smuggler in the commercial, produced by the Mexican government several years
ago, was played by an American named Raul Villarreal, who at the time was a
United States Border Patrol agent and a spokesman for the agency here.

Now, federal investigators are asking: Was he really acting?

Mr. Villarreal and a brother, Fidel,  also a former Border Patrol agent, are
suspected of helping to smuggle an untold number of illegal immigrants from
Mexico and Brazil across the border. The brothers quit the Border Patrol two
years ago and are believed to have fled to Mexico.

The Villarreal investigation is among scores  of corruption cases in recent
years that have alarmed officials in the Homeland Security Department just as it
is hiring thousands of border agents to stem the flow of illegal immigration.

The pattern has become familiar: Customs officers wave in vehicles filled with
illegal immigrants, drugs or other contraband. A Border Patrol agent acts as a
scout for smugglers. Trusted officers fall prey to temptation and begin taking
bribes.

Increased corruption is linked, in part, to tougher enforcement, driving
smugglers to recruit federal employees as accomplices. It has grown so worrisome
that job applicants will soon be subject to lie detector tests to ensure that
they are not already working for smuggling organizations. In addition, homeland
security officials have reconstituted an internal affairs unit at Customs and
Border Protection, one of the largest federal law enforcement agencies,
overseeing both border agents and customs officers.

When the Homeland Security Department was created in 2003, the internal affairs
unit was dissolved and its functions spread among other agencies. Since the unit
was reborn last year, it has grown from five investigators to a projected 200 by
the end of the year.

Altogether, there are about 200 open cases pending against law enforcement
employees who work the border. In the latest arrests, four employees in Arizona,
Texas and California were charged this month with helping to smuggle illegal
immigrants into the country.

While the corruption investigations involve a small fraction of the overall
security workforce on the border, the numbers are growing. In the 2007 fiscal
year, the Homeland Security Department's main anticorruption arm, the inspector
general's office, had 79 investigations under way in the four states bordering
Mexico, compared with 31 in 2003. Officials at other federal law enforcement
agencies investigating border corruption also said their caseloads had risen.

Some of the recent cases involve border guards who had worked for their agencies
for a short time, including the arrest this month of a recruit at the Border
Patrol academy in New Mexico on gun smuggling charges.

The federal government says it carefully screens applicants, but some internal
affairs investigators say they have been unable to keep up with the increased
workload.

''It's going to get worse before it gets better,'' said James Wong, an internal
affairs agent with Customs and Border Protection. ''It's very difficult for us
to get out and vet each and every one of the applicants as well as we should.''

The Border Patrol alone is expected to grow to more than 20,000 agents by the
end of 2009, more than double from 2001, when the agency began to expand in
response to concerns about national security. There has also been a large
increase in the number of customs officers.

James Tomsheck, the assistant commissioner for internal affairs at Customs and
Border Protection, said the agency was ''deeply concerned'' that smugglers were
sending operatives to take jobs with the Border Patrol and at ports.

Mr. Tomsheck said the agency intended to administer random  lie-detector tests
to 10 percent of new hires this year, with the goal of eventually testing all
applicants. His office has contracts with 155 retired criminal investigators,
adding 36 since last fall, to do background checks.

In one of the new corruption cases this month, at a border crossing east of San
Diego, a customs officer allowed numerous cars with dozens of illegal immigrants
and hundreds of pounds of drugs to pass through his inspection lane,
investigators said.

The officer, Luis Alarid, 31, had worked at the crossing less than a year, and
the loads included a vehicle driven by Mr. Alarid's uncle, the authorities said.
Mr. Alarid has pleaded not guilty to a charge of conspiracy to smuggle.
Investigators found about $175,000 in cash in his house, according to court
records.

In another recent case, Margarita Crispin, a customs inspector in El Paso, Tex.,
began helping drug smugglers just a few months after she was hired in 2003,
according to prosecutors. She helped the smugglers for four years before she was
arrested last year and sentenced in April to 20 years in prison and ordered to
forfeit up to $5 million.

Although bad apples turn up in almost every law enforcement agency, the
corruption cases expose a worrisome vulnerability for national and border
security. The concern, several officials said, is that corrupt agents let people
into the country whose intentions may be less innocent than finding work.

''If you can get a corrupt inspector, you have the keys to the kingdom,'' said
Andrew P. Black, an F.B.I. agent who supervises a multiagency task force focused
on corruption on the San Diego border.

Comparing corruption among police agencies is difficult because of the varying
standards and procedures for handling internal investigations, said Lawrence W.
Sherman, the director of the Jerry Lee Center of Criminology at the University
of Pennsylvania and an authority on corruption.

But he described policing the border as ''potentially one of the most
corruptible tasks in law enforcement'' because of the solitary nature of much of
the work and the desperation of people seeking to cross.

Michael Chertoff, the homeland security secretary, declined an interview. But in
response to questions at a recent news conference, he suggested that the breadth
and depth of border security improvements would inevitably produce problem
officers.

''There is an old expression among prosecutors,'' he said. ''Big cases, big
problems. Little cases, little problems. No cases, no problems. Some people take
the view we ought to make no cases and then we would have no problems. I think
that is a head-in-the-sand view, which I do not endorse.''

A Veteran Gone Bad

The customs inspector stands just outside his booth, his hand waving a stream of
cars through the Otay Mesa crossing just east of San Diego. They zip past, one
after another, no questions asked, an unusually easy welcome into the United
States where inspectors are known to grill citizens about their travels before
allowing them through.

But time was running short for this Customs and Border Protection officer,
Michael Gilliland, a revered veteran on the late shift expecting a special
delivery -- a vehicle with several illegal immigrants -- in his crossing lane.

Rather than intercept them, he had arranged for their safe passage through his
lane, federal prosecutors said.

Mr. Black, the F.B.I. agent from San Diego, shook his head as he watched a
surveillance videotape of Mr. Gilliland.

''You're basically giving that smuggling organization an opportunity to conceal
whatever else they want in that vehicle,'' he said, ''whether its drugs,
weapons, terrorists.''

The smugglers use any ruse available to lure border workers but seem to favor
deploying attractive women as bait. They flirt and charm and beg the officers,
often middle-aged men, to ''just this once'' let an unauthorized relative or
friend through. And then another and another.

Prosecutors believe this is how smugglers ensnared Mr. Gilliland, who eventually
pleaded guilty to taking $70,000 to $120,000 in exchange for letting hundreds of
illegal immigrants pass through his lane. He was sentenced last year to five
years in federal prison. Two women he had befriended also pleaded guilty.

The case against Mr. Gilliland, 46, stands out for the number of immigrants he
helped  and the shock of a respected veteran gone bad.

To young inspectors, Mr. Gilliland was a mentor, quick with advice, even an
embrace, a burly go-to type with 16 years under his belt.

''He knew the laws backward and forward,'' said Edward Archuleta, an internal
affairs agent with Customs and Border Protection who once worked with Mr.
Gilliland and eventually helped bring him down.

A tip steered F.B.I. agents to Mr. Gilliland's illegal activities, but it took
agents two years to build the case. The evidence against him included secretly
recorded phone conversations  in which Mr. Gilliland coordinated with Mexican
smugglers when to drive their cargo of illegal immigrants through inspection
lanes.

One morning, while Mr. Gilliland was taking a break from his shift, agents
called him over and told him he was under arrest. They had braced for Mr.
Gilliland to become belligerent, but instead he collapsed into a chair,
weak-kneed.

''My grandfather always told me that when you're born, the only thing you're
born with is your word, and only you can give that away, your integrity,'' Mr.
Gilliland said at his sentencing hearing. ''And I'm sorry.''

A Breach of Trust

The case against the Villarreal brothers -- the former Border Patrol agents in
San Diego -- illustrates how hard it has been for investigators to hunt for and
root out corrupt officers, many of whom know how to game the system.

The Villarreals would meet illegal immigrants near the border. The doors of
their government-issue truck would swing open and Mexicans and Brazilians would
climb in. Off they drove, Border Patrol agents at the wheel, but not to a
station or jail, investigators said.

Instead, they said, the migrants were taken to a drop house in San Diego and
later transported by others in the smuggling ring to cities and towns far from
the border.

The case against the Villarreals had shock value, even to those on the inside.

''Just really brazen, broad daylight,'' said an investigator, who was granted
anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss a continuing investigation.
''They could say, 'We picked these guys up, we're taking them in.' ''

As they closed in on the brothers, a squad of agents from several federal
agencies met. Some had qualms about speaking openly in front of such a large
group, fearing internal leaks.

Their fears were apparently borne out when, a couple of weeks after the meeting,
the brothers quit their posts, left their badges  at their family's home in
National City, Calif., and have not been seen publicly since.

A lawyer for the family, Jon Ronis, declined to say where the brothers were and
said neither they nor family members would comment. Mr. Ronis said Raul and
Fidel Villarreal were ready to defend themselves if the government brought a
case.

Federal officials declined to comment because the case was still open. But
investigators described some aspects of it on condition of anonymity. When the
public service announcement was being made for Mexico, for example, Raul
Villarreal spoke excitedly about his role in producing it, even suggesting
camera angles and lighting, said a person familiar with its production.

Just when and why the brothers turned against the Border Patrol is unclear, even
to the investigators. There is speculation that Raul had grown disgruntled with
the work, chafing at having been moved back into the field from his public
affairs job, considered a comfortable, high-profile position.

The Villarreal case is especially alarming for the level of trust the brothers
had earned within the Border Patrol. Their betrayal has had the effect, at least
in some investigations, of leading the authorities to move in more quickly when
agents are suspected of wrongdoing.

In the case of Jose Olivas Jr., a Border Patrol agent in San Diego who was
discovered serving as a scout for smugglers, an arrest was made within a year.
Mr. Olivas, an agent for 10 years who had worked as a liaison between the agency
and the United States attorney's office, was sentenced in January to three years
in prison.

The drawback to moving in fast, investigators said later, is that they probably
will never know how deep Mr. Olivas's ties were to the smuggling organization.
He suggested to a judge that he had been drawn to smuggling to help pay his
bills.

Policing the Police

An internal Web site at Customs and Border Protection features a page devoted to
a rogue's gallery of agents and officers recently convicted of
corruption-related charges.

The intention, homeland security officials say, is to send the message that
corruption will not be tolerated. That message has taken other forms, as well.
When Mr. Olivas, the San Diego border agent, was sentenced to prison, several
agents attended the court hearing at the behest of homeland security officials
to shame him publicly.

''I am truly embarrassed just looking at them,'' Mr. Olivas told the judge. ''I
am truly sorry for the breach of trust that was given to me.''

But if the department is serious about catching wrongdoers, investigators of
corruption cases say it also needs to make fundamental changes in the way it
polices the border police.

One result of the awkward marriage of agencies that begat the Homeland Security
Department is that three internal affairs units, in addition to the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, have a hand in corruption investigations. In the best
case, having more than one unit investigate corruption can be a ''force
multiplier,'' in the words of one investigator, but more often, it can slow
cases down and lead to confusion over who should take the lead, several
investigators said.

The Department of Homeland Security's inspector general has nearly 170
investigators to police 208,000 department employees -- including other large
agencies like the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Transportation
Security Administration, the Secret Service -- and gets first crack at cases.
When it passes on an investigation, the case is picked up by either the
Immigration and Customs Enforcement's office of professional responsibility or
the Customs and Border Protection internal affairs unit.

The F.B.I. also develops its own cases. Don Allen, a retired agent who until
2005 supervised a multiagency task force in San Diego investigating corruption
among border officers, said internal affairs units did not always readily share
information and often resented any sense of being big-footed by an outside
agency. He said law enforcement agencies often ''had a negative impression of
the bureau.''

Thomas Frost, an assistant inspector general with the Homeland Security
Department, said the limited number of investigators meant his office focused on
''those most important cases and what resources we can bring to bear.''

He suggested it would be ''more efficient'' if his office had more investigative
resources under its control so that it could better track ''everything going
on.''

''Let's face it,'' Mr. Frost said, ''part of the issue of the border is it is
kind of a balloon. When you squeeze one part, another bulges.''

Some Recent Cases

Jose Ramiro Arredondo, 33, a Customs and Border Protection officer in Laredo,
Tex., was arrested in March after a smuggler who had been detained told the
authorities that Mr. Arredondo had helped bring illegal immigrants across the
border.

Miguel Angel Avina, a trainee at the Border Patrol academy in Artesia, N.M., was
arrested in May on fraud and conspiracy charges related to his participation
last year in a ring that smuggled at least 110 guns into Mexico, the government
said. He has been dismissed from the academy.

Juan Luis Sanchez, 31, a Border Patrol agent, pleaded guilty May 20 to drug,
bribery and fraud charges. He admitted transporting at least 3,000 pounds of
marijuana in his Border Patrol truck from summer 2002 to January 2004 in
exchange for $45,000 in bribes.

Jose Magana, 44, a Customs and Border Protection officer at the San Luis, Ariz.,
border crossing, was arrested May 12 on charges of conspiring to smuggle illegal
immigrants. The authorities say he allowed people to pass uninspected through.

Luis Francisco Alarid, 31, a Customs and Border Protection officer, was arrested
May 16 on charges of conspiring to smuggle illegal immigrants and drugs into the
United States. Mr. Alarid allowed numerous vehicles with migrants or drugs to
pass through his inspection lane since at least February at a border crossing
east of San Diego, the authorities say. One vehicle, containing 18 illegal
immigrants, was driven by his uncle. He has pleaded not guilty.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Raul Villarreal, a United States Border Patrol agent at the
time, in a Mexican advertisement against smuggling. He is now wanted on
suspicion of helping smugglers. Customs agents check cars from Mexico at the
Otay Mesa crossing in California. An agent who worked there is in prison for
letting hundreds of people in. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (pg. A18)  CHART: CORRUPTION AT THE BORDER: The number of cases against
border guards in the four states bordering Mexico more than doubled from 31 in
2003, when the Department of Homeland Security was created, to 79 in 2007. The
crimes range from accepting bribes to helping illegal immigrants cross the
border. (Source: Department of Homeland Security  Office of Inspector General)
(pg. A18)   Chart showing the increase in the number of criminal cases against
border guards.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 28, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections: For the Record

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 84 words


An article on Saturday about the convictions of illegal immigrants who worked in
an Iowa meat-packing plant misstated the sentence or crime for some of them. Of
the 270 immigrants who were sent to prison, 260 were sentenced to five months
for using false work documents; 2 were sentenced to 12 months and 1 day for that
crime; and 8 received five-month sentences for re-entering the United States
illegally after deportation. All 270 immigrants were not sentenced to five
months for using false documents.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 5, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Guards Charged in Smuggling

BYLINE: By WILL CARLESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 318 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Two men working as security guards for a company under contract to the Border
Patrol were arraigned Wednesday in federal court here  on charges that they had
agreed to accept a bribe to smuggle two illegal immigrants into Los Angeles
instead of returning them to Mexico.

The men, Christopher Saint-Lucero and Manley Lamont Smith, work for the
Wackenhut Corporation, the giant security firm that in 2006 signed a
multimillion-dollar contract with the federal government to transport illegal
immigrants.

The men, both former marines, are accused of conspiring to accept a bribe of
$5,000 to take two prisoners to Los Angeles. The guards believed the prisoners
were illegal immigrants from El Salvador, but one was actually an undercover
Border Patrol agent who prosecutors said had received a tip that Mr. Smith was
running a smuggling operation.

According to court documents, Mr. Smith was assigned last Sunday to take a group
of immigrants to Mexico from a detention facility in Chula Vista, Calif.

When the group arrived at the border, the undercover agent and a Salvadoran
immigrant were refused entry to Mexico, the court documents state.

On the way back to the detention center, the documents state, the undercover
agent asked Mr. Saint-Lucero to ''give them a break.'' He said he could arrange
for Mr. Saint-Lucero and Mr. Smith to be paid a total of $5,000 to take him and
the other man to Los Angeles.

Prosecutors said that Mr. Smith and Mr. Saint-Lucero then made arrangements to
hide and transport the men, and that Mr. Smith told another Border Patrol agent
that he had successfully completed 10 similar operations. After the guards
removed the undercover agent's handcuffs, he identified himself and arrested
them, prosecutors said.

The charges, conspiracy to transport illegal immigrants, carry a maximum
sentence of 10 years.

Marc Shapiro, a Wackenhut vice president, declined to comment.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 9, 2008 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Local Officials Adopt New, Harder Tactics On Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2500 words

DATELINE: MILTON, Fla.


Three months after the local police inspected more than a dozen businesses
searching for illegal immigrants using stolen Social Security numbers, this
community in the Florida Panhandle has become more law-abiding, emptier and
whiter.

Many of the Hispanic immigrants who came in 2004 to help rebuild after Hurricane
Ivan have either fled or gone into hiding. Churches with services in Spanish are
half-empty. Businesses are struggling to find workers. And for Hispanic citizens
with roots here -- the foremen and entrepreneurs who received visits from the
police -- the losses are especially profound.

''It was very hard because the community is very small, and to see people who
came to eat here all the time then come and close the business,'' said Geronimo
Barragan, who owns two branches of La Hacienda, Mexican restaurants where the
police arrested 10 employees.

''I don't blame them,'' Mr. Barragan added. ''It's just that it hurts.''

Sheriff Wendell Hall of Santa Rosa County, who led the effort, said the arrests
were for violations of state identity theft laws. But he also seemed proud to
have found a way around rules allowing only the federal government to enforce
immigration laws. In his office, the sheriff displayed a framed editorial
cartoon that showed Daniel Boone admiring his arrest of at least 27 illegal
workers.

His approach is increasingly common. Last month, 260 illegal immigrants in Iowa
were sentenced to five months in prison for violations of federal identity theft
laws.

At the same time, in the last year, local police departments from coast to coast
have rounded up hundreds of immigrants for nonviolent, often minor, crimes, like
fishing without a license in Georgia, with the end result being deportation.

In some cases, the police received training and a measure of jurisdiction from
the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement, under a program that lets
officers investigate and detain people they suspect to be illegal immigrants.

But with local demand for tougher immigration enforcement growing, 95
departments are waiting to join the 47 in the program. And in a number of
places, including Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Iowa, New Mexico, Oklahoma and
Texas, police officers or entire departments are choosing to tackle the issue on
their own.

State lawmakers, in response to Congressional inaction on immigration law, are
giving local authorities a wider berth. In 2007, 1,562 bills related to illegal
immigration were introduced nationwide and 240 were enacted in 46 states, triple
the number that passed in 2006, according to the National Conference of State
Legislatures. A new law in Mississippi makes it a felony for an illegal
immigrant to hold a job. In Oklahoma, sheltering or transporting illegal
immigrants is also a felony.

It remains unclear how the new laws will be enforced. Yet at the very least, say
both advocates and critics, they are likely to lead to more of what occurred
here: more local police officers demanding immigrants' documents; more arrests
for identity theft; more accusations of racial profiling; and more movement of
immigrants, with some fleeing and others being sent to jail.

''It is a way to address illegal immigration without calling it that,'' said
Jessica Vaughan, a senior policy analyst at the Center for Immigration Studies,
which supports intensified local enforcement. She added, ''They don't just have
to sit and wait for Washington.''

Community Complaints

Police officers here in a handful of Gulf Coast counties from Pensacola to
Tallahassee said they started hearing complaints about illegal immigrants last
year. With the national debate raging and the local economy sagging, many
residents began to question whether illegal immigrants were taking Americans'
jobs.

It did not show up in statistics -- the unemployment rate in Santa Rosa County
was 3.6 percent in 2007, below state and national averages -- so the arguments
focused in part on unfair competition.

Donna Tucker, executive director of the Santa Rosa County Chamber of Commerce,
said illegal immigration ''creates havoc within the system'' because businesses
that used illegal labor often did not pay into workers' compensation funds and
paid workers less.

''Those businesses can survive a lot longer than the ones that are trying to do
things right,'' Ms. Tucker said.

Some of the frustrations also veered into prejudice.

George S. Collins, an inspector in charge of the illegal trafficking task force
in Okaloosa County, said many people wanted to know ''why we weren't going to
Wal-Mart and rounding up the Mexicans'' -- a comment Mr. Collins said was racist
and offensive.

Usually though, the complaints were cultural and legal.

Interviews with more than 25 residents and police officers suggest that the
views of Harry T. Buckles, 68, a retired Navy corpsman, are common. Outside his
home in Gulf Breeze, Mr. Buckles said the main problem with today's Hispanic
immigrants was that they did not assimilate.

Even after hundreds flowed in to rebuild Santa Rosa County, Mr. Buckles said:
''They didn't become part of the community. They didn't speak the language.''

Echoing the comments of others, he said he became irritated when he heard
Spanish at the Winn-Dixie and saw a line of immigrants sending money home at the
Western Union. Mr. Buckles said he feared his community would lose its character
and become like Miami, with its foreign-born majority and common use of Spanish.

''We see things nationwide and we know that we could be overwhelmed,'' he said.

In fact, only about 3 percent of the population of Santa Rosa County is
Hispanic, according to census figures compiled in 2006. As a proportion of its
population, the Hispanic community here is less than half the size of what is in
Omaha or Des Moines -- mostly white cities where the Hispanic population is
still below the national average.

Santa Rosa is hardly the only place to use a tough approach against a small
immigrant population. In Mississippi, where strict laws on false documentation
recently passed, only about 1.7 percent of the state's 2.9 million people were
born abroad and more than half of them are in the United States legally,
according to estimates from the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
which favors tightening restrictions on immigration.

But here, the result is a divide often marked by a lack of in-depth interaction.

On one side are longtime residents like Sheriff Hall, who said immigrant
laborers were not involved in fixing his office or home after the hurricanes,
and Mr. Buckles, who said his relationship with Hispanics was based mainly on
seeing them at stores or construction sites.

On the other side are a smaller number of immigrants and employers who use
immigrant labor.

Some of the immigrants are newly arrived, sticking mostly to themselves. But the
group also includes Antonio Tejeda, 38, a roofer and naturalized American
citizen from Mexico who wears an N.F.L. jersey to church and speaks English with
a slight drawl; and Ruben Barragan, 19, one of the workers arrested in one of
the La Hacienda restaurant raids who, though illegal, spoke English and called
his infant son Eric because he wanted him to have an American name.

When told about such men, Mr. Buckles said perhaps the government could find
ways to create exceptions. But he was not convinced they deserved to stay.

''They got here illegally,'' Mr. Buckles said. ''They broke the law as soon as
they came.''

The Raids

The half-dozen officers involved in the Santa Rosa operations did not announce
their arrival. They detained 13 workers at Panhandle Growers. At the two
branches of La Hacienda the police quietly detained 10 workers without
resistance. And at Emerald Coast Interiors, a boat-cushion factory, the police
arrested a handful more.

Sheriff Hall said that his department received tips that led him to all the
locations he visited and that he was responding to a steep rise in complaints
about illegal immigration. He said he had been frustrated a year ago by a lack
of response from Immigration and Customs Enforcement. And this time, customs
officials said, he did not contact the agency for input before forming a
multicounty task force that led to the February operation.

Sheriff Hall said his men were focused on identity theft and did not need
special training because ''it's the same thing we do every day.'' He insisted
that the officers treated everyone fairly. Unlike Bay County officers, who
surrounded construction sites last year and arrested immigrants who ran, ''we
didn't chase anyone,'' he said.

And at many locations witnesses said the police treated all workers equally.

Managers at the restaurants Okki, El Rodeo, China Sea and La Hacienda said
police officers checked all employees' documents, regardless of their ethnicity.

But other business owners, employees and residents said the police focused
disproportionately on Hispanics or the foreign born and seemed determined to
scare immigrants out of the area. In many cases, employers said, the officers
did not even mention identity theft, narrowing their scope to immigrants.

''They were targeting all the places with Hispanic workers,'' said Elvin Garcia,
26, a waiter at El Rodeo.

At Red Barn Barbecue, witnesses said that skin color clearly influenced police
procedure. When several officers visited and saw no one who was Hispanic in the
kitchen, they moved on. ''We offered to give them records, and they said, 'No,
it's not necessary,' '' said Randy Brochu, whose family owns the business.

Meanwhile, at Emerald Coast Interiors, three employees -- one black, one white,
one Hispanic -- independently said the police did, in fact, chase a handful of
Hispanic employees who ran. Three women, they said, were caught in a  ditch
behind the main building.

Luis Ramirez, the plant's operations manager, said the officers asked to see
documentation only for the workers who fled. ''It was racial profiling,'' Mr.
Ramirez said.

His company has not filed a lawsuit, so his accusations have not been tested.
But Florida courts have repeatedly held that flight alone is not enough to
justify a suspicion of criminal activity or arrest. In Bay County, officials
said they tried to avoid chasing people now because prosecutors have warned that
it undermines their cases.

Even without a chase, immigrant advocates say that local efforts to track down
illegal immigrants undermine community safety by scaring immigrants from
reporting violent crimes.

''It's a dangerous route to take,'' said David Urias, a staff lawyer with the
Mexican American Legal Defense Fund, which sued Otero County in New Mexico this
year after the police raided Hispanics' homes for minor violations like an
unleashed dog. ''What you're going to see,'' Mr. Urias said, ''is more people
pushed into the shadows.''

The Aftermath

Indeed, three months after the sweeps, nearly everyone agrees that the fabric of
this community has changed. Hundreds of Hispanic families, both legal and
illegal, seem to have disappeared.

John Davy, a co-owner of Panhandle Growers, said some employers ''treated their
guys humanely'' by helping them flee to other areas. ''What we're victims of is
a system that's broken,'' he said.

Many residents said they felt torn between competing loyalties to compassion and
the law.

''On one hand, I'm sitting here thinking when Ivan was here, you could not get
enough people to do the thing that needed to get done,'' said Mrs. Tucker at the
Chamber of Commerce. ''And these illegal aliens, people welcomed them with open
arms because they were working hard, they were helping our community. But from a
chamber standpoint, you're operating on the side of the law. It's a hard
thing.''

In the immigrant community, fears now cloud the most basic routines. Many
Hispanics said they avoided being seen or heard speaking Spanish in Wal-Mart,
even if they live here legally. Others detailed their habit of meticulously
checking their cars' headlights, blinkers and registration to avoid being pulled
over.

The message many Hispanics have taken from the raids is simple. ''We're Mexican
-- they don't want us here,'' said Erika Barragan, 20, whose husband, Ruben,
came here illegally roughly six years ago and was one of 23 people scheduled to
be deported after the February raids. She said she would go back to Mexico this
summer.

Her husband's employers, Geronimo Barragan (no relation) and his wife, Guilla,
are trying to remain positive.

They are citizens and parents of four American-born children, ages 2 to 16. They
have lived in Santa Rosa County for more than a decade, founding a Baptist
church here and working 16-hour days, six days a week to build two restaurants
known for their affordable food and Christian atmosphere, which extends to a ban
on alcohol.

They said the raids came as a shock.

''We love the community, and we always tried to do our best,'' Mr. Barragan
said.

Mrs. Barragan put it more bluntly. ''This,'' she said, ''is like our promised
land.''

The Barragans said they did not know their workers were illegal because they
provided Social Security numbers and other information that was required. Like
most employers, they asked for nothing more.

They have not publicly opposed the sheriff's actions, and in their effort to
move on, they have distanced themselves from his critics. Mr. Barragan even
visited Sheriff Hall at his office to tell him he had no hard feelings and would
do everything he could to comply in the future.

And yet, the cost has been significant. Both of the restaurants were closed for
more than two months. Only one has recently reopened.

Unable to find people in the area who can cook Mexican food, Mr. Barragan, 41,
has been scouring the nation, recruiting in Houston, Chicago and Baton Rouge. He
has yet to find all the workers he needs, relying  on a handful of new hires
with work visas that expire in November. He said he wished that Congress could
find a way to bring more foreign workers to America legally.

For Mrs. Barragan, 39, a warm, thin woman with hair to her waist, the
consequences have been more personal. On a recent Wednesday night, her church's
prayer service was half-empty. Many of her friends have left. And many of the
employees that her family mentored in the ways of America are gone, taken away
by the police.

''That's what had the most effect on our lives,'' Mrs. Barragan said, speaking
in Spanish so she could be more specific. ''Not closing La Hacienda, or 'we're
not going to make money,' or 'how are we going to pay our bills?' I personally
didn't think about that. It hurt me more to see them there -- handcuffed. The
way they went out.''

Her husband agreed, explaining between bouts of tears that some of the deported
workers' families had become victims of more violent crime. ''One of them has a
small daughter and someone robbed their house while he was in jail,'' Mr.
Barragan said. ''Twice.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Erika Barragan, 20, whose husband was arrested. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
DAN ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A1)
LOCAL AUTHORITY: Sheriff Wendell Hall of Santa Rosa County, Fla., said he was
enforcing state identity theft laws. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY GIBERSON/PENSACOLA NEWS
JOURNAL) (pg. A16)
GERONIMO BARRAGAN: The owner of two branches of La Hacienda, Mexican restaurants
where the police arrested 10 employees
JOHN DAVY: A co-owner of Panhandle Growers, where 13 workers were detained
 ERIKA BARRAGAN: The wife of one of 23 people scheduled to be deported after
police raids. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAN ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A16) MAP
(pg. A16)  Map of Milton in Florida.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 10, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Spain, Grappling With Illegal Immigrants, Tries Forgiveness

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; BORDER CROSSINGS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1764 words

DATELINE: MADRID


With the United States riven by calls to legalize millions of illegal
immigrants, Americans might consider the possible effects by looking at southern
Europe, where illegal immigration abounds and so have forgiveness plans.

In the last two decades, Spain, Italy, Portugal and Greece have run at least 15
legalization programs, including a Spanish effort three years ago that was among
the Continent's largest. With little domestic opposition, Spain legalized nearly
600,000 of the African, Latin American and eastern European workers who helped
power its economy and brought this once insular land the strengths and strains
of diversity.

Immigrants say their prized work cards have brought higher wages, peace of mind
and reunions of separated families. But critics say legalizations have attracted
more illegal migrants -- with spillover risks to nearby countries -- and warn
that an economic slowdown now puts Spain and its foreigners at odds.

Among the beneficiaries of the  legalization policy are  Ignacio Cantos and
Sandra Delgado, a husband and wife from Ecuador who left four children and an
economic crisis in search of Spanish jobs. Legalization has raised their pay and
ended their fear of the police, who once jailed Mr. Cantos for lacking work
papers.

It has also ended their separation from their youngest child, Allan, a
gap-toothed 8-year-old sent with his siblings to live with their grandparents
when he was 3.  Since arriving in Madrid in March, he has been twirling his
mother's earrings and stroking her hair as if worried that she is a mirage.

''I would never leave my children a second time,'' said Ms. Delgado, 38, a nanny
who has been raising others' children while aching for her own. ''I'm sorry I
did it.''

Though both husband and wife favor legalization, they differ on the critics'
main complaint -- that ''regularizations'' attract more illegal migrants.

''I don't think so,'' said Mr. Cantos, 43, a truck driver who argued that
migrants moved out of desperation, not legal expectations. ''I didn't even know
what a regularization was.''

But Ms. Delgado said repeated amnesties could act as a magnet. ''People are
thinking they'll be able to get their papers almost immediately,'' she said.

The United States has an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants, a record
number. Its last mass amnesty program, which began in 1987, legalized 2.7
million. President Bush proposed an immigration plan that would give  some
workers a path to legalization. But it died last year under assault from people
who said it would lead to more illegal immigration.

Europe has held at least 20 legalizations in the past 25 years, giving residency
papers to about four million people. Italy and Spain account for about
two-thirds of the total, to the consternation of northern Europeans who see the
south as the Continent's weak back door. With free movement across much of
Europe, legalized immigrants can easily head north, alarming those worried about
job competition, welfare costs, cultural clashes or terrorist threats.

Southern Europe's tolerance for illegal immigration has several explanations.
Its aging populations and booming economies created a need for foreign workers.
Its proximity to northern Africa and eastern Europe places it close to countries
that supply them. And its economies have traditionally depended more on
off-the-books workers.

No country has run more legalization programs than Spain, which has carried out
six since 1985. As recently as a decade ago, immigrants made up less than 2
percent of the population. Now they are more than 10 percent. About 40 percent
come from eastern and northern Europe; 38 percent come from Latin America; and
20 percent from Africa.

Despite the rapid change, until recently there was little political conflict,
with legalizations occurring under both conservative and socialist governments.
Spain even offers immigrants free health insurance, whether they are legal or
not.

''The attitude toward unauthorized migrants is much more relaxed than in the
United States,'' said Joaquin Arango, a sociologist at Complutense University in
Madrid.

The acceptance has been attributed  to newfound prosperity, the need for
workers, the progressive culture of post-Franco Spain and the shared language
with Latin Americans, which spares Spain a major source of tension in the United
States.

But with the economy slowing, attitudes appear to be changing. The unemployment
rate among foreigners is now 14.7 percent, compared with 8.7 percent among
Spaniards. Nearly 40 percent of the recent jump in unemployment has occurred
among the foreign-born.

''People are starting to say: 'We don't need immigrants. They should return to
their country,' '' said Sebastian Salinas, a lawyer with the immigrant rights
group Acobe.

Immigration emerged as an election issue in Spain this year for the first time.
Mariano Rajoy, a conservative challenger to Prime Minister Jose Luiz Rodriguez
Zapatero, said the 2005 legalization had attracted more illegal immigrants and
increased social tensions. ''We are heading toward a situation of enormous
problems,'' said Mr. Rajoy, who narrowly lost.

Likewise, with Italy's economy faltering, Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi
recently promised a new crackdown on illegal immigrants.

Mr. Cantos, in moving to Spain, traded one set of problems for another. One of
11 children born to poor  farmers, he finished most of high school and landed a
job collecting insurance premiums. But he lost it in 1999 when bank runs, a
currency plunge and soaring unemployment sent hundreds of thousands of
Ecuadorians to Spain, which they could enter without visas at the time.

Mr. Cantos joined them in 2001 after borrowing the air fare from a sister in Los
Angeles. (She had moved there illegally and become legalized, but warned him
that the border was now too dangerous to cross.) He found piecemeal work in
Madrid passing out leaflets, and Ms. Delgado, needing money, reluctantly
followed.

Life was miserable. They lived in a two-bedroom apartment with seven other
migrants. They went to work fearing arrest. Ms. Delgado had lived in Madrid for
two years when Spain put into effect the legalization, which covered only
migrants with jobs. Of the 570,000 successful applicants, two-thirds came from
five countries: Ecuador (21 percent), Romania (17 percent), Morocco (13
percent), Colombia (8 percent) and Bolivia (7 percent).

The government argued that underground work reduced tax revenue and gave
lawbreaking employers a competitive edge, through lower labor costs. But
officials say their main goal was social, not economic.

''If you practice exclusion, you risk the future of your country,'' said Jesus
Caldera, who ran the program when he was labor minister. ''You risk terrorism,
violence.''

Still, there have been costs. The slowdown in construction has idled Mauricio
Velasco, a housepainter from Ecuador, who now draws unemployment benefits. Jorge
Salinas brought his mother from Bolivia, but she soon needed a kidney
transplant, which the Spanish government provided without charge. His mother,
Miriam Vaca, 70, now gets free dialysis treatments three times a week. ''The
ambulance comes to get me,'' she said. ''They are very, very kind.''

French, German and Dutch officials criticized the Spanish move, fearing an
increase in illegal immigration that would cross their borders. Some domestic
critics said the program also attracted illegal workers dwelling elsewhere in
Europe.

''They came by land, air and water,'' said Ana Pastor, a legislator fromthe
conservative Popular Party. ''There was a massive influx.''

Lorenzo Cachon, a sociologist at Complutense University, analyzed the program's
''call effect'' by studying municipal records. Most immigrants in Spain, legal
or not, register with local governments to obtain benefits like health
insurance. Their numbers grew 20 percent  the year after the program was
announced, compared with 3 percent the year before.

''That means the maximum call effect is 17 percent,'' he said. In practice, he
said, much of that growth came from migrants already living in Spain, who
registered as part of  legalization. ''I consider that a small call effect.''

He, like most scholars, said migrants were mainly lured by jobs. But the
region's history of repeated legalizations, he added, may add to the  pull. ''It
produces in the imagination of the immigrant the possibility that there might be
a regularization,'' he said.

A 2007 report by the Council of Europe, an organization of European states,
concluded that the Spanish program may have had a small ''pull effect'' but
called it a ''positive experience from which many European states can learn.''

For the Cantos family, the program brought an uphill fight. Mr. Cantos paid
$1,200 to a lawyer who never filed his application, which he discovered only
when stopped by the police. Finding him absent from the list of pending cases,
they jailed him overnight and started deportation proceedings.

Ms. Delgado did get her papers filed, only to discover that her employer failed
to sign them. She says her boss ''forgot'' -- drawing quotation marks with her
fingers and rolling her eyes -- ''because she knew I wanted to travel back to
Ecuador, and she didn't want me to go.'' She won a long appeal, and Mr. Cantos
was legalized as her spouse.

Their combined income quickly rose about 30 percent, as employers had to pay
more to keep them. With annual earnings of about $44,000, they make about 20
times what Mr. Cantos made in Ecuador as the family's sole provider.

Mr. Cantos said legalization had brought him ''a sense of peace,'' as he no
longer feared arrest. But Ms. Delgado wears the willed smile of a woman trying
to hide her sorrow. Her visit to Ecuador reminded her of how much she had missed
of her children's lives. ''You go back and you don't find them the way you left
them,'' she said.

Their income allowed the couple to bring just one child to Spain, and they
brought their youngest, Allan. Arriving in March, he found the weather cold, the
food strange. Puzzled by his parents' fourth-floor walk-up, he said, ''The
houses are high.''

Fearful of losing his mother again, he grows jealous when his father hugs her.
He exploded one night when he heard his parents laughing in the next room.

''He ran out of the bathroom and said, 'You two are happier without me!' '' Ms.
Delgado said. ''He still asks us to this day, 'Why did you leave us behind?' ''

With another willed smile, she added, ''We're so happy to have at least one of
them back.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sandra Delgado, an Ecuadorian immigrant, and her son, Allan, 8,
in their apartment in Madrid. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LOURDES SEGADE FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (pg.A10)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 12, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Raid in Arizona Could Test New State Law

BYLINE: By PAUL GIBLIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 444 words

DATELINE: MESA, Ariz.


A raid on two busy water parks and the arrest of nine workers suspected of being
illegal immigrants might become the first case to test Arizona's new employer
sanctions law.

The law, which went into effect in January, carries penalties that suspend or
revoke business licenses of employers who ''knowingly'' hire illegal immigrants.
It has yet to result in a prosecution.

The raid, which was carried out on Tuesday by Maricopa County deputies, followed
a four-month investigation of hiring practices at the water parks, Golfland
Sunsplash in Mesa and Waterworld Safari in Phoenix, said the Maricopa County
sheriff, Joe Arpaio. Both parks are owned by Golfland Entertainment Centers,
which is based here and operates three parks in Arizona and six in California.

Deputies arrested the workers on charges of suspicion of identity theft and
using forged documents to obtain employment.

The authorities also used search warrants to seize personnel records, which they
will use to investigate whether a violation of the employer sanctions law
occurred, Sheriff Arpaio said.

The director of marketing for the parks, Dave Johnson, said Golfland executives
were not worried about a follow-up investigation. ''We don't think we have
anything to hide,'' he said.

Mr. Johnson predicted that Sheriff Arpaio would be unable to bring an employer
sanctions case against the company because since January Golfland executives
have used a federal database to check the immigration status of newly hired
workers in the manner prescribed by the state law.

''Those who could not be confirmed as legal, they were terminated,'' Mr. Johnson
said.

But Sheriff Arpaio said investigators thought that as many as 104 additional
employees at the parks might have used fraudulent documents or Social Security
numbers to get their jobs.

''It's not over yet,'' the sheriff said. ''We've got a lot of work to do to see
if there's more than the nine that we arrested working there.''

A former employee at Waterworld Safari provided the tip that led to the
investigation, the sheriff said.

Golfland Sunsplash, Waterworld Safari and a third water park in the area employ
a total of 1,100 people, Mr. Johnson said.

State Representative Russell K. Pearce, a Mesa Republican who is the father of
the employer sanctions law, said the arrests sent a strong message because of
Golfland Entertainment's high profile.

''It's about time, and it's great,'' Mr. Pearce  said. ''It's kind of like the
shot fired at Concord in the Revolutionary War, the shot heard around the world.
This had to happen.''

Business at the water parks, meanwhile, was brisk Wednesday, as temperatures
rose to 101 degrees.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 4, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

2 Supervisors Are Arrested After Sweep At Meat Plant

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 606 words


Two supervisors at a kosher meatpacking plant in Iowa where hundreds of illegal
immigrants were rounded up in May were arrested Thursday on criminal immigration
charges.

Federal prosecutors said they had also issued an arrest warrant for a third man
described by workers as a  plant  manager.

The supervisors, Juan Carlos Guerrero Espinoza and Martin De la Rosa Loera, were
arrested at the Agriprocessors plant in Postville, prosecutors said. They were
the first employees who were not rank-and-file workers to be arrested since 389
illegal immigrants were rounded up at the plant on May 12, said Bob Teig, a
spokesman for the United States attorney for the Northern District of Iowa.

Federal authorities called the raid the largest enforcement operation by
immigration authorities at a single workplace. Unions and immigrant advocacy
groups had criticized immigration officials for focusing arrests on workers
while taking no action against top managers.

The arrest warrant was issued for Hosam Amara, 43. In interviews after the raid,
several workers said Mr. Amara was a floor manager with more authority than line
supervisors. They said he was a link between workers on the slaughterhouse
floors and meatpacking lines and more senior management.

Agriprocessors, which before the raid was the country's largest producer of
kosher meat, is owned by Aaron Rubashkin. Two weeks after the raid, he removed
his son Sholom as chief executive.

Most of the illegal immigrants arrested at the plant were from rural Guatemala.
In expedited proceedings, 270 workers were sent to federal prison on criminal
charges, most for presenting false documents when they were hired.

In a criminal complaint unsealed on Thursday, federal authorities said Mr.
Guerrero was the supervisor of four departments in the Postville plant,
including a slaughterhouse called Beef Kill. Workers cited anonymously in the
complaint said Mr. Guerrero was running a business obtaining fraudulent
immigration documents, known as green cards.

In the days before the raid, the workers said, according to the complaint, Mr.
Guerrero told them in a meeting that ''they needed new IDs and Social Security
numbers to continue working at the company.'' Mr. Guerrero collected $200 and a
photograph from each worker, promising to provide new documents, the complaint
says.

A former human resources employee cited in the complaint said Mr. Guerrero
regularly brought in fake green cards for applicants.

A separate complaint says Mr. De la Rosa, a supervisor in Poultry Kill, also
told illegal immigrant workers shortly before the raid that they needed new
identity documents.

The complaints make it clear that a grand jury investigation of Agriprocessors
is continuing.

Union officials said the new arrests did not go far enough.

''The arrest of two low-level supervisors, while a start, barely scratches the
surface of this company's bad behavior,'' said Scott Frotman, a spokesman for
the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, which has tried to organize the
plant. ''What about the allegations of worker abuse? Does anyone really believe
that these low-level supervisors acted alone without the knowledge, or even the
direction, of the Rubashkins and other senior management?''

On Thursday in Houston, five senior managers of another company that was
recently raided, Action Rags USA, made their initial court appearances. Those
arrested on Wednesday included Mabarik Kahlon, 45, the owner of the company, an
exporter of used clothing, and his partner Rasheed Ahmed, 58. About 160 workers
were arrested on June 25 at the company's plant in Houston.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 6, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Employers Fight Tough Measures On Immigration

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1961 words


Under pressure from the toughest crackdown on illegal immigration in two
decades, employers across the country are fighting back in state legislatures,
the federal courts and city halls.

Business groups have resisted measures that would revoke the licenses of
employers of illegal immigrants. They are proposing alternatives that would
revise federal rules for verifying the identity documents of new hires and would
expand programs to bring legal immigrant laborers.

Though the pushback is coming from both Democrats and Republicans, in many
places it is reopening the rift over immigration that troubled the Republican
Party last year. Businesses, generally Republican stalwarts, are standing up to
others within the party who accuse them of undercutting border enforcement and
jeopardizing American jobs by hiring illegal immigrants as cheap labor.

Employers in Arizona were stung by a law passed last year by the
Republican-controlled Legislature that revokes the licenses of businesses caught
twice with illegal immigrants. They won approval in this year's session of a
narrowing of that law making clear that it did not apply to workers hired before
this year.

Last week, an Arizona employers' group submitted more than 284,000 signatures --
far more than needed -- for a November ballot initiative that would make the
2007 law even friendlier to employers.

Also in recent months, immigration bills were defeated in Indiana and Kentucky
-- states where control of the legislatures is split between Democrats and
Republicans -- due in part to warnings from business groups that the measures
could hurt the economy.

In Oklahoma, chambers of commerce went to federal court and last month won an
order suspending sections of a 2007 state law that would require employers to
use a federal database to check the immigration status of new hires. In
California, businesses have turned to elected officials, including the
Democratic mayor of Los Angeles, to lobby federal immigration authorities
against raiding long-established companies.

While much of the employer activity has been at the grass-roots level, a
national federation has been created to bring together the local and state
business groups that have sprung up over the last year.

''These employers are now starting to realize that nobody is in a better
position than they are to make the case that they do need the workers and they
do want to be on the right side of the law,'' said Tamar Jacoby, president of
the new federation, ImmigrationWorks USA.

After years of laissez-faire enforcement, federal immigration agents have been
conducting raids at a brisk pace, with 4,940 arrests in workplaces last year.
Although immigration has long been a federal issue, more than 175 bills were
introduced in states this year concerning the employment of immigrants,
according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.

State lawmakers said they had acted against businesses, often in response to
fervent demands from voters, to curb job incentives that were attracting shadow
populations of illegal immigrants.

''Illegal immigration is a threat to the safety of Missouri families and the
security of their jobs,'' Gov. Matt Blunt, a Republican, said after the Missouri
Legislature passed a crackdown law in May. ''I am pleased that lawmakers heeded
my call to continue the fight where Washington has failed to act.''

But because of the mobilization of businesses, the state proposals this year
have increasingly reflected their concerns. State lawmakers ''are starting to be
more responsive to the employer community because of its engagement in the
issue,'' said Ann Morse, who monitors immigration for the national legislature
conference.

The offensive by businesses has been spurred by the federal enforcement
crackdown, by inaction in Congress on immigration legislation and by a rush of
punitive state measures last year that created a checkerboard of conflicting
requirements. Many employers found themselves on the political defensive as they
grappled, even in an economic downturn, with shortages of low-wage labor.

Mike Gilsdorf, the owner of a 37-year-old landscaping nursery in Littleton,
Colo., saw the need for action by businesses last winter when he advertised with
the Labor Department, as he does every year, for 40 seasonal workers at
market-rate wages to plant, prune and carry his shrubs in the summer heat. Only
one local worker responded to the notice, he said, and then did not show up for
the job.

Mr. Gilsdorf was able to fill his labor force with legal immigrants from Mexico
through a federal guest worker program. But that program has a tight annual cap,
and Mr. Gilsdorf realized that he might not be so lucky next year. His business
could fail, he said, and then even his American workers would lose their jobs.

''We're not hiring illegals, we're not paying under the table,'' Mr. Gilsdorf
said. ''But if we don't get in under the cap and nobody is answering our ads, we
don't have employees.'' His group, Colorado Employers for Immigration Reform, is
pressing Congress for a much larger and more flexible guest worker program.

Unhappy California businesses won the support of Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa
of Los Angeles, who wrote a letter in March to Homeland Security Secretary
Michael Chertoff criticizing immigration agents for aiming raids at
''established, responsible employers'' in the city and urging him to focus on
those with a record of labor violations.

In Virginia, an employers' coalition headed off bills that would have closed
businesses that hire illegal immigrants and would have required all employers to
participate in the federal system to check the working papers of new hires,
which is known as E-Verify. Business groups nationwide oppose mandatory use of
the system, which is now voluntary, because they say the Social Security
Administration database it draws upon is full of errors that could lead to job
denials for American citizens and legal immigrants and bureaucratic overload for
the agency.

Virginia employers said they learned a lesson last year after the broad
immigration bill they supported failed in Congress.

''The silent masses of businesses out there should have been on the phone with
their Congressional representatives calling for rational reform,'' said Hobey
Bauhan, president of the Virginia Poultry Federation, whose members include some
of the biggest low-wage employers in the state. Virginia lawmakers ultimately
adopted verification rules aimed at employers who systematically hire illegal
immigrants.

In this legislative session, Arizona businesses rallied behind a bill to create
what would have been the first state guest worker program in the country. Their
advertising campaign used the slogan ''What part of legal don't you
understand?'' -- a tweak of the battle cry of their opponents, who use the same
phrase with the word ''illegal.''

Arizona employers said they knew that passage would be difficult for the bill,
because only the federal government can issue visas to immigrant workers.

Although the bill never came to a vote, employers said the debate helped make
their views known in Washington.

''It's a message to the federal government,'' said Joe Sigg, director of
government relations for the Arizona Farm Bureau, ''that we need a legal and
reliable means to recruit workers.''

Employers' groups have not succeeded everywhere. Under a bill passed this year,
Mississippi is the first state to make it a felony for an illegal immigrant to
work. The measure also allows terminated employees to sue their employer if they
were replaced by an illegal immigrant.

President Bush on June 9 ordered all federal contractors to check new workers
with E-Verify. The administration is pressing forward with a rule that would
pressure employers to fire within 90 days any worker whose identity information
does not match the records of the Social Security Administration, as frequently
happens with illegal immigrants. The first version of the rule was held up last
year by a federal court injunction.

While many businesses have come forward, they say they speak for many others
with immigrant workers that are lying low after finding that the crackdown has
left them in a perilous legal bind. While raids and sanctions are increasing,
employers with low-wage immigrant workers are barred by antidiscrimination rules
from examining identity documents of new hires too closely or checking the
immigration status of employees after they have been hired.

''The problem for business is that despite their complete compliance with the
law, it is inevitable for employers with large numbers of immigrant workers that
a certain percentage will be unauthorized workers using false documents,'' said
Peter Schey, a lawyer who represents two California companies facing scrutiny by
federal immigration agents. ''The system is just as broken for employers as it
is for immigrants.''

One employer facing this problem is the chief executive of a $20 million company
on the outskirts of Los Angeles that assembles electronic parts. She said she
had come to fear that her company -- including its legal workers -- is at risk
of being crippled by an immigration raid.

The executive spoke on the condition that neither she nor her company be
identified by name, for fear of attracting immigration authorities.

A human resources manager who worked for the company a decade ago hired a number
of workers without conducting an extra check of their documents with the Social
Security Administration, the executive said. Now she has received notices from
the agency of mismatches in the identity documents of 20 workers who were hired
10 years ago, out of 90 workers on the assembly floor today.

Because of the antidiscrimination rules, the executive cannot check to be
certain that the 20 workers, mainly Hispanic women, are illegal. Moreover, they
have advanced through training, she said, and excel at their jobs, which require
the repetitive assembly of tiny parts by hand, often under microscopes.

''I can't replace those people,'' the executive said. She said that despite
offering competitive wages from $9 to $17 an hour, the company had failed over
the years in repeated efforts to attract nonimmigrant workers because of the
state's tight technology labor market and because of the nature of the work,
exacting and tedious. If the workers were fired or arrested, she said, she could
fail to meet her contracts.

''If we have to terminate 20 people, that's going to jeopardize 100 other jobs
of people who are legal, Americans, people who are making a good living,'' she
said.

Angelo Paparelli, an immigration lawyer who represents the company, said: ''This
is not an employer who wants to turn a blind eye to lawbreaking. She is facing a
tightening of the enforcement vise that does not take into account Congress's
failure to create a workable system.''

California employers were shocked by the raid earlier this year at Micro
Solutions Enterprises, an established manufacturer of printer cartridges that is
based in Los Angeles and has more than 800 workers. Officials said 138 workers
were arrested. In a message to his customers, Avi Wazana, the Micro Solutions
owner, said the company had been verifying the legal status of all new hires
through federal programs for nearly a year.

Bush administration officials said the crackdown was the price employers must
pay to persuade voters to agree to open the gates to immigrant workers. In an
interview, Mr. Chertoff, the homeland security secretary, said, ''We are not
going to be able to satisfy the American people on a legal temporary worker
program until they are convinced that we will have a stick as well as a
carrot.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An electronics plant in Southern California. The chief
executive worries that an immigration raid could cripple the company.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mike Gilsdorf hired 40 immigrants through the federal guest worker program to
do seasonal work at his Colorado nursery.  (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A15) CHART: STATES CRACK DOWN ON EMPLOYERS: States have
passed tougher laws dealing with employers who hire illegal immigrants. Arizona
and Mississippi have some of the toughest laws, including one that revokes
business licenses of employers caught repeatedly hiring illegal immigrants.
Mississippi also makes it a felony for an illegal immigrant to work. (pg.A15)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 5, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Italy Begins Military Effort to Quell Crime

BYLINE: By ELISABETTA POVOLEDO

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 462 words

DATELINE: ROME


Soldiers were deployed throughout Italy on Monday to embassies, subway and
railway stations, as part of broader government measures to fight violent crime
here for which illegal immigrants are broadly blamed.

By the time it is fully effective next week, the effort will flank regular
police officers and the military police with 3,000 troops, a visible signal to
citizens that the government ''has responded to their demands for greater
security,'' Defense Minister Ignazio La Russa said in an interview on the
Italian Sky News channel.

The conservative government of Silvio Berlusconi won elections in April while
promising to crack down on petty crime and illegal immigrants. The new patrols
of soldiers, who are not empowered to make arrests, do not seem aimed only at
illegal immigrants, though the patrols were deployed to centers where illegal
immigrants are housed.

''Security is something concrete,'' Mr. La Russa said on Monday. The troops, he
said, will be a ''deterrent to criminals.''

Critics of the government have condemned the deployment as a superfluous measure
that could prove counterproductive.

''Putting troops on the street sends a dramatic message that the situation is
more serious than it is in reality,'' said Marco Minniti, the shadow interior
minister of the center-left Democratic Party, the largest opposition party.

Television news stations showed military officials searching immigrants'
suitcases at subway stations. Potential terrorist targets were also under
greater scrutiny. In Milan, troops were stationed around the city's Gothic
cathedral, and in Naples they watched the American Consulate.

In the capital, troops are to be stationed around embassies, consulates and
centers for illegal immigrants in outlying neighborhoods where they live. They
will not be securing the city's historic monuments because local officials
fretted that the military presence could scare off tourists.

''They will only be in areas where they have no impact on normal citizens,''
Rome's center-right mayor, Gianni Alemmano, told reporters.

Critics of the effort, which was part of a larger anticrime package  pushed
through Parliament last month, also object to the use of troops rather than the
police, saying the  military is better suited for emergencies in Lebanon,
Afghanistan and Iraq, where they are posted, than urban crises.

''You need to be specially trained to carry out some kinds of controls,'' Nicola
Tanzi, the secretary of a trade union that represents Italian police officers.
''Soldiers just aren't qualified.''

He also questioned whether the $93.6 million that will be spent for the extra
deployment, called Operation Safe Streets, might not have been better used to
increase the budgets for Italy's police and military.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An Italian paratrooper guarding the Palestinian diplomatic
office in Rome on Monday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY GENTILE/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 1, 2008 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Meatpacker In Brooklyn Challenges A Union Vote

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1347 words


Agriprocessors, the Brooklyn-based company that is the nation's largest kosher
meat producer, is well known for the labor troubles at its meatpacking plant in
Iowa -- federal agents detained 389 of its workers as illegal immigrants in May,
and labor officials in Iowa have accused it of employing 57 under-age workers.

But Agriprocessors is also having labor troubles closer to home, with the
company asking the United States Supreme Court to overturn a vote to unionize at
its distribution center along the Brooklyn waterfront.

If successful, the company's appeal could have repercussions at companies across
the country: it is trying to persuade the Supreme Court to rule that illegal
immigrants do not have the right to join labor unions.

In September 2005, the company's Brooklyn employees voted 15 to 5 to unionize,
with one ballot challenged. The workers, most of them immigrants from Mexico,
complained of low pay, not receiving time-and-a-half for overtime and not having
health insurance or paid holidays.

''It was a dirty place to work, and they treated some of the workers real bad,''
said Lucilo Brito, a former Agriprocessors truck driver.

Days after the vote, Agriprocessors stunned its employees by announcing that it
would not recognize the union because, it said, it had just discovered that 17
of the workers were illegal immigrants.

The National Labor Relations Board nonetheless ordered Agriprocessors to
recognize the union, Local 342 of the United Food and Commercial Workers, citing
a 1984 Supreme Court ruling that affirmed the right of illegal immigrants to
join unions.

Agriprocessors appealed the labor board's order, with one of its lawyers,
Richard Howard, telling the board, ''This should not be a valid vote for
representation'' because ''they're not documented workers and not allowed to
work.''

After Agriprocessors refused to deal with the union, 14 of the workers went on
strike for seven weeks. The company responded by firing the strikers. (During
the strike, union officials said, management hired day laborers from a nearby
street corner, many of them illegal immigrants.)

The labor board continues to insist that Agriprocessors recognize the union.
Lawyers for the board and union argue that it is foolish for the company to
appeal the 1984 decision, in which the Supreme Court ruled that illegal
immigrant workers fall within the definition of ''employee'' in the National
Labor Relations Act and thus have the right to join unions.

''Whether people are undocumented or not, they deserve to have some union
represent them,'' said Lisa O'Leary, executive vice president of Local 342,
which represents 10,000 meat, poultry and seafood workers in the New York area.
''That will help reduce the abuses that undocumented workers face.''

The Agriprocessors distribution center is one of 20 or so meat wholesalers at
the Brooklyn Terminal Market at First Avenue near 56th Street in Sunset Park,
where there are two long rows of low-lying buildings with meat hooks hanging
above the loading docks. All but a handful of the meat companies are unionized.

Connected to the Agriprocessors center are two refrigeration trailers that hum
24 hours a day, and parked outside are trucks painted with the company's main
retail logo, Aaron's Best.

Ante Vulin, a butcher at International Glatt Kosher Meats, a unionized
wholesaler directly across from Agriprocessors, said belonging to the union
meant higher pay and better benefits.

''What's the purpose of leaving here when you don't get more at another place?''
said Mr. Vulin, who earns $20.25 an hour after 20 years on the job.

David Young, an organizer with Local 342, said it was easy to get
Agriprocessors' workers to vote to unionize because they had talked with workers
at other distribution centers and seen the fruits of unionizing.

The manager of the Agriprocessors distribution center refused to comment about
workplace conditions or the litigation. A company lawyer, Arnold Kaufman, said
it would be inappropriate to comment during litigation -- the company is hoping
the Supreme Court will hear its appeal.

During the organizing drive in 2005, Agriprocessors fought hard to defeat the
union. One worker said managers told him: ''The union is not good. Everything
they say is a lie.''

The company, the labor board asserted, improperly fired two workers for
supporting the union. Moreover, the board said, management sought to block the
workers from voting for the United Food and Commercial Workers, by announcing
one day that a majority of its drivers had signed up with a union known for
working closely with employers, Local 17-18 of the United Production Workers.

Several workers said management representatives had pressured them to sign cards
supporting Local 17-18, and had done so after management told the labor
relations board that a majority of workers had already signed cards backing that
union.

Labor board officials dismissed the company's efforts to steer its employees
into Local 17-18 as a charade. It ordered the secret-ballot vote to proceed, and
the workers voted to join the United Food and Commercial Workers.

When Agriprocessors said it would ignore the vote because it had discovered that
most employees were in the country illegally, the union insisted the company was
acting in bad faith.

''They knew all along they were hiring undocumented workers,'' said Mr. Young,
the organizer. (He wondered why, if the company was suddenly so concerned about
employing illegal immigrants, it did not conduct similar checks at its Iowa
plant.)

Agriprocessors officials said they had no idea their Brooklyn employees were
illegal immigrants, insisting that they had been fooled because the workers
presented fraudulent documents. Agriprocessors officials said the same thing
after the immigration raid at its Iowa plant in May.

Mr. Howard, the company's lawyer, said it should not be possible to join a union
''if you are not legally allowed to work, if your working for this employer
results from the perpetration of a fraud upon this employer and results from a
crime against the country.''

The National Labor Relations Board in Washington and the United States Court of
Appeals in Washington rejected Agriprocessors' argument that illegal immigrants
should not have the right to join unions. In a decision last January, the
appeals court, echoing the 1984 Supreme Court decision, wrote that allowing
illegal immigrants to join a union ''helps to assure that the wages and
employment conditions of lawful residents are not adversely affected by the
competition of illegal alien employees.''

Nathan Lewin, the lead lawyer in Agriprocessors' appeal to the Supreme Court,
said the issue should be reconsidered because there are so many more illegal
immigrant workers now than in 1984 and because a federal law passed two years
after that ruling made it a crime for companies to hire illegal immigrants.

''The attitude of federal and local laws towards illegal immigrant workers has
undergone a sea change,'' the company's appeal says. ''Federal policy regarding
the employment of undocumented aliens is far more prohibitive today.''

Alvin Blyer, regional director of the labor board's office in Brooklyn, said he
was not surprised by the company's appeals.

''Many times employers are anxious to put off the day that they have to deal
with a labor union and bargain collectively,'' Mr. Blyer said. ''Even in cases
where their legal position is unlikely to succeed, they find it economically
worthwhile to delay that day.''

Last Thursday, a butcher who had just finished the midnight-to-9 a.m. shift at
the Agriprocessors distribution center said that the company had improved wages
and conditions somewhat since the unionization vote three years ago. The worker
said he was paid $8.50 an hour, got one week vacation a year and received
time-and-a-half pay for overtime.

''We don't get health insurance,'' said the worker, who insisted on anonymity
for fear of retaliation. And in a candid moment, he acknowledged that he was an
illegal immigrant.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Rafael Castillo, Elizabeth Alvarez and David Young,
union organizers from Local 342. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK
TIMES)(B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 19, 2008 Monday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Illegal Immigrants and Their Health

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 205 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Illegal Farm Workers Resort to Health Care in the Shadows'' (front page,
May 10):

Illegal immigrants are in a precarious position in American society. While their
efforts have benefited the American economy, their very presence in the country
engenders animosity and anger.

Undoubtedly, some illegal immigrants cost the taxpayer money for public
services, but their circumstances, not unlike those of American citizens without
health care, are dismal.

Despite the sorry situation of people, including citizens, without access to
health care in the most prosperous country in the world, it's amazing that
Latinos still practice the antiquated traditions of my impoverished New Mexico
ancestors into the 21st century.

My late grandmother's parents, like illegal immigrants, lacked the means or
access to doctors, hospitals and clinics. Remedies were more mystical than
medicinal. The local curandera cracked an egg on their stomachs to rid them of
ailments and evil spirits.

While it's understandable that sickness and treatment consisted of curses and
cures nearly a century ago, it's astounding that witch, rather than medical,
doctors still practice in America today.

Wayne Trujillo Denver, May 11, 2008

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 21, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Despite Growing Opposition, Homeland Security Stands by Its Fence

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD and JULIA PRESTON; Randal C. Archibold reported
from Naco, Ariz., and Julia Preston from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1669 words

DATELINE: NACO, Ariz.


As the Department of Homeland Security pushes to complete 670 miles of fencing
along the Mexican border by the end of this year, it is confronting the sharpest
resistance yet while conceding that physical barriers alone do not stop illegal
crossings.

In the latest challenge, the Texas Border Coalition, an organization of mayors,
county commissioners and economists opposed to the fence, filed a federal
lawsuit on Friday. It says that the homeland security secretary, Michael
Chertoff, failed to conduct required negotiations with property owners and local
authorities when he ordered that the barrier be built in Texas. The group wants
the construction halted.

The protests come as known efforts at illegal crossings -- measured by the
number of people detained at the border -- have fallen 17 percent this year,
after declining 20 percent in 2007, figures that Chief David V. Aguilar of the
Border Patrol points to as proof that the overall approach to border enforcement
is working.

Still, Mr. Aguilar and other officials acknowledge, the new fencing has mainly
proved useful when it has been backed up with other enforcement methods, like
electronic surveillance and aggressive prosecution of illegal immigrants caught
by the Border Patrol.

Since last year, the steepest drops in illegal crossings along the 2,000-mile
border were recorded here in eastern Arizona and in places in Texas where those
combined tactics were applied, official figures show.

Technical glitches have plagued plans to expand and enhance the electronic
surveillance into a virtual fence, and it remains uncertain when it will be in
broader use.

After months of delays, the Border Patrol approved a pilot system in February
from its contractor, Boeing, which now says that most of a prototype tested
along 28 miles of border will be replaced. The company will also build a virtual
fence on another 30-mile stretch of southern Arizona and test  similar
technology on the Canadian border near Detroit this year.

Mr. Chertoff acknowledged in an interview that constructing physical barriers --
as of last month, about 309 miles of fence had been built -- is not the key to
stopping illegal immigration, but he defended the fence's usefulness.

''I don't believe the fence is a cure-all,'' Mr. Chertoff said. ''Nor do I
believe it is a waste. Yes, you can get over it; yes, you can get under it. But
it is a useful tool that makes it more difficult for people to cross. It is one
of a number of tools we have, and you've got to use all of the tools.''

As many as 2,000 immigrants a day still cross the Southwest border illegally,
according to estimates by scholars well versed on the border. Continuing a
decades-old cat-and-mouse game, the crossers move away from areas where the
Border Patrol establishes control to more vulnerable points, most recently near
San Diego.

In addition to the border enforcement, immigrant traffic is influenced by a
variety of social, political and economic factors; the recent drop in known
crossings, for example, occurred as the economy began to sputter, drying up
construction jobs and others that lure immigrants.

Trinidad Alamea, who operates a small shelter across the border from Naco, said
several nights had passed recently without a single immigrant seeking help. But,
Mr. Alamea said, such fluctuations have occurred before, only for immigrant
traffic to return when smugglers adjust to whatever new tactic or conditions
confront them on the American side.

''The people are going to cross, wall or no wall,'' he said.

Opposition to the fence intensified last month after Mr. Chertoff used authority
provided by Congress to waive more than two dozen environmental laws and others
to push ahead with construction. Mr. Chertoff said his department needed to
bypass the laws if it was to meet the goal set by Congress two years ago of
completing at least 670 miles of fence by the end of this year.

Fourteen United States representatives, all Democrats, including Bennie Thompson
of Mississippi, chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, have said they
support a lawsuit filed in April by two environmental groups -- the Sierra Club
and Defenders of Wildlife -- that challenges Mr. Chertoff's waiver.

Meanwhile, officials in border cities, Indian groups and educational
institutions have stepped up their criticism of the fence. The broad array of
dissenters are protesting what they say are the economic and environmental
impacts of the fence for border cities, ranches and natural areas, and
questioning whether the estimated $2.1 billion for its construction is the best
use of border security money.

''No thought was given methodically to this idea of the fence,'' Patricio M.
Ahumada Jr., the mayor of Brownsville, Tex., said on Friday in Washington, where
the Texas Border Coalition filed its lawsuit. ''Homeland Security is using it to
give a false sense of security to middle America that it will keep illegal
immigrants and terrorists out, but it just isn't true.''

At a Congressional hearing this month in Brownsville, the president of the
University of Texas campus there, Juliet V. Garcia, testified that she had not
been consulted before Homeland Security officials announced plans to build an
18-foot-high barrier that she said would leave the campus's technology center
and golf course ''on the Mexican side of the fence.''

Ms. Garcia said she believed that the fence would pose ''serious harm to the
university on many fronts,'' including risks to students' safety, to its
property investments and to its educational mission.

In Naco, historically one of the more troublesome spots for the agency in its
campaign to curb illegal crossings, construction workers have clawed a trench
and fired up blowtorches as they maneuvered giant grates of mesh into place for
a second row of fencing. A hodgepodge of steel plating, heavy-duty mesh and
towering metallic slats now extends for miles, replacing ragged, five-strand
barbed wire fencing that for decades marked the Mexican border.

Arrests of illegal immigrants are down. And this village's larger twin in Mexico
has seen its economy, dependent largely on smuggling, plummet.

Border Patrol officials interpret both developments as signs of success. Michael
Hyatt, a Border Patrol field supervisor, noted that a number of steps had been
taken in this area, aside from the fence, to frustrate smugglers and repeat
crossers, an acute problem here.

Although Mr. Hyatt would not disclose how many agents work there, a station
built for 26 agents will be replaced next year by new quarters housing 450.
Altogether, he said, word is spreading that Naco is not as easy as smugglers
make it out to be.

''They see some of the infrastructure we're putting out there,'' he said.

But Mr. Hyatt is not raising a toast yet. The fence, he said, ''is not going to
stop people from coming across.''

''It is going to deter some from crossing,'' he said. ''It's going to relocate
some to other areas to cross where there isn't a fence.''

Officials of the Homeland Security Department give a broad estimate of $3
million per mile to build the fence, or about $2.1 billion to reach the  goal
this year, out of $5.2 billion for the Border Patrol this year. The officials
have declined to provide Congress with a more exact price tag, saying costs vary
depending on the difficulty of the terrain.

Under perhaps the most effective program, which is used in limited areas of
Arizona and Texas, federal prosecutors press criminal misdemeanor charges
against immigrants caught by the Border Patrol, putting them in detention for up
to two months, well beyond the several hours they normally would be held before
being returned to Mexico.

The Justice Department is adding 64 federal prosecutors along the border to
support these criminal cases. But the authorities cannot expand the program much
further because of lack of detention space.

In the Border Patrol sector around Yuma, Ariz., apprehensions dropped 69 percent
since the program was begun last year, official figures show. The agency uses
its apprehension figures as an approximate gauge of illegal crossings, assuming
that agents make fewer arrests when fewer immigrants try to cross. In March
2007, agents caught 5,571 in the Yuma sector; this March, they caught 751.

In a new survey of immigrants from the south-central Mexico farming state of
Oaxaca, Wayne A. Cornelius, director of the Center for Comparative Immigration
Studies at the University of California, San Diego, found that they believed the
border had become much more dangerous to cross illegally. The percentage of
those caught at least once by the Border Patrol had doubled since 2005, to 48
percent from 24 percent, according to the survey, which was conducted among 821
immigrants from December 2007 to February.

But 97 percent of the immigrants who set out to cross the border illegally said
they had succeeded eventually, Mr. Cornelius found, a figure that has not
decreased since 2005. In the survey, 82 percent of the immigrants who succeeded
in crossing said they came through San Diego. In fact, overall apprehensions in
San Diego -- where fences have been in place since 1993 -- defied the downward
trend, jumping by 20 percent in 2007, Border Patrol figures show.

Meanwhile, groups opposing illegal immigration are also protesting the fence
construction -- in their case, because of unhappiness with its slow progress. A
new group in Tucson called Techno Patriots has set up several thermal imaging
cameras at the border to watch for illegal crossers by laptop computer from
their homes.

The Cochise County Militia in Naco, one of several civilian patrol groups along
the border, is making plans to bring in dozens of volunteers in the coming
months to help apprehend illegal immigrants who the group says still manage to
get in despite the new fencing.

Bill Davis, the group's leader, called the barriers ''a joke.''

''This is still the worst 90 miles of border,'' Mr. Davis said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Mexican side of the fence in Naco, a village that straddles
the border with Arizona. Border agents say the fence is one reason arrests of
illegal immigrants in Naco are down. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF TOPPING FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (pg. A18)
DIAGRAM: FENCING THE BORDER: In 2006 Congress authorized the Department of
Homeland Security to build about 700 miles of fencing along the 2,000-mile
Mexico border. Most of the fence is being constructed near urban areas, where
illegal immigrants can easily blend into the existing neighborhood after
crossing the border. (Sources: Department of Homeland Security
International Boundary and Water Commission
Government Accountability Office
Congressional Research Service
HAEYOUN PARK, ERIN AIGNER AND JOE BURGESS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ''VIRTUAL FENCE'' PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID SANDERS) (pg. A20)  Diagram showing the
progress of the fencing of the Mexican border.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 17, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mr. Ng's Death

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 518 words


This country's harsh regime of immigration enforcement is racked with troubles
from top to bottom, from the federal raids recklessly sweeping thousands of
harmless immigrants into custody to the scandal-riddled detention system that
abuses and neglects them once they get there.

Last week, The Times's Nina Bernstein reported on another shameful case of
someone entering immigration detention, getting sick, and dying. This time it
was Hiu Lui Ng, a computer engineer from China. He paid the ultimate price for
overstaying a visa, and getting lost in a sprawling system that some have
likened to a gulag.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement will not comment because of a continuing
investigation. But court affidavits tell a story of shocking neglect:

Although he complained of excruciating back pain for months, and grew ever
frailer in custody, officials at the Rhode Island detention center where he was
being held denied Mr. Ng an independent medical evaluation and even a
wheelchair. At one point, according to the affidavits, he was shackled and taken
in an ambulance for a two-hour drive to Hartford, where an immigration officer
pressured him to stop appealing his case and accept deportation.

When lawyers finally persuaded a judge to insist on suitable medical treatment
for Mr. Ng, the long-deferred diagnosis was dire. Prison officials had said it
was all an act. It was terminal cancer -- and a broken spine. Mr. Ng was taken
to the hospital, and died five days later.

One must wonder why Mr. Ng was in prison at all. He was no dangerous criminal.
He entered the country legally but overstayed a visa years ago. His asylum plea
was rejected, and he missed a court date when the order was sent to the wrong
address. In the ensuing years, he went to college, married, and fathered two
sons.

His wife, a naturalized citizen, petitioned to get him legal residency, but at
his green-card interview last summer, he was seized.

To ensure that other detainees do not meet Mr. Ng's awful fate, Congress should
pass the Detainee Basic Medical Care Act, sponsored by Senator Robert Menendez,
Democrat of New Jersey, and Representative Zoe Lofgren, Democrat of California.
It would impose mandatory health care standards on the detention system, a
rapidly growing and deeply flawed ad-hoc network of local, state, federal and
privately run lockups.

Immigration officials keep insisting that detention care is adequate and getting
better. But it will take far more than promises of more audits to build
confidence in a system that allows people to suffer so grievously.

Immigrant advocates have long complained about the lack of due process for
people who run afoul of the country's convoluted immigration laws. But access to
decent medical care is an even starker problem.

While reasonable minds can differ on some aspects of the immigration debate,
protecting the health of detainees is not one of them. Allowing sick people to
suffer and die in custody without adequate treatment is unacceptable and
violates the most fundamental standards of American law and decency. The system
must be fixed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 16, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Spanish, McCain Criticizes Obama on Immigration

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 634 words


Senator John McCain's campaign began running this advertisement on Spanish
language television stations in Colorado, Nevada and New Mexico over the
weekend.

PRODUCER McCain media team.

SCRIPT (As translated by The New York Times) A male announcer says: ''Obama and
his allies in Congress say they are on the side of immigrants, but they're not.
Reports in the press say that their efforts were like 'poison pills' that caused
immigration reform to fail. The results: 'No' to the guest workers program; 'no'
to a path to citizenship, 'no' to secure borders. The reform didn't pass. Is
that being on our side? Obama and his Congressional allies -- ready to block
immigration reform, but not ready to govern.''

ON THE SCREEN The spot switches among montages of Mr. Obama and Senate Democrats
-- Harry Reid of Nevada; Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont -- and Hispanic-looking
voters and hazy images of federal buildings as onscreen writing flashes
statements like ''De Nuestro Lado?'' ( ''On our side?'').

ACCURACY The bill in question, which died in 2007, would have overhauled the
nation's immigration rules by creating a temporary worker program, a ''pathway
to citizenship'' for illegal workers already here and provisions to tighten
border security. Members of both parties took the blame for introducing
amendments that ultimately killed the carefully developed compromise based upon
an initial bill that Mr. McCain had helped draft. Before its fate was sealed,
President Bush, who was pushing hard for its passage, directed much of his
rhetoric against Republican opponents who dismissed it as ''amnesty.''

Mr. Obama did support several Democratic provisions that were among those
ultimately blamed for undermining it. He introduced an (ultimately losing)
amendment curtailing a proposal to award green cards based on a point system
that valued education and job skills more than mere family ties. And he joined
with most of the Senate Democrats to support an amendment supported by labor
groups and widely viewed as harming the bill by limiting the guest worker
program at its core.

The key votes, however, came from four Republicans who initially voted against
the amendment but switched sides at the 11th hour, they said, to destroy the
broader bill. Mr. Obama did face some accusations of political expediency for
siding with labor on a provision that was not favored by the Democrats who had
forged the fragile, bipartisan compromise.

Still, after the bill's failure, Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida and
a major backer of the bill, thanked Mr. Obama for his help, saying in a note
that it ''meant a lot to me personally.'' And in May  2006, Mr. McCain
complimented Mr. Obama for his ''commitment to this issue,'' and for ''working
to ensure this bill moved successfully intact through the legislative process.''
Mr. McCain, however, said during a Republican primary debate in late January
that if the legislation came back for a vote he would not support it because,
''We know what the situation is today -- people want the borders secured
first.''

SCORECARD Mr. McCain was  one of the more outspoken early voices for the
liberalization of the immigration system, a fact he played down through the
primary season that should now play well with Hispanic audiences. And any voters
who carefully followed the debate would know that Mr. Obama was generally
supportive of the  legislation and that Republicans took much of the blame for
its failure. Mr. McCain trails  among traditionally Democratic-leaning Hispanic
voters and his chances for victory will increase greatly if he can draw more of
them into his column. But the spot could prove helpful to Mr. McCain among less
informed, undecided Spanish-speaking voters looking for reasons to vote
Republican this year.

JIM RUTENBERG

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 30, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

INSIDE THE TIMES

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2248 words


International

LIVING ON IN CRIMINAL LORE,

If Not in Russian Society

Vory v Zakone, a Mafia-like caste forged in the Soviet gulag, has long held a
hallowed place in Russia's criminal lore, something akin to the notorious Five
Families in the annals of New York crime. But though the Vory's influence
appears to have waned, Russians have long had an affinity for the group, perhaps
because it has come to symbolize opposition to the country's often arbitrary
political and legal practices. PAGE A8

AUSTRALIA CHANGES ASYLUM POLICY

The Australian government is ending its policy of automatic detention for asylum
seekers who arrive in the country without visas, and said detention in
immigration centers would be used only as a last resort and for the shortest
possible time. The presumption will be that asylum seekers will remain in the
country while their immigration status is resolved. Previously, illegal
immigrants who made it to the Australian mainland were immediately sent to
detention centers while the government sifted through their claims for asylum, a
process that could take years. Above, one such refugee, bleeding from razor
wire, cries out moments before a 2002 breakout from the Woomera Detention
Center. PAGE A8

BUSH PRESSURES CHINA ON RIGHTS

President Bush held private talks with five prominent Chinese dissidents and
urged China's foreign minister to relax restrictions on human rights. The talks
are part of an intensifying effort by the White House to put pressure on Beijing
before Mr. Bush travels there next month for the Olympic Games. The president
has faced considerable criticism from human rights advocates and members of
Congress for his decision to attend. But his meetings on Tuesday drew praise
from some of those critics. PAGE A8

PALESTINIAN BOY KILLED IN PROTEST

Israeli security forces shot and killed a Palestinian boy during a demonstration
against Israel's security barrier in the West Bank, Palestinian witnesses said.
An Israeli Army spokeswoman said the military had no knowledge of the shooting
and was waiting for the results of an autopsy. But a Palestinian group that
campaigns against the barrier said that the boy was resting under a tree after
the demonstration when he was shot in the head. PAGE A8

COURT PERMITS U.S. BASE TO EXPAND

The top court in Italy gave the green light to an expansion of the American
military base in Vicenza. The Pentagon is seeking a larger base to house an
entire brigade, now divided between Italy and Germany. But pacifists and
residents of Vicenza say that the expansion will damage the environment, make
Vicenza a target for terrorists and strain public services. PAGE A7

National

JOHN MCCAIN THE JOVIAL,

Meet John McCain the Not So

The happy warrior side of John McCain may still be stuck on his campaign bus
from 2000, the Straight Talk Express. Recently, a much more aggressive and
negative Mr. McCain has shown up on the campaign trail. He hammers Barack Obama
repeatedly on things like policy differences and trustworthiness. Some
Republicans worry that by going negative so early, and starting so many of the
attacks himself, Mr. McCain risks coming across as angry or partisan in a way
that could turn off independent voters, writes Michael Cooper. Political Memo.
PAGE A15

QUAKE HITS SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA

The most powerful earthquake to strike Southern California since 1999 hit 35
miles east of downtown Los Angeles on Tuesday morning. It cracked walls and
floors of homes and buildings and knocked pictures off walls, but there were no
reports of major injuries or damage. The earthquake registered a 5.4 magnitude,
and was felt as far east as Las Vegas and south to San Diego. PAGE A11

MARRIAGE HURDLE CLEARED FOR GAYS

Massachusetts moved closer to erasing a hurdle that blocked most out-of-state
gay men and lesbians from marrying in the state. Following a vote by the State
Senate two weeks ago, the House voted to repeal a 1913 law that prevented
Massachusetts from marrying out-of-state couples if their marriages would not be
legal in their home states. PAGE A11

IOWA TOWN UNVEILS PLAN TO REBUILD

Seven weeks after Cedar Rapids, Iowa, went under water in the biggest flood ever
recorded there, city officials and their consultants showed residents a
framework for rebuilding. Many thousands of people remain displaced from the
wreckage of their homes. The first glimpse of the redevelopment plan did little
to assuage the concerns of flood victims, who say they do not know where -- or
if -- they should rebuild. PAGE A10

STANDING ON PRINCIPLE TO THE END

Samuel Snow died refusing to cash the Army's check, but not before receiving a
long-awaited apology. Mr. Snow, a retired janitor who was a soldier in World War
II, died early Sunday, 64 years after he was wrongly convicted in connection
with the death of a prisoner of war at a military post in Seattle. At a ceremony
hours before Mr. Snow's death, a top Army official formally apologized to him.
PAGE A10

African-Americans and AIDS A10

Mixed News for Nation's Beaches A11

Metro

FORMER COMMUNITY MEETS ONLINE

To Save an Aging Church

The roof at Holy Rosary Church in Harlem is badly in need of repairs, to the
tune of $2 million. Some former residents of the neighborhood, which was part of
the largest Italian American community in the country, have been organizing
online to raise money for the renovations. PAGE B3

METROCARD MACHINES STILL ON FRITZ

A widespread malfunction blocking the use of credit or debit cards to purchase
MetroCards from New York City subway station vending machines continued for a
second straight day, delaying commutes and sending thousands of frustrated
riders back to the street in search of automated teller machines or change for a
$20 bill. PAGE B1

Business

IN DONE SUPERMARKET DEAL,

An Unscrambling of the Eggs

A federal appeals court ruled that a lower court had inadequately considered the
effect on customers that would result in a $565 million merger between Whole
Foods Market and Wild Oats Markets. The ruling cast doubt on the future of the
merger, which for all practical purposes has already occurred, with 27 Wild Oats
stores reflagged as Whole Foods stores and four Wild Oats locations shut down.
PAGE C3

NO WAIVER FOR FARMING PENALTIES

Despite pressure from food manufacturers and politicians, the agriculture
secretary, Ed Schafer, said the department would not waive penalties against
farmers who planted crops on land set aside for conservation. He cited a coming
harvest that was expected to be more robust than originally thought after floods
ravaged fields in parts of the Midwest. PAGE C1

TELECOM EXECUTIVES TO STEP DOWN

After months of pressures from shareholders upset over billions of dollars in
losses, the two top executives at Alcatel-Lucent, the French-American
telecommunications company, said they would step down by the end of the year.
Patricia F. Russo, the American chief executive, and Serge Tchuruk, the French
chairman, engineered the $10.6 billion merger two years ago, which left analysts
skeptical from the start. PAGE C1

EUROPEAN AIRLINES MULL MERGER

A proposed merger between British Airways and the Spanish carrier Iberia could
herald further consolidation in Europe as the airline industry faces slowing
growth and higher costs. It would be the first major alliance between European
carriers since the recent surge in oil prices pushed fuel costs to record
levels. PAGE C3

Weak Ad Sales Bog Down Viacom C5

Dining Out

ONCE A HOT COMMODITY,

A Seller of Meats Is On the Outs

Last summer, Jay Dines's all-beef hot dogs and thick-cut bacon was all the rage
at New York City farmers' markets, earning rave reviews from food critics and
bloggers alike. Fast forward a year, and Greenmarket, which runs 45 farmers'
markets in New York City, kicked him out of the program. Greenmarket gave little
reason in public, except the following: ''We at Greenmarket take our
grow-your-own policy and standards very seriously.'' PAGE F6

A WHITE (OR BROWN) CANVAS

A thought experiment: try to name the defining characteristics of a salad. Mark
Bittman can't narrow them down either, but says that those lax parameters open a
world of possibilities, especially when the base ingredient is rice. Some
recipes for several dishes that are easier to prepare than they may be to
define. PAGE F3

BORDEAUX'S OTHER WINES

The Bordeaux region in France takes almost literally the jocular maxim that the
first duty of wines is to be red. But the region is also home to some of the
most thrilling, underappreciated white wines in the world, even though they
often command a higher price than the reds from the same producers. Eric Asimov,
The Pour. PAGE F1

Sports

IRAQ GIVEN PERMISSION

To Compete in Olympics

Iraq will be allowed to compete in the coming Beijing Games, albeit with a
probable Olympic contingent of two athletes. The International Olympic Committee
authorized the country's participation after it received a last-minute pledge
that Iraq would properly revamp its national Olympic organization. PAGE D2

RECONSIDERING BRETT FAVRE

Brett Favre may have glittering statistics and accolades, but is he what the
Jets need? Or could they take a shot at a championship with Chad Pennington or
Kellen Clemens under center? If last season proved anything, it's that teams can
win a Super Bowl without a great quarterback if they have a signal-caller who
plays well in the postseason. William C. Rhoden, Sports of the Times. PAGE D1

FORMER N.B.A. REFEREE SENTENCED

Tim Donaghy, the former N.B.A. referee whose admissions of gambling on games he
officiated led the league to change many of its policies, was sentenced to 15
months in prison. It was a relatively lenient sentence based on federal
guidelines. PAGE D7

Arts

A LITTLE BIT RAFFI,

A Little Bit Rock 'n' Roll

By day, Paul and David Zablidowsky and their good friend Joey Cassata are an
in-demand children's birthday party act called the Z Brothers. By night, they
are a heavy metal band known as ZO2, which has opened for the likes of Kiss and
Poison. Sounds like a TV show, yes? And so it is that ''Z Rock,'' an exaggerated
take on the trio's experiences, will make its debut on IFC next month. PAGE E1

A REALITY SHOW FOR ROVER

Anita Gates has advice for the producers of CBS's new reality TV program
''Greatest American Dog'': more Frisbees and doggie obstacle courses, less of
their annoying owners. PAGE E3

NO DISTRIBUTOR? THEN D.I.Y.

More and more, indie filmmakers who have found little success in securing
conventional film deals with movie studios have decided to go it alone,
distributing their work on their own. That tack is not without its pitfalls,
requiring, as one screenwriter said, ''an enormous amount of work, an enormous
amount of stress, no sleep and lots of people I've come to know and love who
have given me millions of dollars.'' PAGE E1

A FAMILY WITH LOADS OF BAGGAGE

The James family was brilliant -- the philosopher William and the novelist Henry
were among the 19th century's towering figures, and in a different time, their
sister Alice would have been their equal -- but their emotional baggage was as
considerable as their intelligence. Both come into focus in ''House of Wits,''
in which Paul Fisher writes about the extraordinary close family's sexual
neuroses, alcoholism and penchant for mythologizing one another. A review by
Charles McGrath. PAGE E1

CHRONICLING CODE RED OCCASIONS

Neil Genzlinger writes that ''Call 911,'' the new reality show on the Discovery
Channel that re-enacts calls to 911, has no business being interesting. But it's
''unexpectedly addictive,'' he writes, largely because of ''the amazing array of
predicaments human beings can find themselves in.'' It's also full of helpful
advice should you ever need to call 911 in an emergency. (Tip No. 1: Don't
shout.) PAGE E3

Obituaries

OTTO FUERBRINGER, 97

During his time at the helm of Time magazine, he shepherded the coverage of some
of the seminal events of the 1960s, like the Cuban missile crisis, political
assassinations, mass protests and a roiling youth culture. A proponent of the
war in Vietnam since the beginning of American intervention there, he penned an
article in 1968 that said the war could not be won. PAGE A18

Editorial

THE LOW-ROAD EXPRESS

Less than a month after Senator John McCain opened his doors to disciples of
Karl Rove, the results are on full display. The candidate who started out
talking about high-minded, civil debate has wholeheartedly adopted Mr. Rove's
low-minded and uncivil playbook. PAGE A16

PROTECTING THE LITTLEST CONSUMERS

For the first time in a generation, Congress has a real chance to significantly
improve the way the government protects consumers, particularly children. PAGE
A16

FINE-TUNING MEGAN'S LAW

A New Jersey court has taken a step toward making Megan's Law, which requires
public notification when a convicted sex offender moves into a community, a more
sophisticated instrument of public safety. PAGE A16

Op-Ed

THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

Sometimes in politics, particularly in presidential campaigns, parties get
wedded to slogans -- so wedded that no one stops to think about what they're
saying and what the implications would be if their bumper stickers (''Democrats
for Afghanistan'' and ''Republicans for offshore drilling'') really guided
policy when they took office. PAGE A19

HALF-BAKED ALASKA

When he was 19, Toby Barlow dreamed of roughing it in the Alaskan wilderness. In
an Op-Ed ''Summerscapes'' feature, he tells us how he ended up the chief steward
of a cruise ship instead, trapped inside some nightmarish rerun of ''The Love
Boat.'' PAGE A19

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 13, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ill and in Pain, Detainee Dies In U.S. Hands

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1608 words


He was 17 when he came to New York from Hong Kong in 1992 with his parents and
younger sister, eyeing the skyline like any newcomer. Fifteen years later, Hiu
Lui Ng was a New Yorker: a computer engineer with a job in the Empire State
Building, a house in Queens, a wife who is a United States citizen and two
American-born sons.

But when Mr. Ng, who had overstayed a visa years earlier, went to immigration
headquarters in Manhattan last summer for his final interview for a green card,
he was swept into immigration detention and shuttled through jails and detention
centers in three New England states.

In April, Mr. Ng began complaining of excruciating back pain. By mid-July, he
could no longer walk or stand. And last Wednesday, two days after his 34th
birthday, he died in the custody of Immigration and Customs Enforcement in a
Rhode Island hospital, his spine fractured and his body riddled with cancer that
had gone undiagnosed and untreated for months.

On Tuesday, with an autopsy by the Rhode Island medical examiner under way, his
lawyers demanded a criminal investigation in a letter to federal and state
prosecutors in Rhode Island, Connecticut, Massachusetts and Vermont, and the
Department of Homeland Security, which runs the detention system.

Mr. Ng's death follows a succession of cases that have drawn Congressional
scrutiny to complaints of inadequate medical care, human rights violations and a
lack of oversight in immigration detention, a rapidly growing network of
publicly and privately run jails where the government held more than 300,000
people in the last year while deciding whether to deport them.

In federal court affidavits, Mr. Ng's lawyers contend that when he complained of
severe pain that did not respond to analgesics, and grew too weak to walk or
even stand to call his family from a detention pay phone, officials accused him
of faking his condition. They denied him a wheelchair and refused pleas for an
independent medical evaluation.

Instead, the affidavits say, guards at the Donald W. Wyatt Detention Facility in
Central Falls, R.I., dragged him from his bed on July 30, carried him in
shackles to a car, bruising his arms and legs, and drove him two hours to a
federal lockup in Hartford, where an immigration officer pressured him to
withdraw all pending appeals of his case and accept deportation.

''For this desperately sick, vulnerable person, this was torture,'' said
Theodore N. Cox, one of Mr. Ng's lawyers, adding that they want to see a
videotape of the transport made by guards.

Immigration and detention officials would not discuss the case, saying the
matter was under internal investigation. But in response to a relative of Mr.
Ng's who had begged that he be checked for a spinal injury or fractures, the
Wyatt detention center's director of nursing, Ben Candelaria, replied in a July
16 e-mail message that Mr. Ng was receiving appropriate care for ''chronic back
pain.'' He added, ''We treat each and every detainee in our custody with the
same high level of quality, professional care possible.''

Officials have given no explanation why they took Mr. Ng to Hartford and back on
the same day. But the lawyers say the grueling July 30 trip appeared to be an
effort to prove that Mr. Ng was faking illness, and possibly to thwart the
habeas corpus petition they had filed in Rhode Island the day before, seeking
his release for medical treatment.

The federal judge who heard that petition on July 31 did not make a ruling, but
in an unusual move insisted that Mr. Ng get the care he needed. On Aug. 1, Mr.
Ng was taken to a hospital, where doctors found he had terminal cancer and a
fractured spine. He died five days later.

The accounts of Mr. Ng's treatment echo other cases that have prompted
legislation, now before the House Judiciary Committee, to set mandatory
standards for care in immigration detention.

In March, the federal government admitted medical negligence in the death of
Francisco Castaneda, 36, a Salvadoran whose cancer went undiagnosed in a
California detention center as he was repeatedly denied a biopsy on a painful
penile lesion. In May, The New York Times chronicled the death of Boubacar Bah,
52, a Guinean tailor who suffered a skull fracture and brain hemorrhages in the
Elizabeth Detention Center in New Jersey; records show he was left in an
isolation cell without treatment for more than 13 hours.

When Mr. Ng died last week, he had spent half his life in the United States, his
sister, Wendy Zhao, said in a tearful interview.

Born in China, he entered the United States legally on a tourist visa. Mr. Ng
stayed on after it expired and applied for political asylum. He was granted a
work permit while his application was pending, and though asylum was eventually
denied, immigration authorities did not seek his deportation for many years.

Meanwhile, his sister said, Mr. Ng (pronounced Eng), who was known as Jason,
graduated from high school in Long Island City, Queens, worked his way through
community technical college, passed Microsoft training courses and won a
contract to provide computer services to a company with offices in the Empire
State Building.

In 2001, a notice ordering him to appear in immigration court was mistakenly
sent to a nonexistent address, records show. When Mr. Ng did not show up at the
hearing, the judge ordered him deported. By then, however, he was getting
married, and on a separate track, his wife petitioned Citizenship and
Immigration Services for a green card for him -- a process that took more than
five years. Heeding bad legal advice, the couple showed up for his green card
interview on July 19, 2007, only to find enforcement agents waiting to arrest
Mr. Ng on the old deportation order.

Over the next year, while his family struggled to pay for new lawyers to wage a
complicated and expensive legal battle, Mr. Ng was held in jails under contract
to the federal immigration authorities: Wyatt; the House of Correction in
Greenfield, Mass.; and the Franklin County Jail in St. Albans, Vt.

Mr. Ng seemed healthy until April, his sister said, when he began to complain of
severe back pain and skin so itchy he could not sleep. He was then in the
Vermont jail, a 20-bed detention center with no medical staff run by the county
sheriff's office. Seeking care, he asked to be transferred back to Wyatt, a
700-bed center with its own medical staff, owned and operated by a municipal
corporation.

In a letter to his sister, Mr. Ng recounted arriving there on July 3, spending
the first three days in pain in a dark isolation cell. Later he was assigned an
upper bunk and required to climb up and down at least three times a day for head
counts, causing terrible pain. His brother-in-law B.  Zhao appealed for help in
e-mail messages to the warden, Wayne Salisbury, on July 11 and 16.

''I was really heartbroken when I first saw him,'' Mr. Zhao wrote Mr. Salisbury
after a visit. ''After almost two weeks of suffering with unbearable back pain
and unable to get any sleep, he was so weak and looked horrible.''

The nursing director replied that Mr. Ng had been granted a bottom bunk and was
receiving painkillers and muscle relaxants prescribed by a detention center
doctor.

But his condition continued to deteriorate. Once a robust man who stood nearly
six feet and weighed 200 pounds, his relatives said, Mr. Ng looked like a
shrunken and jaundiced 80-year-old.

''He said, 'I told the nursing department, I'm in pain, but they don't believe
me,' '' his sister recalled. '' 'They tell me, stop faking.' ''

Soon, according to court papers, he had to rely on other detainees to help him
reach the toilet, bring him food and call his family; he no longer received
painkillers, because he could not stand in line to collect them. On July 26,
Andy Wong, a lawyer associated with Mr. Cox, came to see the detainee, but had
to leave without talking to him, he said, because Mr. Ng was too weak to walk to
the visiting area, and a wheelchair was denied.

On July 30, according to an affidavit by Mr. Wong, he was contacted by Larry
Smith, a deportation officer in Hartford, who told him on a speakerphone, with
Mr. Ng present, that he wanted to resolve the case, either by deporting Mr. Ng,
or ''releasing him to the streets.'' Officer Smith said that no exam by an
outside doctor would be allowed, and that Mr. Ng would not be given a
wheelchair.

Mr. Ng told his lawyer he was ready to give up, the affidavit said, ''because he
could no longer withstand the suffering inside the facility,'' but Officer Smith
insisted that Mr. Ng would first have to withdraw all his appeals.

The account of his treatment clearly disturbed the federal judge, William E.
Smith of United States District Court in Providence, who instructed the
government's lawyer the next day to have the warden get Mr. Ng to the hospital
for an M.R.I.

The results were grim: cancer in his liver, lungs and bones, and a fractured
spine. '' 'I don't have much time to live,' '' his sister said he told her in a
call from Rhode Island Hospital in Providence.

She said the doctor warned that if the family came to visit, immigration
authorities might transfer her brother. Three days passed before the warden
approved a family visit, she said, after demanding their Social Security
numbers. Late in the afternoon of Aug. 5, as Mr. Ng lay on a gurney, hours away
from death and still under guard, she and his wife held up his sons, 3 and 1.

''Brother, don't worry, don't be afraid,'' Ms. Zhao said, repeating her last
words to him. ''They are not going to send you back to the facility again.
Brother, you are free now.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 20, 2008 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Cellmate Sued Detention Center Where Immigrant Died

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1100 words


A lawsuit filed in federal court a year ago by a Dominican detainee makes
complaints about health care at a detention center in Rhode Island that are
similar to accounts of how the center treated a Chinese New Yorker who died Aug.
6 in immigration custody. That inmate was suffering from a fractured spine and
extensive cancer that had gone undiagnosed until five days before his death.

The lawsuit, filed in Providence, asserts that employees at the Donald W. Wyatt
Detention Center, in Central Falls, R.I., denied a wheelchair to Marino De Los
Santos, who said that he suffered serious injuries to his neck, back, chest and
spine in two falls at the center in 2006. According to the suit, employees
accused Mr. De Los Santos of faking his injuries and refused to take him to
scheduled examinations by a spine specialist.

Cornell Corrections of Rhode Island, one of the defendants, which ran the center
at the time covered by the suit, denied any wrongdoing in its answer.

In the case of Hiu Lui Ng, who was the subject of an article last week in The
New York Times, lawyers and relatives said that when he was racked with pain and
too weak to walk, detention officials refused him a wheelchair, failed to take
him to scheduled appointments for an M.R.I. exam or a CT scan, and instead took
him in shackles to Hartford -- where he was pressured to withdraw his appeals
and accept deportation.

The lawsuit by Mr. De Los Santos and details of earlier medical evaluations that
fell short of diagnosing Mr. Ng's terminal illness and debilitating injury,
emerged this week as members of Congress demanded a full accounting by
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, part of the Department of Homeland
Security.

In a telephone interview on Tuesday, Mr. De Los Santos, 37, said that Mr. Ng was
briefly his cellmate early last month and that his extreme back pain and
weakness were  apparent.

''He was crying all night,'' Mr. De Los Santos said from his home in Bridgeport,
Conn., where he returned after he was released on bond on Friday. He faces
deportation as a convicted drug dealer. ''I got bottom bunk, he got the upper
bunk, and when he's going to bed, it's terrible. And I got problems, too, in my
back, but him, when I see him, I can't sleep.''

Mr. Ng was eventually assigned to a lower bunk in another cell, but by late last
month he could barely walk, Mr. De Los Santos said. ''When you line up to take
medicine, he would grab a chair, because he couldn't stand. And they would tell
him he had to let the chair go, he had to stand, but he couldn't.''

He said that when Mr. Ng was bedridden, he saw a nurse go to check him in his
cell. ''She came out laughing and saying he was faking,'' Mr. De Los Santos
said.

Mr. Ng, a computer engineer with no criminal record, overstayed a visa years ago
and had been applying for a green card through his wife, a United States
citizen, when he was swept into the detention system in July 2007.

Kelly A. Nantel, a spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said in
an e-mail message that the agency ''continues to investigate allegations that
Mr. Ng was mistreated in any way while in detention.''

But she added: ''Based on a review of the medical records, it appears that Mr.
Ng was examined by medical staff at the facility where he was detained and at
the local hospital in Rhode Island both as a normal course of admission to the
facility and for individual complaints he had. Tragically, but not unlike
similar situations involving citizens of this country, Mr. Ng was diagnosed with
advanced-stage cancer and sadly succumbed to the illness within days of the
diagnosis.''

Officials at Wyatt would not answer questions last week, but asserted in a
written statement that Mr. Ng had received proper care.

In a letter to Michael Chertoff, secretary of the Department of Homeland
Security, on Monday, Representatives John C. Conyers Jr., chairman of the House
Judiciary Committee, and Zoe Lofgren, chairwoman of its subcommittee on
immigration, said that based on the article, '' the treatment provided to Mr. Ng
is simply unforgivable.''

It is ''particularly distressing,'' the letter added, ''considering that much of
it took place when ICE was facing intense scrutiny over the quality of its
medical care system and when agency personnel had assured Congress that problems
had been addressed.''

According to Mr. Ng's relatives and lawyers, he began complaining of severe back
pain and an itchy rash in April, when he was being held at the Greenfield County
Sheriff's lockup in St. Albans, Vt., where little or no health care was
available.

When he was transferred to Wyatt on July 3, a health screening form listed  a
rash, but no back pain. Later, he was seen by detention center doctors for back
pain, and after his relatives urged further tests, given an X-ray of his back
and hip on July 20, medical records show.

The radiologist's report came back with a diagnosis of mild scoliosis, without
complications. Since Mr. Ng's spine fracture was  diagnosed 12 days later, when
an M.R.I. also found terminal cancer in his bones, lungs and liver, it is
unclear whether the radiologist missed evidence of his broken back or if that
injury occurred sometime between the X-ray and his Aug. 2 admission to Rhode
Island Hospital, in Providence.

A doctor at the detention center noted in the record that a CT scan should be
performed if Mr. Ng's pain did not respond to painkillers and muscle relaxants.
Instead, on the evening of July 26, a Saturday, Mr. Ng was taken to the
emergency room at a hospital in Pawtucket, R.I., which does not perform CT scans
on weekends. Doctors there scheduled a CT scan for the following Monday, but
according to affidavits from Mr. Ng's lawyers, the detention center's staff made
no effort to take him back there.

Another scan was scheduled for Tuesday, the affidavits said, but Mr. Ng missed
that one, too, because, his lawyers assert, he was unable to walk to the car and
detention center officials refused to give him a wheelchair, then reported that
he had refused to go.

According to affidavits, concern over Mr. De Los Santos's lawsuit may have
played a role in Mr. Ng's treatment. Mr. Ng's lawyers said that he told them
that a detention captain had ordered him to stop talking to a detainee who had
filed a civil suit over a back injury suffered at Wyatt. After his painful trip
to Hartford on July 30, Mr. Ng expressed fears that he, too, had been labeled
''a troublemaker'' by detention officials, and that they had determined to get
rid of him or to prove that he was faking illness.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 25, 2008



CORRECTION: An article on Wednesday about a lawsuit filed by a Dominican
detainee whose complaints about the health care he received at an immigrant
detention center in Rhode Island mirror accounts of how the center treated Hiu
Lui Ng, who died Aug. 6 in immigration custody, misstated the name of the
Vermont county that includes St. Albans, where Mr. Ng spent time in the
sheriff's lockup before being transferred back to Rhode Island. St. Albans is in
Franklin County; there is no Greenfield County in Vermont.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marino De Los Santos with his wife, Valerie. He contends that he
received little treatment for injuries at a detention center.(PHOTOGRAPH BY
CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 5, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Death of Detained Immigrant Inspires Online Game With Goal of Educating Players

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 930 words


The death last year of Boubacar Bah, a Guinean tailor held in a New Jersey jail
for overstaying his visa, showed immigration detention to be one of the most
secretive corners of American life. But now Mr. Bah's story is being retold in
an unusually public way: in an online video game.

The game -- created by Breakthrough, an international human rights organization
in New York that is trying to get the public behind efforts to strengthen
oversight, due process and medical help in immigration detention -- uses Mr.
Bah's story to walk players through a simulated detention center, and into the
documented ordeals of other detainees. They include a pregnant woman kept in
shackles during labor and an Army veteran held for three years while he fought
deportation.

The video game (which can be found at http://66.232.104.66 /homelandgitmo.com/)
casts the player as a reporter seeking clues in the death of Mr. Bah, 52, who
suffered a skull fracture and brain hemorrhages in the Elizabeth Detention
Center in New Jersey. A cartoon guide leads the way to actual video testimonials
of former detainees and information that unlocks the mystery of Mr. Bah's fate.

The fictional framework plays fast and loose with traditional rules of
journalism -- the reporter takes an undercover job as a detention guard and
writes a first-person appeal for change rather than an article -- but the
content encountered along the way is backed by links to real newspaper articles,
court documents and other factual material.

Mallika Dutt, executive director of Breakthrough, said the video game, part of a
Web-based campaign called ''End Homeland Gitmos,'' was inspired by a New York
Times report in May 2008 on Mr. Bah's death.

The article cited internal records of the Corrections Corporation of America,
which runs the Elizabeth Detention Center for the federal government, saying
that after Mr. Bah was injured, he was left in an isolation cell without
treatment for more than 13 hours. For five days, no official notified the family
of the detainee, who had been taken to a hospital. After four months in a coma,
Mr. Bah died in May 2007, despite emergency brain surgery.

Federal immigration officials said a review of the death was under way.

Kelly A. Nantel, a spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said on
Thursday that the video game was ''a work of fiction that dehumanizes the
individuals depicted and grossly distorts conditions in detention facilities.''
She added,  ''I believe that most informed people know that they leave reality
at the door when they enter the world of video games.''

Mixing fact and fantasy is familiar territory for Breakthrough, which seeks to
galvanize young people by using the new tools of popular culture to put them in
the shoes of legal and illegal immigrants. In February, it introduced ''ICED --
I Can End Deportation,'' a game in which players assume the role of one of five
characters with uncertain immigration status, trying to avoid deportation and to
secure citizenship.

Ms. Dutt said that game, which drew widespread media attention, had been
downloaded 110,000 times. Some supporters of stricter enforcement called the
game propaganda for illegal immigration. But many educational, religious and
immigrant advocacy groups embraced it as an antidote to ''Border Patrol,'' an
Internet game in which the player shoots at caricatured Latinos running across
the United States-Mexico border.

''The Department of Homeland Security's enforcement measures have become
increasingly draconian and are leading to severe consequences, including death,
for many,'' Ms. Dutt said in an e-mail message last week.

''We hope this will encourage support for the new bill, Protect Citizens and
Residents from Unlawful Raids and Detention Act,'' she said, referring to
legislation introduced by two Senate Democrats, Robert Menendez of New Jersey
and Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts. The bill would create due process
protections during immigration enforcement actions, establish an ombudsman to
investigate complaints and promote alternatives to detention, among other
measures. It is not expected to be taken up by committee this session, but there
are plans to reintroduce it early next year.

Meanwhile, another bill, introduced Friday by Representative Lucille
Roybal-Allard, a Democrat from California, seeks to create legally enforceable
minimum humane standards at detention facilities.

Another relevant piece of legislation, the Death in Custody Reporting Act, had
been expected to quickly win passage in Congress, but Senator Tom Coburn, an
Oklahoma Republican, put a hold on it last week.

On Sept. 25, the Senate Judiciary Committee had not only reauthorized the act,
which was expiring, but also expanded it by adding immigration detention centers
to the state and local jails that had to report deaths in custody to the
attorney general in order to receive federal anticrime money. Senator Coburn has
said the federal government should not impose a reporting requirement on states
and localities.

Joanne Lin, legislative counsel of the American Civil Liberties Union, was among
the supporters of the act who expressed frustration. ''Without the
reauthorization, there are no reporting requirements in place,'' she said. ''Now
we're going to have to rely on word of mouth to learn about deaths of U.S.
citizen prisoners as well as immigration detainees.''

In the new video game, word of mouth eventually leads to a ''memorial wall''
that lists the names of 87 detainees who have died since 2003, including Mr.
Bah.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An image from an online game where players enter a detention
center to try to learn how Boubacar Bah died in custody.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 1, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Challenge Federal Detention System

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 535 words


Immigrants who spent time in detention while fighting deportation filed a
federal suit on Wednesday against Michael Chertoff, secretary of the Department
of Homeland Security, demanding that the agency issue legally enforceable
regulations for its detention centers.

No enforceable standards now exist for the immigrant detention system, a rapidly
growing conglomeration of county jails, federal centers and privately run
prisons across the country.

The lawsuit, filed by the immigrants and their advocates in United States
District Court in Manhattan, contends that the lack of such regulations puts
hundreds of thousands of people a year in substandard and inconsistent
conditions while the government decides whether to deport them, leaving them
subject to inadequate medical care and abuse.

The suit is based on the Administrative Procedures Act, which allows courts to
force agencies to respond to rulemaking petitions. In January 2007, the
plaintiffs filed a petition requesting that Homeland Security make its detention
standards enforceable, but have received no response.

Homeland Security is one of the largest jailers in the world, ''but it behaves
like a lawless local sheriff,'' said Paromita Shah, associate director of the
National Immigration Project of the National Lawyers Guild, one of the
plaintiffs in the suit.

Other plaintiffs include Families for Freedom, a New York-based advocacy group
for immigrant detainees; Rafiu Abimbola, a Nigerian who was detained for more
than six years while seeking asylum; and Camal Marchabeyoglu, now a legal
permanent resident living in Corona, Calif.

''The refusal to adopt comprehensive, binding regulations has contributed to a
system in which thousands of immigration detainees are routinely denied
necessary medical care, visitation, legal materials or functioning telephones,''
Ms. Shah said.

Charles S. Miller, a spokesman for the Department of Justice, said the agency
had not yet seen the lawsuit and could not comment.

In the past, officials at Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which oversees
immigration detention within Homeland Security, said the system was held to
general detention standards adopted in 1998 and 2000, through provisions in
contracts with counties, private companies and other detention providers, and
through annual inspections.

The agency ''is fully committed to providing safe, secure and human conditions
for individuals in our custody,'' said Michael Keegan, a spokesman.

The lawsuit contends that those standards are incomplete, do not apply to
detained immigrants in all facilities and are not enforceable when they do
apply. It cites the findings of Homeland Security's own inspector general after
an audit of five detention centers in 2006, including one in San Diego run by
Corrections Corporation of America; the Passaic County and Hudson County jails
in New Jersey; the federal government's Krome center in Miami; and the Berks
County Prison in Leesport, Pa.

The audit found all five out of compliance with general standards on health
care, disciplinary procedures and access to legal materials. But all five had
been rated ''acceptable'' in the immigration enforcement agency's annual
reviews.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 5, 2008 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Few Details on Immigrants Who Died in U.S. Custody

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN; Margot Williams contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2829 words


Word spread quickly inside the windowless walls of the Elizabeth Detention
Center, an immigration jail in New Jersey: A detainee had fallen, injured his
head and become incoherent. Guards had put him in solitary confinement, and late
that night, an ambulance had taken him away more dead than alive.

But outside, for five days, no official notified the family of the detainee,
Boubacar Bah, a 52-year-old tailor from Guinea who had overstayed a tourist
visa. When frantic relatives located him at University Hospital in Newark on
Feb. 5, 2007, he was in a coma after emergency surgery for a skull fracture and
multiple brain hemorrhages. He died there four months later without ever waking
up, leaving family members on two continents trying to find out why.

Mr. Bah's name is one of 66 on a government list of deaths that occurred in
immigration custody from January 2004 to November 2007, when nearly a million
people passed through.

The list, compiled by Immigration and Customs Enforcement after Congress
demanded the information, and obtained by The New York Times under the Freedom
of Information Act, is the fullest accounting to date of deaths in immigration
detention, a patchwork of federal centers, county jails and privately run
prisons that has become the nation's fastest-growing form of incarceration.

The list has few details, and they are often unreliable, but it serves as a
rough road map to previously unreported cases like Mr. Bah's. And it reflects a
reality that haunts grieving families like his: the difficulty of getting
information about the fate of people taken into immigration custody, even when
they die.

Mr. Bah's relatives never saw the internal records labeled ''proprietary
information -- not for distribution'' by the Corrections Corporation of America,
which runs the New Jersey detention center for the federal government. The
documents detail how he was treated by guards and government employees: shackled
and pinned to the floor of the medical unit as he moaned and vomited, then left
in a disciplinary cell for more than 13 hours, despite repeated notations that
he was unresponsive and intermittently foaming at the mouth.

Mr. Bah had lived in New York for a decade, surrounded by a large circle of
friends and relatives. The extravagant gowns he sewed to support his wife and
children in West Africa were on display in a Manhattan boutique.

But he died in a sequestered system where questions about what had happened to
him, or even his whereabouts, were met with silence.

As the country debates stricter enforcement of immigration laws, thousands of
people who are not American citizens are being locked up for days, months or
years while the government decides whether to deport them. Some have no valid
visa; some are legal residents, but have past criminal convictions; others are
seeking asylum from persecution.

Death is a reality in any jail, and the medical neglect of inmates is a
perennial issue. But far more than in the criminal justice system, immigration
detainees and their families lack basic  ways to get answers when things go
wrong.

No government body is required to keep track of deaths and publicly report them.
No independent inquiry is mandated. And often relatives who try to investigate
the treatment of those who died say they are stymied by fear of immigration
authorities, lack of access to lawyers, or sheer distance.

Federal officials say deaths are reviewed internally by Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, which reports them to its inspector general and decides which ones
warrant investigation. Officials say they notify the detainee's next of kin or
consulate, and report the deaths to local medical authorities, who may conduct
autopsies. In Mr. Bah's case, a review before his death found no evidence of
foul play, an immigration spokesman said, though after later inquiries from The
Times, he said a full review of the death was under way.

But critics, including many in Congress, say this piecemeal process leaves too
much to the agency's discretion, allowing some deaths to be swept under the rug
while potential witnesses are transferred or deported. They say it also obscures
underlying complaints about medical care, abusive conditions or inadequate
suicide prevention.

In January, the House passed a bill that would require states that receive
certain federal money to report deaths in custody to their attorneys general.
But the bill is stalled in the Senate, and it does not cover federal facilities.

The only tangible result of Congressional concern has been the list of 66
deaths, which names Mr. Bah and many other detainees for the first time, but
raises as many questions as it answers.

For Mr. Bah's survivors, the mystery of his death is hard to bear. In Guinea,
his first wife, Dalanda, wept as she spoke about the contradictory accounts that
had reached her and her two teenage sons through other detainees, including some
who speculated that Mr. Bah had been beaten.

In New York, a cousin who is an American citizen, Khadidiatou Bah, 38, said she
was unable to bring a lawsuit, in part because other relatives were afraid of
antagonizing the authorities.

''They don't want to push the case, or maybe they will be sent home,'' she said.
''This guy was killed, and we don't know what happened.''

Lingering Questions

The list of deaths where Mr. Bah's name surfaced is often cryptic. Along with 13
deaths cited as suicides and 14 as the result of  cardiac ailments, it offers
such causes as ''undetermined'' and ''unwitnessed arrest, epilepsy.'' No one's
nationality is given, some places of detention are omitted, and some names and
birth dates seem garbled. As a result, many families could not be tracked down
for this article.

But when they could be, they posed more disturbing questions.

In California, relatives of Walter Rodriguez-Castro, 28, said they were rebuffed
when they tried to find out why his calls had stopped coming from the Kern
County Jail in Bakersfield in April 2006. Then in June, his wife went to his
scheduled hearing in San Francisco's immigration court and learned that he had
been dead for many weeks, his body unclaimed in the county morgue.

The coroner found that Mr. Rodriguez-Castro, a mover from El Salvador in the
country illegally, had died of undiagnosed meningitis and H.I.V., after days
complaining of fever, stiff neck and vomiting. The cause of death on the
government's list: ''unresponsive.''

Immigration authorities said on Friday that the case was now under review, but
would not answer questions about it or other deaths on the list. Sgt. Ed Komin,
a spokesman for the jail, said the death had been promptly reported to
immigration officials, who were responsible for notifying families.

Four sons in another family, in Sacramento, described trying for days to get
medical care for their father, Maya Nand, a 56-year-old legal immigrant from
Fiji, at a detention center run by the Corrections Corporation in Eloy, Ariz.
Mr. Nand, an architectural draftsman, had been ailing when he was taken into
custody on Jan. 13, 2005, apparently because his application for citizenship had
been rejected, based on an earlier conviction for misdemeanor domestic violence.
In collect calls, the sons said, he told them that despite his chest pains and
breathing problems, doctors at the detention center did not take his condition
seriously.

The Corrections Corporation said he had been seen and treated ''multiple
times.'' But a letter to the family from an immigration official said his
treatment was for a respiratory infection. The letter said that Mr. Nand was
taken to an emergency room on Jan. 25, where congestive heart failure was
diagnosed, and that he ''suffered an apparent heart attack while at the
hospital.'' He died on Feb. 2, 2005, shackled to a hospital bed in Tucson.

Boubacar Bah had more going for him than many detainees. He had a lawyer and
many friends and relatives in the United States, and his detention center in New
Jersey was one of the few frequented by immigrant advocates.

But three days after he suffered a head injury in detention last year, no one in
his New York circle knew that he was lying comatose in a Newark hospital, where
he had already been identified as a possible organ donor.

''Thank you for the referral,'' an organ-sharing network wrote on Feb. 3, 2007,
according to hospital records. ''This patient is a potential candidate for organ
donation once brain death criteria is met.''

Four days after the fall, tipped off by a detainee who called Mr. Bah's roommate
in Brooklyn, relatives rushed to the detention center to ask Corrections
Corporation employees where he was.

''They wouldn't give us any information,'' said Lamine Dieng, an American
citizen who teaches physics at Bronx Community College and is married to Mr.
Bah's cousin Khadidiatou.

On the fifth day, they said, a detention official called them with the name of
the hospital. There they found Mr. Bah on life support, still in custody, with a
detention guard around the clock.

''There was one guard who knew Boubacar,'' Ms. Bah said. ''He told me on the
down-low: 'This guy, you have to fight for him. This guy was neglected.' ''

Within the week, word of the case reached a reporter at The Times, through an
immigration lawyer who had received separate calls from two detainees; they were
upset about a badly injured man -- named ''something like Aboubakar'' -- left in
an isolation cell and later found near death.

But advocacy groups said they were unaware of the case. And Michael Gilhooly,
the spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said that without the
man's full name and eight-digit alien registration number, he could not check
the information.

For those who knew Mr. Bah, it was hard to understand how such a man could lie
dying without explanations.

''Everybody liked Boubacar,'' said Sadio Diallo, 48, who has a tailor shop in
Flatbush, Brooklyn, where he and Mr. Bah had shared an apartment with fellow
immigrants since  arriving in 1998. ''He's a very, very, very good man.''

For six years, Mr. Bah had worked for L'Impasse, a clothing store in the West
Village, sewing dresses that sold for up to $2,000 with what a former manager,
Abdul Sall, called his ''magic hands.'' Mr. Bah often spent Sundays at the Bronx
townhouse his cousins had inherited from the family's first American citizen, a
seaman who arrived in 1943.

In Africa, Mr. Bah's earnings not only supported his first wife, sons and ailing
mother, but in Guinean tradition, allowed him to wed a second wife, long
distance. It was his longing to see them all again after eight years that landed
him in detention. When he returned from a three-month visit to Guinea in May
2006, immigration authorities at Kennedy Airport told him that his green card
application had been denied while he was away, automatically revoking his
permission to re-enter the United States. An immigration lawyer hired by his
friends was unable to reopen the application while Mr. Bah waited for nine
months in detention, records showed.

Mr. Bah died on May 30, 2007, after four months in a coma. His lawyer, Theodore
Vialet, requested detention reports and hospital records under the Freedom of
Information Act. But by the time the records arrived last autumn, the idea of a
lawsuit had been dropped.

So Mr. Vialet just filed the records away -- until a reporter's call about a
name on the list of dead detainees prompted him to dig them out.

After the Fall

There are 57 pages of documents, some neatly typed by medics, some scrawled by
guards. Some quote detainees who said Mr. Bah was ailing for two days before his
fall on Feb. 1, and asked in vain to see a doctor.

The records leave unclear exactly when or how Mr. Bah was injured in detention.
But they leave no doubt that guards, supervisors, government medical employees
and federal immigration officers played a role in leaving him untreated, hour
after hour, as he lapsed into a stupor.

It began about 8 a.m., according to the earliest report. Guards called a medical
emergency after a detainee saw Mr. Bah collapse near a toilet, hitting the back
of his head on the floor.

When he regained consciousness, Mr. Bah was taken to the medical unit, which is
run by the federal Public Health Service. He became incoherent and agitated,
reports said, pulling away from the doctor and grabbing at the unit staff.
Physicians consulted later by The Times called this a textbook symptom of
intracranial bleeding, but apparently no one recognized that at the time.

He was handcuffed and placed in leg restraints on the floor with medical
approval, ''to prevent injury,'' a guard reported. ''While on the floor the
detainee began to yell in a foreign language and turn from side to side,'' the
guard wrote, and the medical staff deemed that ''the screaming and resisting is
behavior problems.''

Mr. Bah was ordered to calm down. Instead, he kept crying out, then ''began to
regurgitate on the floor of medical,'' the report said. So Mr. Bah was written
up for disobeying orders. And with the approval of a physician assistant,
Michael Chuley, who wrote that Mr. Bah's fall was unwitnessed and
''questionable,'' the tailor was taken in shackles to a solitary confinement
cell with instructions that he be monitored.

Under detention protocols, an officer videotaped Mr. Bah as he lay vomiting in
the medical unit, but the camera's battery failed, guards wrote, when they tried
to tape his trip to cell No. 7.

Inside the cell, a supervisor removed Mr. Bah's restraints. He was unresponsive
to questions asked by the Public Health Service officer on duty, a report said,
adding: ''The detainee set up in his bed and moan and he fell to his left side
and hit his head on the bed rail.''

About 9 a.m., with the approval of the health officer and a federal immigration
agent, the cell was locked.

The watching began. As guards checked hourly, Mr. Bah appeared to be asleep on
the concrete floor, snoring. But he could not be roused to eat lunch or dinner,
and at 7:10 p.m., ''he began to breathe heavily and started foaming slightly at
the mouth,'' a guard wrote. ''I notified medical at this time.''

However, the nurse on duty rejected the guard's request to come check, according
to reports. And at 8 p.m., when the warden went to the medical unit to describe
Mr. Bah's condition, the nurse, Raymund Dela Pena, was not alarmed. ''Detainee
is likely exhibiting the same behavior as earlier in the day,'' he wrote, adding
that Mr. Bah would get a mental health exam in the morning.

About 10:30 p.m., more than 14 hours after Mr. Bah's fall, the same nurse, on
rounds, recognized the gravity of his condition: ''unresponsive on the floor
incontinent with foamy brown vomitus noted around mouth.'' Smelling salts were
tried. Mr. Bah was carried back to the medical unit on a stretcher.

Just before 11, someone at the jail called 911.

When an ambulance left Mr. Bah at the hospital, brain scans showed he had a
fractured skull and hemorrhages at all sides of his swelling brain. He was
rushed to surgery, and the detention center was informed of the findings.

But in a report to their supervisors the next day, immigration officials at the
center described Mr. Bah's ailment as ''brain aneurysms'' -- a diagnosis they
corrected a week later to ''hemorrhages,'' without mentioning the skull
fracture. After Mr. Bah's death, they wrote that his hospitalization was
''subsequent to a fall in the shower.''

The nurse, Mr. Dela Pena, and the physician assistant, Mr. Chuley, said that
only their superiors could discuss the case. The Public Health Service did not
respond to questions, and the Corrections Corporation said medical decisions
were the responsibility of the Public Health Service.

Mr. Bah's cousins demanded an autopsy, but the Union County medical examiner's
confidential report was not completed until Dec. 6. It was sent to the county
prosecutor's office only as a matter of routine, because the matter had been
classified as an ''unattended accident resulting in death.''

Prosecutors said they did not investigate. ''According to the report, Bah
suffered a fall in the shower,'' Eileen Walsh, a spokeswoman for the
prosecutors, said in an e-mail message. ''We are not privy to any other bits of
information.''

In the home movies Mr. Bah made of his last journey home, he is only a fleeting
presence: a slim man with a shy smile. But without his support, relatives in
Africa say they have little money for food and none for his sons' schooling.

His body went back to Guinea in a sealed coffin.

''I stayed here seven years, waiting for him,'' his second wife, Mariama, said
in French, recalling their long separation and the brief reunion that led to the
birth of their son, now a toddler, while Mr. Bah was in detention.

''I wanted them to open the casket,'' she added, ''to know if it was him inside.
Until today, I cry for him.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Boubacar Bah, shown on a family trip to Washington, died after
being injured in a privately run immigration jail. (pg.A1)
A FAMILY ABROAD: Boubacar Bah with his first wife, Dalanda, and their elder son,
Amadou Talibe Bah, in Guinea before Mr. Bah came to the United States in 1998.
A LIFE AND DEATH IN AMERICA: Mr. Bah at work as a tailor in New York and in
University Hospital in Newark, where he died after four months in a coma.
 LEFT IN THE DARK: Khadidiatou Bah, a cousin of Mr. Bah's, said his relatives
were not notified about his injuries until five days after he fell in a jail.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 11, 2008 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Dying in Detention

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 425 words


The government has a duty to provide decent, effective, timely medical care to
people in its custody. That should be beyond debate, but not when the government
in question is the Bush administration and the people in custody are illegal
immigrants.

Recent news reports from The Times, The Washington Post and CBS News have shone
a harsh light on the immigration detention system, finding alarming evidence of
shoddy care, inadequate staffing, lax standards, secrecy and chronic ineptitude.

Not many Americans know the names of detained immigrants like Boubacar Bah of
Guinea and Francisco Castaneda of El Salvador. Mr. Bah died after falling and
fracturing his skull; his injuries went untreated for more than 14 hours. Mr.
Castaneda died because the diagnosis and treatment of his cancer was tragically
delayed. They, and dozens of others, should be memorialized as victims of a
system scarred by malign neglect.

The government should be rushing to improve the oversight and care in its
sprawling detention system to protect all detainees. Instead, the official
reaction has been slow and defensive, promised improvements are piecemeal, and
criticism of the system is making immigration hard-liners indignant.

At a House subcommittee hearing last week, Representative Peter King, the
committee's ranking Republican, complained: ''Why should the American people be
responsible for paying for Rolls-Royce medical care for illegal aliens?''
Representative Zoe Lofgren, the subcommittee's chairwoman, is valiantly pushing
back. She realizes that with the administration busily expanding immigration
detention and failing far too often to meet its own minimal standards for
medical care, it is up to Congress to insist on better.

She and Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey have sponsored the Detainee Basic
Medical Care Act, which would go far to provide the basic protections that
failed Mr. Bah and Mr. Castaneda. The bill would impose more rigorous standards
on the network of more than 300 publicly and privately run prisons that make up
the federal system -- current rules are voluntary, not legally enforceable and
not uniformly followed. And it would require that all deaths be reported to the
Justice Department and Congress.

Congress should swiftly pass the bill, putting aside the poisoned debate over
illegal immigration, which has no relevance here. Whether immigrants are legal
or illegal has nothing to do with their right to humane care. As Ms. Lofgren
bluntly put it: ''You are not supposed to kill people who are in custody.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 12, 2008



CORRECTION: An editorial on Wednesday about deaths in immigration detention
misidentified the ranking Republican member of the House subcommittee on
immigration. He is Steve King of Iowa, not Peter King of New York.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 16, 2008 Monday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Lack of Care in Detention

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 206 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Dying in Detention'' (editorial, June 11):

At least 83 people have died at the hands of an immigration detention system
that tragically failed them. What has been lost in this discussion is the untold
number of people who have chronic illnesses that are misdiagnosed or go
untreated, or who now suffer permanent medical conditions because of lack of
care.

Zena T. Asfaw, a refugee from Ethiopia, sought political asylum in the United
States after being jailed, beaten and assaulted in her home country. On June 4,
she testified before a House subcommittee about the shocking treatment she
received at the hands of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

She said that she was forced by a nurse and security guard to take the wrong
medication and suffered an overdose that nearly killed her. She now may have to
live with permanent physical damage.

This is not the way we expect people to be treated in our country. If the United
States is to remain a beacon of freedom and justice, we need to protect the
basic human rights of the people entrusted to our care.

Michelle Brane Washington, June 12, 2008

The writer is director of the detention and asylum program, Women's Commission
for Refugee Women and Children.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 3, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Federal Report Recommends Improvements in Reporting Deaths of Immigrant
Detainees

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 719 words


The federal immigration agency should report all deaths in detention promptly,
not only to the inspector general for the Department of Homeland Security, but
also to state authorities where required by law, the inspector general has
recommended after a ''special review'' of the deaths of two immigrant detainees.

The detainees -- a 60-year-old South Korean woman in Albuquerque and a
30-year-old Ecuadorean woman in St. Paul -- were among dozens whose deaths in
the custody of the agency, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, have drawn
scrutiny in the past year.

Congress, advocates for immigrants and the news media have highlighted the lack
of systematic accountability in such cases, and documented problems with the
medical care provided in the detention system, a patchwork of county jails,
privately run prisons and federal facilities.

Both detainees died because of serious medical conditions that existed before
they were detained. But the review found that the cases pointed to larger
problems with oversight and medical care, including the failure to recognize or
act on serious health care deficiencies in both detention centers that had been
documented by routine inspections.

The 55-page report, released Tuesday, did not name the two detainees, but one
was Young Sook Kim, a cook who died of metastasized pancreatic cancer on Sept.
11, 2006, a day after she was taken to a hospital from the Regional Correctional
Center in Albuquerque, a county prison operated by the Cornell Companies.

A complaint to the inspector general's hot line, testimony by a former employee,
and an affidavit from a fellow detainee all contended that Ms. Kim had pleaded
in vain for medical attention.

The review found that it was already too late to save her life, and that Cornell
clinical records showed the staff had responded to her written medical requests
-- albeit only by giving her antacid tablets when she complained of stomach
pain. But the review confirmed complaints that Cornell was slow to deal with
sick calls because of a nursing shortage: a government inspection in September
2006 found ailing detainees had to wait for as long as 30 days to see the
medical staff.

That inspection, by the Office of the Federal Detention Trustee, also found that
only 11 of 20 detainees with chronic conditions were regularly scheduled for
chronic care clinics, and that its policies did not fulfill requirements to
notify the Homeland Security Department -- the system's parent agency -- or the
Justice Department  of deaths.

Ms. Kim's death was not reported, as required, to state medical investigators.

The immigration agency initially maintained that the county should have reported
the death, but on Wednesday, a spokeswoman, Kelly Nantel, said that ''as a
result of the report,'' the agency has directed that all deaths be reported to
the appropriate state and federal authorities.

The report also urged the immigration agency to pool information with the
detention trustee. In September 2006, it noted, trustee inspectors gave the
Albuquerque prison the lowest overall rating, ''at risk'' -- two levels below
acceptable. But because the two agencies do not routinely share information, the
report said, Immigration and Customs Enforcement placed some 3,500 more
detainees at the facility.

Last August, the immigration agency removed all detainees after its inspectors
found a host of other problems, including an inadequate suicide watch.

The Minnesota case involved Maria Inamagua Merchan, a department store worker
who was detained in the Ramsey County jail and died in April 2006. For more than
a month, her persistent headaches had been treated only with Tylenol; when she
fell from a bunk bed, several hours passed before she was taken to the hospital,
where physicians diagnosed neurocysticercosis, an infection of the brain by
larvae of the pork tapeworm.

''We cannot determine with certainty whether this death could have been avoided
had the detainee received immediate medical attention for head trauma,'' the
report said, after praising the authorities for promptly reporting the incident
and for notifying the Consulate of Ecuador and the detainee's spouse.

But it recommended better medical screening and education about the parasite,
which is endemic in parts of Latin America.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 12, 2008 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Court Rejects Decisions Of Immigration Board

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 816 words


In a scathing opinion, a federal appeals court in Manhattan ruled on Wednesday
that immigration judges and the appellate system established as a check on their
decisions committed ''obvious errors'' by denying asylum to three Guinean women
who claimed that they were victims of genital cutting back in Africa.

The three women -- Salimatou Bah, Mariama Diallo and Haby Diallo -- had all
appealed their asylum cases from lower courts to the Board of Immigration
Appeals last year. While they had told the board that they feared for their own
safety (and, in two of the women's cases, for that of their daughters) if they
were sent back to Guinea, the board, in separate decisions, ruled that because
their genitals had already been cut, they had nothing more to worry about.

In a unanimous decision, a three-judge panel of the United States Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit overturned the board's rulings and ordered it to
hear the cases again. One judge, Chester J. Straub, wrote that he was ''deeply
disturbed'' that the women's cases ''did not receive the type of careful
analysis they were due.'' In a concurring opinion, Judge Straub, called genital
cutting ''a horrendous act of persecution'' that had ''serious life
consequences,'' adding that the Board of Immigration Appeals had ''simply
failed.''

Lawyers for the women did not return calls seeking comment. But Ana Reyes, a
lawyer for the Center for Gender and Refugee Studies at Hastings College of the
Law in San Francisco, who filed a supporting brief on behalf on the women,
hailed the decision.

''Today's ruling is a tremendous victory for women who seek our nation's
protection to escape the brutal practice of female genital mutilation and the
other forms of gender persecution that are associated with it,'' Ms. Reyes said
in a statement.

Charles Miller, a spokesman for the Department of Justice in Washington, which
oversees the Board of Immigration Appeals, said that the government was
reviewing the court's decision and its own options. The three women remain in
the United States pending resolution of their cases.

The practice of genital cutting, a tradition throughout sub-Saharan Africa, has
long been criticized by human rights groups and the United Nations and
frequently takes place under unsanitary conditions, with tools like knives,
scissors, razor blades and shards of glass, the ruling said.

The judges' opinion put a distinctly human face on the matter. It quoted Ms.
Bah, for instance, as saying that when she was 11, her mother and aunt took her
from her home to ''a small area fenced with wood and stuffed with coconut
trees'' where five ''old ladies'' with knives and other simple tools undressed
her and made her lie down on the ground. Ms. Bah said she not only bled
profusely after the procedure, but also suffered later troubles with
menstruation, sexual intercourse and childbirth. Mariama Diallo and Haby Diallo
both said they were mutilated at age 8, according to the ruling.

In tossing out the board's decision, the appeals court said genital cutting was
not necessarily a ''one-time act'' of persecution, citing the case of a woman
from Sierra Leone whose vagina was sewn shut with a thorn and then cut open each
time her husband wished to have sex.

Nor is cutting the only type of persecution that the women might fear, the court
said. Judge Straub quoted a State Department report that said women in Guinea
often endured domestic violence and rape and offered a political analogy: Just
because a dissident has his tongue cut out for speaking out, it does not mean
that his life or freedom cannot be threatened in other ways.

In previous cases, the board has said that women subject to forced sterilization
are routinely granted asylum though that procedure, like genital cutting,
ostensibly cannot be repeated. The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in
California, has weighed in on similar cases, ruling in 2005 that genital cutting
''permanently disfigures a woman, causes long-term health problems and deprives
her of a normal and fulfilling sexual life.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 14, 2008



CORRECTION:   An article on Thursday about a decision overturning rulings that
denied asylum to three Guinean women who said they were victims of genital
cutting misidentified the judge who wrote the opinion for the United States
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. It was Judge Chester J. Straub -- not
Judge Rosemary S. Pooler -- who wrote that the court was ''deeply disturbed''
that the women's cases ''did not receive the type of careful analysis they were
due,'' and who quoted from a State Department report that said women in Guinea
often endured domestic violence and rape. And it was Judge Straub who used a
political analogy to dismiss the argument that genital cutting was a ''one-time
act'' of persecution. (Judge Straub also submitted his own concurring opinion.)


PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 31, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Laws Cops Can't Enforce

BYLINE: By GEORGE GASCON.

George Gascon, a former assistant chief in the Los Angeles Police Department, is
a lawyer and the chief of the police department in Mesa, Ariz.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 700 words

DATELINE: Mesa, Ariz.


OUR next president faces a formidable task. He will be forced to deal with two
difficult wars, an economic downturn, higher  energy prices and a bankrupt
federal immigration policy.

To some, immigration pales in comparison with  the wars and the economy. But for
others, especially police departments in border states like mine,  it is
all-consuming. The first priority of the next president should be  legislation
that addresses the legitimate concerns of both the people who believe our
borders are out of control and  those  who want equal  protection for everyone
living in this country.

Immigration issues are tearing apart communities. Demagoguery and misinformation
are shaping public opinion and in some cases public policy. In the absence of a
clear federal policy on immigration, states and cities are enacting draconian
and constitutionally questionable laws.

This patchwork of conflicting local immigration laws is creating an untenable
situation for  police officials who face   demands to crack down on immigrants
-- demands that contradict    policing practices that have led to significant
declines in crime.

For police officials,  refusing to carry out policies that may violate the
Constitution can be career-threatening.   Both sides in the immigration debate
accuse police departments  of misconduct in dealing with immigrants.  In this
politically charged environment, some chiefs are making decisions based on bad
politics instead of sound policing. In many cases,  police officers  are making
illegal arrests with the acquiescence and sometimes explicit approval of their
superiors.

Here in Arizona,  a wedge is being driven between the local police and some
immigrant groups. Some law enforcement agencies are wasting limited resources in
operations to appease the public's thirst for action against illegal immigration
regardless of the legal or social consequences.

America's 500,000 police officers are sworn to enforce the law. But we are
increasingly unable to do so. Those who want to restrict immigration criticize
us for not arresting immigrants for  entering the country illegally. Yet others
rightly wonder how we can do our job  if  some residents are afraid to report
crimes or otherwise cooperate with the police for fear of deportation.

Without a  national immigration policy, a new culture of lawlessness will
increasingly permeate our society. In cities, politicians will pressure police
departments to  reduce immigration by using  racial profiling and harassment. At
the same time, immigrants who fear that the police will help deport them will
rely less on their local officers  and  instead give   thugs control of their
neighborhoods.

Many  top law enforcement officials were part of  the community policing
revolution of the 1980s and '90s. We have a deep concern for constitutional
rights and social justice. We believe that effective policing requires
residents, regardless of immigration status, to trust  the police.

We are also students of the mistakes of our predecessors. Past police practices
helped lead to the civil unrest  of the 1960s, which tore our nation apart along
racial and political lines. We do not want to repeat those mistakes.

If we become a nation in which the local police are the default  enforcers of a
failing federal immigration policy, the years of trust that police departments
have built up  in immigrant communities will vanish.  Some minority groups may
once again view police officers as armed instruments of government oppression.

A wink and a nod will no longer suffice as an immigration policy. Effective
border control is a critical step. But so is ensuring that otherwise law-abiding
undocumented immigrants have the same protections as  everyone else in a modern,
free society.

Presidential candidates need to specify the measures on immigration  they would
present to Congress after Inauguration Day. No doubt, the advisers to John
McCain and Barack Obama are counseling them to be vague. That's the wrong
advice.

America's police officers deserve thoughtful federal leadership so that we can
continue doing our best to provide our country  with the  security that defines
a civilized society.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAMES VICTORE)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 10, 2008 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Don't Penalize Patients for Poor Immigration Policies

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 204 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Deported, by U.S. Hospitals'' (''Getting Tough'' series, front page, Aug.
3):

It's our hope at the National Forum for Latino Healthcare Executives that the
patient care the article describes is not, and will not be, representative of
all hospitals in the United States.

That practice is a stark and disturbing departure from our hospitals'
longstanding tradition of care. We are acutely aware of the financial burdens
that caring for uninsured illegal immigrants can present. But the solution to
immigration and health care problems doesn't lie in penalizing and deporting
suffering patients.

The United States needs and deserves workable, humane immigration reform that is
comprehensive and reasonably enforceable (not by health organizations), with
legal paths for future workers and those seeking citizenship.

As we grapple with health care reform, the public and private sectors must come
together to devise a system of care that is truly representative of our noble
American character.

Hank Hernandez  Michael A. Anaya Sr. El Paso,  Aug. 6, 2008

The writers are, respectively, president and president-elect of the board of
directors of the National Forum for Latino Healthcare Executives.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 24, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Vetted Judges More Likely To Reject Asylum Bids

BYLINE: By CHARLIE SAVAGE; Nina Bernstein and Robert Gebeloff contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1719 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


-- Immigrants seeking asylum in the United States have been disproportionately
rejected by judges whom the Bush administration chose using a conservative
political litmus test, according to an analysis of Justice Department data.

The analysis suggests that the effects of a patronage-style selection process
for immigration judges -- used for three years before it was abandoned as
illegal -- are still being felt by scores of immigrants whose fates are
determined by the judges installed in that period.

The data focuses on 16 judges who were vetted for political affiliation before
being hired and have since ruled on at least 100 cases each.

Comparison of their records to others in the same cities shows that as a group
they ruled against asylum-seekers significantly more often than colleagues  who
were appointed, as the law requires, under politically neutral rules.

Critics of the politicization of the immigration bench say it is not enough that
in 2007 the department stopped using illegal hiring procedures. The fact that
many of the politically selected judges remain in power, they say, continues to
undermine the perceived fairness of hearings for immigrants fighting
deportation.

The immigration court ''is now the seat of individuals who were appointed
illegally, and that means that in the minds of many people the court symbolizes
illegality,'' said Bruce Einhorn, a Pepperdine University law professor who was
an immigration judge from 1990 until he retired last year.

Peter A. Carr, a Justice Department spokesman, wrote in an e-mailed response to
questions, ''The fact that the process was flawed does not mean that the
immigration judges selected through that process are unfit to serve.''

The Bush administration has been accused by Democrats and other critics of
improperly bringing politics into the business of federal agencies like the
Environmental Protection Agency, the General Services Administration and, most
notably, the Justice Department, which has been reeling under accusations that
officials sought to politicize the apparatus of law enforcement.

This summer, the department's inspector general released two scathing reports
confirming that for several years administration officials illegally took
political affiliation into account when hiring recent law school graduates,
summer associates, some assistant prosecutors and immigration judges.

The report covering the selection of immigration judges primarily blamed  Kyle
Sampson, a former top aide to the attorney general, and two former White House
liaisons to the department, Monica M. Goodling and Jan Williams, for the
practice.

When vetting applicants, for example, Ms. Goodling asked them questions about
their political beliefs and researched their campaign contributions. She also
conducted Internet searches of their names and words like ''asylum,''
''immigrant'' and ''border,'' as well as partisan terms, like abortion, Iraq,
gay and the names of political figures, to determine their views, the report
said. But it presented no evidence that her efforts were connected to any
official policy goal of restricting asylum.

The White House has said it never ordered political hiring of civil servants.

The Justice Department employs more than 200 immigration judges in more than 50
courts around the country. They conduct hearings for noncitizens asking not to
be deported, including asylum-seekers who say they fear religious or political
persecution.

Although called ''judges,'' the hearing examiners are not confirmed by the
Senate for life; they are covered by federal civil-service laws, which stipulate
that they must be hired on the basis of merit under politically neutral
criteria. But in early 2004, political appointees took control of hiring the
judges away from career professionals and essentially began treating the
positions -- which carry salaries of $104,300 to $158,500 -- as patronage jobs.
They screened out liberals and Democrats, while steering openings to White
House-vetted ''Bush loyalists''  and other job-seekers vouched for by Republican
political appointees.

Among the judges selected were a member of the 2000 Bush-Cheney Florida recount
team, people who worked for Republican lawmakers and a former Republican state
official in Illinois backed by Karl Rove, at the time the White House political
adviser.

In 2007, after the Civil Division questioned the legality of the process, the
administration changed back to a nonpolitical selection method handled by career
professionals.

But in the interim 31 immigration judges had been appointed by the flawed
process. The Justice Department did not challenge a list of those judges
submitted by The New York Times.

Of that group, 28 remain judges, two left during a probationary period, and one
was recently promoted by Attorney General Michael B. Mukasey to the Board of
Immigration Appeals, the panel that hears appeals of rulings.

The inspector general's report did not evaluate how the politically selected
judges have used their power. The additional data comes from Transactional
Records Access Clearinghouse, a research group at Syracuse University that has
analyzed Justice Department records from the 2002 fiscal year to 2007 and
profiled immigration judges.

Of the 31 politically selected judges, 16 compiled enough of a record to allow
statistical analysis. Nine rejected applicants at a significantly higher rate
than other local colleagues, while three were more lenient. Four others decided
cases in line with the local averages, an analysis by The Times showed.

And when asylum denial rates of all judges across the nation were ranked in
comparison to their local peers, 8 of the 16 scored above the 70th percentile --
meaning they have been among the judges least likely to grant asylum.

Together, these 16 judges handled 5,031 cases and had a combined denial rate of
66.3 percent -- 6.6 percentage points greater than their collective peers. This
translates into an extra 157 asylum cases that resulted in denial.

In Houston, for example, Judge Chris Brisack denied asylum in 90.7 percent of
his cases, while other judges in that city averaged a 79.1 percent denial rate.
Judge Brisack, a former Republican county chairman who also works in the oil
business, did not return a call.

Garry Malphrus, the judge later elevated to the Board of Immigration Appeals,
denied asylum 66.9 percent of the time, compared with an average denial rate of
58.3 percent among other judges at his court in Arlington, Va. Judge Malphrus, a
former associate director of the White House Domestic Policy Council, did not
return a call.

The highest gap belonged to Judge Earle Wilson. He worked first in Miami, where
he denied 88.1 percent of asylum requests -- 9.8 percentage points higher than
the local average. He then moved to Orlando, where his denial rate was 80.3
percent -- 29.2 percentage points higher than peers.

Judge Wilson, who previously worked in the Office of Immigration Litigation at
the Justice Department, said he was not allowed to give interviews.

Still, there were exceptions. Three of the politically selected judges granted
asylum significantly more frequently than peers. Most notably, Judge Glen Bower
of Chicago denied only 16 percent of asylum requests -- 47 percentage points
lower than the city average. Judge Bower, the applicant backed by Mr. Rove, did
not return a call.

The analysis excluded judges for whom insufficient data was available to produce
meaningful results.

Charles H. Kuck, the president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association,
said all the judges, regardless of their qualifications, should reapply for
their jobs alongside other applicants.

''Any judge who was appointed through a process that was not impartial should
step down and go through the process again to make sure they should be
reappointed,'' Mr. Kuck said.

But Glenn Fine, the Justice Department inspector general, said at a July 30
Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on his investigation that ''it would be
difficult if not impossible'' to decide whether a sitting judge was qualified.

Mr. Fine also noted that the judges could not be fired because they were now
protected by civil-service statutes -- the same laws violated when they were
selected.

At that hearing, Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island, expressed
frustration about the lack of remedies.

''The so-called 'loyal Bushies' that they stuffed into these positions will also
have gotten away with it and will be there essentially indefinitely, protected
by civil-service protections that they don't deserve,'' Mr. Whitehouse said.

Stephen H. Legomsky, an immigration law professor at Washington University in
St. Louis, said the attorney general should reassign the judges to
nonadjudicatory positions at the same pay, which would not violate civil-service
rules.

Dana Marks, an immigration judge in San Francisco and the president of the
judges' union, said her organization opposed reassigning its new members.

''We are confident that many of the people hired under this process are
excellent judges,'' said Judge Marks, who was appointed in 1987, ''and should
not be penalized for having been hired under a process that they had no control
over at the time, that some of them may not even have known was irregular or
inappropriate.''

Temporarily reducing the number of judges might exacerbate an already crushing
caseload.

Already, several immigration lawyers said they were considering invoking
constitutional due-process rights to ask for new hearings for clients turned
down by the politically selected judges, although people who have already been
deported would most likely be ineligible for that.

Several law professors said they doubted such a potentially disruptive request
would prevail. But regardless, they said, the recent disclosures have further
tarnished the image of the immigration courts.

Last year, an academic study of 140,000 decisions over four years found sharp
differences in the outcome of cases involving immigrants of the same
nationality, even among judges in the same city.

The authors of the study, called ''Refugee Roulette,'' concluded that the facts
of a case may be less important in determining whether someone is deported than
which judge hears the case.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Monica M. Goodling, a former White House liaison at the Justice
Department, testified that she had ''crossed the line'' and taken politics into
account when selecting immigration judges.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW
YORK TIMES)(A25)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 24, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Citizenship Seekers Told Not to Fear a New Test

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 714 words


A week before the American government plans to start a redesigned civics test as
part of the naturalization process, a senior immigration official sought on
Tuesday to calm nervous immigrants and critics who say the new exam will be more
challenging than the current one.

''It's not harder than the current exam,'' said Alfonso Aguilar, chief of the
citizenship office at Citizenship and Immigration Services, the agency that
devises and administers the test. ''In fact, for some it may be easier.''

At the crux of the debate is a list of 100 questions that applicants will have
to study to prepare for the new test, which takes effect on Oct. 1.

During the naturalization interview, an immigration officer will ask the
applicant 10 of the questions spanning a range of difficulty. The applicant must
correctly answer six questions to pass that portion of the interview.

Mr. Aguilar said that in a pilot study of the new questions, 92 percent of
participants passed the test on their first attempt, while an average of 85
percent of all applicants pass the current test on their first attempt.
(Applicants are given two chances to pass the test. Those who fail twice can
reapply for naturalization immediately.)

With the test's redesign, the first since 1986, immigration officials sought to
move away from simple trivia and to emphasize basic concepts of American history
and the structure of American government and democracy. Some questions will
require a more sophisticated understanding of the United States, according to
officials and immigrant advocates.

The redesign is part of the Bush administration's efforts to improve immigrant
assimilation, Mr. Aguilar said.

''This is not a treatise in American history and government, but we try in 100
questions and answers to summarize the basic concepts of American democracy,''
he said in a telephone interview, one of a series of interviews he is conducting
this week with news media in New York, Miami, San Francisco and Los Angeles.
''We include what is absolutely necessary for somebody to understand what
America is.''

Some immigrant advocacy groups have said the test is more abstract and therefore
more difficult and will unnecessarily impede some legal residents from obtaining
citizenship. Some groups have even reported that fear of a harder test has
spurred immigrants to file their naturalization applications before Oct. 1,
which would qualify them to take the current test.

Youngsook Na, senior program associate at the Young Korean American Service and
Education Center in Flushing, Queens, said that attendance at the organization's
weekly naturalization clinic had doubled in recent weeks as immigrants have
rushed to file their documents.

But a spokeswoman for Citizenship and Immigration Services said the agency had
not registered a nationwide increase in naturalization applications.

In some cases, immigrant advocacy groups ''may be trying to incite some people
to hurry,'' the spokeswoman, Chris Rhatigan, said.

The redesign was the result of six years of study and consultation involving
educators, historians, immigrant organizations and liberal and conservative
research groups, and the questions were subjected to four months of pilot
testing with more than 6,000 immigrants applying for naturalization.

The test remains just one part of the naturalization application. Legal
immigrants eligible to become citizens must also pass a reading and writing test
of English proficiency.

Jeff Chenoweth, a field support coordinator for the Catholic Legal Immigration
Network, a nonprofit organization based in Washington that provides support to
more than 170 Catholic charities,  said that a majority of advocates who closely
followed the redesign were satisfied with the methodology.

Still Mr. Chenoweth said that some of the new questions included concepts or
words that were more abstract or obscure than anything on the current list and
would pose challenges to applicants and instructors alike.

''So while it's a challenge to new immigrants,'' he continued, ''there's a
belief among advocacy groups that it's a worthy endeavor, and it can be
accomplished, and there are organizations that can assist and immigrants should
not delay naturalizing simply out of fear of the test.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 18, 2008 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Caps on Legal Immigrants

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 205 words


To the Editor:

''Legal Immigration? Anybody?'' (editorial, Oct. 3) questioned my opposition to
a bill sponsored by Zoe Lofgren, chairwoman of the House Judiciary subcommittee
on immigration, to increase legal immigration.

Ms. Lofgren should be willing to settle on a limit on the total number of
immigrants allowed into the United States each year. Exactly how many immigrants
can our country absorb without negatively affecting America's economy, culture
and environment?

I offered an amendment capping legal immigration at one million. Setting a hard
cap would force Congress to choose priorities.

Today, only approximately 10 percent of legal immigrants are admitted based on
the skills and education they bring. If Ms. Lofgren wants more
employer-sponsored immigrants, she should have to persuade Congress to reduce
other categories proportionally.

Ms. Lofgren is opposed to any hard cap on immigration. And she can't name a
single immigration category that she would cut. Anyone unwilling to answer these
questions should not be setting national immigration policy.

(Rep.) Steve King  Washington, Oct. 8, 2008

The writer, a Republican from Iowa, is the ranking member of the House Judiciary
subcommittee on immigration.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 23, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

McCain Is Faltering Among Hispanic Voters

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1458 words


ESPANOLA, N.M. -- In the early days of the presidential campaign, Senator John
McCain seemed to be in a good position to win support among Hispanic voters. He
had sponsored legislation for comprehensive immigration overhaul in Congress,
made a point of speaking warmly about the contributions of immigrants and was
popular among Latinos in Arizona, his home state, which borders three
battleground states here in the Southwest: New Mexico, Colorado and Nevada.

But less than two weeks before Election Day, those advantages appear to have
evaporated. Recent Gallup polls show Mr. McCain running far behind Senator
Barack Obama among Hispanic voters nationwide, only 26 percent of whom favor the
Republican. The possibility that Mr. McCain can duplicate George W. Bush's
performance among Latinos in 2004, when Republicans won 44 percent of the vote,
now seems remote.

Both candidates are spending heavily on Spanish-language advertising, and
continue to schedule campaign events to focus on the fast-growing Hispanic vote.
Last month, Mr. McCain held a town-hall-style meeting at a Puerto Rican
community center in central Florida; a few days later, Mr. Obama, of Illinois,
came to this heavily Hispanic city of 9,600 people for a rally at a plaza that
dates to Spanish colonial times.

In an echo of his overall slide in the polls, some of the issues that have
hampered Mr. McCain's candidacy turn out to have had an even greater impact on
the Hispanic population. Latinos cite the crisis in the economy as their biggest
concern, trumping immigration and the social conservatism that Republicans
thought would help expand Mr. McCain's appeal among religious, family-oriented
Hispanic voters.

And if Republicans were counting on tensions between blacks and Latinos, now the
nation's largest minority, driving Hispanic voters away from Mr. Obama, that
also has largely failed to materialize.

Early in the primary season, when Mr. Obama was still a newcomer little known to
Latinos outside Illinois, he began campaigning among Hispanic voters, even in
states where he knew he would lose to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, then the
favorite among Hispanics. Political analysts say Mr. McCain has only
sporadically and belatedly sought to engage Latino voters.

''The McCain campaign was never set up in a way that spoke to Hispanics,'' said
Matthew Dowd, Mr. Bush's senior strategist in 2004. ''Throughout the entire
primary, there was no conversation because they thought that was not where the
election was. You can't start to campaign in September for the general election
among Hispanics. They are very frustrated with Bush and the Republicans, so
McCain has a bigger hurdle to overcome.''

Hispanics account for three of every eight voters here in New Mexico, where the
vote has been extremely tight in the last two presidential elections. Al Gore
won this state by just 366 votes as the Democratic nominee in 2000, and in 2004,
President Bush triumphed by fewer than 6,000.

In Colorado and Nevada, Latinos account for at least 20 percent of the
population and 12 percent of registered voters. Together, the three Southwestern
battleground states have 19 electoral votes that are growing in importance for
Mr. McCain as his electoral map shrinks.

But events seem to be working in Mr. Obama's favor. Contrary to what
non-Hispanic politicians often assume, immigration does not rank as high on the
list of Hispanic concerns as the economy, education and health care.

Instead, surveys show that Latinos see immigration as a tool useful in
identifying who is friend and who is foe. That may have complicated Mr. McCain's
task: despite his sponsorship of the immigration overhaul legislation, he is
burdened by nativist elements within the Republican Party.

''The Republican brand has been tarnished as result of the immigration debate
and the extreme rhetoric that came out of that debate,'' said Janet Murguia,
executive director of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic advocacy
group. ''We think McCain remains an advocate of a comprehensive approach, but
his standing has been undermined by those within his own party and the tough
immigration plank in the 2008 Republican platform.''

To woo Hispanic voters, Mr. McCain seems to have singled out three groups for
attention in the Rocky Mountain West: Hispanic veterans, owners of small
businesses and social conservatives, especially those who are members of
Protestant evangelical groups or the charismatic Roman Catholic movement.

James Lujan, 47, a deputy sheriff here, fits into the first category. He is a
former marine with a son serving in the military in the Middle East, and he said
he worried that Mr. Obama would withdraw precipitously from Iraq.

''The troops need to be able to finish what they're doing,'' Mr. Lujan said.
''I've got one son who is 14 and another who is 8, and if we pull out right
away, like Obama wants, they're the ones who are going to have to go back.''

His wife, Julie, 36, also supports Mr. McCain. She runs a hair salon, sells real
estate as a sideline, and was excited by Mr. McCain's choice of Gov. Sarah Palin
of Alaska as his running mate.

''I admire a strong, hard-working woman,'' Mrs. Lujan said. ''We need to get out
of the financial casino and be responsible, and McCain and Palin are the people
who can do that.''

But independent political analysts point to what they say are basic flaws in Mr.
McCain's Hispanic strategy. Republicans ''can talk all they want about abortion
and same-sex marriage, but survey after survey tells us that even among socially
conservative Hispanics, it's the other issues that matter most,'' said Christine
M. Sierra, a professor of political science at the University of New Mexico.

Mrs. Lujan's sister, brother and mother, who work together at JoAnn's
Ranch-O-Casados restaurant here, strongly echoed that assessment. JoAnn Casados,
57, argues that Mr. Obama ''sees it the way we see it.''

Ms. Casados's son, Orlando, 39, who works in the family's chili business, said,
''I'm worried about health care and the price of gasoline, which has driven up
the cost of doing business, and I think Obama cares more about how that affects
people like us.''

His sister Suzanne, 29, added, ''Obama is more focused on the things that are
really important, like the economy and health care, while McCain is up and down
and all over the place.''

Though the 2004 election showed Republicans could successfully appeal to
Hispanic voters, that experience may provide less of a road map this year than
might be expected. The Hispanic electorate has grown greatly since then, its
numbers swelled by several million newly registered first-time voters:
green-card holders who have recently become American citizens and young
bilingual and bicultural Latinos who are sometimes referred to as ''Generation
n.''

In addition, the bulk of the Latino vote remains concentrated in states not in
play, like California, staunchly for Mr. Obama, and Texas, a McCain stronghold.
That means the Hispanic vote is likely to be decisive only here in the Southwest
and in Florida, where an influx of Puerto Ricans, who traditionally vote heavily
Democratic, and Central and South American newcomers, has somewhat diluted the
importance of the historically Republican Cuban-American vote.

The Obama campaign in particular has sought to seize advantage of those shifting
demographic trends, organizing a voter registration drive in states with large
or growing Hispanic populations. In Nevada, the number of registered Hispanic
voters has doubled since 2004, to about 120,000, which is seen as a factor that
could shift the balance there.

''Nevada is very dynamic, very volatile,'' said Efrain Escobedo, senior director
of voter engagement at National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed
Officials, an advocacy group. ''We're talking about people who are truly the
swing vote in Nevada, with very little party affiliation or allegiance to any
particular party or candidate.''

Initial concerns that Mr. Obama would not be able to win over Hispanic voters
who supported Mrs. Clinton in the Democratic primaries have largely disappeared,
though signs of what sociologists call ''black-brown tensions'' still surface.
For instance, John Medina, a 70-year-old Navy retiree living east of here, has a
McCain-Palin sign in his yard and when asked why he favored the Republican
nominee, he replied, ''Because he's not black.''

More common, however, was the attitude that Ms. Casados expressed. ''We need
change, so the fact that Obama is not an Anglo appeals to me,'' she said. ''He
understands what discrimination is about, and if he gets in there and does a
good job, that will make it easier for all the rest of us, whether black,
Hispanic or Indian, to get past that problem.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICK SCIBELLI JR. FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 24, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pardon Means No Deportation For a Musician

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 866 words


During a federal immigration hearing in 1995, Gov. David A. Paterson, then a New
York State senator, testified on behalf of the hip-hop pioneer Ricky Walters,
who was facing deportation to his native Britain for convictions on attempted
murder and weapons charges.

The immigration judge decided to block the deportation of Mr. Walters, known as
Slick Rick, who had shot and wounded a relative and another man in 1990. But an
immigration appeals court overturned the decision later that year, prompting a
renewed effort by federal immigration officials to deport him.

On Friday, 13 years after he first took the stand on behalf of Mr. Walters, Mr.
Paterson  again came to the  musician's defense, granting him a rare pardon of
his criminal convictions.

In issuing the pardon, Mr. Paterson cited Mr. Walters's clean record during his
prison term as well as his community volunteer work and antiviolence counseling
of young people. Mr. Walters, the governor said, ''has been living without
incident in the community for more than 10 years.''

The pardon allows Mr. Walters, 43, to seek federal relief from deportation and
permission to remain in this country, where he has lived since 1976. Under
federal law, a resident alien convicted of an aggravated felony or weapons
offense can be deported.

The pardon erases the attempted murder conviction as grounds for deportation,
his lawyers said, but Mr. Walters must still seek a waiver for the weapons
conviction. His lawyers do not expect opposition by immigration officials to his
request.

''This has been a long and difficult road and I am happy for this to be settled
once and for all,'' Mr. Walters said in a statement issued by a public relations
firm. ''I look forward to enjoying this time with my family and friends and to
continue leading an honest and productive life.'' Mr. Walters, who lives with
his wife and two children in an apartment building he owns in the Bronx,
declined to be interviewed.

Michael Krinsky, one of Mr. Walters's lawyers, said he planned to submit a
request for a waiver of deportation on behalf of his client within the next two
weeks.

The pardon was only the 10th issued by a New York governor since the
administration of Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, said Erin Duggan, a spokeswoman
for Mr. Paterson. Of the 10 pardons, 4 were intended to help thwart a
deportation, she said.

Some  lawyers hailed the pardon as a victory for immigrants at a time when the
federal government is being far more aggressive about deportation.

''I think it's clearly an important recognition by the governor of the need to
prevent yet another injustice occurring as a result of draconian immigration
laws,'' said Steven Banks, the chief attorney of the Legal Aid Society, which
represents immigrants with criminal records facing deportation. ''Today's pardon
establishes the principle that rehabilitation is to be valued.''

Manuel D. Vargas, senior counsel with the Immigrant Defense Project of the New
York State Defenders Association, said that Mr. Walters's fame clearly helped
his case. ''Sadly, there are lots of folks who are in the same situation with
similar favorable equities who don't have this opportunity,'' he said. ''But
it's good to see that at least this one individual is getting this
opportunity.''

Mr. Walters's troubles began in 1990 when he shot and wounded his cousin and a
bystander in the Bronx.

Mr. Walters, who gained worldwide fame with his 1988 hip-hop album ''The Great
Adventures of Slick Rick,'' said that the cousin, Mark Plummer, had been
extorting money from him and had arranged at least one attempt on his life.

Mr. Walters pleaded guilty to attempted murder and weapons charges. He served
about five years in prison and was on work release for about a year and a half.

In 1995, Mr. Walters nearly won the right to stay in the United States. An
immigration judge granted him permission to stay in the country, according to an
account issued on Friday by Mr. Paterson's office.

That year, the Board of Immigration Appeals also found that allowing Mr. Walters
to remain in the United States ''appears to be in the best interest of the
country.''

But the appeals board had to vacate its decision on a technical ground: Mr.
Walters had served five years and 33 days in prison and the law did not permit
convicts who had served more than five years in prison to receive relief from
deportation. Mr. Walters  continued his legal fight all the same,  was released
on parole in 1997 and discharged from parole supervision in 2000.

Over the years, many legal, political and entertainment figures have come to Mr.
Walters's defense. Governor Paterson, who in the 1980s and '90s knew people in
the hip-hop industry, had testified in 1995 after hearing Mr. Walters speak at a
church, about his ''mistakes and lost opportunities,'' Ms. Duggan said.

Entertainers like Will Smith, Chris Rock, Russell Simmons and Jay-Z; numerous
New York legislators; the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson; and even Mr. Walters's parole
supervisor have written supportive letters to Mr. Paterson, citing Mr. Walters's
clean record and his contributions to American society, according to the
governor's office.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ricky Walters has lived in the United States since
1976.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYAN BEDDER/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 24, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Officials Arrest 905 in California Sweep

BYLINE: By REBECCA CATHCART

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 315 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Federal immigration agents have arrested 905 people in California in the past
three weeks after a statewide search for those who had violated orders to leave
the country. The operation was the latest in a series of national sweeps by
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents.

The arrests were the result of collaboration among teams in Los Angeles, San
Diego and San Francisco that began on May 5.

''The focal point of this operation were people who had exhausted all of their
due process in the courts,'' said Lauren Mack, a spokeswoman for Immigration and
Customs Enforcement in San Diego. ''They have a final order of removal issued by
a U.S. immigration judge, and they've failed to depart.''

In the process of seeking each person on the list, Ms. Mack said, agents often
encountered friends, family members and others who had violated immigration
laws.

''Agents may come to a house looking for a target, and someone answers the door,
or there are other people in the house who have also violated immigration
laws,'' she said.

Brian DeMore, acting director of the federal Office of Detention and Removal
Operations in Los Angeles, said agents took into custody any person they
encountered during an arrest who had violated immigration laws. Agents  set out
with a target list of just over 1,500 ''fugitive aliens,''  Mr. DeMore said,
referring to people who have ignored orders to leave the country.

In addition to the 495 of those found, 410  people were taken into custody on
charges of violating immigration laws, he said. Other violations included
returning  after being deported, overstaying a visa, or living in the country
without any legal documentation, Ms. Mack said. Over half of all arrested this
month have been deported.

According to Immigration and Customs Enforcement, 25.7 percent of those caught
in the sweeps had been convicted of crimes while in the country.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 10, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Orders Contractors To Vet Status Of Workers

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Austin Bogues contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 609 words


President Bush has ordered federal contractors to participate in the Department
of Homeland Security's electronic system for verifying the immigration status of
their workers, greatly expanding the reach of the administration's crackdown on
employers who hire illegal immigrants.

An executive order, signed by the president on Friday and announced on Monday,
requires federal contractors to use the system, known as E-Verify, to check
immigration status when they hire new workers or start work under government
contracts.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said the measure would affect at
least several hundred thousand workers a year nationwide. The status checks
apply to all workers.

The order expands the E-Verify program, which has been the target of criticism
and lawsuits by employers' groups and advocates for immigrants who say the
Social Security database it draws upon to check workers' status is riddled with
errors that could lead to legal workers' being fired or rejected for employment.

This is the first time that participation in the program, which Congress
established in 1996 as a voluntary system, has become mandatory for any large
group of employers.

As recently at 2005, the E-Verify system was a pilot program that gave employers
a way to confirm that Social Security numbers and immigration information
provided by new employees matched federal records. As the administration has
stepped up immigration raids at  work sites in the last two years, employers'
participation has grown sharply.

About 69,000  employers are now enrolled, up from about 5,900  in 2005,
according to federal figures released on Monday. That is still a small fraction
of the estimated 7.4 million employers in the United States. Officials estimated
that as many as 200,000 contractors would be covered by the new rule.

Mr. Chertoff, at a news conference on Monday in Washington, where he and
Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez announced the executive order, noted that it
covered major weapons and service contractors for the Defense Department, among
other employers, as well as employees of subcontractors.

''It will have a huge impact,'' said Rosemary Jenks, director of government
relations for NumbersUSA, a group that favors reduced immigration. ''This is the
first time the federal government is ensuring that it will not be responsible,
directly or indirectly, for hiring illegal aliens.''

Ms. Jenks  said concerns about the accuracy of the Social Security database were
overblown. She said many errors in the database came from women who had married
and failed to notify the Social Security Administration of their name changes,
and from immigrants who had become American citizens. These problems could be
easily remedied with requests to Social Security or immigration agencies, she
said.

But Mike Aitken, director of governmental affairs for the Society for Human
Resource Management, a trade association, said the E-Verify system remained
vulnerable to cheating by immigrants who used real identity documents belonging
to other people. Without new money and more staff members, Mr. Aitken said, the
Social Security Administration could be overwhelmed by inquiries from federal
contractors.

A separate rule proposed by the administration that would use the Social
Security database to verify immigration status has been blocked by a federal
court in San Francisco.

''The critical point is that they should fix the database, and not do an end run
around Congress's intention that the system should be voluntary,'' said Lucas
Guttentag, a lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union who helped bring the
lawsuit.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 26, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Rejects Bid to Let Police Check Immigration Status

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 343 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A  Superior Court judge on Wednesday dismissed a lawsuit  seeking to end a
longstanding police policy that prohibits officers from initiating contact with
people for the sole purpose of learning their immigration status.

The policy has come under scrutiny in recent months after the killing of a high
school football star, Jamiel Shaw Jr., who the police say was murdered by an
illegal immigrant who is a member of a gang. The victim's parents are seeking to
have the policy overturned, and a city councilman has been seeking a similar
change to the directive, known as Special Order 40.

Some predominantly black gangs here are in a constant battle with members of
Latino-dominated gangs, creating tensions between blacks and Latinos in South
Los Angeles. In some cases, black residents with no gang affiliations have been
singled out  by Latino gang members and killed.

Judicial Watch, a conservative legal group based in Washington, filed a suit in
2006 on behalf of a Los Angeles resident, Harold Sturgeon, arguing that the city
should not be using taxpayer money to enforce the policy, saying the order
blocked cooperation between the local police and federal immigration agents.

But Judge Rolf M. Treu of Los Angeles Superior Court granted a motion from the
city and the American Civil Liberties Union for a summary judgment to throw the
suit out, arguing that Mr. Sturgeon was unable to show that the order violated
federal law or impeded immigration officials from communicating with the police.

''Special Order 40 neither mentions not refers to such communication,'' Judge
Treu said in his ruling. ''It is not the court's function to consider the wisdom
of the enactment of Special Order 40.''

Hector Villagra, the director of the Orange County office of the A.C.L.U., said
he thought the judge's decision would ''put to rest'' any further challenges to
the police order, which has been vigorously defended by the police chief,
William J. Bratton.

Paul J. Orfanedes, a lawyer for Judicial Watch, said Mr. Sturgeon was
considering an appeal.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 4, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

McCain Winds Up Latin Trip In Mexico

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and MARC LACEY; Elisabeth Malkin and Antonio
Betancourt contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 861 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


From the white roses he laid before a likeness of Mexico's blessed saint, the
Virgin of Guadalupe, to the endorsement he gave for an overhaul of American
immigration laws, Senator John McCain used a visit to Mexico on Thursday to
appeal to residents of both sides of the border: Mexicans and, more urgently,
their voting relatives and other Latinos in the United States.

''We must secure our borders and then we will address the issue of comprehensive
immigration reform,'' Mr. McCain said at a news conference in a helicopter
hangar that was interrupted by the deafening sound of a heavy rainstorm that
made his remarks unintelligible.

Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, has faced criticism from some of
his fellow Republicans for spending time in Colombia and Mexico just as the
general election battle heats up, but his campaign officials feel that the trip
could resonate among voters back home by promoting his support of free trade,
while highlighting his immigration views during his time in Mexico.

At the news conference, Mr. McCain also responded to questions about a staff
shake-up that put Steve Schmidt, a veteran of President Bush's 2004 campaign, in
charge of day-to-day operations and sharply diminished the role of his campaign
manager, Rick Davis.

''Our campaign continues to grow and responsibilities are expanded,'' Mr. McCain
said. ''Mr. Schmidt is taking over some increased responsibilities, Rick Davis
will remain a campaign chairman, a campaign manager. This is the natural
evolution of our campaign as we become more and more of a nationwide campaign
with increased staff and increased responsibilities.''

Mr. McCain spoke in the enormous, gleaming command center for Mexico's federal
police, which opened last month and serves as a symbol of the country's efforts
to crack down on a drug trade that is growing increasingly bloody and
threatening to Mexicans.

Despite Mr. McCain's lauding of the $400 million in anti-narcotics assistance
for Mexico that Congress approved last week, the country remains in the grip of
an armed struggle with drug cartels that has thrown large parts of it into
lawlessness that has more recently spread to the capital, with the killings of
top police commanders.

In a sign of the tight security in the high-crime Ixtapalapa neighborhood, which
Mr. McCain visited, police officers working the perimeters were not told whom
they were protecting.

''There have been various attacks against officials,'' explained Jorge Alberto
Hernandez Perez, a traffic police officer outside the federal police station
that Mr. McCain visited. ''That's why they don't announce it.'' He thought it
was a Mexican government official who was arriving, not an American senator
running for president.

Mexicans have become inured to reports of daily drug violence, but the day
Senator McCain arrived, Wednesday, was particularly gruesome: Four decapitated
bodies were found near a threatening message against one of Mexico's top drug
lords in the northern city of Culiacan, where the battle over drugs has
centered. The police later killed four gunmen in a shootout in Culiacan and
recovered an arsenal of weapons in a safe house.

Mr. McCain met privately with President Felipe Calderon of Mexico at Los Pinos,
the presidential residence. Mr. Calderon, even in public, has become a blunt
critic of American policies he sees as counter to Mexican interests, strongly
criticizing the border wall that has gone up under the Bush administration and
the focus on criminalizing migrants.

Mr. McCain's previous emphasis on the need for revamping American immigration
laws is far more in line with Mexican public opinion than his new emphasis on
first cracking down on illegal border crossers.

Mr. McCain, who flew to Phoenix on Thursday afternoon, was in Mexico on the
third and final day of a Latin American tour intended to promote himself as a
seasoned foreign policy hand compared with Senator Barack Obama, the presumptive
Democratic nominee.

The trip also showed Mr. McCain in touch with Latinos and Catholics, two key
voting blocs in the fall election.

During the tour of the Basilica of Guadalupe, Mr. McCain was blessed by Msgr.
Diego Monroy, the rector. For several minutes, the monsignor had one hand on Mr.
McCain's forehead and another on his shoulder as he offered the blessing.

Later, Monsignor Monroy told Mexican reporters that he was certainly not picking
sides.

''I receive everyone, any color, any ideology,'' he said. ''This is the home of
God.''

At Mr. McCain's side at the basilica was Jeb Bush, the president's  brother, who
weighed in on Mr. McCain's prospects in the presidential race.

''I think he's going to win,'' Mr. Bush, who was in Mexico on business, told a
few reporters who caught up with him at the basilica. ''He just needs to be
himself and not let Senator Obama redefine himself.''

Mr. Obama has announced no plans to venture south of the border before Election
Day, but his half-sister, Maya Soetoro-Ng, is planning to headline a private
fund-raiser in Mexico City on July 22. Lunch costs $250 and dinner, $1,000, and
only American citizens can contribute.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain, with his wife, Cindy, on the balcony of the
Basilica of Guadalupe in Mexico City. Mr. McCain was in Mexico on the third and
final day of a Latin American tour. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREGORY BULL/ASSOCIATED
PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 20, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wanted: July 13-19

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; GENOCIDE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 554 words


THE NEWS The prosecutor at the International Criminal Court in The Hague
formally sought an arrest warrant for Omar Hassan al-Bashir, the president of
Sudan.

BEHIND THE NEWS The charges of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity
are the court's first against a sitting president. They stem from the five years
of bloodshed in the Darfur region of Sudan, where Mr. Bashir's government is
accused of trying to wipe out three ethnic minorities as it scoffed at
international efforts to hold it accountable. While the warrant is unlikely to
ever be executed, some diplomats hoped it would give them new leverage in
seeking peace in Darfur.

THE NEWS Canadian officials, apparently for the first time, deported an American
Army deserter who had sought refuge from the war in Iraq.

BEHIND THE NEWS Changes both in immigration laws and in public attitudes in
Canada have made it more difficult for American deserters to gain sanctuary
there now than during the Vietnam War, when draft dodgers also fled north. The
deported deserter, Robin Long, was seeking refugee status, the only legal avenue
for most deserters to stay in Canada, but he was arrested twice for violating
immigration laws. Supporters called the violations technicalities and expressed
surprise that the government insisted on expelling him.

THE NEWS What seemed to be the voice of Izzat Ibrahim al-Douri, a former Iraqi
vice president under Saddam Hussein, was heard in a new audiotape telling
President Bush that 2008 would be the ''decisive year'' in Iraq and vowing that
the Baathist insurgents he leads would go on attacking Americans.

BEHIND THE NEWS The United States offers a $10 million bounty for the capture of
Mr. Douri, said to be the highest-ranking member of Saddam Hussein's inner
circle still at large. Iraqi officials have several times reported his death or
capture, only to have the claims quickly fall apart. Lately he has struggled
with a Syrian-backed rival for supremacy among Baathist militants.

THE NEWS A man wanted in Liechtenstein for stealing secret bank records told a
Senate committee that a bank owned by the country's royal family helped clients,
including Americans, conceal assets and evade taxes.

BEHIND THE NEWS Heinrich Kieber, a former bank employee who is now in a witness
protection program, touched off a global scandal in February when he sold
confidential bank records identifying millionaire tax cheats to German
authorities. He testified that the bank, LGT, shuffled money through offshore
shell accounts to obscure its origin. Liechtenstein, anxious to repair its
reputation as an uncooperative tax haven, said it would investigate.

THE NEWS Lawyers for the film director Roman Polanski, who fled the United
States in 1978 as he was about to be sentenced for the statutory rape of a
13-year-old girl, asked authorities to review a documentary in which a former
prosecutor claims he coached the judge in Mr. Polanski's case.

BEHIND THE NEWS Mr. Polanski's lawyer said the self-described contacts by David
Wells with the judge (who died in 1993) appeared to violate legal ethics and
state law. As a fugitive, Mr. Polanski has little standing to appeal his
conviction, but if he can persuade a prosecutor or judge in Los Angeles to take
up the matter, a court could overturn the 30-year-old conviction.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GENOCIDE(PHOTOGRAPH BY MOHAMED NURELDIN ABDALLA/REUTERS)
DESERTION (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARRYL DYCK/THE CANADIAN PRESS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
INSURGENCY(PHOTOGRAPH BY U.S. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO
AGENCY)
TAX EVASION (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN THEW/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 STAUTORY RAPE (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIAN WASSER/TIME & LIFE PICTURES -- GETTY
IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 25, 2008 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections: For the Record

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 83 words


An article on Wednesday about a lawsuit filed by a Dominican detainee whose
complaints about the health care he received at an immigrant detention center in
Rhode Island mirror accounts of how the center treated Hiu Lui Ng, who died Aug.
6 in immigration custody, misstated the name of the Vermont county that includes
St. Albans, where Mr. Ng spent time in the sheriff's lockup before being
transferred back to Rhode Island. St. Albans is in Franklin County; there is no
Greenfield County in Vermont.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 27, 2008 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Migrant Workers in Short Supply

BYLINE: By JOSHUA BRUSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1157 words

DATELINE: APPLETON, N.Y.


Scores of Jim Bittner's cherry trees are now just heaps of roots and sticks,
piled in his fields here along Route 18. Some of the branches lying on the
ground are dotted with small blossoms, the season's earliest evidence that sweet
cherries were on their way. But for Mr. Bittner, having sweet cherries would
have meant hiring someone to prune the trees and harvest the fruit, and he was
not sure that he could do it this year. So he cut his trees down.

''We always assumed we could find the labor we would need,'' said Mr. Bittner,
who has managed Singer Farms since 1991. ''We're not making that assumption
anymore.''

Mr. Bittner said he was planning to grow blueberries, or tart cherries for use
in pies, because those crops could be harvested by machine and did not require
migrant workers.

Others managing the fields and dairies of western New York State are starting to
make the same calculation. For the last several years, crackdowns on illegal
immigrants and the lack of comprehensive immigration reform have increased
anxiety among the region's farmers, many of whom rely on a migrant labor force
from Latin America to work their fields. Some have begun making changes in their
operations to reduce their reliance on that labor force.

For some, this has meant making temporary adjustments, like putting in less
cabbage, or resisting the temptation to put in profitable, labor-intensive crops
like asparagus.

It can also mean making fundamental changes that cannot be easily reversed. Mr.
Bittner cut down 25 acres of sweet cherry trees, some of which were 30 years
old. He also dug up 20 acres of peach trees that were 12 to 15 years old.

In all, he razed more than 10 percent of his fruit orchards this year, a
decision that he said was a direct response to the immigration situation. There
will be no harvest from the newly cleared fields until at least 2011.

''We don't take it lightly to make these changes,'' Mr. Bittner said.

Other farms are making large capital investments in mechanical systems that will
allow them to cut their work force significantly. Fewer farmers are willing to
buy neighboring properties, a traditional method of expansion for agricultural
businesses.

At least one food-processing company claims that it is already having trouble
buying produce in the quantities it needs. Great Lakes Kraut, based in
Shortsville, N.Y., which relies heavily on farmers in western New York for the
cabbage it ferments to make sauerkraut, has been able to buy only about 80
percent of what it needs this year, according to the company's vice president,
Ben Frega. That will not lead to a shortage of sauerkraut, but Mr. Frega said it
did play a role in a 10 percent price increase.

''It's been more difficult to secure our crops than any year I can remember,''
Mr. Frega said.

There are no data on the number of farmers changing crops because of the labor
problem. Farmers' organizations and state officials said that only small numbers
of farmers were making major changes and that there was no immediate threat of
major disruptions in local agricultural markets.

But experts monitoring New York's agricultural industry said that the shift away
from labor-intensive crops would accelerate if the uncertainty over migrant
labor and immigration policies remained unresolved. (On May 20, an attempt by
Senator Diane Feinstein of California to attach a guest worker program to an
Iraq spending bill failed.)

''I don't believe that we are seeing those numbers right yet, but I do think
that this is a serious conversation that farmers are having,'' said Jessica
Chittenden, a spokeswoman for the state's Department of Agriculture. ''One of
the things that will change is the fresh market crops that need to be
handpicked. They're fresh, they're fragile and they need that special personal
harvest.''

Last fall, the Farm Credit Associations of New York, which finance farmers in
the area, issued a projection, using federal Department of Agriculture data,
showing that 800 farms in the state with total sales estimated in excess of $700
million were ''highly vulnerable to going out of business or forced to severely
cut back their farm operations.''

Farms in New York and elsewhere in the Northeast may be particularly sensitive
to the effects of an uncertain labor market. Because of the climate, the
proximity to large urban markets and the relatively high cost of land, many
farms in the state focus on fresh market vegetables that bring in high
price-per-acre yields. Unlike row crops, like corn and soybeans, most fresh
produce must be handpicked to avoid bruising.

Dale Hemminger, the owner of Hemdale Farms in Seneca Castle, N.Y., for one, said
he was adjusting his planting. Great Lakes Kraut pleaded with him to grow more
cabbage, he said, but he declined.

''They begged me and bugged me and bugged me to plant more acres,'' Mr.
Hemminger said. ''I just backed away because I was so unsettled about getting
this stuff grown and harvested.''

He cut his cabbage crop by 15 percent this year. What keeps him in the cabbage
business at all, he said, are technological advances that have allowed him to
cut his labor force significantly.

His farm includes a 700-cow dairy, which is undergoing a bigger change to reduce
its need for workers. Mr. Hemminger recently bought four robotic milkers, each
of which can milk 70 cows a day. He had been considering the move for years, but
the cost had scared him away -- the total investment was $1.2 million to $1.4
million.

But the transition to the robotic system, with lasers guiding the machines to
the teats and computers keeping track of when each cow is milked, has been
smooth, and Mr. Hemminger said he was thinking about adding machines next year.

For Mr. Hemminger, farmers' labor troubles have been a generation in the making.
The labor force that worked for his father when he started farming on his return
from World War II dried up long ago, he said. He found that fewer and fewer
local people would work the odd and dirty hours that these jobs required.

The last local milker, a single mother, left in 2005 to take a lower-paying job
at a factory because she could not find a baby sitter willing to arrive at 5
o'clock in the morning.

The shift toward Hispanic immigrants has been gradual and tacitly accepted, Mr.
Hemminger said, adding that it was frustrating to watch those workers, who have
become mainstays for his industry, being pulled away.

''It's not like we said one day, 'Hey, let's hire all these Mexicans,' '' he
said.

Farmers near the Canadian border say they and their workers are facing
increasing scrutiny by federal immigration agencies. Last summer, Mr. Bittner
said, he set up a workshop for his employees at which the director of the
Cornell Farmworker Program answered their legal questions. There were about 20
immigrants working on the farm at the time, he said; 60 people showed up for the
session.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 29, 2008



CORRECTION: An article on Tuesday about the growing use of machines on upstate
New York farms to replace lost migrant workers omitted a passage in some
editions at the start of the continuation. The complete article is at
nytimes.com/nyregion. The article also misspelled the given name of the United
States senator from California who tried to attach a guest worker program to an
Iraq spending bill. She is Dianne Feinstein, not Diane.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cows are herded into place and readied to be milked by a
robotic milking machine at Hemdale Farms in Seneca Castle, N.Y. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
JAMES RAJOTTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B6)
 Jim Bittner of Singer Farms in Appleton, N.Y., cut down 25 acres of cherry
trees, some of them 30 years old, because he was not sure of finding enough
migrant workers to harvest the crop. There will be no harvest from the cleared
fields until at least 2011. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES RAJOTTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(pg. B1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 7, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Workers on Hunger Strike Say They Were Misled on Visas

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1084 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


About a dozen metalworkers from India staged the fourth week of a hunger strike
here this week, camped under a shade tree on Embassy Row.

The workers, who walked off jobs in Gulf Coast shipyards in early March, say
they were victims of human trafficking when they were brought to the United
States under a temporary guest worker program. The hunger strike is meant to
pressure federal officials, and comes as Congress is debating an expansion of
the guest worker program, known as H-2B for the type of temporary visa the
workers receive.

The Indian workers say they were deceived by Signal International and labor
recruiters when they paid as much as $20,000 for visas they believed would allow
them to work and live permanently with their families in the United States. In
fact, the H-2B visas are for short-term contracts.

''Everyone has a dream,'' said one of the protesters, Paul Konar, a 54-year-old
worker from the Indian state of Kerala, speaking in Hindi through a translator.
''If we could come here legally to live with our families, that was my dream.''

Signal International, a marine oil rig construction company based in Pascagoula,
Miss., insists it also was misled about the visas and has filed a lawsuit
against the labor recruiters on the Gulf Coast and in India who obtained them
for the workers.

''This whole thing got started because of bad recruiting practices,'' Richard
Marler, the chief executive of Signal, said in an  interview. ''I wanted these
workers to be happy employees. Why would I bring someone in and make them
unhappy so they would be less productive in their work?''

Most of the workers, who are metal fitters and welders, lost their legal
immigration status when they left their jobs. They adopted the risky strategy of
a public hunger strike, they said, to step up pressure on the Justice
Department, which has the power to allow the workers to remain in the United
States during an investigation of their case.

In a letter this week, three top Democrats in the House of Representatives --
George Miller and Zoe Lofgren of California, and John Conyers Jr. of Michigan --
asked the Justice Department and immigration officials to investigate the
workers' fraud accusations and offer them protection as victims. The Justice
Department this week confirmed it had opened an investigation.

Since May 14, 5 of the 16 workers who participated in the hunger strike have
been hospitalized. Mr. Konar fasted the longest, taking no food for 23 days
until Thursday, when he was hospitalized with abdominal pain. He was released in
the evening.

The Indian workers, among 100 or so who left their jobs in March, were  taken to
Signal shipyards in Pascagoula and in Orange, Tex., in late 2006 and early 2007.
They said they lived in sweltering labor camps, crowded 24 workers to a room,
under curfew and restricted from leaving the yards, with $1,050 a month deducted
from their paychecks for their upkeep.

They said they learned only after  they were here that they would not receive
visas, known as green cards, to remain in this country. In March, the workers
brought a federal lawsuit against Signal and the recruiters, claiming they were
defrauded and exploited.

Among those sued by Signal are Michael Pol, a labor recruiter in Mississippi
whose company is Global Resources; Malvin C. Burnett, an immigration lawyer in
New Orleans; and Sachin Dewan, a labor recruiter based in Mumbai, India.

Signal executives disputed the workers' claims, saying they gave medical and
other payroll benefits, hired an Indian chef and invested $4 million to provide
new modular barracks for the workers at a time when housing was critically
scarce along the Gulf Coast after Hurricane Katrina.

Before coming to the United States, many of the Indians had been guest workers
in other countries, where, they said, they had never been able to bring their
families.

So they jumped at offers by Mr. Dewan's company, in newspaper advertisements in
India and the Middle East, for ''permanent lifetime settlement in U.S.A. for
self and family,'' in the words of one 2004 ad. A copy was provided by the
immigrants' lawyers.

Through Mr. Dewan, the workers said, they initiated applications for
employment-based green cards. In one letter, also provided by the immigrants'
lawyers, a worker, Rajan Pazhambalakode, was ordered by Mr. Dewan to pay $4,595
each to Mr. Pol and Mr. Burnett. ''The company shall proceed with your green
card for the United States of America,'' the letter said, referring to Signal.

''I sold my home to raise that money,'' said Mr. Pazhambalakode, 43, who is one
of the protesters and has a wife and child. ''I can't go home empty-handed
because of that great debt.''

Meanwhile, on the Gulf Coast, Signal was seeking skilled workers, overwhelmed
with orders for repairs on oil rigs battered by Katrina.

''We were on our knees,'' Mr. Marler said, ''and we wanted to contribute to
turning the Coast around. We were approached by these labor providers, and we
jumped at the chance.''

While the workers said they were told they would be entering the United States
on temporary visas, they believed that Signal would help them convert to green
cards.  But  in general there is no legal route to switch from a temporary H-2B
visa to a permanent green card, which allows immigrants to bring immediate
family members.

After arriving at Signal, the workers soon realized the company was not moving
to secure any green cards. They maintain that Signal was aware of the
recruiters' visa promises. The company, in its court papers, said its managers
learned of the workers' hopes only when they began to express their discontent.

The workers said the barracks where they were housed were isolated, and company
officials told them they would be deported if they left the shipyards.

''It was a scary situation in that company,'' Mr. Pazhambalakode said, speaking
in Malayalam through an interpreter. They contacted the New Orleans Workers
Center for Racial Justice, a nonprofit group. Their lawsuit was brought by the
Southern Poverty Law Center.

In a statement, Stephen H. Kupperman, a lawyer for Mr. Pol and Global Resources,
said the company ''never in any way misled any person, either in India or in the
U.S.'' He said the contract between the company and Signal ended in 2006.

Ralph R. Alexis III, a lawyer representing Mr. Burnett, said it was his policy
not to comment on active cases.  There was no answer at telephone numbers for
Mr. Dewan in India.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Reji Davis, center, and other workers from India on a hunger
strike on Embassy Row in Washington. They say they were promised permanent
residency.
 One of the workers with a copy of the receipt showing his payment for work in
the United States.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 12, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mississippi: Workers End Hunger Strike

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 127 words


About two dozen guest workers from India who said they were victims of human
trafficking at an oil rig construction company in Mississippi ended a hunger
strike in Washington. The workers said the protest was to pressure the Justice
Department to allow them to remain legally in the United States while their case
is under investigation. They were brought to this country in 2006 and 2007 under
temporary visas to work at Signal International, based in Pascagoula. Twenty
workers fasted for varying periods over 29 days; five were hospitalized, said
Stephen Boykewich of the New Orleans Workers' Center for Racial Justice, which
organized the protest. After a rally outside the department on Monday, justice
officials agreed to meet with workers' representatives.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      October 18, 2008 Saturday 00:00 EST

A Tour of the Bay Area's Immigrant Demimonde, Available on YouTube;
Movie Review | 'The Princess of Nebraska'

BYLINE: A. O. SCOTT

SECTION: MOVIES

LENGTH: 502 words



HIGHLIGHT: Moments of obviousness are offset by a feeling of gritty lyricism in
Wayne Wang's "Princess of Nebraska," a beautifully shot but awkwardly acted
movie that is available only online.


Beautifully shot and awkwardly acted, "The Princess of Nebraska" follows a young
Chinese woman who calls herself Sasha through an intense few days in San
Francisco. To anyone who asks, Sasha, played by Ling Li, says she wants "to see
the city," and Wayne Wang's camera takes in its neighborhoods with unshowy
affection. But there is a lot more going on than tourism.

Sasha, who has spent the previous months as an exchange student in Omaha, is
pregnant from an encounter back home in Beijing. She has come to California to
figure out what to do and to find Boshen (Brian Danforth), an American activist
who had also, in China, been in love with Yang, the mysterious opera student who
is the father of Sasha's child.

This, along with Sasha's night tour of the immigrant demimonde in the Bay Area,
where she befriends prostitutes and thinks about joining their ranks, is the
stuff of Dreiserian melodrama. Mr. Wang, a highly adaptable filmmaker whose
movies swerve from the low-budget "Chan Is Missing" to the Jennifer Lopez
vehicle "Maid in Manhattan," prefers the stripped-down naturalism that has
become a kind of default style for socially conscious international art cinema.
Themes of globalization and political transformation are embedded in this
anecdotal, individual story, occasionally popping to the surface in stilted,
unconvincing conversations. These moments of obviousness are balanced with an
overall feeling of gritty lyricism, and the result - interesting if not
especially revelatory - is a film that would not seem out of place at a festival
somewhere.

But it is showing on YouTube (youtube.com/watch?v=rKgbIz6CM_E), having had its
premiere there on Friday night. It may seem, at first glance, that bypassing
theaters shows a lack of faith in the quality of the movie. But as of Sunday
afternoon, the film had attracted more than 140,000 views, which is a larger
audience than it would have found in a limited art-house release in New York and
Los Angeles. (And the film is not notably worse than what you might see in those
theaters.) Whether all those views reflect people watching until the end is hard
to know, but some of their reactions are collected in comments on the site,
ranging from thoughtful analyses to "THIS HAS NOTHING AT ALL TO DO WITH
NEBRASKA."

Is the YouTube release of a feature film by a well-known director a gimmick or a
harbinger of things to come? A little of both, probably. It's not clear how a
film given away free can make money, but for viewers, the experience is not bad.
Mr. Wang employed a wide-aspect ratio, and if you blow the image up to full
screen and select the high-quality-video option, you can appreciate the
cinematic qualities of his work, which are emphasized by his incorporation of
images captured on Sasha's cellphone. Even with a big desktop monitor and a good
pair of speakers or earphones, it isn't quite like going to the movies, but the
movie itself may benefit from the comparison since it would be easier to skip if
you had to buy a ticket.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (ArtsBeat)

                               May 2, 2008 Friday

Jazzfest: Randy Newman, From Cakewalks to Fats Domino

BYLINE: JON PARELES

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 289 words



HIGHLIGHT: Randy Newman greets the crowd at the 2008 Jazzfest. (Dave Martin/AP)
Randy Newman, who is not the most prolific songwriter, sprinkled his Jazzfest
set with new songs: easy-rolling, ragtimey piano parts carrying lyrics that
often drifted toward patter: sometimes political, sometimes personal. One song
counseled immigrants turned away at the border to &#8220;Smile right in
[&#8230;]


Randy Newman, who is not the most prolific songwriter, sprinkled his Jazzfest
set with new songs: easy-rolling, ragtimey piano parts carrying lyrics that
often drifted toward patter:  sometimes political, sometimes personal. One song
counseled immigrants turned away at the border to "Smile right in their
face/Pretty soon you're gonna take their place." The chorus of another song,
about the relief of forgetting unhappy times, was "God bless the potholes down
on
Memory Lane."

But Mr. Newman is steeped in New Orleans music, from cakewalks to Fats Domino.
This week, along with Jazzfest, he was recording a song with the New Orleans
sage Dr. John for a movie about old New Orleans, "The Frog Princess."

And he wasn't forgetting the aftermath of Katrina. While he can usually be
counted on for droll stage patter, he groped for words when he spoke about
seeing parts of New Orleans still in ruins: "It's an awful, awful thing that
they would let this ... awful thing that they would let those blocks and blocks
of houses and lives, and people that they'll never come back to, and say that,
y'know,  morale is up."  He added that the flashy things "like the Jazzfest and
the Mardi Gras, we can do that.' "

That got a few laughs. "I would like to apologize for the federal government,"
he said, getting more. "This city is not good at fixing things. That isn't what
it does. The state's not good at fixing things. It's here for another reason.
It's important that America has a place like this that knows what's important."

He was leading into "Louisiana 1927," a song about an earlier flood that has one
of his most majestic choruses. At Jazzfest, it became a singalong: "Louisiana,
Louisiana, they're trying to wash us away."

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 11, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Interpreter Speaking Up For Migrants

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1350 words


WATERLOO, Iowa -- In 23 years as a certified Spanish interpreter for federal
courts, Erik Camayd-Freixas has spoken up in criminal trials many times, but the
words he uttered were rarely his own.

Then he was summoned here by court officials to translate in the hearings for
nearly 400 illegal immigrant workers arrested in a raid on May 12 at a
meatpacking plant. Since then, Mr. Camayd-Freixas, a professor of Spanish at
Florida International University, has taken the unusual step of breaking the
code of confidentiality among legal interpreters about their work.

In a 14-page essay he circulated among two dozen other interpreters who worked
here, Professor Camayd-Freixas wrote that the immigrant defendants whose words
he translated, most of them villagers from Guatemala, did not fully understand
the criminal charges they were facing or the rights most of them had waived.

In the essay and an interview, Professor Camayd-Freixas said he was taken aback
by the rapid pace of the proceedings and the pressure prosecutors brought to
bear on the defendants and their lawyers by pressing criminal charges instead of
deporting the workers immediately for immigration violations.

He said defense lawyers had little time or privacy to meet with their
court-assigned clients in the first hectic days after the raid. Most of the
Guatemalans could not read or write, he said. Most did not understand that they
were in criminal court.

''The questions they asked showed they did not understand what was going on,''
Professor Camayd-Freixas said in the interview. ''The great majority were under
the impression they were there because of being illegal in the country, not
because of Social Security fraud.''

During fast-paced hearings in May, 262 of the illegal immigrants pleaded guilty
in one week and were sentenced to prison -- most for five months -- for
knowingly using false Social Security cards or legal residence documents to gain
jobs at the Agriprocessors kosher meat plant in nearby Postville. It was the
largest criminal enforcement operation ever carried out by immigration
authorities at a workplace.

The essay has provoked new questions about the Agriprocessors proceedings, which
had been criticized by criminal defense and immigration lawyers as failing to
uphold the immigrants' right to due process. Representative Zoe Lofgren,
Democrat of California and chairwoman of the House Judiciary immigration
subcommittee, said she would hold a hearing on the prosecutions and call
Professor Camayd-Freixas as a witness.

''The essay raises questions about whether the charges brought were supported by
the facts,'' Ms. Lofgren said.

Bob Teig, a spokesman for Matt M. Dummermuth, the United States attorney for the
Northern District of Iowa, said the immigrants' constitutional rights were not
compromised.

''All defendants were provided with experienced criminal attorneys and
interpreters before they made any decisions in their criminal cases,'' Mr. Teig
said. ''Once they made their choices, two independent judicial officers
determined the defendants were making their choices freely and voluntarily, were
satisfied with their attorney, and were, in fact, guilty.''

Mr. Teig said the judges in the cases were satisfied with the guilty pleas.

''The judges had the right and duty to reject any guilty plea where a defendant
was not guilty,'' Mr. Teig said. ''No plea was rejected.''

The essay by Professor Camayd-Freixas, who is the director of a program to train
language interpreters at the university, has also caused a stir among legal
interpreters. In telephone calls and debates through e-mail, they have discussed
whether it was appropriate for a translator to speak publicly about
conversations with criminal defendants who were covered by legal
confidentiality.

''It is quite unusual that a legal interpreter would go to this length of
writing up an essay and taking a strong stance,'' said Nataly Kelly, an analyst
with Common Sense Advisory, a marketing research company focused on language
services. Ms. Kelly is a certified legal interpreter who is the author of a
manual about interpreting.

The Agriprocessors hearings were held in temporary courtrooms in mobile trailers
and a ballroom at the National Cattle Congress, a fairgrounds here in Waterloo.
Professor Camayd-Freixas worked with one defense lawyer, Sara L. Smith,
translating her discussions with nine clients she represented. He also worked in
courtrooms during plea and sentencing hearings.

Ms. Smith praised Professor Camayd-Freixas's essay, saying it captured the
immigrants' distress during ''the surreal two weeks'' of the proceedings. She
said he had not revealed information that was detrimental to her cases.

But she cautioned that interpreters should not commonly speak publicly about
conversations between lawyers and clients. ''It is not a practice that I would
generally advocate as I could envision circumstances under which such
revelations could be damaging to a client's case,'' Ms. Smith said.

Professor Camayd-Freixas said he had considered withdrawing from the assignment,
but decided instead that he could play a valuable role by witnessing the
proceedings and making them known.

He suggested many of the immigrants could not have knowingly committed the
crimes in their pleas. ''Most of the clients we interviewed did not even know
what a Social Security card was or what purpose it served,'' he wrote.

He said many immigrants could not distinguish between a Social Security card and
a residence visa, known as a green card. They said they had purchased fake
documents from smugglers in Postville, or obtained them directly from
supervisors at the Agriprocessors plant. Most did not know that the original
cards could belong to Americans and legal immigrants, Mr. Camayd-Freixas said.

Ms. Smith went repeatedly over the charges and the options available to her
clients, Professor Camayd-Freixas said. He cited the reaction of one Guatemalan,
Isaias Perez Martinez: ''No matter how many times his attorney explained it, he
kept saying, 'I'm illegal, I have no rights. I'm nobody in this country. Just do
whatever you want with me.' ''

Professor Camayd-Freixas said Mr. Perez Martinez wept during much of his meeting
with Ms. Smith.

Ms. Smith, like more than a dozen other court-appointed defense lawyers,
concluded that none of the immigrants' legal options were good. Prosecutors had
evidence showing they had presented fraudulent documents when they were hired at
Agriprocessors.

In plea agreements offered by Mr. Dummermuth, the immigrants could plead guilty
to a document fraud charge and serve five months in prison. Otherwise,
prosecutors would try them on more serious identity theft charges carrying a
mandatory sentence of two years. In any scenario, even if they were acquitted,
the immigrants would eventually be deported.

Worried about families they had been supporting with their wages, the immigrants
readily chose to plead guilty because they did understand that was the fastest
way to return home, Professor Camayd-Freixas said.

''They were hoping and they were begging everybody to deport them,'' he said.

Ms. Smith said she was convinced after examining the prosecutors' evidence that
it was not in her clients' interests to go to trial.

''I think they understood what their options were,'' she said. ''I tried to make
it very clear.''

Legal interpreters familiar with the profession said that Professor
Camayd-Freixas' essay, while a notable departure from the norm, did not violate
professional standards.

Isabel Framer, a certified legal interpreter from Ohio who is chairwoman of the
National Association of Judiciary Interpreters and Translators, said Professor
Camayd-Freixas did not go public while the cases were still in court or reveal
information that could not be discerned from the record. Ms. Framer said she was
speaking for herself because her organization had not taken an official position
on the essay.

''Interpreters, just like judges and attorneys, have an obligation to maintain
the confidentiality of the process,'' she said. ''But they don't check their
ethical standards at the door.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Erik Camayd-Freixas is a certified Spanish interpreter. (A1)
 Professor Erik Camayd-Freixas wrote a 14-page essay about the hearings of
illegal immigrants.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX QUESADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 23, 2008 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Bloomberg Expands Translations In Agencies

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 617 words


Navigating the city's bureaucracy can be a daunting endeavor for the nearly
three million immigrants who live in New York. Aside from a lack of knowledge
about the way government works and the services it provides, one fundamental
barrier has stood in their way: language.

There are an estimated 170 foreign languages spoken in New York City, and in
nearly half of all households, English is not the primary language, according to
the census in 2000. And given that the city receives more than 20 million calls
from residents each year, officials said, communication can often be a
challenge.

On Tuesday, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg ordered the city's more than 100 agencies
to provide language assistance in six foreign languages: Spanish, Chinese,
Russian, Korean, Italian and French Creole. The order requires, for the first
time, that the agencies follow the same standard when providing translation and
interpretation to New Yorkers who do not speak English.

Immigrant advocates and city officials say it is the most comprehensive order of
its kind in the country. The mayor refused to be specific about how much the
services will cost, saying only that it was a ''relatively small'' amount given
the size of the city's budget. He added: ''This executive order will make our
city more accessible, while helping us become the most inclusive municipal
government in the nation.''

''The fundamental basis of government is its interaction with its citizens,''
the mayor said before signing the executive order at City Hall on Tuesday. ''If
people don't know what we do, don't know what they should do, what the law
requires them to do, don't know how to get services, all the money that we're
spending providing those services, providing those laws, is meaningless.''

The order requires that agencies translate essential public documents, pamphlets
and forms in the six languages. But its reach is broader, as it allows for the
use of a telephone-based service that can link immigrants with interpreters who
speak Urdu, Hindi, Arabic and dozens of others less-common languages.

Chung-Hwa Hong, executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition, an
umbrella organization that works with immigrants and refugees in the state,
called the order ''a landmark step toward inclusion.'' Councilwoman Rosie Mendez
of Manhattan, who has pushed for more translation services for public housing
dwellers, said it was a ''bold and necessary action'' to increasing immigrants'
access to city government.

The types of services each agency will provide will depend on how much each of
them interacts with the public. The agencies have until Jan. 1 to submit a plan
detailing how much translation and interpretation service they will need to suit
their needs.

Immigration advocates and some elected officials have tried for more than 10
years to get the city to provide language assistance to non-English speaking New
Yorkers, with limited success. In 2001, a federal judge approved a settlement
through which the city agreed to make available Spanish, Russian, Chinese and
Arabic copies of food stamp applications in welfare offices around New York, as
well as translation of these documents into languages spoken by at least 100
clients who use any given office.

In recent years, the Education Department's translation unit has been expanded
to provide parents with information in eight languages. The city's 311
customer-service center has allowed interactions in 170 languages since it was
formed in 2003. And the Office of Emergency Management has offered audio
translations of some public documents to those who cannot speak English and are
visually impaired, a spokeswoman for Mr. Bloomberg said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 24, 2008



CORRECTION: An article on Wednesday about an executive order requiring that all
New York City agencies provide translations and interpretation services in six
foreign languages referred incorrectly to a service offered by the Office of
Emergency Management. It provides audio recordings of some public documents for
the visually impaired, but the recordings are in English; they are not
translated.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 1, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

'The Jungle,' Again

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 654 words


A story from the upside-down world of immigration and labor:

A slaughterhouse in Postville, Iowa, develops an ugly reputation for abusing
animals and workers. Reports of dirty, dangerous conditions at the
Agriprocessors kosher meatpacking plant accumulate for years, told by workers,
union organizers, immigrant advocates and government investigators. A videotape
by an animal-rights group shows workers pulling the windpipes out of living
cows. A woman with a deformed hand tells a reporter of cutting meat for 12 hours
a day, six days a week, for wages that labor experts call the lowest in the
industry. This year, federal investigators amass evidence of rampant illegal
hiring at the plant, which has been called ''a kosher 'Jungle.' ''

The conditions at the Agriprocessors plant cry out for the cautious and
deliberative application of justice.

In May, the government swoops in and arrests ... the workers, hundreds of them,
for having false identity papers. The raid's catch is so huge that the detainees
are bused from little Postville to the National Cattle Congress fairgrounds in
Waterloo. The defendants, mostly immigrants from Guatemala, are not charged with
the usual administrative violations, but with ''aggravated identity theft,'' a
serious crime.

They are offered a deal: They can admit their guilt to lesser charges, waive
their rights, including the right to a hearing before an immigration judge,
spend five months in prison, then be deported. Or, they can spend six months or
more in jail without bail while awaiting a trial date, face a minimum two-year
prison sentence and be deported anyway.

Nearly 300 people agree to the five months, after being hustled through mass
hearings, with one lawyer for 17 people, each having about 30 minutes of
consultation per client. The plea deal is a brutal legal vise, but the
immigrants accept it as the quickest way back to their spouses and children,
hundreds of whom are cowering in a Catholic church, afraid to leave and not
knowing how they will survive. The workers are scattered to federal lockups
around the country. Many families still do not know where they are. The plant's
owners walk freely.

This is enforcement run amok. As Julia Preston reported in The Times, the
once-silent workers of Agriprocessors now tell of a host of abusive practices,
of rampant injuries and of exhausted children as young as 13 wielding knives on
the killing floor. A young man said in an affidavit that he started at 16, in
17-hour shifts, six days a week. ''I was very sad, and I felt like I was a
slave.''

Instead of receiving merciful treatment as defendants who also are victims, the
workers have been branded as the kind of predator who steals identities to empty
bank accounts. Accounts from Postville suggest that that's not remotely what
they were. ''Most of the clients we interviewed did not even know what a Social
Security number was or what purpose it served,'' said Erik Camayd-Freixas, a
Spanish-language interpreter for many of the workers. ''This worker simply had
the papers filled out for him at the plant, since he could not read or write
Spanish, let alone English.''

The harsh prosecution at Postville is an odd and cruel shift for the Bush
administration, which for years had voiced compassion for exploited workers and
insisted that immigration had to be fixed comprehensively or not at all.

Now it has abandoned mercy and proportionality. It has devised new and harsher
traps, as in Postville, to prosecute the weak and the poor. It has increased the
fear and desperation of workers who are irresistible to bottom-feeding
businesses precisely because they are fearful and desperate. By treating illegal
low-wage workers as a de facto criminal class, the government is trying to
inflate the menace they pose to a level that justifies its rabid efforts to
capture and punish them. That is a fraudulent exercise, and a national disgrace.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 1, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A $126 Million Rumor, Flying From New Jersey to Rio

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE; Fernanda Santos contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEWARK JOURNAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1116 words


NEWARK -- When they write the definitive history of the Great Brazilian Lottery
Rumor, its authors may not be able to get much closer to its precise origins
than the notebook of Leonardo Ferreira, a reporter for The Brazilian Voice
newspaper, which is published here.

It was Mr. Ferreira who, in the newspaper's July 26 issue, first printed the
gossip that the winning ticket in New Jersey's Mega Millions lottery drawing of
July 22 had been purchased by a Brazilian immigrant at a supermarket in the
Ironbound neighborhood, which has large Brazilian and Portuguese populations.
The jackpot was $126 million.

The source of Mr. Ferreira's tip was nebulous: a supermarket employee whose name
he never learned. But in short order the scuttlebutt got increasingly rich and
more colorful.

One version held that the immigrant was illegal and was afraid to step forward
for fear of losing the prize and being deported. In a retelling, the woman had
entrusted the ticket to a friend, a legal immigrant, who now refuses to give it
back. A variant maintained that the woman gave the ticket to her boyfriend who
ran off with both the ticket and another lover.

The rumors of the Brazilian multi-multi-multi-millionaire even became big news
in Brazil, as they zipped back and forth between the continents via Internet,
telephone, television and the jet streams of aspiration that connect the two
countries. Within days, Brazilian television stations and newspapers, following
up on Mr. Ferreira's article, were tracking the story.

''Brazilians from all over Brazil have been calling me,'' said Mr. Ferreira, who
immigrated to the United States from Rio de Janeiro in 1995. ''Everybody went
crazy.''

Problem is, it may not be true.

Antonio Seabra, owner of A & J Seabra Supermarkets XII in Ironbound, where the
winning ticket was sold, said in a telephone interview late Thursday that he
knew the winners. And while he declined to disclose their names, he said the
winners were a married couple, legal Portuguese immigrants who had been shopping
at his chain of supermarkets for 35 years and who were putting off claiming the
prize until they could get their legal affairs in order.

''They're wonderful, wonderful people,'' Mr. Seabra said. ''They are so humble,
a hard-working family. One of the American dreams.'' The husband, he added,
''actually went to work the next day.''

But the tale of the Brazilian lottery winner has become a great example of a
world made small by modern telecommunications, media, trade and travel, where
rumors in one immigrant corner of one American city can quickly reverberate back
home, even if home is thousands of miles and a hemisphere away.

For the Brazilians of the Ironbound neighborhood and their relatives and friends
in Brazil, a miraculous windfall of this magnitude represents the perfect
get-rich-quick scheme, the ultimate expression of the American dream.

''People have been dreaming about the money and saying, 'Oh my God! If I win
this money, I can buy whatever I want! I can have the American dream!' '' Mr.
Ferreira said.

One elaboration of the rumor that gained currency during the week was that the
ticket buyer was from Governador Valadares, a city in the south-central
Brazilian state of Minas Gerais from which tens of thousands of people have
migrated to the United States. Governador Valadares's ties to the United States
are so strong that it has come to be known as Brazil's most American city.

''People here went nuts,'' Raimundo Santana, a journalist in Governador
Valadares, said about the rumor. ''Wherever you go, all you hear is people
talking about who this lottery winner might be, and what she might do with all
this money.'' The $126 million lottery jackpot is equivalent to nearly half of
the city's operating budget.

The rumor comes at a time when the Brazilian community in Ironbound seems in
need of a boost. After years in which the Brazilian population here multiplied
and Brazilian-owned businesses proliferated, the slumping American economy has
compelled some residents to return to Brazil, where the economy is buoyant.

The rumors have provided immigrants a distraction from economic woes, and seems
inspired in part by a feeling that a victory for a Brazilian here would, in some
way, be a victory for the entire community.

It has also spurred unbridled fantasizing. One evening this week, employees and
guests at the Casa Nova Grill, a Brazilian restaurant in Ironbound, were riffing
on their dreams.

''I would travel the whole world and let people forget about me and settle
down,'' said Mariana Dias, who is from Belo Horizonte in Brazil and was visiting
the restaurant's manager, Rogerio Santos. ''Then I would go back to Brazil.''

''I'd move to Miami Beach, I'd buy a Lambo,'' said Mr. Santos, a native of Rio
de Janeiro, using shorthand for a Lamborghini. ''Bling, bling!''

But Francisco Sampa, the president of the Brazilian American United Association
of New Jersey and a leader of the Brazilian community here, was more circumspect
about the whole thing. He wasn't buying into the rumors.

''I'm a man with the feelings,'' he said while sitting at the restaurant's bar
sipping a Brazilian soda. ''Everybody say it's a Brazilian. But maybe not. I
search already. I made a lot of phone calls, visit a lot of homes. Where is she?
I know everybody.''

Still, the rumor of an illegal immigrant's winning the lottery raised a question
that hung in the air of Ironbound's rodizio grill joints and choperia taverns
this week: What's an illegal immigrant to do if she suddenly finds herself
holding a $126 million lottery ticket?

Dominick DeMarco, spokesman for the New Jersey Lottery, said that a nonresident
foreigner, illegally in the country or not, could claim a prize provided that
the person could show an official document that proves identity and country of
origin. But the nonresident foreigner would face a 30 percent federal tax rather
than the 25 percent that a legal resident would face.

He said a nonresident foreigner had not won the lottery's jackpot ''in recent
memory.''

Richard Rocha, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said if the
agency investigators received ''credible information'' that a person was in the
country illegally, they might start investigating.

Mr. DeMarco said the kind of self-propelling theories that have been the buzz of
Ironbound are not unique. ''There are a lot of rumors swirling around when a
winner doesn't immediately step forward,'' he said.

But he seemed amused by the increasingly colorful details of the rumors
surrounding the July 22 drawing.

''I got to tell you,'' he said, fighting back laughter. ''There are probably as
many stories out there as there are combinations of numbers.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The store in the ironbound neighborhood where a winning lottery
ticket was sold. Its owner, Antonio Seabra, says the winners of the $126 million
jackpot are legal Portuguese immigrants.
Leonardo Ferreira, a Brazilian Voice reporter, helped give life to the tale of a
possible Brazilian instant multimillionaire. ''Brazilians from all over Brazil
have been calling me,'' he said. (pg. B4)
 The winning ticket in a $126 million jackpot was sold in Newark's Ironbound
neighborhood, prompting rumors that a Brazilian immigrant had bought
it.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 8, 2008 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Texas Executes Inmate After High Court Steps Aside

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 331 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


An  Honduran immigrant convicted of murder was put to death in Texas on Thursday
evening after the  Supreme Court declined to block the execution,  despite his
lawyers' complaints that he should have been told that he could get assistance
early on from Honduran diplomats.

The court's ruling came without dissent and without comment.

The immigrant,  Heliberto Chi, 29, was  executed in Huntsville, Tex., for
shooting to death his former boss during a robbery at a men's store in Arlington
in 2001.

Mr. Chi's execution  is  the second one this week with diplomatic implications.
On Tuesday night, Texas executed Jose Medellin,  a Mexican national, in defiance
of an international court ruling and despite pleas from the Bush administration
that he be given a new hearing. The Supreme Court declined to block that
execution earlier on Tuesday.

Mr. Chi was scheduled to die last fall, but he was spared along with others on
death rows in Texas and elsewhere while the Supreme Court considered whether
lethal injection was cruel and unusual punishment barred under the Constitution.
In April, the justices upheld Kentucky's lethal-injection method in a decision
that death-penalty states took as a signal that they could resume executions.

With the lethal-injection issue settled, Mr. Chi's lawyers tried to persuade the
justices that their client should be spared because he was not given an
opportunity to seek help from a Honduran consulate, as required under a 1963
international treaty.

Mr. Chi's lawyers used arguments like those used unsuccessfully by lawyers for
Mr. Medellin, whose case has been a cause of major friction between the United
States and Mexico. He was put to death after being convicted of  the rape and
slaying of two teenage girls in 1993.

The outcomes in both the Medellin and Chi cases were not surprising, given the
Supreme Court's 6-to-3 ruling in March that Texas courts need not be bound by
international judgment or the Bush administration's request.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 10, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Pull of Heavy Industry

BYLINE: By ALEX KUMMANT.

As told to Patricia R. Olsen.

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg.
10

LENGTH: 619 words


A  STREAK of resilience runs through my family. Three of my grandparents'
families immigrated in the 1700s to Russia, then under Catherine the Great, from
Germany. Then they were forced to leave during the Russian Revolution.

After World War II, each of my parents immigrated to Canada and then to the
United States, where they met. My mother came from a German refugee camp after
leaving Estonia just ahead of the collapsing Russian front. My father's family,
from Poland, regrouped in Vienna and then left. In effect, my family lost
everything twice.

My father was chief engineer in a steel mill in the United States during the oil
drilling boom of the 1970s. The endurance required in that type of work is also
a thread in the manufacturing and transportation companies I've been involved
in. These are heavily capitalized businesses where there's an almost physical
engagement. That has always appealed to me. The strategic questions are often
about whether you spend a great deal of money or close facilities.

Part of life in heavy industry involves a certain dogged persistence in pursuing
incremental improvements. I contrast that with the Silicon Valley executives who
say you need to have big goals and challenge the organization. I don't disagree
with that, but when you grow up in manufacturing or transportation, the
incremental improvements you make every day are what create robust change in the
end.

My first job out of college was in an engineering group at Standard Oil of Ohio.
I spent three years on a solar energy project. When oil prices crashed in the
mid-1980s, it was clear that the project would be discontinued. Twenty-three
years later, the price of oil is playing a significant role in Amtrak's recent
increase in ridership.

I went to Carnegie Mellon University for a master's degree in engineering. After
graduating, I worked for a Carnegie spin-off. I also went back to school, in the
late 1980s, for an M.B.A from Stanford. In 1999, I joined the Union Pacific
railroad as vice president and general manager, industrial products, in Omaha
and eventually took over as vice president, central region, in Kansas City, Mo.

Competition among big railroads can be fierce, but I married a woman from
another railroad company. I met Kathleen, my wife-to-be, when I was at Union
Pacific and she was working for Burlington Northern Santa Fe. I left Union
Pacific and became president of Bomag, an international manufacturer of heavy
equipment for road construction.

Most big rail companies are facing a brain drain in the next five to seven years
because of retirements. But also, because of our pay scale, we're going to have
to find ways to attract and retain the next generation of employees. Since we
report to people rooted in government, sometimes we have to work hard to get the
point across that we cannot support critical functions at the government pay
rate. It's always a political tug of war.

We've just completed a major labor agreement with our 15,000 unionized
front-line people, which was long overdue. They're now much more aligned with
the market. But we're also an intense knowledge business, with complex systems
that include marketing, finance, engineering and I.T. Those are all critical
functions as well.

Chief executives are often asked what keeps them up at night. For me, the first
answer is my four-month-old. The second answer is human resources issues.

Being an older father keeps you young. People who have children at a younger age
sometimes take it for granted. You trade off a creaky back for a certain amount
of wisdom you can bring to a child. I approach fatherhood with a sense of
humility every day, and a little bit of wonder. It's a blessing.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alex Kummant

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 13, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Day Laborers and Home Depot

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 333 words


It's rare, in the parched landscape of the immigration debate, to come across
policies that are simple, realistic and humane. But here is one: The Los Angeles
City Council is expected to vote on Wednesday  on an ordinance requiring big-box
home-improvement stores to protect order and safety when day laborers gather in
their parking lots looking for work.

The ordinance is primarily aimed at Home Depot, which has 11 stores in Los
Angeles and would like to open at least a dozen more. It would require new or
renovating stores to have a plan for what to do when the day laborers show up,
as they almost always do when Home Depot moves in.

Like any land-use law governing things like parking-lot lighting, curbs and
sidewalks, the ordinance treats milling crowds of laborers and idling trucks as
an integral fact of Home Depot's business that should be managed before it
becomes chaotic and hazardous. The solution is basic prevention, and could be as
simple as setting up an area somewhere on store property with shade, toilets,
drinking water and trash cans.

Opposition has erupted from the usual camps. Not all day laborers are
undocumented immigrants or even immigrants, but a lot of them are, and the
thought of doing anything that would make their lives easier makes some
restrictionists howl and clutch their chests. ''Lounges for Laborers?'' one
headline read.

The ordinance is as much for Home Depot's customers and neighbors as it is for
laborers. Nobody likes parking-lot free-for-alls. And lawlessness goes down, not
up, when a hiring site imposes order on the ad-hoc day-labor market.

The immigration system, as it is currently malfunctioning, creates lots of
problems. Solutions tend to be hugely ambitious and unrealistic -- like
restrictionists' calls to lock down a 2,000-mile border and deport millions. Los
Angeles's proposed ordinance to require more orderly hiring sites for day
laborers is a small measure that makes a huge amount of sense. We hope the
Council approves it.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 14, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Generation Away, Minorities May Become the Majority in U.S.

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1201 words


Ethnic and racial minorities will comprise a majority of the nation's population
in a little more than a generation, according to new Census Bureau projections,
a transformation that is occurring faster than anticipated just a few years ago.

The census calculates that by 2042, Americans who identify themselves as
Hispanic, black, Asian, American Indian, Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander
will together outnumber non-Hispanic whites. Four years ago, officials had
projected the shift would come in 2050.

The main reason for the accelerating change is significantly higher birthrates
among immigrants. Another factor is the influx of foreigners, rising from about
1.3 million annually today to more than 2 million a year by midcentury,
according to projections based on current immigration policies.

''No other country has experienced such rapid racial and ethnic change,'' said
Mark Mather, a demographer with the Population Reference Bureau, a research
organization in Washington.

The latest figures, which are being released on Thursday, are predicated on
current and historical trends, which can be thrown awry by several variables,
including prospective overhauls of immigration policies and sudden increases in
refugees.

A decade ago, census demographers estimated that the nation's population, which
topped 300 million in 2006, would not surpass 400 million until sometime after
midcentury. Now, they are projecting that the population will top 400 million in
2039 and reach 439 million in 2050.

So-called minorities, the Census Bureau projects, will constitute a majority of
the nation's children under 18 by 2023 and of working-age Americans by 2039.

For the first time, both the number and the proportion of non-Hispanic whites,
who now account for 66 percent of the population, will decline, starting around
2030. By 2050, their share will dip to 46 percent.

Higher mortality rates among older native-born white Americans and higher
birthrates rates among immigrants and their children are already driving ethnic
and racial disparities.

''A momentum is built into this as a result of past immigration,'' said Jeffrey
S. Passel, senior demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center. ''In the 1970s, '80s
and '90s, there were more Hispanic immigrants than births. This decade, there
are more births than immigrants. Almost regardless of what you assume about
future immigration, the country will be more Hispanic and Asian.''

With the Census Bureau forecasting even more immigrants, other demographers
estimate that the proportion of foreign-born Americans, now about 12 percent,
could surpass the 1910 historic high of nearly 15 percent by about 2025 and may
approach 20 percent in 2050.

According to the new forecast, by 2050, the number of Hispanic people will
nearly triple,  to 133 million from 47 million, to account for 30 percent of
Americans, compared with 15 percent today.

People who say they are Asian, with their ranks soaring to 41 million from 16
million, will make up more than 9 percent of the population,  up from 5 percent.

More than three times as many people are expected to identify themselves as
multiracial -- 16 million, accounting for nearly 4 percent of the population.

The population of people who define themselves a black is projected to rise  to
66 million from 41 million, but increase its overall share by barely two
percentage points, to 15 percent.

''What's happening now in terms of increasing diversity probably is
unprecedented,'' said Campbell Gibson, a retired census demographer.

Several  states, including California and Texas, have already reached the point
where members of minorities  are in the majority.

''Within the conventional definition of race, of white, black, Asian, minority
vs. non-minority, this is a big change,'' said David G. Waddington, chief of the
Census Bureau's population projections branch.

All the projections are subject to changing cultural definitions. The share of
Americans who identify themselves as white, regardless of their ethnicity, will
remain largely unchanged, declining from less than 80 percent in 2010 to about
76 percent when the majority-minority benchmark is reached in 2042.

''The way people report race 20 or 30 years from now may be very different,''
Dr. Waddington pointed out.

The Census Bureau's projections are likely to fuel debates over immigration
policy, overpopulation and the changing electorate, and recall earlier eras when
the Irish, the Italians and Eastern European Jews were not universally
considered as whites. As recently as the 1960s, Hispanic people were not counted
separately by the census and Asian Indians were classified as white.

William H. Frey, a demographer with the Brookings Institution, said that by the
2028 presidential election, racial and ethnic minorities will constitute a
majority of adults between the ages of 18 and 29 for the first time.

Two years later, when all the baby boomers will have turned 65, nearly 20
percent of Americans, compared with fewer than 13 percent today, will be over
65. By 2050, about 89 million Americans will be in that group, more than double
the number today.

''In 2020, the burdens of seniors to the white working-aged population become
larger than the burdens of children,'' Dr. Frey said.

The changes projected by the census point toward a nation in which the older
population will be whiter (deaths will outnumber births among whites, beginning
in the 2020s) and where black Americans will still have slightly higher rates of
infant mortality and lower life expectancy.

Steven A. Camarota, research director for the Center for Immigration Studies,
which favors limits on immigration, expressed concern about congestion and other
issues related to population growth driven by the foreign-born.

Gregory Rodriguez, a senior fellow at the New America Foundation, a public
policy institute, argued that while ''assimilation became a dirty word in the
1960s and '70s,'' America has always been evolving and becoming enriched by new
cultures, whether from Europe or from South America and Asia.

Indeed, Dr. Gibson, the retired census demographer, once estimated that in 1492
about 96 percent of the inhabitants of what is now the United States were
American Indian and the rest of Polynesian origin. Well before the English
landed in Jamestown, the Spanish became America's first minority.

When the first census was conducted in 1790, about 64 percent of the people
counted were white, a bit more than half of whom were of English origin. By
1900, about 9 in 10 Americans were non-Hispanic white, mostly of European
ancestry.

The share of Americans who can trace their roots to immigrants directly from
Europe has been shrinking. The federal Office of Management and Budget now
defines whites as descendants of ''the original peoples of Europe, North Africa
or the Middle East.'' Hispanic or Latino people, according to the same
government agency, are of ''Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, Central or South
American or other Spanish culture.''

''We may be using the same words 50 years from now,'' said Mr. Passel, of the
Pew Center, ''but I feel confident in saying they'll mean something different.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: MAJORITY MINORITIES: The Census Bureau projects that the share
of ethnic and racial minorities will reach 54 percent of the total the United
States population and surpass that of non-Hispanic whites by 2042. (Source:
Census Bureau) (pg.A18)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 16, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

From a Quiet American, a Story of War and Remembrance

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 721 words


Harry Abe has swallowed an ocean of pain. At first this is hard to detect, then
impossible not to. On a recent Sunday afternoon at his immaculate Long Island
townhouse, papered with photos of grandchildren, Dr. Abe, 91, was the picture of
a gentle family doctor, comfortably retired.

Talk with him a while, though, and the decades fall away. An astounding story
emerges. Pick a beginning: 1916, when he is born in Seattle to immigrant
Japanese parents. Or 1939, when he graduates from Oregon State and hopes to head
straight to medical school. But schools in those days have strict quotas for the
Japanese, and no room for Harry Abe. He bides his time, living with his family
while studying for a master's degree and working in a grocery store.

Then comes Pearl Harbor. Tens of thousands of Japanese immigrants and their
American-born children are classified as ''enemy aliens.'' In 1942, on the order
of President Franklin Roosevelt, they are forced into prison camps. Harry's
parents and siblings are sent to Minidoka, in Idaho. Harry volunteers for the
Army.

It isn't easy because he has a bad right eye. He memorizes the eye chart and is
sent to basic training to become a medic. When the Army creates an
all-Japanese-American fighting unit, he and thousands of fellow nisei, the
children of immigrants, step forward, eager to prove their loyalty.

The 442nd Regimental Combat Team fights with unmatched distinction in France,
Italy and Germany. Its motto -- Go for Broke! -- sums up its spirit of all-out
fearlessness. It becomes one of the most highly decorated units in Army history.
Harry Abe is with it the whole way, from Italy to the French forest, where they
rescue the Lost Battalion and suffer 800 casualties to save 200 Texans, and on
to Dachau.

Dr. Abe unspools his memories slowly, pausing to line up dates and places that
have faded. The people, though, live on, fresh as yesterday. ''They call us
heroes, but that wasn't us,'' he says quietly. ''The heroes were the ones who
didn't come home.'' There was another medic, moving too slowly, who took a
German bullet through the cross on his helmet. And Yoshi Ito, who looked up to
Harry like an older brother, and died in Italy.

Anguish seems about to overwhelm him, but after a moment, he continues.

News of the war's end came by leaflets dropped from planes. Harry went home. His
father had lost the family business, a chain of millinery stores. Renters had
stolen the heirlooms hidden in the Abe home.

And Harry Abe still couldn't get into medical school. One administrator told him
that he didn't admit Japs before the war and wasn't going to start now.

A former professor pulled strings and got Harry into Marquette University. Dr.
Abe settled on Long Island, married and raised a family. He retired in 1994,
after more than 40 years in practice.

Dr. Abe kept in touch with his wartime comrades and worked hard to keep their
story alive. He raised money for an internment memorial in Washington and helped
to found the Japanese American National Museum in Los Angeles. He and other
veterans still get together. Senator Daniel Inouye of Hawaii, a hero of the
442nd, calls him Doc.

But time has been steadily taking what the war did not. Veterans and internees
are dying, and so is the memory of that ugly time. It has been 20 years since
the United States officially apologized for the internment, paying $20,000 in
reparations to each victim. That anniversary, on Aug. 10, passed quietly.

''The money didn't mean anything,'' Dr. Abe said, without anger. Nothing could
replace what the country took away. ''People lost everything,'' he said.

The apology closed a chapter, but the country remains as panic-prone as ever.
Citizenship was hardly enough to protect Japanese-Americans after Pearl Harbor,
and it did not keep thousands of American Muslims from being seized after 9/11.
Helpless Latino immigrants have been harassed and brutalized in states from
Arizona to Iowa and sent to languish in federal custody.

There is an antidote to America's toxic fear of supposed strangers. It does not
rely on late, inadequate apologies, but simply on listening to people like Dr.
Abe and remembering who they are. The country owes a debt to those who forgive
but do not forget, who live to tell their stories, as often as they need to be
repeated.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 23, 2008 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Rabbis Debate Kosher Ethics At Meat Plant

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1608 words


An immigration raid at the nation's largest kosher meatpacking plant has opened
a wide rift among Jewish leaders over the company's ethical conduct and led to
new interest in a campaign to create wage and safety standards for workers
producing kosher food.

The Agriprocessors Inc. plant in Postville, Iowa, lost about half its work force
when 389 illegal immigrants were detained there in May, causing shortages of
kosher meat and poultry in butcher shops and supermarkets across the country.

Immigrants caught in the raid told labor investigators of unpaid overtime, lax
safety measures and under-age workers at the plant. Their stories have troubled
many kosher consumers and given impetus to a campaign known as Hekhsher Tzedek
(which means ''justice certification'' in Hebrew) to create an additional seal
of approval for kosher-certified products, indicating that the producers met
certain standards for the treatment of workers.

''People want kosher food that is produced in an appropriate manner according to
both ritual law and ethical law,'' said Rabbi Morris J. Allen of Mendota
Heights, Minn., who is leading the effort backed by the United Synagogue of
Conservative Judaism, representing the synagogues of the Conservative movement,
and the Rabbinical Assembly, the organization of Conservative rabbis.

But while Rabbi Allen and others have criticized Agriprocessors, some Orthodox
Jewish leaders rallied to the company's defense. After touring the Postville
plant on July 31, a delegation of 20 Orthodox rabbis, including leaders of
kosher certification organizations from the United States and Canada, concluded
Agriprocessors was ''an A-1 place,'' said Rabbi Pesach Lerner, vice president of
the National Council of Young Israel, an Orthodox group.

''An old medieval plant we didn't see,'' said Rabbi Lerner, who organized the
trip. ''We saw a Cadillac with top-of-the-line machinery and a heavy emphasis on
safety, security and health.''

A spokesman for the company, Menachem Lubinsky, said it had been unfairly
singled out for labor violations that were unproven accusations. Mr. Lubinsky
told The Jewish Week newspaper that Agriprocessors was facing a ''Dreyfus trial
in the media,'' referring to the case of a Jewish military officer in France who
was unfairly tried for treason in the late 19th century.

Agriprocessors managers, at first stunned by the immigration raid, have since
gone on the offensive, revising management practices and hiring lawyers and
public relations advisers in an effort to rebuild the company's reputation,
especially among Jewish consumers.

The Postville plant has been owned since 1987 by Aaron Rubashkin and his family,
Lubavitch Hasidic Jews who built the company from a Brooklyn butcher shop into a
kosher meat giant controlling more than 60 percent of the market, with annual
kosher sales of more than $80 million, according to analysts' estimates.

Agriprocessors specializes in glatt kosher beef, the highest kosher
certification that is reserved for meat from animals with smooth lungs bearing
no lesions. The shortages after the raid highlighted the company's dominance in
the kosher meat market, with brands like Aaron's Best, Shor Harbor and David's.

Kosher experts said that Mr. Rubashkin and his son Sholom, until recently the
chief executive in Postville, had vastly extended the distribution of kosher
products across the United States by selling them to major supermarkets along
with nonkosher beef.

But workers at the Postville plant had long complained of forced overtime,
frequent accidents and extortion by floor supervisors who sold jobs for cash.
Their complaints were amplified after the raid, when nearly 300 illegal
immigrant workers, most from Guatemala, were criminally prosecuted, with most
sentenced to five months in prison followed by deportation.

On Aug. 5, Iowa labor authorities said they had found 57 cases of under-age
workers employed at the plant, and they called on the state attorney general to
bring criminal charges against Agriprocessors for ''egregious violations'' of
the state's child labor laws.

On Friday, the Iowa labor department announced 31 citations against
Agriprocessors for safety violations and proposed $101,000 in fines. Kerry
Koonce, the department's spokeswoman, said 21 violations were serious and 6 were
repeat offenses cited earlier this year by authorities, which the company had
agreed to correct.

The violations, found in inspections that began on July 8, included inadequately
shielded meat-cutting saws and improper storage of compressed gas cylinders --
''a very high number for one inspection,'' Ms. Koonce said. One repeat violation
was a hole large enough for a worker to fall through in the plant floor, she
said.

Mr. Lubinsky, the spokesman, said Agriprocessors was not aware of under-age
workers in its plant and had moved swiftly to fire four workers under 18 who
were discovered by managers. In a statement on Friday, the company said all of
the safety issues identified by Iowa inspectors in July were remedied within
days. The company denied that it had failed to correct any earlier violations.

A low-level Agriprocessors floor supervisor pleaded guilty this week to criminal
immigration charges, the only manager convicted to date. Higher managers remain
under criminal investigation.

The Agriprocessors raid in May fueled a fundamental debate between the Orthodox
and Conservative movements of Judaism. The Orthodox, who include the majority of
Jews who keep kosher, adhere to a strict interpretation of Jewish law, while the
Conservative movement has a more liberal interpretation emphasizing social
justice. Among Conservative Jews, a minority observe kosher laws strictly.

Rabbi Allen said the Hekhsher Tzedek campaign grew out of his efforts to promote
kosher practice in his synagogue, and his participation in a Jewish commission
of inquiry that went to Postville after an article in 2006 in The Forward, the
weekly Jewish newspaper, about conditions there. The commission's report found
''significant issues of concern, including health and safety.''

Since then a rift has grown between Rabbi Allen's group  and Agriprocessors and
its supporters. Several rabbis supporting the Hekhsher Tzedek campaign joined a
protest at the Postville plant in July.

Last month, a New York public relations firm representing Agriprocessors, 5W
Public Relations, posted fake blog comments under Rabbi Allen's name on
FailedMessiah.com, a Web site that is fiercely critical of the Rubashkins, and
on the Web site of JTA, the Jewish news agency. Shmarya Rosenberg, who runs
FailedMessiah.com, traced the fraudulent comments on his site to a 5W address.
JTA reported that one false posting in Rabbi Allen's name came from an address
belonging to a 5W executive, Juda Engelmayer.

The postings seemed intended to discredit Rabbi Allen by making him appear to
use crude, arrogant language. In a statement, 5W confirmed that the postings
came from its offices but said that they had been  made by an intern without
approval.

The Hekhsher Tzedek campaign has broadened its ambitions beyond Agriprocessors,
hoping to see its ''God Housekeeping Seal'' adopted by kosher food producers
nationwide. On Aug. 1, the campaign unveiled proposed ''social justice
criteria'' for the seal, including standards for wages and benefits, worker
safety, animal welfare and environmental protection.

In coming days, the two Conservative Jewish organizations behind the campaign
will send out a mailing calling on rabbis to preach about it during Rosh
Hashana, the Jewish New Year.

Rabbi Allen said the campaign was not seeking to change ancient kosher dietary
laws, which are traditionally administered by Orthodox Jews. ''We are not
revising, we are enhancing,'' he said.

But some Orthodox leaders predicted that the campaign would be spurned by
Orthodox Jews. Rabbi Avi Shafran of Agudath Israel, a national Orthodox group,
warned that the Hekhsher Tzedek was likely to backfire by raising the price of
kosher food.

The campaign's leaders appear ''not so much interested in ensuring fair
treatment of employees and the like as they are in redefining the very concept
of kashrut'' (the Hebrew word referring to kosher laws and practice), Rabbi
Shafran said. ''That, in our view, is deeply troubling.''

Meanwhile, the negative news from Agriprocessors spurred Orthodox leaders to
action. David Eliezrie, a California rabbi who joined the trip to Postville,
called the delegation ''the New York Yankees of rabbis.'' Aaron Troodler,
another delegation member, said Agriprocessors had paid for the rabbis' travel.

They saw changes that Agriprocessors had made since the raid, according to the
report of their trip. They met with James Martin, a former federal prosecutor
recently hired as a compliance officer, and were told of a toll-free hot line he
set up for confidential worker complaints.

Workers interviewed on video by Yair Hoffman, a delegation member, said
Agriprocessors now pays a starting wage of $10 an hour, up from $7.25 before the
raid. Jacobson Staffing, an outside company that has taken charge of hiring, has
enrolled the company in E-Verify, a federal program devised to block illegal
immigrants from getting jobs.

After the three-hour tour, the rabbis issued an unqualified endorsement. They
said they did not intend to delve into conditions before the raid or address the
plight of the immigrant workers caught in the raid.

''I have no firsthand knowledge of what went on before,'' Rabbi Lerner said.
''But if you take away preraid, you've got to say it's a wonderful situation
now.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 17, 2008



CORRECTION: An article on Nov. 6 about the bankruptcy filing by Agri- processors
Inc., a kosher meatpacking company with a plant in Postville, Iowa, where an
immigration raid took place in May, misstated the name of one of the company's
meat brands. The error also appeared on Aug. 23 in an article about the
immigration raid. The meat brand is Shor Habor, not Shor Harbor.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Illegal immigrants caught in a raid at the Agriprocessors plant
in Postville, Iowa, told of lax safety rules and under-age workers.(PHOTOGRAPH
BY CHARLIE NEIBERGALL/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A13)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 24, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

INSIDE THE TIMES: August 24, 2008

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1812 words


INTERNATIONAL

INFLATION TAKING TOLL

On Vietnam's Spirits

August is the month when Buddhists honor the dead with paper offerings. But
shopkeepers in Vietnam say people are buying fewer gifts to burn for the dead
because inflation has made them, like everything else, more expensive as the
country suffers its first serious downturn since it moved from a command economy
to an open market nearly two decades ago.   PAGE 8

PREPARING FOR REFUGEES

With Russia saying its military pullback from Georgia had been completed,
despite still holding several key areas of the country, Georgia began to ready
cities and villages in the conflict areas for the return of thousands of
refugees who fled the violence that erupted two weeks ago. Georgia has deployed
a ''massive police presence'' in and around the city of Gori to help guarantee
security for returning residents.   PAGE 6

PHOTOS OF ATTACK IN CHINA

The Associated Press has released photographs of an attack that took place this
month against Chinese security forces in the remote Silk Road oasis town of
Kashgar that Chinese officials said killed 16 paramilitary officers. Some
critics have said the Chinese government may have fabricated its accounts of the
attack to justify a crackdown in parts of Xinjiang.  PAGE 10

NATIONAL

VETTED JUDGES LESS LIKELY

To Grant Asylum Requests

Immigration judges chosen by the Bush administration for their political
affiliation disproportionately rejected immigrants seeking asylum, according to
an analysis. The selection procedure was abandoned as illegal after three years,
but critics say the continued presence of some of the judges undermines the
perceived fairness of hearings.   PAGE  17

BEIJING TO BIRMINGHAM

In his first year as mayor of Birmingham, Ala., Larry P. Langford has set some
lofty goals, among them, hosting the 2020 Olympic Games. Never mind the lack of
hotel space, transportation options, athletic facilities. ''Our city has allowed
the world to tell us for too long that we're 'less than' and 'too small,' and
we've bought into it,'' he said. ''We need to start thinking big.''  PAGE 14

BEIJING '08

WINNERS TAKE GOLD,

While Others Cope

Petero Okotai, Erica Bartolina and Genny Pagliaro are first-time Olympians with
at least one other thing in common: Each finished last in an event. How they
coped with that was as much a part of the Olympic experience here as Michael
Phelps's swimming successes or Usain Bolt's superhuman sprints. And there are
thousands more losers than winners packed into the athletes' village.  PAGE 1

AVERTING A CHINESE SWEEP

After finishing 16th in the 3-meter springboard event, the Australian Matthew
Mitcham decided just to relax and enjoy the Olympic experience. Saturday night,
with dives in the 10-meter platform finals that deprived China of a gold medal
in diving for the first time during the Games, the enjoying was easier.   PAGE 7

NEW YORK REPORT

A NETWORKING WEB SITE

With Real-World Focus

The two dozen or so Boston terriers and their owners at Carl Schurz Park on the
Upper East Side of Manhattan on a recent Saturday came not through curious
chance. They used Meetup.com, a social networking site that aims to have people
with similar interests meet not just in the virtual world, but in the real one.
PAGE 26

SCENES FROM HOME

The big screen TV at the Fujian Fuzhou Senior Association in Chinatown is always
a draw, but for the past two weeks the Beijing Games have attracted an even
bigger and more engaged crowd than usual. A sign says ''Members Only,'' but
especially at times like this, membership is a fluid concept.   PAGE 25

THE U. S. OPEN DECIDER

He worked his way up the tennis ladder, playing at  events in places like
Pensacola, Fla. Now he is the director of the United States Tennis Association
Pro Circuit, and, more to the point right now, the United States Open referee.
For the next couple of weeks, decisions right down to who plays when and where
are his to make.   PAGE 25

OBITUARIES

DR. HUGH R. BUTT, 98

His bravura studies of coagulation showed that Vitamin K could be highly
effective in halting internal bleeding and that it could be used to reduce
deaths markedly among patients with jaundice.  PAGE 27

The Magazine

A FREE-MARKET-LOVING

Wealth Redistributionist

Barack Obama has a lot to say about economics. Unlike, say, Bill Clinton, he
wants to raise taxes not to reduce the deficit but to address inequality. But
how does he reduce all of those ideas to a bumper sticker?  PAGE 28

STILL BEING JOHN MCENROE

As a tennis wizard, John McEnroe wielded expletives the way he wielded his
racket. In his second life as tennis's premier commentator, he is:

a) In control

b) Worked up

c) Mellower

d) Stressed

e) All of the Above.  PAGE 22

The Ethicist:

The Lazy Paperboy  15

Questions for:

Dennis Kucinich 15

Book Review

TWO NATIONS DIVIDED

By a Common Language

Sarah Lyall, a New Yorker by birth and temperament, married an Englishman, moved
to London and has spent the last decade observing the curious behavior of the
British. Such is the thrust of her new book, ''The Anglo Files,'' a loving,
playful look at her adopted home. ''Learning about cricket in middle age is
like, studying Mandarin, an effort best left to scholars, optimists and members
of the Foreign Service,'' she writes. PAGE 10

THE ART OF THE ''MOMOIR''

In ''Mother on Fire,'' Sandra Tsing Loh writes that she expected her 40s to be
her Amy Tan/Yo-Yo Ma years: ''a seasoned, leavened time in my life when the
artist travels around the country accepting lifetime awards and honorary
medals.'' Instead, she finds herself jockeying -- and failing -- to get her
children into exclusive, expensive Los Angeles elementary schools and
experiencing a democracy-mad, public citizenship epiphany.  PAGE 7

Theroux Revisits His Past 12

China vs. the Falun Gong 11

Sunday Business

WHAT FANNIE AND FREDDIE

Cost You and Me

''No bailout exists in a vacuum,'' writes Gretchen Morgenson of possible
measures to help out struggling Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, the mortgage
behemoths that guarantee or hold $5.2 trillion in mortgages. The ramifications,
she says, are likely to be complex and confounding -- not to mention very, very
costly.  PAGE 1

TACKLING STUDENT LOANS

With more people going to college, more people are taking out student loans to
finance their educations. That also means that more loans are going into
default, and lenders who make loans guaranteed by the federal government can
more easily take steps against borrowers than they can with other kinds of
unsecured consumer debts.  PAGE 1

Arts & Leisure

ALL THE COMPLEXITY,

With Less Commitment

J. J. Abrams, the creator of ''Lost'' and ''Alias,'' said people would come up
to him and tell him they had stopped watching one of his intricately plotted
shows after missing a single episode, fearing they would never be able to catch
up. He has promised to keep things more simple on his new sci-fi serial drama,
''Fringe.''  PAGE 17

AN AUTEUR'S DIARY

Woody Allen kept a running log of his new film, ''Vicky Cristina Barcelona,''
which starts Penelope Cruz, Javier Bardem, and Scarlett Johansson. ''Barcelona
is a marvelous city,'' he writes. ''Crowds turn out in the streets to watch us
work. Mercifully they realize I've no time to give autographs, and so they ask
only the cast members.'' PAGE 9

Travel

POET'S SHORT-LIVED HOME

Of Myth, Reality and Love

The town of Soria was home to the poet Antonio Machado, who, while only living
in Soria for five years, was heavily influenced by the town, its surrounding
landscape,and his wife, Leonor, who died there.  Page 5

Sunday Styles

COULD YOU SPARE A DIME

And Do So Via PayPal?

Hundreds of bloggers will descend on the Democratic and Republican conventions,
and both parties want them there. And these online partisans, many of whom are
self-financed, must contend with all the logistical and financial hurdles just
to get there -- not to mention the party politics happening behind the scenes.
PAGE 1

Modern Love:

Marrying as Necessary 6

Automobiles

AN S.U.V. FOR HER

Infiniti, operating under the premise that men and women have different needs on
the road, rolled out a 2008 model crossover, the EX35, for female drivers. (It's
smaller than the sportier, revamped 2009 FX  aimed at men). The Ex boasts an
automatic transmission, less horsepower, and considerably less interior room and
petite storage spaces. But the EX got all of Infiniti's new technology last
December  -- well before the revised FX reached market this summer  -- and has a
lot of other features in its favor.  SPORTS, PAGE 19

Week in Review

WATCHING THE OLYMPICS

With an Eyebrow Raised

The last time John Burns was in China, he was ordered out by the government on
charges of using a motorcycle trip across the Chinese heartland as a cover for
spying on the country's missile program. And so he has viewed these Olympic
games with a mix of wonderment and awe, and he writes that ''some of the worst
instincts of the old China have poked through the dazzle.''  PAGE 1

A FAMILIAR THEME

When Barack Obama first arrived in Chicago (by way of Harvard by way of Kansas
by way of Hawaii), machine politicians in Chicago would often ask: Who sent him?
Michael Powell writes that wanderlust ambition is encoded in the American
national DNA. ''Again and again in American culture, the rootless outsider
becomes an insider, and begins to guard his prize,'' he writes. PAGE 14

Editorials

WHAT THE VOTERS KNOW

We suspect the two presidential candidates would do a better job connecting to
voters if they started by telling them what they all too painfully know: This
country is in deep economic trouble, and it will take not only creativity but
real sacrifice to fix these problems.  WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11

Op-Ed

FRANK RICH

It's time for Barack Obama to dispatch ''Change We Can Believe In'' to a
dignified death.  WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9

MAUREEN DOWD

FYI, John McCain was POW.  WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11

THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

You can't look at the United States Olympic team and not see the strength that
comes from diversity, and you can't look at the Chinese team and not see the
strength that comes from intense focus and concentrated power. They could learn
from each other.  WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10

NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

What makes the news from China is usually the bad news: the arrests, the raided
churches, the blocked Internet sites, the overzealous security goons. For all
the continuing repression, Chinese live far freer lives now than in the 1980s
and 1990s. Just look at the blogs.  WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10

PUTIN IN THE SHADOW

Of the Red Czar

In an Op-Ed article, Simon Sebag Montefiore, the author of ''Young Stalin,''
discusses the many ways in which Stalin hovers in the background of Vladimir
Putin's invasion of Georgia.

WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 27, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nearly 600 Were Arrested In Factory Raid, Officials Say

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 602 words


Federal officials on Tuesday revised upward to 595 the number of suspected
illegal immigrants arrested this week in a raid on a Laurel, Miss., factory,
making it the largest immigration crackdown on a United States workplace in
recent years.

On Monday, the day of the raid, officials said at least 350 people had been
arrested.

Officials said 475 of the immigrants were immediately taken by bus to a
detention center in the central Louisiana town of Jena and would face
deportation. At least eight appeared in federal court in Hattiesburg, Miss., on
Tuesday, where they faced criminal charges of aggravated identity theft, which
usually means stealing a Social Security number or using a false address.

Of the 595 arrested, 106 were temporarily released for what Immigration and
Customs Enforcement officials called ''humanitarian'' reasons -- because of
illness or the need to care for children -- though they still face deportation.
Nine unaccompanied 17-year-olds were taken into custody by the federal Office of
Refugee Resettlement.

The relatively low number of criminal cases could represent a shift in
government policy, several immigration experts said, particularly in view of the
hundreds who were prosecuted and sent to jail after a similar raid at a
meatpacking plant at Postville, Iowa, in May.

''I'm going to hope that it is,'' said Kathleen C. Walker, a past president of
the American Immigration Lawyers Association. After Postville, ''they got a lot
of heat from different avenues,'' Ms. Walker said, referring to the outcry from
advocates over the mass, rapid-fire nature of the criminal proceedings, which
took place on the grounds of the National Cattle Congress in Iowa.

But  an ICE spokeswoman said some of the 475 could still face criminal charges,
and she rejected the suggestion that the government's policy had changed.

''Absolutely not,'' said the spokeswoman, Barbara Gonzalez, in an e-mail
message. ''In fact it's the opposite.'' She added that more people were being
charged with crimes by ICE every year.

A Mississippi immigrants rights group continued Tuesday to criticize the
large-scale raid, in which numerous federal immigration agents descended on
Howard Industries, a major employer in southern Mississippi and a manufacturer
of electrical transformers, among other things. Officials with Howard did not
return phone calls Tuesday.

''It's just horrific,'' said Victoria Cintra, an organizer for the Mississippi
Immigrants Rights Alliance. ''We've got two families where the mom and the dad
were released with ankle bracelets'' -- electronic tracking devices -- ''and
they have children. They've got bills to pay and kids to feed. We've got a woman
who is 24, 26 weeks pregnant, and she's got a husband, brother, father and
brother-in-law who were detained.''

One of the workers who appeared in court on Tuesday, Paula Gomez, a native of
Mexico who worked at Howard, was accused of using a stolen Social Security
number, according to court records.

''Most of the families are not leaving their homes because they are afraid,''
said the Rev. Ken Ramon-Landry of Sacred Heart Catholic Church in Hattiesburg,
speaking of family members of those who had been taken away.

The government said it had acted on a tip from a union member, but union
officials in Mississippi said they did not know the identity of the tipster. But
Robert Shaffer of the Mississippi A.F.L.-C.I.O. said it was ''common knowledge''
that Howard and other area employers ''kind of cater to the undocumented
workers.''

''You ask anyone in the Laurel-Hattiesburg area,'' Mr. Shaffer said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 5, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In the Produce Aisle, Solidarity for Korean Grocers

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 853 words


Few immigrant groups are as closely identified with an occupational niche as
Koreans with grocery stores.

A new book, ''Ethnic Solidarity for Economic Survival: Korean Greengrocers in
New York City,'' offers a look at the complex role that ethnicity plays in those
mom-and-pop businesses, which have been engines of economic mobility and
opportunity for some Korean families.

The book, by Pyong Gap Min, a Queens College sociologist, explains why the
Korean-black conflicts, which peaked in the later 1980s and early 1990s, have
almost disappeared since the mid-'90s. It also explores the history of how
Korean grocers organized themselves in the 1980s and '90s to deal with white
wholesalers at the Hunts Point Market in the Bronx and later with labor unions
representing Hispanic employees.

Ethnicity, however, has waned as an organizing principle for the grocers as
their business-related group conflicts have dissipated, Dr. Min writes.

In 1960, there were only 400 Koreans in New York, with a significant proportion
of them students at Columbia University. The easing of immigration restrictions
in 1965 led to a big influx, with about 170,500 Korean immigrants settling in
the New York metropolitan region by 2000, including about 86,400 in New York
City. While Flushing, Queens, became the ''epicenter'' of the New York Korean
community, Dr. Min writes, suburban enclaves also sprouted up in New Jersey.

In 2000, 24 percent of Korean immigrants in the region were self-employed -- the
third highest self-employment rate of any group, after Greeks and
Israelis-Palestinians (27 percent each).

Koreans had high rates of self-employment because they often faced significant
language barriers (on average, knowing less English than other Asian groups).
They also had experience with owning businesses back home and, starting in the
late 1980s, a greater ability to take capital out of Korea to start businesses
here. Strong family ties and ethnic networks helped them keep the stores staffed
for up to 16 hours a day, seven days a week.

(In later years, Koreans established niches in dry cleaning and nail salon
businesses.)

Starting in the 1970s, Korean grocers entered minority neighborhoods in
Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx by buying stores from retiring white owners or
setting up new stores in vacant buildings.

In 1974, they formed the Korean Produce Association, which in 1980 opened a
service center at the Hunts Point Market to support Korean grocers and truck
drivers, who said they were mistreated and threatened by the produce
wholesalers. The grocers complained that they were subject to higher prices for
the same produce items, no exchanges for rotten items included in fruit boxes,
refusals to sell hot items after receiving orders and false accusations of
theft.

From 1977 to 1995, the association organized seven protests against grocery
distributors. But its efforts only went so far. It tried several times from the
late 1970s to the early '90s to set up a group purchasing system, Dr. Min
writes, but the companies that control the market mostly defeated such efforts.

As the grocers struggled with wholesalers, they came into increasing conflict
with black customers and Latino workers. By the early 1990s, the groceries had
become a significant economic presence in New York's minority neighborhoods, a
process accelerated by the withdrawal of supermarkets from such areas.

Mutual prejudice and stereotyping, language barriers and fears of shoplifting
and crime were factors in those conflicts. Korean groceries were the target of
15 boycotts by African-American customers from 1981 to 1995, Dr. Min writes. The
longest was a 17-month boycott of two produce stores on Church Avenue in
Flatbush, Brooklyn, which began in January 1990 and escalated into a protracted
and often violent dispute that drew international attention.

In recent years, black-Korean conflicts have largely vanished from the news, Dr.
Min explains, as rezoning laws have encouraged the opening of big-box stores in
some areas that have pushed smaller groceries out of business. Non-Korean
immigrant business owners have increasingly set up retail stores alongside
Koreans, and traditionally black neighborhoods have become more racially
diverse.

A less heated, but equally significant, conflict involved Latino workers. Labor
unions, state agencies and immigrant workers began to agitate against the
grocers in late 1998, culminating in a series of labor disputes from 2000 to
2002.

In September 2002, the state attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, announced a code
of conduct under which Korean business owners would pledge to abide by labor
laws and allow investigators to inspect their workplaces and financial records
at least twice a year. In return, the attorney general's office would ignore
past violations of labor regulations.

Korean groceries still seem ubiquitous to New Yorkers, but that may not always
be true. By 2005, there were probably fewer than 1,800 Korean produce stores in
the New York-New Jersey region, according to Dr. Min -- a significant decline
from the early 1990s.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pyong Gap Min, a sociologist, delves into the role of ethnicity
in immigrant businesses.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NANCY BAREIS/QUEENS COLLEGE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 5, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Newark, Federal Judge Grants Residency to Imam Facing Deportation

BYLINE: By NATE SCHWEBER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 362 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


A federal judge ruled on Thursday that a popular imam accused of terrorist
connections could stay in the United States indefinitely, ending a months-long
deportation trial that drew supporters from around the region.

''I believe in this country, and I believe in the justice system,'' the imam,
Mohammad Qatanani, said moments after the judge handed down the decision
granting him permanent legal residence. Mr. Qatanani, 44, is a spiritual leader
at the Islamic Center of Passaic County.

The federal government sought to deport the imam, a Palestinian, on the grounds
that when he applied for permanent residency in 1999, he did not disclose a
conviction in Israel in 1993 for assisting Hamas. While the prosecution produced
witnesses and documents that appeared to show that he had been convicted, the
judge did not believe they were credible.

Mr. Qatanani has maintained that he was detained but not arrested in 1993, and
that he was unaware of any conviction.

On Thursday, more than a dozen supporters inside the courtroom stood up and
cheered the 69-page decision by Immigration Judge Alberto J. Riefkohl. Many
hugged and wept. One man wore a T-shirt that read, ''Keep the Imam.''

''This is a phenomenal day for the American community,'' said David Senter, a
rabbi at Congregation Beth Shalom in Pompton Lakes, N.J., who came to court to
support Mr. Qatanani.

Harold Ort, a spokesman for United States Immigration and Customs
EnforcementImmigrationdepartment had 30 days to appeal but did not say if it
would do so.

Claudia Slovinsky, Mr. Qatanani's lawyer, called the decision ''well reasoned
and factual'' and said that the prosecution's case was ''based on guilt by
association and insinuations.''

A native of the West Bank, Mr. Qatanani emigrated from Jordan in 1996 and
established himself in Paterson, N.J., as a moderate and well-liked leader.

Mr. Qatanani's wife, Sumiah Qatanani, sat in the front of the courtroom and wept
at  the verdict. Within minutes she made phone calls and sent text messages to
their six children,   three of whom were born in the United States and three of
whom would have faced deportation had their father been convicted.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 7, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

No Shelter From the Storm

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 411 words


When a disaster hits, saving lives comes before anything else, even when those
lives don't have the right immigration papers. That is why the Department of
Homeland Security called off its agents when Hurricane Gustav bore down on New
Orleans. Just days after staging the biggest workplace raid ever, not far away
in Mississippi, the agency promised there would be no raids or checkpoints to
slow the evacuation of the Gulf Coast.

The decision was practical and humane, but it was not enough to persuade many
immigrant workers to accept help in evacuating. They feared that immigration
agents would arrest them at Red Cross shelters.

Staff members at the New Orleans Workers' Center for Racial Justice, an
organization of black and Latino laborers created after Hurricane Katrina, said
they pleaded in vain for written assurances from the Red Cross that undocumented
immigrants would be safe in its shelters.

The Red Cross has a long-standing policy of impartiality; it never asks evacuees
about their legal status. But the workers' center wanted something more
reassuring. It asked the Red Cross to state in writing that its volunteers would
be educated about the open-door policy, and that immigration agents would not be
allowed to enter shelters for raids or investigations.

With the storm rolling ever closer, and the authorities ordering people to flee,
no letter came. The Red Cross issued a general restatement of its impartiality
policy -- after the hurricane passed.

The Red Cross argues, rightly, that it cannot keep law-enforcement officials
from doing their jobs if they have legal warrants. But it does have an internal
policy stating that officials without warrants are not allowed into its
shelters. The workers' center says that a simple public statement of that policy
would have been enough to persuade its members to get on the bus. Instead, with
mere hours to spare, more than a thousand people decided they could not take the
chance of being picked up. Though short on money and access to cars, they
cobbled together their own evacuations.

This storm, thankfully, did far less damage than Katrina. But other storms still
loom, and thousands of scattered workers are still lying low. And the federal
government and the Red Cross still lack what should be an ironclad public
policy: that during all phases of a disaster, from evacuation to shelter to
return, victims without papers need never be afraid of accepting life-saving
help.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 10, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Meatpacker Faces Charges Of Violating Child Laws

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 634 words


The Iowa attorney general on Tuesday brought an array of criminal charges for
child labor violations against the owners and top managers of a  meatpacking
plant where nearly 400 workers were detained in a May immigration raid.

The state charges were the first to be brought against owners and senior
managers at the plant, Agriprocessors, since the May 12 raid. Federal
prosecutors convicted nearly 300 workers, most of them illegal immigrants from
Guatemala, on document fraud charges, with the majority sentenced to five months
in prison. Advocates for immigrants had criticized federal prosecutors for
punishing the workers but not the managers.

In all, 9,311 criminal misdemeanor charges involving 32 under-age workers were
filed against the company, Agriprocessors Inc., and its owner, Aaron Rubashkin,
and his son Sholom, who  was the top manager of the packing plant in Postville,
Iowa.

The complaint charges that the plant employed workers under the legal age of 18,
including seven who were under 16, from Sept. 9, 2007, to May 12. Some workers,
including some younger than 16, worked on machinery prohibited for employees
under 18, including ''conveyor belts, meat grinders, circular saws, power
washers and power shears,'' said an affidavit filed with the complaint.

In a statement, Chaim Abrahams, a senior executive at the plant,  denied the
accusations and said the company would go to trial ''to put to rest the
insidious notion that it knowingly employed under-age workers.''

Mr. Abrahams said the minors had lied about their age, and he predicted that
Iowa prosecutors would not be able to prove that  managers knew their employees
were not old enough to work.

Under Iowa law, employing a worker under 18 on the floor of a slaughterhouse is
a criminal misdemeanor with a maximum punishment of 30 days in jail and a fine
of $625. But the charges multiplied to more than 9,000 because a new one was
brought for each day and each offense. If convicted,  the Rubashkins  could face
more than $5 million in fines and significant prison sentences.

The two-page affidavit claims that Aaron and Sholom Rubashkin were ''frequently
present'' in the slaughterhouse where under-age employees were working, and that
they ''possessed shared knowledge that Agriprocessors employed undocumented
aliens'' and that ''many of those workers were minors.''

The complaint also charges that under-age workers were not paid for all the
overtime they worked and were forced to work before 7 a.m. and after 7 p.m., a
violation of child labor laws. Agriprocessors managers ''participated in efforts
to conceal children when federal and state labor department officials inspected
the plant,'' the complaint says.

Many of the young workers are illegal immigrants who are seeking special visas,
known as U-visas, to remain in the United States to cooperate with the
investigation. A lawyer representing them, Sonia Parras Konrad, said many of
them had not applied for those visas because they could not afford the $545
filing fee. She said 21 young immigrants she represents were seeking a waiver of
the fee from the Homeland Security Department.

The United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, which has battled
unsuccessfully to represent Agriprocessors workers, said the charges showed that
abuse of child labor was ''standard operating procedure'' at the Postville
plant.

''Given the seriousness and the sheer number of charges, we cannot see how this
company can remain in operation under the current ownership,'' a union
spokesman, Scott Frotman, said.

In addition to the Rubashkins, Agriprocessors' human resources manager,
Elizabeth Billmeyer, was charged, as were two other managers, Laura Althouse and
Karina Freund. All defendants are scheduled to appear in court on Sept. 17.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 12, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bishops Want Immigration Raids to End

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING IMMIGRATION; Pg.
17

LENGTH: 102 words


Roman Catholic bishops urged the Bush administration to halt workplace
immigration raids, saying the ''humanitarian cost'' was ''unacceptable in a
civilized society.'' Speaking on behalf of the United States Conference of
Catholic Bishops, John C. Wester, the bishop of Salt Lake City said that the
escalating number of worksite raids over the past year had spread fear in
immigrant communities and had made it difficult for detained immigrants to
obtain legal representation. Bishop Wester also called on the Department of
Homeland Security to refrain from conducting raids in churches, health centers
and schools.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 19, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Deception

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 554 words


Yes, immigration is a complicated and combustible issue for political candidates
-- and the economic meltdown is everyone's top priority. No, that is no excuse
for ignoring immigration or lying about it to voters, as John McCain and Barack
Obama have been doing.

Mr. McCain lied first, in a Spanish-language ad that accused Mr. Obama of
helping to kill immigration reform last year, by voting for amendments that
supposedly doomed a bipartisan bill. The ad lamented the result: ''No guest
worker program. No path to citizenship. No secure borders. No reform. Is that
being on our side?''

That is a jaw-dropping distortion. The bill wasn't killed by any amendments. It
was killed by a firestorm of talk-radio rage and a Republican-led filibuster.
The very bill that Mr. McCain now mourns is the one he sidled away from as his
own party weakened and killed it. It's the one he says he would now vote
against.

For Mr. McCain to suggest that Mr. Obama opposes the ''path to citizenship'' and
''guest worker program'' compounds his dishonesty. Mr. Obama supports the three
pillars of comprehensive reform -- tougher enforcement, expanded legal
immigration and a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants already here.

Mr. McCain was an architect of just such a comprehensive bill. But he is also
leading a party whose members rabidly oppose the path to citizenship. So, in
deference to them, Mr. McCain now emphasizes border security as the utmost
priority. Except when he's pandering in Spanish.

Mr. Obama's retaliatory ad, also in Spanish, was just as fraudulent. It slimed
Mr. McCain as a friend and full-bore ally of restrictionists like Rush Limbaugh,
even though Mr. Limbaugh has long attacked Mr. McCain's immigration moderation.
It quotes Mr. Limbaugh as calling all Mexicans stupid and ordering them to
''shut your mouth or get out,'' which he never did.

Immigration was broken before the candidates started this repugnant ad war, and
looks as if it will stay that way for at least the duration of this campaign.

Meanwhile, the Bush administration keeps raiding factories and farms,
terrorizing immigrant families while exposing horrific accounts of workplace
abuses. Children toil in slaughterhouses; detainees languish in federal lockups,
dying without decent medical care. Day laborers are harassed and robbed of
wages. An ineffective border fence is behind schedule and millions over budget.
Local enforcers drag citizens and legal residents into their nets, to the cheers
of the Minutemen.

Both candidates once espoused smart, thoughtful positions for fixing the
problem. But Mr. McCain is shuffling in step with his restrictionist party. Mr.
Obama gave immigration one brief mention at the Democratic convention, in a
litany of big-trouble issues, like abortion, guns and same-sex marriage, on
which he seemed to say that the best Americans could hope for are small
compromises and to agree to disagree.

They're both wrong. The country needs to hear better answers, stated clearly and
forthrightly over the shouting. The answer to immigration is what it was last
year: comprehensive reform that extends order and the rule of law to a system
that is broken in a million complex ways. Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama both know
this. They should get back to telling the truth about it, in English and in
Spanish.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 19, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

FILM IN REVIEW Fraulein

BYLINE: By JEANNETTE CATSOULIS

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'FRaULEIN';
Pg. 17

LENGTH: 363 words


An intimate, elusive drama about the boundaries of friendship and nationality,
''Fraulein'' presents immigrant lives with significantly more empathy than
detail.

For some, though, the movie's narrative shorthand will be enough, its teasing
snapshots of three disparate (and desperate) women difficult to shake off. All
three have come to Zurich from the former Yugoslavia, a  place whose fluid
borders have produced mixed identities and impermanent kinships. Ruza (the
amazing Mirjana Karanovic), a 50-something Serbian, manages her orderly canteen
and elderly Croatian waitress, Mila (Ljubica Jovic), with cold precision. But
when a seemingly carefree young woman named Ana (Marija Skaricic) arrives from
Bosnia, her elders' ironclad routines won't be the only things to change.

Shunning back story, the writer and director, Andrea Staka, leans instead on
recurring images that pinpoint each character's emotional state: Ruza tying the
belt of her militaristic trench coat just so; Ana drugged and swaying to a
nightclub's techno beat; Mila listening unresponsively as her husband plans
their return to Croatia. And though the theme of repression is handled a little
too obviously (each woman stores her most precious belongings in a secret box ),
Ms. Staka -- who grew up in Switzerland but whose family is from Bosnia and
Croatia -- understands the fear and allure of borders. For her three refugees,
commonality is a country that no longer exists.

FRaULEIN

Opens on Friday in Manhattan.

Directed by Andrea Staka; written (in Swiss-German, Bosnian, Croatian and
Serbian, with English subtitles) by Ms. Staka, Barbara Albert and Marie
Kreutzer; director of photography, Igor Martinovic; edited by Gion-Reto Killias;
music by Peter von Siebenthal, Till Wyler and Daniel Jakob; production designer,
Sue Erdt; produced by Susann Rudlinger, Samir Mirjam Quinte and Davor Pusic;
released by Film Movement. At the Cinema Village, 22 East 12th Street, Greenwich
Village. Running time: 1 hour 21 minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH: Mirjana Karanovic (Ruza), Marija Skaricic (Ana), Ljubica Jovic (Mila),
Andrea Zogg (Franz), Zdenko Jelcic (Ante) and Pablo Aguilar (Fredi).

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mirjana Karanovic, left, and Marija Skaricic in
''Fraulein.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY FILM MOVEMENT)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 21, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Land of Opportunity Lures Poles Back Home

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1473 words


For 19 years, Elizabeth Baumgartner, a Polish-American from Queens, has been
publishing a series of how-to books aimed at newly arrived Polish immigrants
trying to find their way in the United States. The books cover topics like
buying a house, investing in mutual funds and starting your own business.

These days, however, her best sellers are guides to a once-familiar place,
Poland, with titles like ''Returning to Poland'' and ''Retirement of a
Re-Immigrant in Poland.''

''This is a sad trend for me,'' Ms. Baumgartner said.

New York's Polish community is shrinking, as waves of immigrants and their
families are being lured back to Poland by a vibrant economy there.

Tighter immigration enforcement, gentrification and the overall aging of the
Polish population have contributed to the decline. But the biggest catalyst,
community leaders say, was Poland's admission to the European Union in 2004,
which created immense employment opportunities for Poles in Europe and spurred a
return migration.

At the same time, the influx of new Polish immigrants to New York has slowed to
a trickle, these community leaders say. As a result, the population of
Polish-born people in New York declined to 60,153 in 2006, down from 65,246 in
2000, a 7.8 percent drop, according to the Department of City Planning. During
the same span, the number of New Yorkers claiming Polish ancestry fell to
211,389 from 213,447.

The erosion has been felt most deeply in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, where Poles have
been migrating for decades. Polish businesses are losing customers and closing
down. Polish employers are struggling to find Polish-speaking workers. The sale
of one-way tickets for flights from New York to Poland is soaring.

Tomasz Deptula, an editor and columnist at Nowy Dziennik (The Polish Daily
News), the oldest of three Polish-language dailies published in New York, said
that unlike the rest of the city's ethnic media, which is robust, his paper's
advertising revenues and circulation numbers have fallen precipitously in recent
years, forcing staffing cuts.

''It's a rather sad story, especially from my point of view,'' he said. ''I'm
feeling like I'm facing extinction.''

Even before the migration back to Poland began, the Polish community in
Greenpoint was fracturing under the pressure of gentrification, which drove up
property values. Young families, new immigrants and those of modest means have
in turn settled in nascent Polish communities in the city, including Maspeth and
Ridgewood in Queens, and Borough Park in Brooklyn, while others have moved out
of the state.

But Poland's admission to the European Union sharply accelerated that trend,
business owners and residents say. They note that the momentum has increased as
the dollar has weakened against the Polish zloty, the American economy has
faltered and the United States has been more aggressive in enforcing immigration
rules. (Similar reverse migrations have occurred recently among other New York
immigrant populations whose homeland economies have improved, like Brazil and
Ireland.)

Meanwhile, many Poles, particularly young people who once might have considered
coming to the states after high school or college, have decided instead to stay
in Poland or get work in Dublin, London or other booming European cities. The
euro is robust, they argue, and home is never more than a cheap two-hour flight
away.

LOT Polish Airlines, Poland's largest carrier, is carrying more passengers from
New York to Poland than in the opposite direction, said Andrzej Kozlowski, a
media relations officer for the airline in Warsaw. ''The trend here is clear and
the gap is widening,'' he wrote in an e-mail message.

While Polish shop signs and Polish conversations still dominate Greenpoint's
main street, Manhattan Avenue, evidence of erosion is ubiquitous, from shuttered
Polish stores to shorter lines at the Polish butcher shops and the proliferation
of new businesses catering to the newcomers, like Thai restaurants.

Polish-American business owners in Greenpoint have had to be nimble --
reinventing themselves to adjust to the neighborhood's demographic shifts -- or
go out of business.

Polish bookstores, for instance, have increased their stock of English books,
and one recently began to sell lamps. Other businesses have followed their
customers and moved out of Greenpoint into the newer Polish enclaves.

The Polish & Slavic Federal Credit Union, which was founded in 1976 and became a
crucial engine for the development of Greenpoint, has seen its membership level
out in the past few years.

In response, the bank is ''reaching into new markets,'' said Marian M. Ponanta,
vice president of marketing and public relations for the credit union. A new
branch recently opened in Garfield, N.J., and two others are scheduled to open
in Maspeth and Trenton. The bank has also stepped up its advertising in the
quest for new members.

''Before, we didn't have to do much marketing,'' Mr. Ponanta said. ''They would
come to us. They would be thrown into our laps.''

Every Polish-American in the New York region seems to know several people who
have either moved back to Poland in the past few years or are considering such a
move. Many of those people are college-educated and in their 20s and 30s.

Three years ago, Monika Just left her native Poland and came to New York on a
six-month tourist visa with plans to start a new life in the United States. She
found a job as a waitress, worked long hours and lived cheaply.

In an earlier time, she might have been among the thousands of young Polish
immigrants who, after several years of working as restaurant servers,
housecleaners, construction workers or nannies, might have decided to make a
longer commitment to the United States, investing in property, starting
businesses, trying to become naturalized and raising families.

But like many of her compatriots, Ms. Just has decided to bring her American
experience to an abrupt end. Weary of living as an illegal immigrant and
settling for low wages, she is planning to return to Poland for good in
December. There, she said, her employment prospects will be better and her
lifestyle will improve.

''I don't have a life here,'' said Ms. Just, 26, as she prepared for the
lunchtime rush at a restaurant in Greenpoint. ''I just have a job. All I do is
work.''

Not all the returnees are young and flying under the immigration radar. There
are also many who have lived legally in the United States for years, built
families and businesses here, and are now pulling up stakes and going home.

Some entrepreneurs, seeing a great business opportunity in the economic opening
of 2004, quickly closed their enterprises in New York and built new ones in
Poland.

Others have come to the decision after much angst-ridden reflection.

Malgosia Szupica-Pyrzanowski, 39, who immigrated to the United States 18 years
ago, said that she and her husband, Darek Pyrzanowski, 46, who immigrated 22
years ago, planned to return to Poland next year with their two young children.

Ms. Szupica-Pyrzanowski, a doctoral candidate in neurolinguistics at the City
University of New York, said that Poland's economic improvement was among
several key reasons for their return. But it was a hard decision to make, she
said, especially for her husband, a professional D.J.

''You have to be courageous to go back,'' Ms. Szupica-Pyrzanowski said. ''You
remove yourself from a rather comfortable life here and go back to your own
country, but it's not the country that you left. I think he was lacking this
courage for quite some time.''

For those Poles who have developed businesses and lives that are not dependent
on the Polish community for sustenance, the changes have not been terribly
disruptive. For some, particularly those Poles who invested in Greenpoint
property when it was a blighted neighborhood, the gentrification has been a
boon.

Krzysztof Rostek, a prominent Polish-American developer in Greenpoint, said that
he has benefited from the rise in property values. He has built 10 residential
buildings around the neighborhood and is currently building eight more; many of
his buyers are newcomers to the neighborhood.

He is not sentimental about the neighborhood's upheaval or the dissipation of
the Polish-American community.

''Nothing is guaranteed forever, so I'm always open to change,'' said Mr.
Rostek, 42, whose first job after arriving in New York in 1989 was working as a
$5-per-hour assistant at a Polish deli in Greenpoint.

He pointed out that Greenpoint, like most other New York neighborhoods, has had
a revolving ethnic makeup since the 18th century, with Italians, Germans, Irish
and Latinos holding sway at various times.

''The neighborhood is changing for the better,'' he said. ''That's what the city
is all about.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Although Polish storefronts still dominate Manhattan Avenue in
Greenpoint, Brooklyn, some businesses have closed and others have broadened
their offerings to attract a more diverse clientele. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW
HENDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Signs of the changing demographics in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, are evident, as one
local business promotes its ability to speak Spanish and Polish. Marek
Tomaszewski, right, edited Polski Dzien, a Polish-language newspaper that was
forced to fold. (PHOTOGRAPHS, LEFT TO RIGHT, ANDREW HENDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES
JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A37)
As the Polish population in Greenpoint shrinks, familiar retail chains are
replacing stores that catered to Poles. One business that has survived is a
travel-oriented agency run by Grazyna Bulka, left. The agency, however, is now
selling more one-way tickets to Poland from New York. (PHOTOGRAPHS, ABOVE, BY
ANDREW HENDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BELOW, BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A40)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 23, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mukasey Vacates Panel's Decision Denying Asylum to Malian Woman

BYLINE: By TRYMAINE LEE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 318 words


Attorney General Michael B. Mukasey on Monday vacated a decision by a federal
immigration board that had denied asylum for a Malian woman who said she feared
genital mutilation and forced marriage to a first cousin if she were returned to
Mali.

Mr. Mukasey's ruling sends the case back to the Board of Immigration Appeals for
reconsideration. Women's and human rights groups had sought Mr. Mukasey's
intervention.

The board had denied asylum to the woman, Alima Traore, 28, last year and again
in April. In doing so, it noted that Ms. Traore's genitals had been cut as a
child and said that while ''reprehensible,'' the mutilation could not be
repeated.

''The loss of a limb also gives rise to enduring harm,'' the board said then,
but noted that it would not be a good enough reason to grant asylum.

Mr. Mukasey called that basis flawed. ''As several courts have recognized,
female genital mutilation is indeed capable of repetition,'' Mr. Mukasey's order
said.

Ms. Traore, who was not identified in the decision but had been identified in
The New York Times, had been ordered by the board to be sent back to Mali, where
her father has said he will force her to marry a first cousin, Ms. Traore has
said. She said that if she has a female child, she fears the child will face
similar genital cutting.

''The decision that the attorney general vacated was a decision that was just so
wrongheaded and wrongly decided and damaging to women who are seeking asylum on
the basis of female genital cutting,'' said Karen Musalo, the director of the
Center for Gender and Refugee Studies at Hastings College of the Law.

Ms. Traore has lived in the United States since 2000. She arrived on a tourist
visa and stayed on a student visa, attending college and studying nursing. Her
student visa expired in 2003.

Some 95 percent of women in Mali have undergone genital cutting, according to
State Department reports.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 25, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ellis Island Museum to Expand, Touching on Other Eras

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 653 words


The story of immigration told at the Ellis Island museum will be expanded to the
eras before and after the period when Ellis was the portal to America, Interior
Secretary Dirk Kempthorne said on Wednesday, speaking in the vaulted Registry
Room of the island's main building.

Mr. Kempthorne said the expansion would increase the museum's ''relevancy to the
more diverse audiences who visit national parks today.''

The $20 million museum expansion, to be known as the Peopling of America Center,
will extend the public space from the main building at the Ellis Island National
Monument into the adjacent kitchen and laundry building. The new exhibits will
follow archetypal families, past and present, through the stages of immigration:
leaving, journeying, arriving, struggling and, finally, helping build the
nation.

Although the new exhibition will touch on the story of illegal immigrants, it
will keep its focus on citizenship, an emphasis that was underscored on
Wednesday when a dozen men and women, most of them in the armed forces, were
sworn in as citizens after Mr. Kempthorne's announcement. (They pledged, among
other things, to ''bear arms on behalf of the United States.'')

Specialist Franck Dorval, 36, was among them. He arrived from Haiti two years
ago, he said, and worked in restaurants in New Rochelle, N.Y., before enlisting
in the Army. ''The best way to give the country something back is to serve the
people,'' Specialist Dorval said, though he allowed that education benefits were
another inducement.

As to why he had applied for citizenship, he said he hoped it would open doors
in the Army. ''If you want a career, if you want a promotion, you need to be a
U.S. citizen,'' he said. An hour after saying that, he was.

Construction on the museum expansion began last week, said Stephen A. Briganti,
president and chief executive of the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation,
which is overseeing the project and says it is to be finished in 2011.

Given the changing nature of immigration, it is likely that if the museum did
not broaden its approach, future generations might see Ellis Island as an
anachronistic institution devoted largely to European arrivals from 1892 to
1954, when the immigration station operated there.

Mr. Briganti said that illegal immigration needed to be part of the story the
expanded museum would tell. ''There have been undocumented people ever since
immigration began to be controlled,'' he said.

The exhibit will trace one family that lived in the United States illegally for
a time before applying for citizenship. But none of the families traced will be
in the United States illegally on a permanent basis, said Edwin Schlossberg of
ESI Design, which designed the new center.

Mr. Schlossberg said that it did not make sense to place too much emphasis on
the great concerns surrounding illegal immigration. ''In a public environment,
where people are going to spend one and a half hours, the idea of raising issues
you can't answer is irresponsible,'' Mr. Schlossberg said. Instead, he said,
such issues could be presented in depth on the museum's Web site.

And a practical objection was noted by Alan M. Kraut, a professor of history at
American University and the chairman of the academic committee that advised the
foundation. ''If a family was undocumented,'' he said, ''they would be a little
bit reticent to have their story told.''

The National Park Service Centennial Challenge Initiative has committed $2.3
million to the new center, matched by $1.5 million from the Bank of America
Charitable Foundation and $1 million from the Annenberg Foundation. All told,
Mr. Briganti said, fund-raising is about 75 percent complete.

But he acknowledged how cloudy the future was, with the turmoil on Wall Street.
Asked about fund-raising prospects in a recession, Mr. Briganti said: ''This one
has me concerned. I don't know, to tell you the truth.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: About a dozen men and women were sworn in as citizens on
Wednesday in the Registry Room of the main building at Ellis Island.
 The Immigration Museum at the Ellis Island National Monument will be expanded
to include other eras of great movement. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 30, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

California: Arrests In Federal Immigration Raids

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WEST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 102 words


Federal immigration authorities said they had arrested more than 1,150 people in
a three-week enforcement action in the state. The sweep was focused on
immigration violators, including those who have ignored deportation orders or
returned to the United States illegally after being deported. An Immigration and
Customs Enforcement spokeswoman, Virginia Kice, said it was the largest such
action by fugitive enforcement teams in California since the squads were formed
in 2003. Ms. Kice said of the 1,157 immigrants arrested statewide, 595 had
outstanding deportation orders and 346 had prior criminal convictions.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 2, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hundreds Are Arrested In Antigang Crackdown

BYLINE: By SOLOMON MOORE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 473 words


A four-month nationwide crackdown on gangs has brought the arrest of 1,759
people -- gang members and their associates, other criminals and immigration
violators -- from more than 20 countries, the federal authorities announced
Wednesday.

Dozens of state and local law enforcement agencies joined federal officers in
raids carried out in 28 states, including New York and New Jersey, focusing on
gang hubs like Los Angeles, Miami and Boston.

The annual crackdown, which ended Wednesday, is another sign of the increasing
prevalence of gangs with a presence in more than one country, and of the high
degree of law enforcement cooperation required to counter them.

''We now have over 890 gangs in the United States that we've been able to
target,'' said Brandon Alvarez-Montgomery, a spokesman for Immigration and
Customs Enforcement.

The crackdowns began in February 2005 as a way to combat the Salvadoran gang
MS-13. The program has since expanded to make targets of all gangs with
international ties and, the authorities say, has led to the arrest of 11,106
gang members and associates.

This year's sweep, the largest so far, resulted in the arrest of 730 people on
new criminal charges, 338 of them foreigners. The others picked up are charged
with immigration violations.

Nearly all the arrested foreigners face proceedings leading to deportation, Mr.
Alvarez-Montgomery said. Non-American suspects are to be prosecuted by the
Justice Department or state and local agencies on charges including murder,
rape, drug distribution, firearms violations and illegal re-entry after
deportation, a federal felony.

Those found guilty will be subject to incarceration, and then deportation
proceedings upon release, Mr. Alvarez-Montgomery said. His agency has wide
latitude to initiate deportation proceedings against noncitizens, he said, even
if they are found not guilty of crimes.

State and local law enforcement agencies depend on the annual federal crackdown
for intelligence and other resources to deal with international gangs. Rusty
Grant, a special agent with the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, said the
government had provided invaluable assistance in an investigation of eight
killings, from 2000 to 2006 in Cedartown, Ga., that were related to a
methamphetamine-running operation. Three of the victims' bodies were set on fire
to destroy evidence.

''The individuals committing these drug crimes were Mexican illegal aliens,''
Mr. Grant said. ''ICE provided expertise in dealing with the immigration aspects
of the case and also provided Spanish-speaking agents as well.''

Mr. Grant said federal and local officers had arrested about 80 people in that
particular investigation, including all the killers. They also arrested several
methamphetamine distributors, among them a man who was hauling 1,000 pounds of
the drug.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 3, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Legal Immigration? Anybody?

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 470 words


One of the false pieties uttered by anti-immigration politicians is that they
love immigrants. If that were true, Congress would not be having so much trouble
passing a simple law to smooth out a serious kink in the legal immigration
pipeline.

Every year Congress authorizes a certain number of permanent-resident visas, or
green cards, for immigrants to come to work in the United States or to rejoin
their families. And every year bureaucratic delays prevent a certain portion of
those visas from being claimed.

The result? Every year thousands of potential green cards vanish, like unused
cellphone minutes. The huge backlogs in legal immigration, which span years or
even decades for applicants from some countries, continue to fester. The myth of
Ellis Island becomes more mythical.

Teachers, nurses, engineers, researchers and other aspiring immigrants who
follow the rules, file their paperwork, pay their fees and wait -- and wait --
get the chilly message that they are not wanted. Some of them feel great
pressure to go illegally around the immigration system, instead of through it,
as their wait to rejoin their loved ones becomes intolerable.

A House bill that could recapture an estimated 550,000 lost visas, sponsored by
Representative Zoe Lofgren, a California Democrat, has been moving slowly
through the committee process despite the best efforts of members like
Representative Steve King, Republican of Iowa, to sabotage it with ridiculously
restrictive amendments. One would have granted green cards only to people
younger than 40 with college degrees. Another would have eliminated an entire
category of family visas, for siblings of citizens.

In the Senate, Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, is insisting that a
visa-recapturing amendment be added to a bill reauthorizing E-Verify, the
federal database program to prevent the hiring of illegal immigrants. For this,
he has endured an onslaught of criticism from nativist groups and colleagues,
like Jeff Sessions of Alabama. They all have been raising an outcry about a
coming flood of new foreigners.

That's a false alarm. Congress has already authorized these green cards, and
many would go to highly skilled workers who have already lived here for years on
temporary visas. The bill is as much about keeping workers as gaining them.

It seems unlikely that a visa-recapture bill would make it through this year.
But don't blame Congress's focus on the economic mess for that. Recapturing
visas is a modest fix that should have been made a long time ago. The country
needs to build a smoother path to legal entry and citizenship. The blame for its
failure to do that lies squarely with the hard-liners who rage against illegal
immigrants, but are strangely uninterested in helping people who ''play by the
rules'' and ''wait in line.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 8, 2008 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Kenya Detains U.S. Author Critical of Obama

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN.

Kennedy Abwao contributed to this report

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 634 words

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya


On Tuesday morning, Jerome R. Corsi was all set to bash Senator Barack Obama on
his ancestral soil.

Mr. Corsi, a right-wing author who specializes in attack books, came to Kenya to
publicize his newest work, ''The Obama Nation,'' which raises pointed questions
about Mr. Obama's history of drug use, his ''extensive connections'' to Islam
and his relationships with Kenyan politicians, among other things  --
allegations that Mr. Obama's campaign and others have widely disputed.

The chairs and microphone were all set up in one of the biggest hotels in
Nairobi, the capital. Many journalists had crowded in to hear what Mr. Corsi
would say about Mr. Obama, the Democratic presidential candidate whose father
was Kenyan and who is adored here like a native son.

But it was not to be.

A few minutes before Mr. Corsi was to speak, more than 20 Kenyan immigration
agents swooped into the hotel and arrested him. He was whisked off to the
immigration office, where officials said he had misled them on his entry papers.
By the end of the day, Mr. Corsi's aides said that he was being booted from the
country.

Kenyan officials were quick to claim that this had nothing to do with politics.

''His immigration forms were not in order,'' said Elias Njeru, a spokesman for
Kenya's immigration department.

Mr. Njeru said that Mr. Corsi had arrived on a tourist visa, which made it
illegal for him to work.

But Mr. Corsi's aides said the authorities were simply trying to muzzle him.

''They just didn't want him to talk about Obama from Kenya,'' said Peter Mbae,
Mr. Corsi's publicist in Kenya.

Mr. Obama has Zeus-like status in many corners of this country. His toothy grin
is plastered across mini-buses. Stories about him are front-page news. There is
even an Obama reggae song popular on the radio.

But the affection for Mr. Obama is not universal, especially within the already
divided Kenyan government. Several high-ranking officials, including some of
President Mwai Kibaki's closest confidants, have distanced themselves from Mr.
Obama, saying he is American, not Kenyan, and asking what is the big deal about
his candidacy.

One explanation is Mr. Obama's scathing criticism of Kenya's leaders during his
visit to Kenya in 2006. Another is the ethnic tensions that run deep here and
plunged this country into chaos earlier this year.

Mr. Obama's father, who died more than 20 years ago, was a member of the Luo
ethnic group, the same long-marginalized group as Kenya's prime minister, Raila
Odinga. Mr. Kibaki is a member of another large ethnic group, the Kikuyu,
Kenya's traditional ruling class. Mr. Odinga nearly unseated Mr. Kibaki in an
election last December that was tainted by widespread allegations of vote
rigging by Mr. Kibaki's party. Violence exploded afterwards, and the fighting
between Kikuyus and Luos, among others, killed more than 1,000 people and shook
Kenya like nothing else has since independence in 1963.

Mr. Corsi was looking forward to presenting evidence of close ties between Mr.
Obama and Mr. Odinga, Mr. Corsi's aides said, and some suggested that this may
have been what led Mr. Corsi to the door. Kenya's minister of immigration, for
one, is a political ally of Mr. Odinga.

''I'm not going to name names,'' said Mr. Mbae, the publicist. ''But let's just
say that a certain section of the government didn't want this press
conference.''

Mr. Corsi was also planning on visiting a relative of Mr. Obama who lives in a
slum and giving him money, Mr. Mbae said.

Mr. Corsi's attacks on Mr. Obama are similar to what Mr. Corsi did in 2004 when
he co-authored a sharp-edged book about John Kerry (''Unfit for Command'') that
helped derail Senator Kerry's presidential bid. By 8 p.m., Mr. Corsi was at the
airport, waiting for a flight out of Kenya, Mr. Mbae said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 12, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Getting the Nation's Story Straight

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 450 words


The true tale of America involves far more than teeming masses yearning to be
free -- a story well told at the Ellis Island Immigration Museum in New York
Harbor. The first immigrant recorded to land there in 1892, a ''rosy cheeked
Irish girl'' named Annie Moore, is charming to contemplate. But more and more
modern visitors from Latin America and Asia don't spot any of their kind there.

And what about the ignored immigrant sagas of slaves brought in chains from
Africa? Native Americans who arrived in pre-history and were forced to emigrate
out of the path of settlers? And Mexicans and Hawaiians pressed into citizenship
through war and annexation? Not to mention hordes of illegal immigrants still
arriving with no fanfare.

''It's time to tell the story in all its fullness,'' says Alan Kraut, chairman
of the museum's history committee, which has been given the formidable task of
setting the record straight in a $20 million expansion called the ''Peopling of
America Center.'' The plan is to free Ellis Island from its own immigration
intake chronology (1892 to 1954) and present the nation's fuller story, across
centuries, coast to coast. With 12 billion hits already on the island's limited
family database, the craving for such information clearly has only begun.

The national imagination will benefit from moving beyond the sepia Ellis Island
tableau. Wait till we follow the waves of Chinese from the Taishan region
landing on the West Coast in the 1850s to labor everywhere, from railroads to
mines, enthuses Mr. Kraut, a history professor at American University.

Or the 19th century's tsunami of four million plus European immigrants flooding
the East Coast. And learn why the Irish famine migrants arrived with such a
significantly larger component of women than other groups. (The professor will
tell no tale before its time.) Then there is the modern transnational immigrant
who commutes between his birth home and his adopted home.

The chapter headings and human footnotes seem boundless. But the plan of the
Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation is to tell the new stories by tracking
representative families of overlooked groups. The gritty detail of their
journeys will show what drove them here and how they are surviving unto
generations.

This logically must include illegal immigrants, says Mr. Kraut, who proudly
concedes he may have had a grandfather who sneaked into the country. The point
is to tell the real story. ''We'll be doing good things, hopefully breaking
through the current wave of nativism and anti-immigrant nonsense,''  he says.

He knows that's an old subplot, but one that bears repeating in the continuing
tale of America.

FRANCIS X. CLINES

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 16, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Influx of Muslim Somalis Unsettles Latino Meatpackers

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1896 words

DATELINE: GRAND ISLAND, Neb.


Like many workers at the meatpacking plant here, Raul A. Garcia, a
Mexican-American, has watched with some discomfort as hundreds of Somali
immigrants have moved to town in the past couple of years, many of them to fill
jobs once held by Latino workers taken away in immigration raids.

Mr. Garcia has been particularly troubled by the Somalis' demand that they be
allowed special breaks for prayers that are obligatory for devout Muslims. The
breaks, he said, would inconvenience everyone else.

''The Latino is very humble,'' said Mr. Garcia, 73, who has worked at the plant,
owned by JBS U.S.A. Inc., since 1994. ''But they are arrogant,'' he said of the
Somali workers. ''They act like the United States owes them.''

Mr. Garcia was among more than 1,000 Latino and other workers who protested a
decision last month by the plant's management to cut their work day -- and their
pay -- by 15 minutes to give scores of Somali workers time for evening prayers.

After several days of strikes and disruptions, the plant's management abandoned
the plan.

But the dispute peeled back a layer of civility in this southern Nebraska city
of 47,000, revealing slow-burning racial and ethnic tensions that have been an
unexpected aftermath of the enforcement raids at workplaces by federal
immigration authorities.

Grand Island is among a half dozen or so cities where discord has arisen with
the arrival of Somali workers, many of whom were recruited by employers from
elsewhere in the United States after immigration raids  sharply reduced their
Latino work forces.

The Somalis are by and large in this country legally as political refugees and
therefore are not singled out by immigration authorities.

In some of these places, including Grand Island, this newest wave of immigrant
workers has had the effect of unifying the other ethnic populations against the
Somalis and has also diverted some of the longstanding hostility toward Latino
immigrants among some native-born residents.

''Every wave of immigrants has had to struggle to get assimilated,'' said
Margaret Hornady, the mayor of Grand Island and a longtime resident of Nebraska.
''Right now, it's so volatile.''

The federal immigration crackdown has hit meat- and poultry-packing plants
particularly hard, with more than 2,000 immigrant workers in at least nine
places detained since 2006 in major raids, most on immigration violations.

Struggling to fill the grueling low-wage jobs that attract few American workers,
the plants have placed advertisements in immigrant newspapers and circulated
fliers in immigrant neighborhoods.

Some companies, like Swift & Company, which owned the plant in Grand Island
until being bought up by the Brazilian conglomerate JBS last year, have made a
particular pitch for  Somalis because of their legal status. Tens of thousands
of Somali refugees fleeing civil war have settled in the United States since the
1990s, with the largest concentration in Minnesota.

But the companies are learning that in trying to solve one problem they have
created another.

Early last month, about 220 Somali Muslims walked off the job at a JBS
meatpacking plant in Greeley, Colo., saying the company had prevented them from
observing their prayer schedule. (More than 100 of the workers were later
fired.)

Days later, a poultry company in Minnesota agreed to allow Muslim workers prayer
breaks and the right to refuse handling pork products, settling a lawsuit filed
by nine Somali workers.

In August, the management of a Tyson chicken plant in Shelbyville, Tenn.,
designated a Muslim holy day as a paid holiday, acceding to a demand by  Somali
workers. The plant had originally agreed to substitute the Muslim holy day for
Labor Day, but reinstated Labor Day after a barrage of criticism from
non-Muslims.

In some workplaces, newly arrived Somali Muslims have not protested their
working conditions. That has been the case at Agriprocessors, a meatpacking
plant in Postville, Iowa. About 150 Somali Muslims have found jobs there, most
of them recruited by a staffing company after the plant lost about half its work
force in an immigration raid in May.

Jack Shandley, a senior vice president for JBS U.S.A., said in an e-mail message
that ''integrating persons of diverse backgrounds regularly presents new and
different issues.''

''Religious accommodation is only one workplace diversity issue that has been
addressed,'' Mr. Shandley said.

Nationwide, employment discrimination complaints by Muslim workers have more
than doubled in the past decade, to 607 in the 2007 fiscal year, from 285 in the
1998 fiscal year, according to the federal Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission, which has sent representatives to Grand Island to interview Somali
workers.

The Civil Rights Act of 1964 forbids employers to discriminate based on religion
and says that employers must ''reasonably accommodate'' religious practices. But
the act offers some exceptions, including instances when adjustments would cause
''undue hardship'' on the company's business interests.

The new tensions here extend well beyond the walls of the plant. Scratch beneath
Grand Island's surface and there is resentment, discomfort and mistrust
everywhere, some residents say -- between the white community and the various
immigrant communities; between the older immigrant communities, like the
Latinos, and the newer ones, namely the Somalis and the Sudanese, another
refugee community that has grown here in recent years; and between the Somalis,
who are largely Muslim, and the Sudanese, who are largely Christian.

In dozens of interviews here, white, Latino and other residents seemed mostly
bewildered, if not downright suspicious, of the Somalis, very few of whom speak
English.

''I kind of admire all the effort they make to follow that religion, but
sometimes you have to adapt to the workplace,'' said Fidencio Sandoval, a plant
worker born in Mexico who has become an American citizen. ''A new culture comes
in with their demands and says, 'This is what we want.' This is kind of new for
me.''

Ms. Hornady, the mayor, suggested somewhat apologetically that she had been
having difficulty adjusting to the presence of Somalis. She said she found the
sight of Somali women, many of whom wear Muslim headdresses, or hijabs,
''startling.''

''I'm sorry, but after 9/11, it gives some of us a turn,'' she said.

Not only do the hijabs suggest female subjugation, Ms. Hornady said, but the
sight of Muslims in town made her think of Osama bin Laden and the attacks on
the United States.

''I know that that's horrible and that's prejudice,'' she said. ''I'm working
very hard on it.''

She added, ''Aren't a lot of thoughtful Americans struggling with this?''

For their part, the Somalis say they feel aggrieved and not particularly
welcome.

''A lot of people look at you weird -- they judge you,'' said Abdisamad Jama,
22, a Somali who moved to Grand Island two years ago to work as an interpreter
at the plant and now freelances. ''Or sometimes they will say, 'Go back to your
country.' ''

Founded in the mid-19th century by German immigrants, Grand Island gradually
became more diverse in the mid- and late-20th century with the arrival of Latino
workers, mainly Mexicans.

The Latinos came at first to work in the agricultural fields; later arrivals
found employment in the meatpacking plant. Refugees from Laos and, in the past
few years, Sudan followed, and many of them also found work in the plant, which
is now the city's largest employer, with about 2,700 workers.

In December 2006, in an event that would deeply affect the city and alter its
uneasy balance of ethnicities, immigration authorities raided the  plant and
took away more than 200 illegal Latino workers. Another 200 or so workers quit
soon afterward.

The raid was one of six sweeps by federal agents at plants owned by Swift,
gutting the company of about 1,200 workers in one day and forcing the plants to
slow their operations.

Many of the Somalis who eventually arrived to fill those jobs were practicing
Muslims and their faith obliges them to pray at five fixed times every day. In
Grand Island, the workers would grab prayer time whenever they could, during
scheduled rest periods or on restroom breaks. But during the holy month of
Ramadan, Muslims fast in daylight hours and break their fast in a ritualistic
ceremony at sundown. A more formal accommodation of their needs was necessary,
the Somali workers said.

Last year, the Somalis here demanded time off for the Ramadan ceremony. The
company refused, saying it could not afford to let so many workers step away
from the production line at one time. Dozens of Somalis quit, though they
eventually returned to work.

The situation repeated itself last month. Dennis Sydow, the plant's vice
president and general manager, said a delegation of Somali workers approached
him on Sept. 10 about allowing them to take their dinner break at 7:30 p.m.,
near sundown, rather than at the normal time of 8 to 8:30.

Mr. Sydow rejected the request, saying the production line would slow to a crawl
and the Somalis' co-workers would unfairly have to take up the slack.

The Somalis said their co-workers did not offer a lot of support. ''Latinos were
sometimes saying, 'Don't pray, don't pray,' '' said Abdifatah Warsame, 21.

After the Somalis went out on strike on Sept. 15, the plant's management and the
union brokered a deal the next day that would have shifted the dinner break to
7:45 p.m., close enough to sundown to satisfy the Somalis. Because of the
plant's complex scheduling rules, the new dinner break would have also required
an earlier end to the shift, potentially cutting the work day by 15 minutes.

Word of the accord spread quickly throughout the non-Somali work force, though
the reports were infected with false rumors of pay raises for the Somalis and
more severe cuts in the work day for everyone.

In a counterprotest on Sept. 17, more than 1,000 Latino and Sudanese workers
lined up alongside white workers in opposition to the concessions to the
Somalis.

''We had complaints from the whites, Hispanics and Sudanese,'' said Abdalla
Omar, 26, one of the Somali strikers.

The union and the plant management backed down, reverting to the original dinner
schedule. More than 70 Somalis, including Mr. Omar and Mr. Warsame, stormed out
of the plant and did not return; they either quit or were fired.

Since then, Ramadan has ended and work has returned to normal at the plant, but
most everyone -- management, the union and the employees -- says the root causes
of the disturbances have not been fully addressed. A sizeable Somali contingent
remains employed at the factory -- Somali leaders say the number is about 100;
the union puts the figure at more than 300, making similar disruptions possible
next year.

''Right now, this is a real kindling box,'' said Daniel O. Hoppes, president of
the local chapter of the union, the United Food and Commercial Workers.

Xawa Ahmed, 48, a Somali, moved to Grand Island from Minnesota last month to
help organize the Somali community. A big part of her work, Ms. Ahmed said, will
be to help demystify the Somalis who remain.

''We're trying to make people understand why we do these things, why we practice
this religion, why we live in America,'' she said. ''There's a lot of
misunderstanding.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A compromise on accommodation for Muslim workers during the
holy month of Ramadan prompted protests last month at a meatpacking plant in
Nebraska.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BARRETT STINSON/THE GRAND ISLAND INDEPENDENT, VIA
ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Muslims in Greeley, Colo., last month protested the firing of more than 100 JBS
workers after a walkout over Ramadan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA LOVEN/THE GREELEY DAILY
TRIBUNE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A29)  MAP: Racial and ethnic tension has
arisen in Grand Island, Neb. Map details area of Grand Island. (pg. A29)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 19, 2008 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

The Immigrants' Story

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 155 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Getting the Nation's Story Straight,'' by Francis X. Clines (Editorial
Notebook, Oct. 12):

Ellis Island's project, the ''Peopling of America Center,'' has got to be more
than just ''the nation's fuller story,'' since it also must describe the
transoceanic situations that force emigrants out of their root places.

It is a world story, not solely America's. A larger, cosmic view would help
break down that ''nativism and anti-immigrant nonsense'' cited by Alan M. Kraut,
chairman of the history committee of the Ellis Island Immigration Museum, since
it would generate a clearer understanding of the dreadful conditions that
afflict so many people and compel them to leave home.

Historians have recently called for such approaches, and I recently complied
when writing a history of the Irish famine that looks at immigrants' lives on
both sides of the Atlantic.

Mary Lee Dunn   Alfred, Me., Oct. 12, 2008

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 20, 2008 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A War on Janitors

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 411 words


The Wild West weirdness of the nation's immigration policy reached new extremes
last week in Mesa, Ariz., a Phoenix suburb where the county sheriff, Joe Arpaio,
has gone off the rails as the self-appointed scourge of people without papers.

About 2 a.m. on Thursday, Sheriff Arpaio sent out a strike force of 30
detectives and 30 members of his volunteer ''posse,'' with semiautomatic weapons
and dogs, to look for illegal janitors. Acting on a tip to the sheriff's
immigration hotline, they raided Mesa's City Hall. They raided the public
library. They raided the local headquarters of Management Cleaning Controls, the
company with the janitorial contract for city buildings.

Three janitors were arrested at the library. Thirteen other people were picked
up at their homes. All are ''illegals,'' according to the sheriff's office,
which keeps a running total of its immigration arrests on its Web site.

In most other parts of the country this would be seen as a stunning misuse of
firepower, a waste of resources and a bizarre intrusion by one government agency
onto another's turf. Neither the mayor nor Mesa's Police Department had been
warned about the raids. And the city had already been investigating the
company's hiring.

But this happened in Maricopa County, where for months Sheriff Arpaio's deputies
have been staging high-profile sweeps, stopping drivers and pedestrians and
demanding their papers. The crackdowns have terrorized and infuriated Latino
residents of Phoenix, America's fifth-largest city, where citizens say they have
been stopped and harassed for the crime of being brown-skinned. They have
spurred lawsuits and led the Phoenix mayor and others to plead for a federal
investigation.

Sheriff Arpaio's crusade is unconstitutional and repugnant. But it is where the
rest of the country could be headed. Immigration has vanished from the
presidential race, but its problems are still with us, distorted by opportunists
and poisoned by fear.

The system has too few visas, too many shadow workers and no way to bring a huge
and vital undocumented labor force into compliance with the law.

The new president will not only have to  stand up for something better; he will
have to stand against the repulsive scapegoating that hard-liners like Sheriff
Arpaio, who is up for re-election next month, have waged for short-term
political gain.

He will, in short, have to reassure immigrants, Latinos especially, that
America's welcome is secure.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 21, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Former Border Agents Arrested

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD and ANDREW BECKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 329 words


Two former Border Patrol agents who investigators suspect committed some of the
more brazen acts of smuggling-related corruption at the border in recent years
have been arrested and jailed in Mexico, the United States authorities said
Monday.

The men, Fidel and Raul Villarreal, who are brothers, were arrested Saturday at
a gated apartment complex near the United States Consulate in Tijuana, Michael
Unzueta, the agent in charge of the San Diego office of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, said Monday.

The Villarreals, along with two other people believed to be involved in the
case, were taken to a prison in Mexico City. United States prosecutors were
making arrangements for their return to San Diego to face smuggling charges.

The arrest is a significant break for investigators, who since 2006 have been
looking into accusations that the Villarreals, who fled the country as
investigators closed in, were involved in smuggling dozens of illegal
immigrants, mostly Mexicans and Brazilians, while on duty and with Border Patrol
vehicles.

''It was frustrating to see them flee the jurisdiction of the United States,''
Agent Unzueta said. ''But our perseverance paid off.''

The case, among a rash of corruption accusations involving border police
agencies in recent years, was all the more striking because Raul Villarreal
often appeared on television as a spokesman for the San Diego division of the
agency.

The brothers were apparently tipped off about the investigation. They abruptly
resigned in June 2006 and, investigators believed, left the country.

Jan E. Ronis, a lawyer for their family, has said the brothers were prepared to
defend themselves if the American authorities filed charges.

Agent Unzueta said that the authorities secured an indictment against the
brothers and that United States law enforcement officers then worked with the
Mexican police to make the arrest. One of the brothers tried to escape, he said,
but it was not clear which one.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 30, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

North Dakota: Immigrants Arrested

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING PLAINS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 148 words


Federal authorities in North Dakota on Tuesday arrested 23 immigrants from India
who were working for a construction company in Fargo. An immigrant advocate,
Saket Soni of the News Orleans Workers' Center for Racial Justice, said the
workers were among some 250 Indian immigrants who have claimed they were victims
of human trafficking when they were employed as guest workers at Signal
International, an oil rig construction company based in Mississippi. The
workers, whose legal status expired after they walked off their Signal jobs in
March saying they were misled and exploited, have asked the Justice Department
to allow them to remain in the United States to testify in a trafficking
investigation. To date, four workers were given temporary visas as witnesses.
Federal prosecutors in North Dakota charged the immigrants with document fraud
and claiming to be United States citizens.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 1, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fewer Latinos In U.S. Sending Money Home

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Jonathan Higuera contributed reporting from Phoenix,
and Elisabeth Malkin from Mexico.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 953 words


In a sign that the economic downturn is hitting hard among Latino immigrants,
more than three million of them stopped sending money to families in their home
countries during the last two years, the Inter-American Development Bank said on
Wednesday.

Growing numbers of Latino immigrants are also considering giving up their
foothold in the United States and returning home in response to a slump in
low-wage jobs and the crackdown on illegal immigration, the bank reported in a
survey of 5,000 immigrants from Latin America.

The survey found that only half of the 18.9 million Latino immigrants in this
country now send money regularly to relatives in their home countries, compared
with 73 percent two years ago.

''The major dynamic that is holding them back from sending money is fear,'' said
Sergio Bendixen, a Miami-based pollster who conducted the survey. ''They don't
know whether they won't be able to get a job anymore.''

With fewer people sending money home, money transfers to some Latin American
countries have started to decline, reversing five years of often spectacular
growth. In the first quarter of this year, transfers to Mexico dropped 2.9
percent from the first quarter of 2007, Mexico's central bank reported on
Wednesday, the first significant decline since Mexico began tracking the
transfers in 1995.

For Latin America as a whole, the amount of the money transfers, which are known
as remittances, remained virtually flat over the last two years, the development
bank reported. It estimated total remittances to the region at $45.9 billion in
2008, an increase of $500 million over 2006.

That contrasts with the period from 2001 to 2006, when the amount of remittances
to the region tripled, to $45 billion from $15 billion, according to figures
from the development bank, a multilateral organization based in Washington that
finances development projects in Latin America. Total remittances did not drop
more sharply in the last two years because those immigrants who continued to
send money sent larger amounts more frequently, the bank's survey found.

''The longstanding pattern of increasing numbers of Latin American immigrants
sending increasing amounts of money back home has stopped,'' said Donald F.
Terry, the general manager of the Multilateral Investment Fund at the
development bank and the official in charge of the survey. The survey was
conducted in Spanish from Feb. 9 to 23, with a margin of sampling error of plus
or minus 1 percentage point.

With lower income and less job security, Latino immigrants said they were
spending or saving their money here rather than sending it to support children,
spouses and parents at home.

Latino immigrants said life had become more difficult for them here. Of those
interviewed, 81 percent said it is harder to find a good-paying job. Almost 40
percent said they were earning less this year than the previous year. The
largest group of immigrants in the survey -- 18 percent -- worked in
construction, which has been especially hard hit in the slowdown.

As a result of the difficulties, among immigrants who had been here less than
five years, 49 percent said they were thinking of returning home, while 41
percent said they planned to remain in the United States. Over all, slightly
under one-third of the immigrants said they were thinking of leaving this
country.

In 2001, the last time a similar survey asked a comparable question, about 20
percent of Latino immigrants said they were thinking of going home, said Mr.
Bendixen, who conducted that survey as well.

However, Mr. Bendixen said that immigrant workers who participated in focus
groups as part of the survey said they were not ready to leave the United States
quite yet. Before taking the drastic step of moving back home, immigrants said
they were taking jobs at lower wages or sometimes working two jobs to try to
maintain their income, he said.

''These are resourceful people who will do whatever job is available,'' Mr.
Bendixen said.

The economic pressure appears to have fallen equally on illegal immigrants and
those authorized to be in the United States. Of the immigrants interviewed in
the survey, 47 percent said they did not have legal status. The others were
legal immigrants and American citizens.

A large majority of those surveyed -- legal and illegal -- said they experienced
increasing hostility as a result of  efforts to curb illegal immigration and
punish employers who hire unauthorized immigrant workers. In the survey, 61
percent of Latinos who were American citizens and 66 percent of those who were
legal immigrants said discrimination had become a major problem for them.

In an interview in Phoenix on Wednesday, Yolanda, a 45-year-old illegal
immigrant from Mexico who did not participate in the survey, said that she had
started to think of going home, after 13 years in the United States. Before
November, she was sending at least $400 a month to Mexico City to support her
three children. This year she can manage only $300 every two months, she said.

Yolanda, who asked that her last name not be published because of her
immigration status, said her trouble stemmed from the crackdown on hiring of
illegal immigrants, fewer jobs and higher prices.

''We can't keep up with expenses and also send money,'' she said in Spanish.
''If you can't even eat, what's the point? This is the worst it's been, because
we've never not had enough for food and our bills.''

Mexico, which received $24.7 billion in remittances last year, will be hardest
hit by the decrease. The majority of the families of an estimated 3.2 million
immigrants who will no longer receive transfers are in Mexico, Mr. Terry, the
bank official, said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Decline in Money Transfers: A survey of Latin American
immigrants shows that fewer people are sending money to their home countries
than in previous years. After five years of sustained growth, the total amount
of remittances remained flat from 2006 to this year.
 Though the number of Latino immigrants sending money home declined, those who
continued to send money sent more of it more frequently. (Source: Survey by the
Inter-American Development Bank of 5,000 Latin American immigrant adults
conducted Feb. 9-23, in Spanish. Margin of sampling error is $(1$)1 point.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 1, 2008 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Fewer Latino Immigrants Send Money Home

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 802 words


More than three million Latin American immigrants in the United States,
responding to the economic downturn and new uncertainties about their future,
have stopped sending money home to their families in the last two years,
according to a survey released on Wednesday by the Inter-American Development
Bank in Washington.

Only 50 percent of some 18.9 million Latino immigrants in this country now send
money regularly to relatives in their home countries, compared with 73 percent
two years ago, the survey found.

The drop in the number of people sending remittances, as the money transfers are
known, is a sign of pressures on Latino immigrants as a result of the slump in
the low-wage job market and of the Bush administration's crackdown on illegal
immigration, the survey shows. Of the immigrants interviewed, 47 percent said
they did not have legal status. The others were American citizens and legal
immigrants.

But while the number of immigrant senders declined, the total amount of
remittances actually rose slightly between 2006 and this year, the study
reported. It estimated total remittances to Latin America at $45.9 billion in
2008, an increase of $500 million over 2006. The amount did not decrease more
sharply because Latino immigrants who continued to send funds home sent more
money more frequently, the survey found.

However, the total amount of money transfers reported by the development bank
slackened  abruptly after a five-year period of huge growth in remittances to
the region. Between 2001 and 2006, the amount of the transfers tripled, to $45
billion from $15 billion, according to figures from the bank, a multilateral
organization based in Washington that finances development projects in Latin
America.

''The longstanding pattern of increasing numbers of Latin American immigrants
sending increasing amounts of money back home has stopped,'' said Donald F.
Terry, the general manager of the Multilateral Investment Fund at the bank and
the official in charge of the survey. With lower income and less job security,
Latino immigrants are saving their money here rather than sending it to support
children, spouses and parents at home, the study indicated.

Latino immigrants said they stopped sending money to their families because life
is becoming more difficult for them here. Of those interviewed, 81 percent said
it was harder to find a good-paying job. Almost 40 percent said they were
earning less this year. The largest group of immigrants in the survey,  18
percent, worked in construction, which has been especially hard hit in the
slowdown.

A large majority of the Latino immigrants in the survey -- whether or not they
were illegal -- said they experienced increasing hostility as a result of
federal and state efforts to curb illegal immigration and punish employers who
hire unauthorized immigrant workers. In the survey, 61 percent of Latinos who
were American citizens and 66 percent of those who were legal immigrants said
that discrimination had become a major problem for them.

As a result of the difficulties, the numbers of immigrants who said they were
considering going back to live in their home countries increased notably. Among
immigrants who have been here less than five years, 49 percent said they were
thinking of returning home, while only 41 percent said they planned to remain in
the United States. Over all, just under one-third of the immigrants said they
were thinking of leaving this country.

In 2001, the last time a similar survey asked a comparable question, about 20
percent of all the immigrants interviewed said they were thinking of going home.

But Latino immigrant workers who participated in focus groups as part of the
survey said they were not ready to leave the United States quite yet, said
Sergio Bendixen, the Miami-based pollster who conducted the survey. Instead of
going home, the immigrants said they were taking jobs at lower wages or
sometimes working two jobs to try to maintain their income, he said.

''These are resourceful people who will do whatever job is available,'' Mr.
Bendixen said. ''The major dynamic that is holding them back from sending money
is fear. They don't know whether they won't be able to get a job anymore.''

Despite the worsening conditions in the United States, 69 percent of the
immigrants in the survey said their financial situation was good or excellent
compared with their prospects at home.

The families of an estimated 3.2 million immigrants who would lose income
because they would no longer receive transfers from the United States were among
the poorest in the region, and the majority were in Mexico, said Mr. Terry, the
bank official.

The survey was conducted in Spanish from Feb. 9-23 with a sample of 5,000
interviews and a margin of error of 1 percentage point.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 2, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Shame in Calais

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 444 words


For Americans, what is happening each night in the French channel port of Calais
is poignantly and shamefully familiar. As Caroline Brothers reported in The
Times recently, clusters of poor people wait for darkness and a high-risk chance
to crawl inside or beneath a truck to cross to a country that needs and welcomes
their labor but refuses to legally recognize their presence.

The United States has engaged in this labor market hypocrisy for decades. Border
crossers here are mainly Mexican and Central American. Western Europe's come
from North and Central Africa, the Middle East and former east bloc countries
not yet in the European Union. Just about everywhere, they are distrusted by the
local population and vilified by demagogic politicians.

In the rush to blame foreigners for real and imagined social ills, Europe's
anemic birth rates, aging population and hard-to-fill jobs are forgotten.
Without large infusions of foreign workers, the tourist industries that many
European countries depend on would be understaffed and the cost of construction
would soar. None of this has stopped Europe's politicians from stoking fears of
immigrant crime, welfare burdens and foreign ways. That should also sound
familiar to Americans.

Immigrant bashing pays rich political dividends and is not just confined to
shameless xenophobes like Italy's Northern League and the rising Dutch political
star, Geert Wilders. It is also cynically employed by those who clearly know
better, like France's president, Nicolas Sarkozy, and Britain's ruling Labor
Party. That too, sadly, tracks the current American debate.

Without it, Mr. Sarkozy might not now be France's president. The Northern League
would not have been the biggest winner of last month's Italian elections and a
significant prop of prime minister Silvio Berlusconi's new government. Rome
would not have last week elected its most right-wing mayor since fascism's fall.

We do not countenance illegal immigration. Nor do we discount the anxieties of
Europeans and Americans whose lives have been transformed by globalization. But
the answer is not to pretend that immigrant labor isn't needed, or that
able-bodied workers from poor countries will stay at home and watch their
families suffer when crossing an international border can prevent it.

The answer is for political leaders in Europe and the United States to address
the issues of immigration honestly and responsibly. The first step should be
realistic, enforceable laws that allow legitimate seekers of available work to
emerge from the shadows into a lawful system of work permits, with a decent
chance for eventual responsible citizenship.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 6, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ethiopian Exodus, Told on a Human Scale

BYLINE: By ANDY WEBSTER

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'ONE OF A
KIND'; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 359 words


Israel has no shortage of immigration stories, but many Americans are unaware of
the Ethiopian Jews who in the late 1970s and 1980s braved a trek through the
Sudanese desert to reach it. Yossi Vassa, an actor-playwright  who survived that
journey, has written, with Shai Ben Attar (who directs), a semiautobiographical
account, ''One of a Kind,'' now at the New Victory Theater. The 65-minute
production, for audiences 10 and older, manages to infuse its potentially
harrowing tale with a childlike vigor, wonder and sense of humor, spiced with
exuberant African music and dance.

Like many immigrant stories, this one, performed by Mr. Vassa and the
Ethiopian-Israeli Nephesh Theater of Tel Aviv, revolves around a family, vividly
drawn: AndArgay (Mr. Vassa), a precocious young artist; his flinty grandmother
(Tehitina Assefa); his mother and father (Mahareta Baruch and Shai Fredo); his
sister, Yeshitu (Sky Gete); and her suitor, Isaac (Roy Zaddok). When Isaac's
family joins their village in making the exodus, AndArgay's father resists
joining in, knowing the perils involved. But largely at the insistence of the
grandmother -- ''Our redemption has arrived!'' she cries -- he relents.

After their arduous journey across the desert, the family arrives at a crowded
refugee camp, where months waiting for a plane -- part of Operation Moses, the
covert airlift of Ethiopian Jews into Israel -- turn into years. AndArgay,
thanks to a woman who has hired him as household help, eventually enables his
family to make the trip. But it comes at a heavy cost.

''One of a Kind'' has much to offer. Mr. Vassa's effervescence is the central
attraction, but other elements also enliven the proceedings: charming animation
by Adi Katz, exhilarating choreography by Iddi Saaka to Idan Zilbershtein's
reggaelike songs, Ms. Assefa's tough but tender  grandmother. Inspirational as
the show is, many Ethiopians have had a hard struggle in Israel, a continuing
plight Mr. Vassa plans to examine in a coming work. Bring it on.

''One of a Kind'' continues through Sunday at the New Victory Theater, 209 West
42nd Street, Manhattan; (646) 223-3010, newvictory.org.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 6, 2008 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Death by Detention

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 658 words


A chilling article by Nina Bernstein in The Times on Monday recounted the
secrecy, neglect and lack of oversight that are a few of the shameful symptoms
of the booming sector of the nation's prison industry -- the detention of
undocumented foreigners.

Ms. Bernstein chronicled the death of Boubacar Bah, a tailor from Guinea who was
imprisoned in New Jersey for overstaying a tourist visa. He fell and fractured
his skull in the Elizabeth Detention Center early last year. Though clearly
gravely injured, Mr. Bah was shackled and taken to a disciplinary cell. He was
left alone -- unconscious and occasionally foaming at the mouth -- for more than
13 hours. He was eventually taken to the hospital and died after four months in
a coma.

Nobody told Mr. Bah's relatives until five days after his fall. When they
finally found him, he was on life support, soon to become one of the 66
immigrants known to have died in federal custody between 2004 and 2007. Mr.
Bah's family still does not know the full story of when or how he suffered his
fatal injuries.

It is shameful, though hardly a surprise, that they remain in the dark. There is
no public system for tracking deaths in immigration custody, no requirement for
independent investigations. Relatives and lawyers who want to unearth details of
such tragedies have found the bureaucracy unresponsive and hostile. In the case
of Mr. Bah, records were marked ''proprietary information -- not for
distribution'' by the Corrections Corporation of America, a private company that
runs the Elizabeth Detention Center and many others under contract with the
federal government.

Secrecy and shockingly inadequate medical care are hardly the only problems with
immigration detention. Immigrants taken into federal custody enter a world where
many of the rights taken for granted by people charged with real crimes do not
exist. Detainees have no right to legal representation. Many are unable to
defend or explain themselves, or even to understand the charges against them,
because they don't speak English and lack access to lawyers or telephones.

What standards do exist for the treatment of immigrants in federal custody are
only recommendations. A detainee, family member or lawyer who finds a violation
has no way to force the government to correct it.

As authorities at the federal and local level continue rounding up illegal
immigrants in these harsh days of ever-stricter enforcement, the potential for
abuse will continue to grow --  largely out of sight. Although immigration law
is every bit as complex as tax law -- and the consequences for violators more
dire  -- the detention system seems designed to sacrifice thoughtful
deliberation and justice to expediency and swift deportation.

Many detainees may have a valid defense -- and at any rate have committed only
administrative violations such as overstaying a visa or entering the country
without authorization. Yet their cases are handled with a toxic mixture of
secrecy and inattention to basic rights. This mistreatment of a vulnerable
population, which advocates for immigrants trace to the roundups of Muslims
after 9/11 and the subsequent clamor for tougher immigration laws, is hostile to
American values and disproportionate to the threat that these immigrants pose.

Congress has failed repeatedly to enact meaningful immigration reform, and the
prospects in the next year or so are slim. It can act on this. The government
urgently needs to bring the detention system up to basic standards of decency
and fairness. That means lifting the veil on detention centers -- particularly
the private jails and the state prisons and county jails that take detainees
under federal contracts -- and holding them to the same enforceable standards
that apply to prisons. It also means designing a system that is not a vast
holding pen for ordinary people who pose no threat to public safety, like the
52-year-old tailor, Boubacar Bah.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 10, 2008



CORRECTION: An editorial on Tuesday about the immigration detention system
misstated the level of the charge against those who enter the country without
authorization. It is a misdemeanor, not an administrative violation.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 7, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

CORRECTIONS: FOR THE RECORD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 88 words


An article on April 25 about new federal measures that offer a path to legal
status for illegal immigrants whose close relatives died in the Sept. 11 attacks
misstated the position of a Republican congressman, Dan Lungren of California,
on a proposed House bill that would grant the immigrants permanent resident
visas. He supported it when it went before the House Judiciary Committee but
said he wanted to know how many immigrants would be affected before supporting
it in a final vote on the floor. He did not oppose the bill.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 7, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Better Health Care Sought For Detained Immigrants

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN and JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 717 words


The head of a Congressional subcommittee looking into complaints of inadequate
medical care in immigration detention announced on Tuesday that she had
introduced legislation to set mandatory standards for care and to require that
all deaths be reported to the Justice Department and Congress.

''This should not be part of the debate about illegal immigration,'' the
chairwoman, Representative Zoe Lofgren of California, said of the bill, which
she introduced late last week. ''This is about whether the government is
conducting itself according to the basic minimum standards of civilization.''

The need for the bill, she said, was underscored by an article in The New York
Times on Monday about the 2007 death of Boubacar Bah, a 52-year-old tailor from
Guinea. His name was one of 66 on a government list of detention deaths obtained
from Immigration and Customs Enforcement by The Times under the Freedom of
Information Act.

Records show that Mr. Bah, who suffered a skull fracture and multiple brain
hemorrhages in the Elizabeth Detention Center in New Jersey, was left in an
isolation cell there without treatment for more than 14 hours.

Ms. Lofgren's legislation would require the federal government to establish
mandatory standards for medical and mental health care, replacing the voluntary
standards that apply now in the network of more than 300 publicly and privately
run jails where the government holds people while it decides whether to deport
them.

The bill would also require the secretary of the Homeland Security Department to
report all deaths in immigration detention within 48 hours to the Justice
Department's inspector general as well as its own. Immigration officials would
be required to submit a detailed report on such deaths to Congress every year.

''We are not talking about Cadillac health care here,'' Ms. Lofgren said, ''but
the government is obligated to provide basic care. Many of those in immigration
custody are there for minor violations, many for administrative and
paperwork-related mistakes. Their detention should not be a death sentence.''

Officials of the immigration agency, known as ICE, said they would not comment
on Ms. Lofgren's proposal because they did not discuss pending legislation.

But officials said that while the number of immigrants detained had increased by
34 percent from 2004 through last year, the numbers of deaths in its detention
centers had declined each year.

''While a single death of an ICE detainee is a serious matter, we strive to
maintain safe, secure and human detention conditions and to ensure that all
detainees receive quality health care,'' said Kelly A. Nantel, a spokeswoman for
the agency.

According to figures the agency provided on Tuesday, from January 2004 until
last Friday it recorded 71 deaths of immigrants in its custody, including 5
since the list was released to The Times, 4 of them this year. Ms. Nantel did
not provide details of those cases.

In the 2004 fiscal year, according to the figures, the agency detained 231,804
immigrants, and about one out of every 9,200 died. In fiscal 2007, when the
agency detained a total of 311,213 immigrants, roughly one out of every 28,000
died. Immigration officials said the agency spent $91.6 million last year on
health care for its detention centers, an 82 percent increase since 2004.

Ms. Lofgren said the agency's count of deaths could understate the problem,
because detainees who were denied critical treatment could die after they were
released or deported.

She cited the case of Francisco Castaneda, a Salvadoran who testified at the
hearing last fall that he was denied a biopsy for a painful lesion on his penis
for 11 months while he was in detention as an illegal immigrant, despite his
pleas and doctors' recommendations. By the time he received the treatment he had
been seeking, in February 2007, he was found to have metastasized penile cancer,
records show; his penis had to be amputated.

He was released from detention after a diagnosis of terminal cancer, and died on
Feb. 16 this year at age 36, leaving behind a 14-year-old daughter.

In March, a federal judge ruled that the government could be held liable in a
lawsuit his family is pursuing. The federal government admitted medical
negligence in the case last month.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Francisco Castaneda in 2007. He died in February, after his
cancer went untreated in detention. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 9, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

When Immigrants Die in Detention

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 865 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Few Details on Immigrants Who Died in U.S. Custody'' (front page, May 5):

Thank you for bringing to light the tragic deaths of immigrants in the custody
of United States immigration officials. The unfortunate callousness and
disregard of medical complaints displayed by jail officials and immigration
agents only demonstrate how far we have come to dehumanize individuals who are
held behind bars.

Such disregard negatively affects the well-being of family members and
communities and the lens through which our nation is viewed by the rest of the
world.

Our misguided national fervor to build more jails and incarcerate more
individuals, even on the basis of immigration status alone, can only lead to
more tragic deaths. We are in grave danger of a nationwide lack of recognition
that every individual deserves to be treated with respect. We must reverse this
trend before it is too late.

Amy Gottlieb Newark, May 5, 2008

The writer is program director, American Friends Service Committee Immigrant
Rights Program.

To the Editor:

The story of Boubacar Bah from Guinea, who had overstayed his tourist visa, is
grim, and a national embarrassment. To my naive eye, it appears that we have
evolved from the days of Jim Crow to accepting another politically acceptable
object of disdain and mistreatment: immigrants and other noncitizens.

Immigrants are held in prisons without recourse; prisoners are held in
Guantanamo without recourse. How can this happen?

Mary Ann Sternberg Baton Rouge, La., May 5, 2008

To the Editor:

The suffering and death of immigrants in United States detention facilities
point to a still bigger outrage: the alarming breakdown of health care for
detained immigrants and asylum seekers. This is a direct result of the
longstanding abdication of responsibility by the Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, the Public Health Service, private contractors and local jails for
the health of immigration detainees in their custody.

The harsh circumstances of detention and the detrimental effect  on health  have
been known for years, and the victims include asylum seekers who have come to
this country to escape persecution in other lands, only to find themselves
imprisoned instead of supported while their claims are pending.

Congress and immigration officials must immediately take at least four steps:

First, they should provide the funds needed to protect the health of immigration
detainees.

Second, they should enforce compliance with established standards of medical
care in detention facilities, no matter who operates them.

Third, they should release from detention asylum seekers  who pose no risk of
flight or danger to the community.

Fourth, a bill to address many of these issues, introduced this week by
Representative Zoe Lofgren, should be passed quickly.

Fifth, both Congress and the appropriate executive agencies should investigate
the deaths of immigrant detainees in United States custody, ensuring that the
health and human rights of those still in these facilities are protected.

Frank Donaghue Chief Executive Physicians for Human Rights Cambridge, Mass., May
5, 2008

To the Editor:

Your report of the death of Boubacar Bah and others and the inhumane manner in
which it was handled suggests an appalling lack of humanity in our immigration
and penal systems.

The incompetent care given to him after the injuries he received, which any
intern would recognize as a medical emergency, requires an investigation and
re-evaluation of the medical care rendered to those unfortunate individuals
incarcerated in our jails.

The coverage and lack of communication and cooperation with his family require a
re-evaluation of the principles that have made this the great country it is.

Herbert L. Cole Wayne, N.J., May 5, 2008

The writer is a medical doctor.

To the Editor:

Your May 6 editorial ''Death by Detention'' was right to point out the  secrecy
and lack of transparency surrounding the treatment of immigrant detainees held
in for-profit facilities. But your call for holding detention centers to the
same enforceable standards that apply to prisons would do little to help.

Sadly, there are no enforceable national standards for prisons and jails in the
United States. There is one national accreditation body that had developed
standards, the American Correctional Association, but its standards are not
enforceable, and there is no requirement for facilities to be accredited.

There are constitutional standards that fluctuate as the Supreme Court changes
its view of the meaning of the Eighth Amendment.

There are standards imposed by the international treaties that we have signed
and ratified, including the Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman
and Degrading Treatment and Punishment, but the Bush administration was
dismissive of the criticisms of our prison systems made by the committee of
oversight last year.

We should develop enforceable national standards, including systems of oversight
and monitoring, for all places of detention in the United States.

Jenni Gainsborough Director, Washington Office Penal Reform International
Washington, May 6, 2008

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GRADY WHITE)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 11, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Information That Doesn't Come Freely

BYLINE: By CLARK HOYT

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; THE PUBLIC EDITOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1194 words


NINA BERNSTEIN, a Times reporter, wrote a front-page article last June about the
deaths of prisoners in the fastest-growing form of incarceration in America,
immigration detention.

Civil rights attorneys believed that, since the start of 2004, about 20 people
had died while in custody facing possible deportation, but a spokeswoman for the
federal immigration agency told Bernstein a surprising fact: the number was 62.
Bernstein asked for details, like who they were and how they died. The
spokeswoman refused, so Bernstein did what reporters often do -- she filed a
request under the federal Freedom of Information Act, known as FOIA, for what
she believed should be public records. Although the law required the agency to
answer such a simple request within 20 business days, Immigration and Customs
Enforcement initially responded the way many agencies do -- with silence.

Bernstein, who has a busy beat, immigration in the New York area, wrote her
article without the details and moved on. But months later, right around
Thanksgiving, she received an envelope containing a chart listing the people who
had died in immigration detention -- now 66 of them -- with their dates of birth
and death, the locations where they had been held, where they had died and the
causes of death. Her FOIA request had been granted. That led Bernstein to a
front-page article published last Monday about Boubacar Bah, a 52-year-old
tailor from Guinea, who fell while in detention, received no medical care for 15
hours and died of severe head injuries.

Times reporters use FOIA aggressively, and it has been central to two major
stories in just the last three weeks -- Bernstein's and an article by David
Barstow on April 20 about a Pentagon program to cozy up to military analysts on
television and radio in hopes of generating favorable coverage of the
administration's war on terror. But it is increasingly difficult to pry records
that should be open out of federal agencies. A study last year by the Coalition
of Journalists for Open Government found that FOIA requests were becoming more
backlogged, waits for information were getting longer and agencies were saying
''no'' more often, using one of nine exemptions in the law for such
considerations as national security or privacy.

Though late, at least Bernstein got records without having to go to court. The
Times was not so fortunate in Barstow's case, which seemed to show that an
agency that does not want to obey the law can find a million creative ways to
delay coughing up information that the public has a clear right to know.

Barstow first asked more than two years ago, on April 28, 2006, for records
describing the Defense Department's involvement with the analysts, most of them
retired officers, many with business dealings with the Pentagon. He said he
wanted transcripts of briefings and conference calls, records of trips and any
documents describing the Pentagon's strategy and objectives in what turned out
to be a carefully planned program to try to, as Barstow's article said,
''transform the analysts into a kind of media Trojan horse.''

As the law provides, he asked for expedited handling of his request. He was
turned down, though he said the Pentagon did not tell him for a month after the
decision. It said the information he wanted did not deal with ''a breaking news
story of public interest.''

Barstow appealed, arguing that the war on terror was by definition a breaking
news story and certainly of public interest. The appeal was denied on Aug. 20,
2006, with bizarre reasoning familiar to anyone who has tried to wrest public
information from a federal agency that does not want it released. ''Your request
is not for information on the war on terror,'' the denial said. ''It is for
Department of Defense interactions with military and security analysts who
discuss the war on terror. Therefore, you did not establish a compelling need
for the information you requested.''

Barstow kept pressing and two months later received 687 pages of documents,
mostly, he said, talking points and other briefing documents representing only a
small portion of what he had requested.

A long succession of phone calls and written appeals, some from David McCraw, a
vice president and assistant general counsel for The New York Times Company,
prompted a trickle of additional material. Last summer, the Pentagon gave
Barstow transcripts of briefings received by the analysts, with large portions
blacked out. Barstow appealed the deletions, saying it was ''ludicrous'' to
withhold material disclosed to selected representatives of the news media in a
briefing. Two months later, the Pentagon relented -- and on the same day gave
Barstow another transcript, of a briefing with Donald Rumsfeld, the defense
secretary, with more deletions.

The Times, committed to spending resources on important FOIA matters even during
a time of economic stress for newspapers, took the Pentagon to court last fall.
Under the supervision of a federal district judge, Richard J. Sullivan, The
Times and an assistant United States attorney representing the Pentagon agreed
to deadlines for producing the records Barstow wanted. The Pentagon kept missing
the deadlines.

At a hearing in February, Sullivan said the Pentagon was playing ''cute'' and
refused to give any more extensions. ''Two years is a long time,'' he said. But
in April, the parties were back in his courtroom, with the Pentagon pleading for
more time. Sullivan was having none of it. ''My orders have been issued since
November,'' he said. ''I am not used to having to do this five or six times.''
The judge threatened to bring Pentagon officials into court ''to explain the
delay and why they shouldn't be held in contempt.''

With the records it had already obtained, The Times published Barstow's article
the following Sunday. Three days later, the Pentagon gave Barstow 2,800 more
pages. His reporting continues. FOIA, he told me, has become ''a cruel joke.''

Late last year, Congress passed the Open Government Act of 2007, with the
intention of forcing better compliance with FOIA and heading off situations like
Bernstein's and Barstow's. (Full disclosure: I testified in favor of the law as
a representative of the Sunshine in Government Initiative, a coalition of 10
news organizations.) President Bush signed it on the last day of the year, but
his administration quickly set about trying to dismantle one of its key
features, an independent ombudsman who could mediate FOIA disputes before they
turn into expensive lawsuits, like the one The Times is still pursuing.

The administration proposed no financing for the new office and tried to move
its responsibilities to the Justice Department, which defends agencies trying to
withhold information. Senators Patrick Leahy of Vermont and John Cornyn of Texas
wrote to the White House last week to protest the transfer of the ombudsman,
saying it would violate the law.

Leahy is a liberal Democrat and Cornyn is a conservative Republican, and while
they do not agree on a lot of issues, they agree that bad things can happen when
a government tries to hide the records of its actions.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2008 Monday
                         The New York Times on the Web

A Better Immigration Policy

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 149 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Hard Times at the Golden Door'' (editorial, May 4):

Given the deadly dangers associated with crossing the border through the desert
since the mid-1990s, unauthorized temporary immigrants have been afraid to
return to their home countries.

And with today's restrictionists turning our ''nation's de facto immigration
policy'' into making ''life untenable for illegal immigrants,'' we are faced
with a new problem: a decrease in immigrant's remittances to their loved ones
that will lead to more economic displacement in our hemisphere.

The solution, it seems to me, is a simple human rights sensibility easily
sustained by economic rationality: legalize and legitimize the millions of
workers who have helped, historically, to keep an economic system, indeed
American society and the Western Hemisphere, more competitive globally.

Alejandro Lugo  Urbana, Ill., May 7, 2008

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 13, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hundreds Are Arrested In U.S. Sweep Of Meat Plant

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 611 words


In the biggest workplace immigration raid this year, federal agents swept into a
kosher meat plant on Monday in Postville, Iowa, and arrested more than 300
workers.

The authorities said the workers were suspected of being in the United States
illegally or of having  participated in identity theft and the fraudulent use of
Social Security numbers.

A spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement would not say how many
people had been rounded up beyond the initial 300 or whether the management and
owners of the plant, AgriProcessors, would face criminal charges.

The plant has 800 to 900 people and is the country's largest producer of meat
that is glatt kosher, widely regarded as the highest standard of cleanliness.

The plant shut temporarily.

The agents set up a perimeter around the 60-acre plant, in northeastern Iowa,
and entered on the morning shift, carrying out two search warrants, federal
authorities said. An affidavit filed in court before the raid by the Homeland
Security Department cited ''the issuance of 697 criminal complaints and arrest
warrants against persons believed to be current employees'' and to have acted
criminally.

The affidavit said a former plant supervisor had told investigators that  a
methamphetamine laboratory had operated at the plant and that some employees had
carried weapons to the plant. The former supervisor, the affidavit said,
estimated that 80 percent of the employees were in the United States illegally.

A spokesman for Representative Bruce Braley, Democrat of Iowa, said the number
of arrests was expected to increase, perhaps even double, as the investigation
continued.

Federal officials leased an expansive fairground area in nearby Waterloo to
process and house the arrested workers. Among people at the fairgrounds and in
Postville, ''there is a lot of fear,'' said Prof. Mark A. Grey, who focuses on
immigration at the University of Northern Iowa.

''It's absolutely devastating to the local economy,'' Professor Grey said.

In a news release, Matt M. Dummermuth, the United States attorney for the
Northern District of Iowa, called the sweep ''the largest operation of its type
ever in Iowa.''

Federal authorities have been conducting workplace raids across the country in
recent years, with the pace accelerating since the failure of immigration
legislation last year in Congress.

The raid had been planned for months and was conducted in coordination with
local law enforcement, according to the news release, released jointly by Claude
Arnold, special agent in charge for the ICE  regional office in Bloomington,
Minn.

Calls to AgriProcessors, a global giant in the kosher meat market and the major
employer in Postville, a town of 2,200 people, were not answered. A lawyer for
the plant did not return a call.

According to a company Web site, Aaron Rubashkin, whose family controls the
plant, bought a defunct meat factory in Postville in 1987 and turned it into the
present plant.

According to Menachem Lubinsky, the editor of Kosher Today and a marketing
consultant, AgriProcessors provides 60 percent of the kosher retail meat and 40
percent of the kosher poultry nationally, and most retail chains depend on it
for supply. Mr. Lubinsky said the company was also the sole American packing
plant whose products are accepted in Israel.

The raid was not the first moment in the national spotlight for the plant. In
2004, it was asked to change its slaughtering methods after an animal rights
group secretly documented workers cutting the throats of living steers and
letting them bleed to death.

The company has also been a target of environmental pollution complaints.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 23, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

INSIDE THE TIMES: May 23, 2008

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2177 words


INTERNATIONAL

IMMIGRANTS FLEE SOUTH AFRICA

As Hate Mobs Continue Terrorism

Feneck Mgawa moved to South Africa to seek work and send cash to his family back
home in Malawi. But after being beaten with sticks and pelted with rocks by a
hateful mob, Mr. Mgawa intends to leave the country. He is part of a stunning
reverse migration of foreigners desperate to leave South Africa after more than
a week of anti-immigrant violence that has left 42 dead.  PAGE A10

DEADLY HELICOPTER STRIKE

An American helicopter strike killed eight civilians, including two children,
during an operation against ''known terrorists'' working with the Sunni
insurgent group Al Qaeda near the northern Iraqi town of Baiji, the Iraqi police
said. The episode may inflame anti-American feelings already present from the
admission that an American sniper had used a Koran for target practice. PAGE A16

CUTBACKS IN MEXICO'S DRUG PLAN

Congress has scaled back on President Bush's anti-drug plans for Mexico and put
human rights conditions on some of the aid, drawing fire from some Mexicans who
accuse American lawmakers of meddling in their country's internal affairs. At
issue is the performance of Mexico's army and the police, which have been
accused by human rights organizations of engaging in abuses as they chase down
the country's drug cartels. PAGE A6

HOPES FOR TROOP REDUCTION IN IRAQ

President Bush's nominees for commander of forces in the Middle East and senior
commander in Baghdad told a Senate hearing that troop reductions might be
possible this fall. But they acknowledged that Iraqi security forces would
probably be unable to take the leading role in all provinces of the country this
year.  PAGE A16

ATTACKS CONTINUE NEAR BORDER

A Palestinian suicide bomber detonated a truck packed with explosives near the
Gaza-Israel border, killing himself and causing damage, but no injuries, on the
Israeli side. It was the latest in a series of attacks at the border crossings
after the Islamic militant group Hamas took control of Gaza.   PAGE A14

Ruling Party Cements Power  A16

A Premier's Personal Troubles  A14

NATIONAL

NEW DRUGS RAISE HOPES

For Brain Cancer Treatment

Cancer drugs have been unable to do much to improve survival rates for brain
cancer, including the type recently diagnosed in Senator Edward M. Kennedy. But
Avastin, already widely used to treat other types of cancer, is leading a pack
of new drugs that some experts hope can improve the outlook.   PAGE A20

SENATE PASSES VETERANS' BENEFITS

Twenty-five Republican senators broke with President Bush and voted for a major
expansion of veterans benefits as part of a bill to finance another year of the
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. The proposal, adopted by a veto-proof vote of 75
to 22, also provides money for extended unemployment insurance benefits and
other domestic programs to which Mr. Bush has objected. The bill now goes back
to the House, where its future course is somewhat uncertain.   PAGE A20

THE MACHINERY OF GOVERNMENT

Congress, efficient? A 34-page section of the 673-page farm bill was missing
from the package sent to President Bush (who vetoed it). So the House, which a
day earlier had voted to override the veto, voted again on the whole 673 pages
and passed it. And it gets even more complicated in the Senate.  PAGE A23

PANEL SUBPOENAS ROVE

The House Judiciary Committee issued a subpoena to Karl Rove, the former chief
political adviser at the White House, pressing its inquiry into possible
political influence in Justice Department prosecutions. Mr. Rove's lawyer said
his client would not appear, on instructions from the White House, and accused
the committee chairman of ''provoking a gratuitous confrontation.''  PAGE A21

F.D.A. TO EXPAND DRUG SCRUTINY

Federal health officials announced a plan to use information on Medicare claims
to assess almost immediately the risks of drugs. Now, months or even years pass
before officials learn of unexpected side effects that can be fatal. Researchers
praised the government initiative, but many said its fruits would take years to
realize.  PAGE  A17

A Fire's Costs and Benefits   A17

Subsidy Proposal for Pipeline   A20

metro

THE PUBLIC VICTIMS

Of a Private Turf War

The murders are so routine the mourning has become a familiar ritual at the
Redfern Houses in Far Rockaway, Queens. Invariably, those killed are young.
Sometimes they are the intended targets, other times they are not. Most are
victims of a private war over money, turf and drugs. Police Commissioner Raymond
W. Kelly visited to announce plans to combat the violence.  PAGE B1

BLOOMBERG WON'T TESTIFY

Saying that he did not want ''a media show,'' a federal judge ruled that Mayor
Michael R. Bloomberg cannot testify at the pending civil trial of a Georgia gun
dealer accused of creating a public nuisance in New York by selling weapons that
were later used to commit crimes in the city. ''I don't see any reason for the
mayor to be here,'' the judge said.   PAGE B3

SPORTS

COMING BACK DOWN TO EARTH

After Success Down Under

Tennis's newest star, Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, beat four top-15 players, including
Rafael Nadal, on his way to the Australian Open finals. But he is not expected
to have the same kind of run on home soil at the French Open. There is that
not-so-little problem of playing on the slow red clay. And, in general, things
have changed considerably for him since Australia.   PAGE D1

RUNNING INDY ON ALMOST EMPTY

Of the three women driving in Sunday's Indianapolis 500, Sarah Fisher is the
only one who is also an owner, and the first woman in 30 years to have filled
both roles at the 500. But it hasn't been completely smooth -- like when she
lost her primary corporate sponsor. But fans pitched in to help, and things are
looking better now, with a new sponsor.   PAGE D2

HANDICAPPING BEIJING

The coming Summer Olympic Games in China are a bit hard to handicap. Will
sympathy over the recent earthquake trump complaints about the country's
complicity in Darfur? And what will be the medal results produced by the
resources it has been pouring into the athletic effort? Sports of The Times,
Harvey Araton.   PAGE D1

SPRINTER ACKNOWLEDGES DRUG USE

The Olympic gold medalist Antonio Pettigrew acknowledged in federal court that
he used performance-enhancing drugs from 1997 to 2001, when he was one of the
world's top 400-meter runners. The admission took place at the trial here of his
former longtime coach, Trevor Graham, who is accused of lying to federal agents
in 2004 about whether he set up athletes with banned drugs.   PAGE D2

OBITUARIES

J.C. HUREWITZ, 93

A Columbia University professor, his voluminous research, belief in the
importance of local histories and evenhanded scholarship contributed depth and
complexity to the emerging field of Middle Eastern studies starting in 1950.
PAGE B7

JAN HIRD POKORNY, 83

A Czech-born architect, his New York firm became known for restoring and
adapting historic buildings for reuse. He spent much of the last decade, from
1997 to 2007, as an often wryly outspoken member of the New York City Landmarks
Preservation Commission.  PAGE B7

WILFRID MELLERS, 94

An English musicologist, composer, critic and teacher, he published more than 20
books on subjects ranging from 17th-century English and French composers to the
music of the Beatles and Bob Dylan.  PAGE B7

BUSINESS

WHAT HAPPENS HERE

Is Inexpensive Here

The approach of the crucial summer travel season has tourism marketers looking
for ways to overcome travel inertia caused by rising gasoline prices and
airfares. As a result, feel-good slogans like Las Vegas's ''What happens here
stays here'' are giving way to harder-hitting pleas and promises of bargains.
PAGE C3

THE USUAL SUMMER SUSPECTS

It must be close to summer if Congress is raking oil company executives over the
coals, a show that went into its second day. And there is talk by lawmakers of
various ways to provide relief at the pump. But none are likely to reduce prices
at the pump, as the players well know, so they just ran through the usual
script.   PAGE C1

EASING PAIN, OR DUMPING RICE?

The Japanese government says the country plans to send at least 220,000 tons of
rice to the Philippines, and possibly Africa, to ease the suffering of poor
nations punished by rising rice prices. Critics, including some in Washington,
say that could set a bad precedent for dumping. But opposing the plan could put
the United States in a delicate diplomatic position.  PAGE C3

UBS MOVES TO RAISE CAPITAL

The Swiss banking giant, UBS, said it would raise more than $15 billion by
issuing sharply discounted shares. It is the second time that UBS has had to
raise funds since the credit markets tightened last year with the collapse of
the American subprime housing market. It is issuing 760 million new shares at 21
francs each, 31 percent below the Wednesday closing price.   PAGE C5

Possible Airline Downgrades   C4

WEEKEND

SO MANY BOOKS, SURE,

But Are They Worth the Time?

William Grimes felt challenged, and a bit insulted, by the title: ''1001 Books
You Must Read Before You Die.'' So of course he had to find out more. And of
course he found points of disagreement, like this: ''Not only is it not
necessary to read 'Interview With the Vampire' by Anne Rice before you die, it
is also probably not necessary to read it even if, like Lestat, you are never
going to die.''  PAGE E29

TWO PROVOCATEURS

There is reason to be thankful, at times, that film critics stand between us and
the movies. A.O. Scott, for example, has invested more than four hours of his
life on ''Che,'' Steven Soderbergh's ''digitally shot, Spanish-language epic
about a Marxist militant.'' For various reasons it is altogether unclear whether
many of the rest of us will do the same.  PAGE E1

THE SOUNDS OF SUMMER

Summer has various associations with music, not the least being the open-air
amphitheater show. But while it's a crucial time for singles, it hasn't been for
albums. Until now. New albums by Coldplay, Usher, Lil Wayne, Nas, T.I.,
Slipknot, the Game, Solange Knowles and the Jonas Brothers are among the what
Billboard magazine counts as 180 significant records coming out in warm weather.
PAGE E1

REVISITING THAT FUN 2000 VOTE

In case you've forgotten, what with the various intervening events, the Florida
vote count in the 2000 presidential election was a big deal. So big that HBO is
about to offer ''Recount,'' which Alessandra Stanley calls ''an astute and
deliciously engrossing film.'' And, she reminds, presidential voting is again on
people's minds. And Florida again has a big role.  PAGE E1

Woman Troubles  E3

Giants Amid the Blooms  E23

Afghanistan's Hidden Treasures   E28

ESCAPES

LIVING AN ARTISAN'S LIFE,

At Least for a Weekend

The Roycroft Campus in East Aurora, N.Y., a nonprofit corporation, offers
classes and tours to visitors interested in print-  and jewelry-making, painting
and metalwork. It is where would-be craftsmen can learn to suffer quite
literally for their art, and can hear ''Don't worry. We can fix that.'' many
times over the course of a weekend.   PAGE F1

PUTTING OUT THE 'WILLKOMMEN' MAT

It is 650 square feet of white walls, windows, ceiling and rafters three blocks
from the beach in Venice, Calif., that had served as a surfer's crash pad and
was offered ''as is'' when the actor Joel Grey came upon it. ''O.K., this is
it,'' he said, and took a lease on what he now calls his ''ad hoc'' house.  PAGE
F1

A RAMBLIN' KIND OF GUY

Back in 1968, at the age of 14, Jim Dworschack bought his first Nash, a 1948
Model 600. The next year he founded the Nash Car Club of America. Some may find
the find the devotion puzzling, others understandable. ''I don't have any
rational explanation,'' Mr. Dworschack said. ''A '50 Nash was the family car, my
dad liked it a lot, and I guess it rubbed off.''   PAGE F6

Havens: Logan Martin Lake, Ala.  F3

Jazz and the Grateful Dead  F7

For Sale: Frank Lloyd Wrights   F4

EDITORIAL

TALKING WITH THE ENEMY

President Bush was aiming at Senator Barack Obama last week when the president
said those who talk to ''terrorists and radicals'' were appeasers. Now we know
what Mr. Bush knew then -- that Israel is in indirect peace talks with Syria. It
seems as though the president was going for a two-for-one.  Page A24

TROUBLE IN THE HUDSON

The Hudson River is looking good. You would think it was about as healthy as it
has been in a long time. Sadly, it isn't.  Page A24

CHILDREN IN ADULT JAILS

Children who are confined to adult jails are at greater risk of being raped or
pushed to suicide, and they are more likely to become violent criminals. This
barbaric practice must end.  Page A24

OP-ED

DAVID BROOKS

Among adults, the words ''geek'' and ''nerd'' exchanged status positions. A nerd
was still socially tainted, but geekdom acquired its own cool counterculture. A
geek possessed a certain passion for specialized knowledge, but also a high
degree of cultural awareness and poise that a nerd lacked. Page A25

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 24, 2008 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

The Killings in South Africa

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg.

LENGTH: 481 words


To the Editor:

Re ''South Africans Take Out Rage on Immigrants'' (front page, May 20):

Having personally represented more than 1,000 asylum seekers and refugees in
South Africa, I am not surprised by the horrific developments there.

Nor should what is happening be a surprise to President Thabo Mbeki's
government. An estimated 30 Somali refugees were killed in the fall of 2006
alone in similar violence in Cape Town.

At the time, a number of solutions were presented and similar toothless task
teams were created. But these panels received no real powers. Only local
government efforts made any headway.

While poverty explains some anti-immigrant violence, it is not a continuing
justification, for it denies the fact that most impoverished do not attack new
arrivals. Most South Africans co-exist comfortably with immigrants and are not
xenophobic.

Any lasting solution will require improving IDs, educating South Africans about
immigrants and asylum seekers, tracking the number of foreign victims in police
stations, and giving real powers of enforcement to anti-xenophobia task forces.
A short-term solution would be to establish special procedures for Zimbabwean
asylum seekers at the Department of Home Affairs.

Mr. Mbeki is known as a tireless worker who holds meetings into the wee hours of
the morning. His lack of effort in welcoming immigrants and refugees makes him
seem culpable of willful neglect.

Deji Olukotun  Brooklyn, May 20, 2008

The writer is the former director of the Sustained Advocacy for Empowered
Refugees Project, University of Cape Town.

To the Editor:

I have recently returned from South Africa. During my visit, the first attacks
on foreigners occurred in the township of Alexandra. The initial reports in the
South African press immediately identified these attacks as acts of xenophobia,
a term that is now used, both correctly and ubiquitously in the American and
European press, to describe the continuing crisis.

I was impressed by the ready use of ''xenophobia'' in the South African
newspapers, and by the South Africans themselves, to describe the events in
Alexandra. This readiness reveals an immediate understanding of the root cause,
and a willingness to directly confront those acts for what they represent -- a
fear of foreigners.

''Xenophobia,'' however, is rarely used in the mainstream press of the United
States, despite the rising anti-immigrant sentiment that now exists here and its
associated violence.

I despair for my South African friends, and for their remarkable country, for
having to face yet another crisis in the long walk from the evils of the
apartheid era. But I am confident of their ability to do so successfully, for
once again South Africa sets the example in handling such a crisis: truth is
essential for the reconciliation of competing interests.

Bruce J. Giantonio  Philadelphia, May 20, 2008

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 24, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Prayers for the Invisible: Immigrants Who Die in Legal Limbo

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER.

E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 807 words


Among the many rituals of the Roman Catholic Church, none specifically mention a
Mass for the Invisible. Still, on Thursday, 12 people gathered at a church in
Lower Manhattan to remember Boubacar Bah, a 52-year-old tailor from Guinea who
overstayed a tourist visa and died in an immigration detention center.

Mr. Bah lived and died a member of a special class of the invisible. He was one
of at least 66 people who died in custody between January 2004 and November 2007
while awaiting civil deportation hearings. Though it is not uncommon for people
to get sick or hurt behind bars, the circumstances of Mr. Bah's death, and of
the others, are largely hidden by the immigration detention process, which is
subjected to little oversight or accountability. The deaths were the topic of an
article  this month in The New York Times, after a list of the dead was obtained
under the Freedom of Information Act.

To mark the lives of Mr. Bah and the others who died in detention, the Rev.
Brian Jordan said  Mass on Thursday evening at St. Andrew's, a Catholic church
that sits among the courthouses of Manhattan, the secular institutions where
citizens come to work out their legal issues. There is not much room or call for
the undocumented to be in those buildings.

''If you're not a citizen, then you're a nonperson,'' Father Jordan said in his
homily. ''You don't have rights.''

That left the church. In his sermon, Father Jordan spoke about precepts of Roman
Catholic theology that proclaim the dignity of all life -- ''Every person
counts; no person is illegal. They may do illegal things'' -- but also spoke
about an old promise made by the United States to the international community.

''Sixty years ago, we had a momentous event in history,'' Father Jordan said.
''The United Nations' Universal Declaration of Human Rights.  One has a right to
health and to be protected, even while one is in prison.''

The number of people detained in immigration cases has more than tripled since
2001, government officials say. Many vanish into a system that has no
resemblance to ordinary American legal procedures. There is no right to a
lawyer, limited ability to contest evidence, and isolation from family or
friends, who may themselves be vulnerable to deportation.

Simply making a phone call is often impossible: phones do not work, or the
requirements for using them -- first punching in an Alien Registration Number,
as opposed to an unrelated identification number that the detainees wear on
wristbands -- are baffling, the Government Accountability Office said in a
report  issued last year.

At the Elizabeth Detention Center in New Jersey, where Mr. Bah, the tailor, was
held, 9 of 30 posted telephone numbers for foreign consulates -- the only way
for many detainees to get legal help -- were wrong, the report said.

Somehow, Mr. Bah hurt his head. He was put into solitary confinement. He had a
fractured skull and multiple brain hemorrhages. Eventually, he was taken to a
hospital for emergency surgery. No one told his family until five days later,
when he was already in a coma from which he would never emerge.

''Some of the fastest growing industries in the United States are casinos and
prisons,'' Father Jordan said. ''It's a big business. But the economy exists for
the person, not the person for the economy.''

The records of Mr. Bah's case were in a file marked ''proprietary information''
by the Corrections Corporation of America, a private company that has federal
contracts to run many detention centers across the country, including the one in
Elizabeth. The company, which has thrived with the immigration crackdown,
contributes to both political parties. The magazine Mother Jones  reported that
among its lobbyists was the son-in-law of Vice President Dick Cheney.

The Mass at St. Andrew's was organized by the Emerald Isle Immigration Center,
a nonprofit organization that provides citizenship assistance and other services
to immigrants in New York, and most of those in the church were affiliated with
the group. Father Jordan said that on weekly visits to an immigration detention
center on Varick Street, he had seen improvements in recent years. But he said
officials had told him that there wasn't enough money to do better at the
Elizabeth center.

''We're paying $12 billion a month for an unjust war, and we can't take proper
care of the soldiers who are hurt fighting the war, and we can't take care of
the squalid conditions in prisons,'' Father Jordan said.

''What does it mean to be a human person?'' he asked. ''We should be outraged by
the death of innocent people, with no access to health care, to their families,
to lawyers.''

Mr. Bah ''should be alive now,'' Father Jordan said. ''So should many others.
Remember, the economy exists for the person -- not the other way around.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 25, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dominican Crackdown Leaves Children of Haitian Immigrants in Legal Limbo

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1259 words

DATELINE: SAN PEDRO DE MACORIS, Dominican Republic


Two obsessions define this country: baseball and Haiti. Angel Luis Joseph, a
teenage outfielder with a hot bat, is caught between Dominicans' devotion to the
one and disdain for the other.

So many major leaguers have emerged from this sugar town that agents keep an eye
on even pint-size players with potential. Angel, 17, was only a lanky grade
school boy when his coach noticed he showed all the signs of becoming a
standout. Before long, the San Francisco Giants came calling with a $350,000
offer, he said.

But then politics interfered with his dream. To obtain a visa to the United
States, Angel went to a local government office to get a copy of his birth
certificate. Little did he know that the Dominican government had recently begun
a crackdown on the children of Haitian immigrants, even those like him who have
lived their whole lives in the Dominican Republic.

''If your last name is weird, they won't give you your documents,'' he said.
''Same thing if your skin is dark like mine.''

Angel's request for his birth record was denied, prompting the Giants to
withdraw the offer.

His parents, like hundreds of thousands of others, moved from Haiti to the
Dominican Republic in the 1970s to work in the sugar cane fields. Their children
were born in the Dominican Republic, grew up here and became, in their eyes at
least, full-fledged Dominicans. They speak Spanish, dance merengue and play
''pelota,'' the popular name for the Dominican pastime baseball.

''They don't play baseball in Haiti,'' said Melanie Teff, who has studied the
issue for Refugees International, an advocacy group in Washington. ''That shows
how Dominican this guy and many people like him are.''

The government does not necessarily agree, and Angel awaits a ruling on his
appeal for access to his Dominican birth record.

The issue arose with a fury several years ago when advocates took the government
to the Inter-American Court of Human Rights,  whose jurisdiction the Dominican
Republic acknowledges, to protest the denial of birth certificates to two ethnic
Haitian children.

While the case was in process, the government changed its migration law in 2004
to specifically exclude the offspring of Haitian migrants from citizenship. The
Dominican Constitution grants citizenship to those born on Dominican soil,
except the children of diplomats and those ''in transit.'' That has long meant
that the children of immigrants, no matter their legal status, gained Dominican
citizenship.

After the international court ruled against the Dominican government in 2005,
ordering that damages be paid to the two children, the Dominican Supreme Court
said that Haitian workers were considered ''in transit'' and that their children
were therefore Haitian, not Dominican.

Last spring, the government agency in charge of identity documents, the Joint
Electoral Council, issued a memorandum telling its employees to watch for the
offspring of foreigners trying to identify themselves as Dominican. It now hangs
at every clerk's office and is shown to people thought to have Haitian blood.

''The issue of Haiti has become very combustible in the Dominican context,''
said Daniel Erikson, director of Caribbean programs at the Inter-American
Dialogue, a research group in Washington. ''You have a deep resentment of Haiti,
and that's driving these responses that don't reflect favorably on the
country.''

Government officials point out the strain that poor illegal immigrants from
Haiti put on the Dominican Republic. The two countries share the island of
Hispaniola but have vastly different levels of development.

Of course, Haitians contribute, too. They have long worked in the jobs
Dominicans did not want to do, mostly cutting cane on plantations that supply
sugar to the United States. The government has not just known of their presence
for decades but has in some cases encouraged their arrival.

The Dominican government says the new crackdown is a security matter, aimed at
wiping out fraud. And in some cases over the years, young Haitians who had
crossed the border illegally claimed to have been born on the Dominican side.

But opponents accuse the government of applying its 2004 law retroactively,
which they call an illegal practice that has longstanding societal animosity
against Haitians at its heart.

''The racist beliefs of some are being used to twist our laws,'' said Cristobal
Rodriguez Gomez, a Dominican constitutional law professor at Ibero-American
University, who is acting as counsel for another descendant of Haitians who
lacks documents. ''This is a crime, a monstrous crime.''

In a recent report, two United Nations experts found ''a profound and entrenched
problem of racism and discrimination'' in the Dominican Republic, mostly
affecting people of Haitian origin. The report said Haitians and their
descendants face ''extreme vulnerability, unjustified deportations, racial
discrimination, and are denied the full enjoyment of their human rights.''

The Dominican government rejected the conclusions, portraying the relationship
between the neighbors as one of solidarity.

Angel is one of many who find their lives in limbo under the new rules. Emildo
Bueno Oguis, 33, a college student who recently married an American woman, could
not get his birth certificate either and therefore cannot apply to the American
Embassy for residency to join her in Florida.

Mr. Oguis, whom Mr. Rodriguez represents, challenged the government's decision
in court, accusing the council of denying his rights. But his claim was
rejected, despite the fact that he had previously been issued a Dominican
identity card and a Dominican passport.

Confusing the matter, a lower court judge ruled in favor of another descendant
of Haitian immigrants, Nuny Angra Luis, who had been denied her birth
certificate. That decision was announced the same week in April as the other,
diametrically opposed ruling.

Demetrio F. Francisco de Los Santos, a government lawyer, dismisses the notion
that anyone's rights are being violated. Descendants of Haitians, he argues in
court documents, can simply go to the nearest Haitian consulate for their
documents.

While Haitian law does grant citizenship to the offspring of Haitians, the issue
is complex. Angel's parents would have to prove they are Haitian for him to get
citizenship in Haiti, a country which he has never visited.

While some are indignant about the Dominican crackdown, Angel seems surprisingly
calm.

Before a recent practice, in which he flagged fly balls and then fired them into
the infield, Angel said his mother could not sleep after he lost the Giants
contract. (''Angel Luis Joseph is one of a number of players in the Dominican
that clubs are finding do not have the proper paperwork to prove their identity
or age,'' the Giants said in a statement, indicating that the team had been
forced to look for someone else.)

Angel may have another shot. The Cleveland Indians have come calling, he said,
visiting the humble shack that he shares with his parents and seven siblings
just outside a sugarcane field.

The Indians' offer was about a third of that put forward by the Giants, but
still a windfall for a boy from a batey, the name for the workers' camps that
grow up around sugar cane plantations.

But while he awaits a ruling, he acknowledges worrying that he will see his
dream disappear a second time.

''God wants me to be a baseball player -- that I know,'' he said. What he does
not know is whether the Dominican Republic, the country he considers himself
from, agrees.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Angel Luis Joseph, 17, training with a friend near San Pedro de
Macoris, the Dominican Republic. His status as the child of Haitian immigrants
threatens his dream of playing in the United States.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRANCESCO
BROLI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 12)  MAP: San Pedro de Macoris has produced
many baseball players. Map details area of San Pedro de Macoris. (pg. 12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 3, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Great Immigration Panic

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 652 words


Someday, the country will recognize the true cost of its war on illegal
immigration. We don't mean dollars, though those are being squandered by the
billions. The true cost is to the national identity: the sense of who we are and
what we value. It will hit us once the enforcement fever breaks, when we look at
what has been done and no longer recognize the country that did it.

A nation of immigrants is holding another nation of immigrants in bondage,
exploiting its labor while ignoring its suffering, condemning its lawlessness
while sealing off a path to living lawfully. The evidence is all around that
something pragmatic and welcoming at the American core has been eclipsed, or is
slipping away.

An escalating campaign of raids in homes and workplaces has spread
indiscriminate terror among millions of people who pose no threat. After the
largest raid ever last month  --  at a meatpacking plant in Iowa  --  hundreds
were swiftly force-fed through the legal system and sent to prison. Civil-rights
lawyers complained, futilely, that workers had been steamrolled into giving up
their rights, treated more as a presumptive criminal gang than as potentially
exploited workers who deserved a fair hearing. The company that harnessed their
desperation, like so many others, has faced no charges.

Immigrants in detention languish without lawyers and decent medical care even
when they are mortally ill. Lawmakers are struggling to impose standards and
oversight on a system deficient in both. Counties and towns with spare jail
cells are lining up for federal contracts as prosecutions fill the system to
bursting. Unbothered by the sight of blameless children in prison scrubs, the
government plans to build up to three new family detention centers. Police all
over are checking papers, empowered by politicians itching to enlist in the
federal crusade.

This is not about forcing people to go home and come back the right way. Ellis
Island is closed. Legal paths are clogged or do not exist. Some backlogs are so
long that they are measured in decades or generations. A bill to fix the system
died a year ago this month. The current strategy, dreamed up by restrictionists
and embraced by Republicans and some Democrats, is to force millions into fear
and poverty.

There are few national figures standing firm against restrictionism. Senator
Edward Kennedy has bravely done so for four decades, but his Senate colleagues
who are running for president seem by comparison to be in hiding. John McCain
supported sensible reform, but whenever he mentions it, his party starts braying
and he leaves the room. Hillary Rodham Clinton has lost her voice on this issue
more than once. Barack Obama, gliding above the ugliness, might someday test his
vision of a new politics against restrictionist hatred, but he has not yet done
so. The American public's moderation on immigration reform, confirmed in poll
after poll, begs the candidates to confront the issue with courage and a plan.
But they have been vague and discreet when they should be forceful and
unflinching.

The restrictionist message is brutally simple -- that illegal immigrants deserve
no rights, mercy or hope. It refuses to recognize that illegality is not an
identity; it is a status that can be mended by making reparations and resuming a
lawful life. Unless the nation contains its enforcement compulsion, illegal
immigrants will remain forever Them and never Us, subject to whatever abusive
regimes the powers of the moment may devise.

Every time this country has singled out a group of newly arrived immigrants for
unjust punishment, the shame has echoed through history. Think of the Chinese
and Irish, Catholics and Americans of Japanese ancestry. Children someday will
study the Great Immigration Panic of the early 2000s, which harmed countless
lives, wasted billions of dollars and mocked the nation's most deeply held
values.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 4, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Immigration Divide: Who Are We as a People?

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 424 words


To the Editor:

Re ''The Great Immigration Panic'' (editorial, June 3):

Not much more than 30 years ago, I, along with millions of other grade school
students, committed to memory these words by Emma Lazarus:

Give me your tired, your poor,

Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free,

The wretched refuse of your teeming shore.

Send these, the homeless, tempest-tost to me,

I lift my lamp beside the golden door!

For me, these words continue to form the foundation of what I believe about
America. The suggestion that the bounty of our country is diminished by sharing
it with less fortunate men, women and children from anywhere in the world is
sickening. America is not about how much we have; it is about how much we share.

Selfishness, as a national ideal, is un-American, un-Christian, un-Muslim and
un-Jewish. It is time for the anti-immigration zealots to abandon their claims
of patriotism; they are the ones destroying the America I love. We are in sore
need of more, not fewer, brave souls willing to make any sacrifice to share the
ideal of America.

David Vanderpool Cincinnati, June 3, 2008

To the Editor:

When I visited Postville, Iowa, last week and met with workers who were arrested
in the recent immigration raid there, I was outraged to learn that our
government's immigration policy is not simply misguided, it is criminal.

All of the women we spoke with, wearing humiliating G.P.S. bracelets that
restrict their movement, were released to care for their children, while their
husbands serve a five-month prison sentence. For these women and their children,
that means five months with no possible source of income, and therefore no way
to buy food or pay rent.

If it weren't for the saintly work of the clergy at St. Bridget's Church in
Postville, there would be hundreds of women and children left homeless and
starving. I, for one, already can't recognize the country that allows this to
happen.

Jonah Newman Minneapolis, June 3, 2008

To the Editor:

Truths: (1) The United States cannot support the rest of the world.

(2) One cannot blame the United States for trying to limit the influx of people
across its borders.

(3) One can blame the United States for having allowed illegals to cross its
borders illegally in the first place.

(4) One can blame the United States for applying inhumane methods of returning
illegals to their countries, but

(5) One cannot blame the United States for trying to return those people who are
within its borders illegally.

Paul F. Hosman Kalamazoo, Mich., June 3, 2008

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 5, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Perspectives

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 142 words


To the Editor:

Re ''The Great Immigration Panic'' (editorial, June 3):

In an October 2001 editorial you wrote, ''The best way to preserve the American
people's commitment to keeping their doors open to the world is to crack down on
lax enforcement of the immigration laws, with a sense of urgency.''

And now you urge us to break the ''enforcement fever'' because ''the true cost
is to the national identity: the sense of who we are and what we value.''

So what happened? Increased pressure from activists?

Unlike The New York Times, the federal government has a responsibility to look
at the big picture with a long-term perspective, not to simply rant about the
sentiment of the moment. Where will the editorial board be the next time the
winds change?

Kelly A. Nantel  Press Secretary  Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Washington, June 3, 2008

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 7, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Moving Money, Not Telegrams, Across Borders

BYLINE: By EVE TAHMINCIOGLU

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 716 words


MENTION  the name Western Union and most people  probably think of one thing:
telegrams. But the company sent its last dispatch in 2006.

Christina A. Gold, the chief executive of the Western Union Company, based in
Englewood, Colo., is trying to change that perception. She recently  began a
multimillion-dollar marketing campaign, to include television advertising later
this year, to let people in the United States know that the 157-year-old company
is now all about transferring money.

The company has long been in the money transfer business, and had nearly $5
billion in sales last year, mainly from migrant workers sending money home to
their families. But it is now  trying to reach out to people who may not have
used its services before.

Some critics of  the company have complained about its fees, and others  have
accused it of profiting from, and even promoting, illegal immigration. Ms. Gold
makes no excuses for the company's success. Here are excerpts from a recent
conversation:

Q.Why do you think Western Union's business is growing at a time when the
financial sector is struggling?

A. We are in 200 countries and we can balance off different markets. We felt
some of that in the United States in 2007 and late 2006 partly because of
immigration issues and fewer jobs in the housing industry.  Our customers were
holding back in sending money home, keeping a cushion in case they had to go
back. But now we're seeing nice improvements in our Mexico and United States
business.

As we look at our customers, they are people on the move and need to earn money
so they can remit it back to families in China or India. We have very unique and
global consumers.

Q.How does the company get away from the telegram image and start getting
consumers in the United States, not just migrant workers, thinking about Western
Union when they want to remit payments?

A. People focus on the telegram. But what we always did and do is connect
people, whether it was with a message or with money. We are engaged in an effort
looking at our brand and where we want to take it in the United States.

The message we're working on to get out there is our remittance business and
also our emergency send. Where do you go at 10 at night if your car breaks down
and you need money? It's Western Union.

The other thing we're looking at, with younger consumers, is how you become more
relevant. We're testing mobile money transfers. It's called M-Wallet. We
partnered with RadioShack and Trumpet Mobile to offer prepaid Trumpet Mobile
phones, now sold in 4,300 RadioShack locations in the United States.

Q.What is Western Union's role, as you see it, in global migration?

A. It's amazing, when you see what's happened, 200 million people today who live
in countries other than the country of their birth. We monitor 15,000 to 20,000
corridors, and we connect the migrants of the world as they move and want to
send money back home.

Now, 65 percent of our business is not in the United States. If you look at our
business six years ago, we had 100,000 locations; now we have 345,000 globally.
We're talking about people in China, southern India. They are going to the
Middle East to work to feed their families.

If you look at the whole industry, there are four huge markets that receive
money. The largest is India, China is No. 2, No. 3  is Mexico and 4 is the
Philippines.

Q.Given the debate over illegal immigrants in this country, do you have mixed
feelings about so many migrant workers using the Western Union service?

A. I think you have to look around the world. I came from  another country. I
was brought up in Canada. My parents came to Canada from Holland after the
Second World War. It's not easy when you go to a different country.

We are not saying one is right or one is wrong, but there needs to be some
finalization on immigration policy in the United States. Q.Western Union has
come under fire for supposedly charging too much, especially for low-wage
migrant workers. What do you say to those critics?

A. I don't see it that way. Our customers are smart and very savvy. They check
the rates every day. They have their choices. We're highly competitive. The
industry is growing at an 8 percent rate a year. We're growing by 20 percent.
Customers are choosing.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christina A. Gold (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOEL BALDWIN/LINDEN POINT
PRESS)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 9, 2008 Monday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Immigration Wreckage

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 170 words


To the Editor:

Re ''The Great Immigration Panic'' (editorial, June 3):

The anti-immigrant partisans in our country are willing to throw overboard all
our rights in their single-minded effort to rid the nation of those who are
living among us without residence permits. They are the descendants of the
right-wingers of the McCarthy period and the Red Scare and the Palmer Raids
after World War I.

Not least is their total disregard for the rights of American citizens. They
want to require citizens to prove their citizenship -- a total reversal of the
''innocent unless proved guilty'' requirement in criminal proceedings. They say
it is different because this is a civil, not criminal, procedure, as if that
makes the practice any less noxious.

Not only that, but American citizen children are threatened with loss of family
and their right to grow up in their own country with their parents. This, too,
may pass, but how many lives are being wrecked in the meanwhile?

Paul H. Silverstone   New York, June 3, 2008

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 15, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Guiding Hands Help Immigrant Artists Connect

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 964 words


Something about the man in the banana costume appealed to Ricardo Miranda
Zuniga. Maybe it was the sign he wore that read, ''A banana from my country can
travel easier than me.'' Maybe it was the fruit-wearer's free-spiritedness as he
paraded in his peel through public places. Or maybe it was the Latino roots they
shared.

So when Mr. Zuniga, 37, a graphic artist from Brooklyn who also works with new
media, was looking through the portfolios of immigrant artists who were seeking
mentors, he picked Hatuey Ramos-Fermin, 30, a conceptual artist from the Bronx
who has made videos of himself playing Benito Banana, a character he created to
reflect on migration.

The two have met at least 10 times, attending lectures and museum openings and
discussing their work and the common themes within, like immigration and
globalization. They are part of a mentoring program run by the New York
Foundation for the Arts that helps artists from abroad gain a toehold in the
city's diverse arts community.

Mr. Zuniga's parents are from Nicaragua, and Mr. Ramos-Fermin was born in the
Dominican Republic, raised in Puerto Rico and educated in the Netherlands.

Mr. Ramos-Fermin says that being an immigrant inspires him. ''I really enjoy
being in a place I've never been to before,'' he said. ''I see things
differently than someone who has lived here all your life.''

Michael L. Royce, the executive director of the arts foundation, said the
mentoring program began in 2007. It is an offshoot of the foundation's New York
Creates program that helps folk and craft artists, many of whom are immigrants
and need to connect with established artists.

''The mentors know the galleries, what's hot, what's wanted, what can sell,'' he
said. ''They can help the mentees become fully immersed in what it takes to be
successful.''

The mentorship program, which this year has 15 pairs of mentors and mentees,
costs about $100,000 to run, and is supported with grants from the Deutsche Bank
Americas Foundation and the Independence Community Foundation. Mr. Royce said
his foundation was seeking financing to expand the program, which does not
inquire about the immigration status of the artists seeking mentors.

To get Mr. Ramos-Fermin closer to his dream of putting on a solo show and
supporting himself through art, Mr. Zuniga helped him with creating his Web
site, www.hatmax.net, which recently netted Mr. Ramos-Fermin work with an
Argentine magazine. Mr. Zuniga also advised him on editing his artist's
statement.

''This idea of transmuting home, it needs developing further, in a separate
paragraph,'' Mr. Zuniga told Mr. Ramos-Fermin as they sat in the Bronx Museum of
the Arts last Wednesday working on the statement. He suggested adding spaces
between the paragraphs, finding a better word for ''utilizes'' and switching an
''of'' with an ''in.''

''That sounds better, that definitely sounds better,'' Mr. Ramos-Fermin said.

The relationship has helped Mr. Zuniga as well. He included Mr. Ramos-Fermin in
his Web project, at www.votemos.us, which asks immigrants whom they would vote
for in this year's presidential election.

''We bounce around ideas,'' Mr. Zuniga said. ''Anyone who has done a Master of
Fine Arts will tell you what they miss most is the community and the studio
visits.''

Mr. Zuniga, who won a fellowship from the foundation for his work, chose the
mentoring program as part of the community service requirement. ''I was actively
missing teaching,'' he said.

Likewise, Ted Mathys, 29, a Brooklyn poet and fellowship winner who had a
valuable relationship with a mentor while in college, said he was glad to become
a mentor to Pinky Vincent, 30, a poet from Calcutta.

Ms. Vincent, who had worked as a journalist in India, came to the United States
in 2002 with ''$2,500 in traveler's checks and the blessings of my parents.''
While studying, working at a nonprofit organization and trying to send money
home, she found it hard to continue with her poetry.

''She came to me with a small group of poems and wanted more than anything, in
the beginning, confirmation, a set of eyes, a person who reads a lot of poetry
to tell her if she was wasting her time,'' Mr. Mathys said. ''I put it all back
in her court, to think of the role of poetry for her in her life.''

Their time together since has been quite fruitful, he said. ''Her work is crisp.
She has very strong images, and some of the subject matter she was writing about
was really quite wonderful,'' said Mr. Mathys, the author of two books of
poetry. They fine-tuned Ms. Vincent's poems, discussing where they might sound
anachronistic to an American ear, and explored how to carve out time to write
poetry while trying to make a living.

''To do writing, to be honest with you, seemed to me as a very, very selfish
thing to do,'' Ms. Vincent said. ''I have to work. I have a lot of big dreams to
follow in this country.''

The mentorship program helped her feel connected to other artists.

''I had the luxury of having that artist's soul sort of come back, nurturing
that a little bit more,'' Ms. Vincent said. She and Mr. Mathys discussed giving
readings, and she gained the confidence to do a reading in Manhattan that was
sponsored by the South Asian Women's Creative Collective. She read her own vivid
lines, like these from ''Calcutta'':

Inside the bus, body on body

Starched saris drenched in sweat

Talcum powder becomes dew drops on temples

Smudges necks like plaster of Paris

For poets, whose market is small and not particularly profitable, the help of a
mentor can be crucial, Mr. Mathys said.

''If you're not being trained in a formalized setting, if you're not into an
M.F.A. in poetry, or involved in workshops, you really can feel unmoored and
alone in this kind of pursuit.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hatuey Ramos-Fermin, 30, right, and his mentor, Ricardo Miranda
Zuniga, 37, visit the Bronx Museum of the Arts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO
ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 17, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Now, Tenement Museum Reflects Irish Immigration

BYLINE: By EVE M. KAHN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 812 words


A wake was probably held on April 21, 1869, in a cramped walk-up at 97 Orchard
Street. A 5-month-old girl, Agnes Moore, had died that morning of malnutrition.
Her Irish immigrant parents, Joseph and Bridget, may have invited the German
immigrant neighbors in the building and some co-workers from the saloons and
restaurants where Mr. Moore worked to visit and mourn, as well as the Catholic
priest who had baptized Agnes.

Maybe Mr. Moore offered the visitors some whiskey, and maybe Mrs. Moore keened
as the guests numbly picked at a buffet of bread, ham and boiled potatoes. They
may have sat on mismatched chairs, facing a little whitewashed coffin with a
rosary of black beads lying on top. On the mantel over the  coal-burning stove
in the kitchen, there could well have been bunches of dried herbal remedies like
pokeweed and bottles of alcoholic patent medicines that had failed to keep Agnes
alive.

Such is the speculation of the curators and staff members of the Lower East Side
Tenement Museum, also on Orchard Street. After consulting census records,
genealogical databases, church records, city directories and various forms of
archaeological evidence, they have established names and dates and occupations
for the Moores, but the smaller details of their daily life and even the
furnishings of their apartment reflect educated guesses.

On Tuesday, the Moores' place will become the sixth apartment of former
immigrant residents of 97 Orchard Street to be recreated. The apartments are all
nearly identical in size at about 325 square feet. One represents the home of a
German Jewish family soon after the father disappeared; another a Lithuanian
Jewish family whose father had just died. Another is the remade home of Italian
Catholics about to be evicted.

The museum was established in 1988 in 97 Orchard, an 1864 brick building, and
attracts 130,000 visitors a year. The building is a time capsule of primitive
bathrooms and windowless passageways. In 1935, the building's owners sealed off
most of the 20 units rather than make changes to meet new housing codes.

The fourth-floor apartment for the Moores -- it is not known exactly where in
the building they lived -- will be the museum's earliest simulation and the
first to reflect the huge influx of Irish immigrants in the 19th century.

''We take these dynamic, compelling family stories, and use them to draw people
into the greater historical context of immigrants in America,'' said Stephen H.
Long, the vice president of collections and education at the museum. Members of
the staff began researching the Moores five years ago.

The Moores' experience, Mr. Long added, also made for teachable moments about
the history of medicine and public health. ''When the Moores lived here,'' he
said, ''the mortality rate for Irish immigrant children was 25 percent.''

Only four of the Moores' eight children, all girls, reached adulthood. Mrs.
Moore died in 1882, when she was 36, shortly after giving birth to her eighth
daughter. Curators speculate that the malnutrition that killed Agnes was brought
on by drinking swill: milk from diseased cows, which street vendors ladled out
of dirty vats and sometimes adulterated with chalk or ammonia.

In the recreated apartment, the milk pitcher is an innocuous shiny brown ceramic
vessel with raised butterfly motifs. Like much of the furnishings, which the
museum researchers bought mostly on eBay or at antiques stores, it suggests that
the Moores yearned for pretty things; Mr. Moore would have made perhaps $20 a
month as a waiter or bartender and paid $8 in rent.

The cloth rugs are brightly striped. A few pieces of blue willow china are
propped up on the kitchen shelves. Near the coffin, the father's dark wood desk
-- the mother could read but not write -- is carved with scrollwork. ''We wanted
to emphasize the human urge to decorate,'' Mr. Long said.

None of the original furnishings have survived. In fact, when museum researchers
contacted a few descendants of one of the Moores' daughters, Jane, they learned
that the family did not even know their ancestors had ever lived at 97 Orchard
Street.

The restoration contractor for the apartment, Kevin Groves, who heads a
three-member workshop in Montgomery, N.Y., said  ''we used square-cut nails and
redwood beams, just like the originals, so even what visitors can't see'' is
true to the period.

Docents leading tours of the Moores' home will also take groups to an adjacent
multimedia room -- a crumbling apartment down the hall, where images of
immigrants flash on a window and  period songs play.

One song decries employers who would not hire the Irish. One sympathizes with
Irish transplants in New York ''all jumbled up together'' in a ''paradise for
rats.'' And one straightforwardly warns, ''Mothers, be careful and cautious,''
and avoid ''milkmen who are selling us swill.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, the recreation of Joseph and Bridget Moore's 1869
bedroom and kitchen. At left, a coffin for their 5-month-old daughter, Agnes.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 17, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A World Away, New Rules Put an Adoption on Hold

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1288 words


Ilze Earner's decision two years ago to adopt a distant cousin orphaned in
Latvia was deeply rooted in her own life experiences. Born in a refugee camp in
France to Latvian parents, Ms. Earner immigrated to the United States as an
infant and eventually became a scholar in child welfare policy and immigrant
communities.

Last month Ms. Earner, 52, now a Brooklyn resident and assistant professor in
Hunter College's School of Social Work, flew to Latvia with her mother, husband
and daughter to finalize the adoption of that cousin, Kristina, 5. She thought
it was going to be a straightforward process, completed in several weeks.

But when they arrived in Riga, American consular officials told them that
international adoption regulations had changed and that they would have to
return home and restart the process, which could take many more months. Since
then Ms. Earner has been trapped in bureaucratic limbo, a victim, she contends,
of bad information from the American government. She has decided to remain in
Latvia until Kristina is hers.

''My entire working career in child welfare really has revolved around immigrant
issues and immigrants having to deal with bureaucracies and families getting
ripped apart,'' she said in one of several telephone interviews from Latvia last
week. ''And here I am on that side of dealing with a government bureaucracy.''

At the crux of the Earners' problem is the Hague Adoption Convention, which
standardizes policies and protocols for international adoptions among its
signatories, now numbering more than 70 countries. The agreement is intended to
eliminate corruption in the adoption market, including exorbitant fees and
trafficking in children.

The United States ratified the convention last December and, on April 1, applied
it to all future international adoptions by Americans. Last year, Americans
adopted nearly 20,000 children from other countries, according to the State
Department.

The Earners were unaware of the change in the laws and did not file a document
by April that would have allowed them to adopt under the old regulations.
Instead, they found themselves in Latvia, their prospective new daughter by
their side, caught in the switch from the old rules to the new rules.

The Earners' experience may be anomalous; several national adoption experts said
they had not heard of any other Americans who had traveled halfway across the
world to finalize an adoption only to learn that they would have to start again.

''I know there are people who have had to go back and do certain things,'' said
Chuck Johnson, vice president of the National Council For Adoption, a lobbying
and adoption information group based in Alexandria, Va. ''I don't know of any
other family that has been affected to the degree that this family has.''

As extreme as it is, however, the Earners' predicament, which they have
advertised on blogs and in a YouTube video titled ''Help Bring Kristina Home,''
has highlighted the new international adoption rules and the challenges they
present to American couples wanting to adopt overseas. (Their story was first
reported in the Los Angeles Times last week.)

In its effort to standardize the adoption process, the Hague Convention raises
some of the hurdles for prospective parents, in some cases slowing down the
process and making it significantly more expensive. Widely supported throughout
the American adoption industry, the new provisions require parents to undergo a
more rigorous vetting and obligate them to hire a government-certified adoption
agency to oversee the process, usually costing upward of $20,000.

The Earners' ordeal began in November 2005 when Ms. Earner received a call from
a social worker in Latvia who said a child, nearly 3 years old at the time, had
been found abandoned in a stone hovel in the countryside. Investigators had
discovered Ms. Earner's phone number on a Western Union receipt in the house.

The child was Kristina, Ms. Earner's third cousin. Ms. Earner knew the house,
too. It had been in her family for years, and she had stayed in it during her
trips back to Latvia. It lacked running water and had only a wood-burning stove
for heat and cooking. ''It was like something out of Grimm's fairy tales,'' she
recalled. ''It's like you stepped back in time.''

Ms. Earner and her husband, Laurence, began the adoption process in 2006 with
the help of a social worker, pursuing a two-track approval process in the United
States and Latvia. Last month, they traveled to Latvia with their 10-year-old
daughter and Ms. Earner's 88-year-old mother to finish the process and retrieve
Kristina.

The Earners contend that before they left, they called the United States
Citizenship and Immigration Service, which oversees the certification of
prospective parents in the United States, to verify that they had all the
required documents. An official with the service told them they could submit all
their material at the embassy in Latvia, they said.

''We set this up exactly as we were told,'' said Mr. Earner, 49, the owner of a
company that makes woodworking machinery.

But when the Earners arrived at the American Embassy in Riga on May 27 with
Kristina by their side, they said, consular officials told them that their
documents were out of date, and that they would have to return to the United
States to begin the process anew.

They were shocked, and they immediately began a lobbying campaign that included
Internet postings and a blitz of phone calls and e-mail messages to New York's
congressional delegation, the Latvian and American governments and the American
news media.

''I was reaching out to anybody who could put the feet of the U.S.C.I.S. to the
fire and help us out,'' said Mr. Earner, who returned to New York on June 1. The
others remained behind in a rented cottage on the outskirts of Riga, near the
Baltic Sea.

Their campaign has apparently paid off. The immigration agency has been
expediting the Earners' adoption process since last week, though the family was
still required to hire an accredited American adoption agency and refile all the
paperwork according to the new regulations.

''A group of officers have been working on this since Monday,'' Shawn Saucier, a
spokesman for the immigration agency, said Friday. ''People in our agency who
work in adoption feel very strongly about it, and when they see a couple in
distress, they work very hard to assist them.''

Mr. Saucier said he was unable to confirm the details of the conversations
between the Earners and the agency officials they spoke with before their
departure for Latvia.

''Given the complexity of immigration law, particularly when it comes to
international adoptions, it seems there was a misunderstanding about where the
Earners were in the process and what they had already filed,'' he said.
''Immigration law and policies are not simple. In many situations, the omission
of one piece of information can result in the wrong answer being provided to a
question.''

Mr. Johnson, of the National Council for Adoption, who has been trying to help
the Earners, said that had they been working with a licensed adoption agency
rather than the social worker they contracted, they probably would not have run
into this trouble.

The Earners are scheduled to have their final court hearing in Riga this week,
and they hope it will complete the Latvian process. But they say they have been
told by American officials that the American process will take at least several
more weeks.

''It's a very, very humbling experience,'' Ms. Earner said. ''It leaves you with
a sense that you've got to trust that there's a greater wisdom in the world that
will see there's a right way to do things.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ilze Earner holding Kristina, a cousin she wants to adopt. At
right, Ms. Earner's mother, Milda Betina, and her daughter, Maize. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY JANIS PIPARS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 18, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

CORRECTIONS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 146 words


An article on Sunday about the way that foreign athletes switch citizenship and
compete for the United States in the Olympics referred incorrectly to the
immigration process, gave an outdated title for an expert and misstated the
years in which a top distance runner won medals.

An athlete can apply for citizenship three years after obtaining a green card as
a permanent resident if married to an American, or five years otherwise. Those
are not the waiting periods for a green card.

Alicia J. Campi, who described the potential benefit of having foreign-born
athletes compete for the United States, is a former research coordinator for the
Immigration Policy Center. She left the center in 2007.

The distance runner Bernard Lagat, now a United States citizen, won a medal for
Kenya at the 2000 Sydney Games and another at the 2004 Athens Games. He did not
win both in 2004.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 22, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The New Pariahs?

BYLINE: By NOAH FELDMAN.

Noah Feldman, a contributing writer, teaches law at Harvard and is a fellow at
the Council on Foreign Relations.

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1055 words


No country is wholly free of anti-immigrant prejudice, whether it is the United
States, where illegal immigration was a hot-button issue in the Republican
primaries, or post-apartheid South Africa, where economic migrants were recently
burned to death. But in many Western European countries today, something new and
insidious seems to be happening. The familiar old arguments against immigrants
-- that they are criminals, that their culture makes them a bad fit, that they
take jobs from natives -- are mutating into an anti-Islamic bias that is
becoming institutionalized in the continent's otherwise ordinary politics.

Examples abound. The Swiss People's Party sponsors ads in which three white
sheep push one black sheep off the Swiss flag -- and wins 29 percent of the
vote. In Belgium, the Vlaams Belang deploys a clever variation, publicly
praising Jews and seeking their support against Muslims, whom it tellingly
describes as ''the main enemy of the moment.'' Meanwhile, the Dutch politician
Geert Wilders calls Islam ''the ideology of a retarded culture.''

Even Britain, which has afforded Muslims a more welcoming environment, has had
some worrying moments. A few years back, a Labor M.P. called for an end to ''the
tradition of first-cousin marriages'' among Pakistanis and other South Asians in
Britain. The basis for her suggestion was the claim that Pakistanis in Britain
were more likely than the general population to suffer from recessive autosomal
genetic disorders. Of course, so are Ashkenazi Jews, but you can hardly imagine
an M.P. proposing to limit Jews' marriage choices for this reason, especially
given the historic Nazi allegation of Jewish genetic inferiority.

What is so striking about these forms of prejudice, which go beyond ordinary
anti-immigrant feeling, is that they are taking root in otherwise enlightened,
progressive states -- states where the memory of the Holocaust has often led to
the adoption of laws against anti-Semitism and racism. The reasons, therefore,
must surely go beyond economic or cultural insecurity.

One factor that cannot be ignored is the threat of terrorism, so closely
associated today with radical Islam. In London, Madrid and Amsterdam, terrorist
acts have been perpetrated by Muslim immigrants or (more worrisome still) their
children. Yet it must be remembered that Europe has also suffered homegrown
terrorist attacks, motivated by everything from national liberation (in the
cases of the Irish Republican Army or the Basque E.T.A.) to radical leftism
(Baader-Meinhof and the Brigate Rosse). Europeans are, therefore, to a degree
acclimated to terror, undercutting its power as an explanation. And in the U.S.,
which on Sept. 11 suffered much greater terrorist damage than any European
country ever has, anti-Muslim bias does not have the political weight that it
does in Europe.

Well-meaning Europeans sometimes argue that unlike the U.S., their countries are
traditionally ''homogeneous'' and have little experience with immigration.
Generalized anti-immigrant feeling, they suggest, has come to rest on Muslims
simply because they are increasingly visible. In France, the specter of the
''Polish plumber'' undercutting French workmen's wages played a role in recent
votes, suggesting the possibility of an equal-opportunity bias. But hostility to
Eastern European migrants, though real enough, still does not run as deep as
corresponding hostility to Muslims.

The perception of cultural difference may help explain this disparity. Muslim
immigrants are depicted in European political rhetoric as not merely backward
but also illiberal, contradicting Europe's now-prevalent commitment to tolerance
of homosexuality and sex out of wedlock. At the same time, Muslims are thought
to be forcing their children to maintain practices like the head scarf, which is
banned in many French schools.

Certainly it is reasonable for free societies to encourage immigrants to adopt
their own liberal values. A Dutch requirement that potential immigrants view a
film depicting topless bathers and gay couples may seem a little childish, but
it is not a human rights violation, and it may even help prepare immigrants for
the different world they are poised to enter. Schools should teach the values of
the surrounding society, including respect for different lifestyles.
Nevertheless, a hallmark of liberal, secular societies is supposed to be respect
for different cultures, including traditional, religious cultures -- even
intolerant ones. There is something discomfiting about a selective respect that
extends to the Roman Catholic Church, with its rejection of homosexuality and
women priests, but excludes Islam for its sexism and homophobia.

This leaves another, more controversial explanation for anti-Muslim attitudes in
Europe: even after 60 years of introspection about the anti-Semitism that led to
the Holocaust, Europeans are not convinced that culturally and religiously
different immigrants should be treated as full members of their societies.
European anti-Semitism between the world wars featured accusations of
criminality, religious backwardness, genetic inferiority and, above all, the
impossibility of assimilation. And it is no coincidence that significant numbers
of the Jews in Western Europe were immigrants or children of immigrants from
farther east.

The U.S. had its own terrible legacy of legalized racism in the form of the Jim
Crow laws, which Hitler imitated for his own purposes. In the aftermath of World
War II, however, we began slowly and agonizingly to come to terms with this
past. Racial bias is still with us, but so is self-consciousness about our
problems and how they must be overcome.

In Europe, by contrast, Hitler's horrifying success at killing so many Jews
meant that the burgeoning postwar societies of the continent never had to come
to terms with difference, because it was to a great extent eradicated. Today, as
the birthrate for European Muslims far outstrips that for their neighbors, it is
as if Europe's discomfort with difference is being encountered for the first
time. In theory, Europe remembers the Holocaust. But the depth of that memory
may be doubted when many Europeans seem to have forgotten that their continent
was home to other outsiders well before the arrival of today's Muslim minority.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDRA BOULAT)
CHART: ATTITUDE CHECK: Percentage of citizens who think Muslims in their country
mostly want to...
 (CHART BY CHARLES M. BLOW, Source: The Pew Global Attitudes Project, 2006)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 23, 2008 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rudolph J. Vecoli, 81, Scholar of Immigration

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 531 words


Rudolph J. Vecoli, an Italian-American historian whose searching chronicles of
the American immigrant experience gave a new view of what immigrants kept and
left behind, died on June 17  in St. Louis Park, Minn. He was 81 and lived in
St. Paul.

The cause was complications of leukemia, said his daughter, Lisa.

As director for many years of the Immigration History Research Center at the
University of Minnesota and in numerous scholarly articles and books, including
''The People of New Jersey'' (1965), and ''A Century of American Immigration,
1884 to 1984,'' Mr. Vecoli argued against the notion that immigrants to the
United States left their cultures behind and did their best to blend into
mainstream American society. Rather, he wrote, they clung tenaciously to their
traditions and developed strategies to retain their heritage and resist
pressures to embrace the American social and economic system.

Mr. Vecoli was born in Wallingford, Conn., to immigrants from Tuscany. He grew
up speaking Italian at home. He served in the Navy after high school and then
earned a B.A. in history at the University of Connecticut at Storrs in 1950, a
master's degree at the University of Pennsylvania in 1951 and a Ph.D. from the
University of Wisconsin in 1963. His doctoral dissertation dealt with the social
and economic experience of Chicago's Italians before World War I.

After teaching briefly at Rutgers and the University of Illinois, Mr. Vecoli
joined the University of Minnesota in 1967 as a professor of history and
director of the newly created Immigration History Research Center. The center,
which grew out of a research project in the early 1960s on immigrant groups in
the Mesabi Range in northeastern Minnesota, collects and studies material
relating to the cultural, labor and political experiences of southern and
eastern European immigrants.

Mr. Vecoli devoted himself to retrieving, as he put it, ''ethnic histories of
which we know little or nothing.'' In his zeal to rescue documents, he would put
on a pair of overalls and search through the attics and basements of potential
donors.

The center's holdings include items as varied as the business records of the
Swiss-Italian Sausage Factory in San Francisco and the life insurance payout
records of the South Slavonic Catholic Union, a Slovenian fraternal organization
based in Ely, Minn.

In the early 1990s, the center acquired the records of Libero Pensiero, or Free
Thought, a fraternal organization in Wallingford to which Mr. Vecoli's parents
belonged. Such materials, Mr. Vecoli said, ''personalize history and save it
from abstractions, while broadening our humanity.''

Mr. Vecoli was president of the American Italian Historical Association from
1966 to 1970 and of the Immigration and Ethnic History Society from 1982 to
1985. He was also a founder of both organizations. From 1983 to 2003, he was
chairman of the history committee advising the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island
Foundation.

He is survived by his former wife, Jill, and his daughter, Lisa, both of
Minneapolis; his sons Chris, of Corvallis, Ore., and Jeremy, of Minneapolis; a
sister, Olga Gralton, of Wallingford; and one grandchild.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Rudolph J. Vecoli

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rudolph J. Vecoli in 1993.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 26, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

160 Arrested in Immigration Raid at a Houston Plant

BYLINE: By THAYER EVANS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 372 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


Federal immigration agents arrested 160 employees on Wednesday in a raid on a
used clothing and rag exporting plant.

The authorities said it was the largest workplace raid ever here. Most of those
arrested were from Mexico, El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras, officials said,
and 70 percent of them were women.

It was the second major raid in Houston in just over two months. Federal agents
arrested 20 workers at a Shipley Do-Nuts factory on April 16.

The roundup on Wednesday at Action Rags USA, which is just north of the Houston
Ship Channel, began at 7 a.m. and was conducted by about 200 immigration agents,
said Robert Rutt, special agent in charge of the Office of Investigations for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement in Houston.

It was part of more than a yearlong investigation by the agency that was
prompted by accusations that Action Rags had hired illegal immigrants, Mr. Rutt
said.

In addition to the 160 arrested, the plant's employees included 2 United States
citizens and 13 to 19 legal residents, Mr. Rutt said. They were released.

The company's hiring practices are being investigated for potential criminal
violations, Mr. Rutt said.

''By attacking this issue in a comprehensive, strategic way, we believe we can
force the culture of corporations to change,'' Mr. Rutt said.

William F. Estes, who identified himself as a lawyer for Action Rags, said the
company was shocked by the raid.

''We want to abide by the law, and we're going to abide by the law,'' Mr. Estes
said. ''If we have an illegal employee, we don't know it. No way. Tell us what
the law is, and we'll obey it.''

After the white immigration vans had driven away, Maria Lopez huddled across the
street from the plant with friends. Four of her friends worked at the plant, Ms.
Lopez said.

After one of them called, crying, at 7:20 a.m., she went to the plant, where
family members and friends of other employees had gathered.

Ms. Lopez said her friends at the plant had lived in Houston for more than 10
years, but none were legal residents. She said she was worried that they would
be deported.

''It's not fair,'' said Ms. Lopez, 27, a legal resident. ''They're working to
support their families. This shouldn't have happened.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers filing out of Action Rags USA on Wednesday in what the
authorities said was the largest ever workplace raid in Houston. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
JULIO CORTEZ/HOUSTON CHRONICLE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 12, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Find Solace After Storm Of Arrests

BYLINE: By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN.

E-mail: sgfreedman@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ON RELIGION; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1111 words

DATELINE: POSTVILLE, Iowa


Back in 2002, before all the trouble, the Rev. Paul Ouderkirk retired from St.
Bridget's Roman Catholic Church here, his last station in 43 years of ministry.
He built a home 35 miles away in a town along the Mississippi, and he indulged a
passion for family history, tracing his lineage to an ancestor who had arrived
in New Amsterdam with the Dutch East India Company.

Once a month or so, Father Ouderkirk drove back to St. Bridget's to officiate at
a wedding or baptize a baby. He savored those rituals, proof that the Hispanic
immigrants who had arrived over the past decade to work in Postville's
kosher-meat plant were setting down roots. Some had bought  homes. Their
children had graduated from high school, even been selected for the National
Honor Society.

Then came the morning of May 12, when both satisfaction and retirement ended for
the 75-year-old priest. Federal immigration agents raided the Agriprocessors
factory, arresting nearly 400 workers, most of them men, for being in the United
States illegally. Within minutes of the raid, with surveillance helicopters
buzzing above the leafy streets, the wives and children of Mexican and
Guatemalan families began trickling into St. Bridget's Church, the safest place
they knew.

It was about that time, with several dozen cowering people inside the church,
when Sister Mary McCauley, the pastor administrator at St. Bridget's, found out
that Father Ouderkirk was attending a ceremony for diocesan priests nearly two
hours away in Dubuque. Unable to reach him directly, she left a simple, urgent
message: ''We need to see a collar here.''

By the time Father Ouderkirk extricated himself and reached Postville in the
evening, nearly 400 families, some of them not even Catholic, filled the rotunda
and social hall of St. Bridget's. They occupied every pew, every aisle, every
folding chair, every inch of floor. Children clutched mothers. One girl shook
uncontrollably.

A few volunteers from the old Postville, descendants of the Irish and Norwegian
immigrants who settled here more than a century ago, set out food. Others took
turns standing watch at the church door, as if the sight of an Anglo might
somehow dissuade the feared Migra, as the immigrants call Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, from invading their sanctuary.

Already, members of the church staff and a Spanish teacher from a nearby college
were tallying the names of the detained workers. Father Ouderkirk conducted his
own version of a census in this predominantly Hispanic parish. Gone were all but
two members of the choir he had assembled over the years. Gone were all but one
of the eight altar servers. Gone were the husbands from the weddings he had
performed, and gone were the fathers of the children he had baptized.

As for the mothers, many of them also worked at Agriprocessors and had been
arrested. In a putative show of compassion, federal authorities released them
after putting an electronic homing device on each woman's ankle to monitor her
whereabouts. These mothers were, in the new lexicon of Postville, ''las personas
con brazalete,'' the people with a bracelet.

During his earlier tenure at parishes in North Texas and Marshalltown, Iowa,
Father Ouderkirk had experienced immigration raids twice before, but never on
this scale. By the second day, he had moved back into his bedroom in the
rectory.

''It's like God saying, 'I gave you a little practice,' because this is the
worst,'' Father Ouderkirk said in an interview late last month at St. Bridget's.
''This has happened after 10 years of stable living. These people were in
school. They were achieving. It has ripped the heart out of the community and
out of the parish. Probably every child I baptized has been affected. To see
them stunned is beyond belief.''

The only redemptive thing that can be said, perhaps, is that in the crisis at
Postville -- with nearly 400 immigrants imprisoned and facing deportation, with
40 mothers under house arrest awaiting their own court dates, with families that
had two working parents now forced to survive on handouts from a food pantry --
the beacon of the Roman Catholic Church to immigrants has rarely shone more
brilliantly.

''I came to the church because I feel safe there, I feel secure,'' said Irma
Lopez, the mother of a 2-year-old daughter, who was arrested along with her
husband, Marcelo, after they had worked at Agriprocessors for six years. ''I
feel protected. I feel at peace. I feel comforted.''

At a practical level, Father Ouderkirk has hired four temporary staff members to
help track the court cases and distribute food and financial aid to the affected
families. Along with other religious leaders around Iowa, he had been preparing
for a march in defense of immigrants' rights. St. Bridget's parish, which has
only about 350 members, is spending $500,000 in the relief effort, he said.

One month after the raid, St. Bridget's held a  Mass in remembrance of the
detainees. The name of every one was recited from the altar, and after every 20
names, a candle was lighted, usually by a persona con brazalete. The candles,
half burned, remain in the nave, beneath a wood carving of the Virgin Mother,
each one an offering for a miracle.

''I pray to God for the opportunity to stay in this country so my daughter can
be educated here,'' Mrs. Lopez said. ''That was my dream.''

Sitting in the rectory alongside Mrs. Lopez, Rosa Zamora nodded in agreement.
''When I pray, I know God is close to me,'' said Mrs. Zamora, whose husband,
like Mrs. Lopez's, is now jailed in Louisiana awaiting deportation to Guatemala.
''I know there are laws, but God is the judge of everything.''

Judgment of a different sort, though, has been visited on Father Ouderkirk and
his aides. One anonymous phone message warned him, ''What you're doing is
against the law. Harboring criminals.'' Sister Mary received an unsigned letter
stating: ''You are as far as possible from being the image of Mother Teresa. May
you rot in hell.''

It is infuriating in a particular way for Father Ouderkirk and his staff members
to hear from such nativists. St. Bridget's Spanish-speaking lay pastor, Paul
Real, has forebears who settled in what is now New Mexico in the 1500s. And
Father Ouderkirk's heritage, of course, goes back to the Dutch colonists.

''I think it's made me more empathetic,'' he said. ''I think of the chances my
ancestors had. Here are people who've been here 10 years, and to get torn up
like this, it's doesn't make any sense to me. It cuts so deep. Like Sister Mary
says, once you've cried for two straight weeks, you don't have any more tears.
But it doesn't mean you stopped feeling.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Luz Maria Hernandez, right, comforting a young woman who turned
to St. Bridget's Roman Catholic Church in Postville, Iowa, after an immigration
raid.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN MALLY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The Rev. Paul Ouderkirk at his home in Garnavillo, Iowa, came out of retirement
to help members of his congregation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY MANIS FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)
 Minutes after an immigration raid on May 12, family members of those arrested
gathered at St. Bridget's. One woman said of the church: ''I feel protected. I
feel at peace. I feel comforted.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN MALLY FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)(pg. A13)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 15, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Group Calls For Inquiry Into Death Of Detainee

BYLINE: By CARMEN GENTILE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 757 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Just days before the funeral on Saturday of her oldest child, Jacqueline Fleury
was still $2,000 short of his burial expenses.

But Ms. Fleury's greatest concern was not money, she said, but finding out why
her son Valery Joseph, 23, who was born in Haiti and arrived in the United
States as a young boy, died last month while being held at an immigration
detention center in South Florida.

Mr. Joseph's mother is in this country legally and was working to get a green
card for her son, who she said had a learning disability. He was detained by
agents of the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, or ICE, in
January after he was released from prison where he had served several months for
robbery. The agency began deportation proceedings, citing Mr. Joseph's numerous
criminal offenses.

Though Mr. Joseph occasionally suffered seizures, they were controlled by
medication, his mother said, and he was in good health.

''He was not sick; he was well,'' a solemn Ms. Fleury said in her native Creole,
recalling how she had visited her son a week before he died, on June 20.

Still, he was discouraged about his predicament. ''So why,'' she asked, ''did he
have to die?''

The Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center is calling for an independent
investigation into Mr. Joseph's death and has asked the customs agency for a
copy of his medical records.

''Lack of access to adequate medical care is among detainees' chief
complaints,'' said the center's executive director, Cheryl Little, an
immigration lawyer. ''The ICE detention system is designed to fail detainees
like Valery Joseph.''

United States immigration officials disagree. A division of the Department of
Homeland Security, Immigration and Customs Enforcement recently released a study
it had done showing that the percentage of deaths per 100,000 detainees was
''dramatically lower for ICE detainees than for U.S. prisons and jails and the
general U.S. population as a whole.''

In a statement, Kelly A. Nantel, an agency spokeswoman, said the immigrant
advocacy center's efforts on behalf of the Fleury family was ''another attempt
by an advocacy group to tout unsubstantiated allegations over fact.''

''While a single death of an ICE detainee is a serious matter and a regrettable
occurrence,'' Ms. Nantel said, ''it is important to review all the facts.''

The agency says that since it was created in 2003, 1.5 million people have been
held in its detention facilities nationwide, and all are provided
taxpayer-financed medical treatment by the Division of Immigration Health
Services at a cost of more than $360 million a year.

A report by the enforcement agency said a staff member at the Glade County
Detention Center, where Mr. Joseph was being held, found him unresponsive in his
bunk on June 20; the staff member had been delivering medication to him. Efforts
to resuscitate Mr. Joseph failed, and he was pronounced dead.

The immigration enforcement agency said  the results of a preliminary autopsy by
the state indicated that Mr. Joseph died of natural causes brought on by a
seizure. The Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center said it would like an independent
medical examiner to conduct another autopsy.

Ms. Fleury said that while her son was not capable of writing a letter himself,
a fellow detainee wrote on his behalf to the immigration judge assigned to the
case, and in that letter, Mr. Joseph begged not to be deported to Haiti, calling
his seizures and mental deficiencies ''extremely critical'' health issues.

''I dont, and really cant imagine how, someone like me would make it to Haiti,''
reads the letter, dated six months before Mr. Joseph's death. It also refers to
his need for ''expensive meds'' that he could not afford or obtain if he were
deported to Haiti.

''I truly, verily thank God for being in America, able to get help from those
expensive meds,'' the letter reads. In it, he promises the judge ''and the
society that I would do the best extra efforts in my life not to get in
trouble.''

Though he had access to medication at Glades, Ms. Fleury said, her son told her
he was sometimes placed in isolation for lengthy periods and stripped naked.

Immigration officials denied the accusations.

''ICE categorically denies any claims of strip-searching Mr. Joseph while
detained at the Glades facility,'' Ms. Nantel said. ''In fact, Glades policy
prohibits such actions.''

If Mr. Joseph was being held in isolation when he died, Ms. Little, of the
immigration advocacy center, said, ''it would be very troubling.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 17, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama and McCain Expand Courtship of Hispanics

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 864 words

DATELINE: ALBUQUERQUE


Three times this month, Senators John McCain and Barack Obama have addressed
national Hispanic advocacy and community service organizations. As a result, it
is possible to draw a picture of the strategy and tactics that each of the
presumed presidential nominees intends to employ to win the Hispanic vote,
expected to be decisive in several states.

In the past, a common complaint among Hispanic voters has been that politicians
tend to view them as a one-issue bloc, concerned only about immigration. Both
presidential campaigns are taking care to avoid that trap, emphasizing issues
like education, health care and housing as much as, if not more than,
immigration and related border issues.

They also clearly recognize the role that the Hispanic electorate, its numbers
swelling with newly naturalized citizens and a population that skews young,
could play in November.

''The Latino community holds the election in its hands,'' Mr. Obama announced
Sunday in San Diego at the annual conference of the National Council of La Raza.
Mr. McCain, meanwhile, imagined a situation in which election returns from the
East were tight and everything came down to swing states like this one, where
three of every eight voters are of Hispanic descent.

The candidates' stances on the issues and their tone, however, are markedly
different, as was evident in their speeches to La Raza. Mr. Obama, drawing on
his background as a community organizer, evoked the theme of social justice and
proclaimed his unqualified support for legislation that would allow high school
students who are illegal immigrants to go to college or join the armed forces
and gain legal residence status.

''I like everything he said he wants to do, especially for the poor,'' Rafaela
Garcia, leader of a community education and health services group in Kansas
City, said after Mr. Obama spoke. ''But then again, I'm a Democrat and will be
one until I die.''

Mr. McCain's message seems directed at what he views as the innate social
conservatism of Hispanics. He seeks to appeal to their deep religiosity, strong
and extended family ties and patriotism, and has also emphasized their
propensity to create businesses of their own, with his support for more free
trade with Latin America and special attention to Hispanics' small businesses.

But on that last point, he may be hampered by his association with the Bush
administration, even among those sympathetic to his message.

''I'm eager to hear what he has to say, but tax incentives do nothing for the
people we serve, and the government has reduced or eliminated the grants that we
need,'' Cynthia Amador, who runs a small-business center for Hispanic women in
Los Angeles, said before Mr. McCain's speech to La Raza on Monday.

As for immigration, while both candidates say they favor comprehensive change in
policy, there are differences in tone. Mr. Obama talks of 12 million
undocumented immigrants in ''hiding,'' and of the need to ''bring them in from
the shadows.'' Mr. McCain, from Arizona, a border state, says there are two
million criminals among that group and also talks of drug traffickers
manipulating immigrant flows.

Though the Hispanic population continues to disperse geographically, most still
live in a handful of states rich in electoral votes. But those states are not
likely to be the center of attention of the two campaigns' Latino operations;
California, New York and Illinois, Mr. Obama's home state, are all presumed to
be safely in the Obama column, while Texas is considered almost a lock for Mr.
McCain.

Of the populous states with big Hispanic populations, only Florida is regarded
as up for grabs, with both campaigns making an effort there. Instead, much of
the focus has shifted to several small or medium-sized states, among them
Colorado, Nevada and New Mexico, where Mr. McCain campaigned on Tuesday.

''We're going to spend more money on Latino TV and radio than has ever been
spent on a presidential campaign, and by a lot,'' Cuahtemoc Figueroa, the
director of Mr. Obama's Latino vote effort, told members of La Raza on Sunday.

The campaign also views Mr. Obama's half sister, Maya Soetoro-Ng, who taught
school for several years in the Bronx, as something of a trump card to be
deployed at events for Hispanic voters. ''She speaks fluent Spanish, with a
Dominican accent, and looks Latina,'' Mr. Figueroa said.

Hessy Fernandez, Mr. McCain's spokeswoman for Hispanic issues, said he was
conceding nothing and argued that Mr. Obama ''has been losing support'' among
Hispanics since he clinched the nomination. (A New York Times/CBS News poll
found that Mr. Obama leads Mr. McCain among Hispanic voters by 62 percent to 23
percent.) Ms. Fernandez said Mr. McCain would ''go places where no Republican
has been before'' in pursuit of Hispanic support.

Mr. McCain also has some unusual Hispanic surrogates from which to draw, she
noted. For instance, his Naval Academy roommate, Frank Gamboa, has recorded a
radio advertisement in Spanish in which he says that Mr. McCain ''shares our
conservative values and faith in God'' and ''knows that family is the most
important thing we have and that we value hard work.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Attendees at the National Council of La Raza meeting this week
in San Diego during the playing of the national anthem.
Senator John McCain(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SANDY HUFFAKER/GETTY IMAGES) CHART: The
Hispanic Impact : A look at Hispanics eligible to vote in states where the
presidential election was decided by margins of 10.5 or less in 2004.(Source:
Pew Hispanic Center) Charts detail bar graphs for Percentage of eligible voters
who are Hispanic
 and Margin in states won by Bush.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 19, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

1976 Hijacker Gets Parole, But Faces Deportation

BYLINE: By AL BAKER; Christine Hauser, William K. Rashbaum and Carolyn Wilder
contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 956 words


In 1976, Croatian independence fighters hijacked T.W.A. Flight 355 shortly after
it left La Guardia Airport. They said they had five bombs on board the jetliner
and had planted a sixth in a locker at Grand Central Terminal.

There were no bombs on the plane, a Boeing 727, but there was indeed a bomb at
Grand Central, and when New York City police officers went to defuse it, it
exploded, killing one officer, Brian J. Murray, and blinding another in one eye.

Now, Zvonko Busic, the Croat who organized the hijacking to promote Croatia's
fight for independence from Communist Yugoslavia, has been granted parole after
serving more than 30 years in prison, federal officials said on Friday.

Mr. Busic, 62, is unlikely to be released to the streets, however.

United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement has a warrant to deport Mr.
Busic, called a detainer, and even if immigration officials decide against
deporting him, a new hearing on his status will be held, said Thomas W.
Hutchison, a spokesman for the United States Parole Commission in Washington. He
said that process could last roughly two months. ''If the detainer is exercised,
he will continue to be held in custody until the deportation proceedings are
completed,'' Mr. Hutchison said. ''A condition of the parole is that he not
return to the United States.''

Pat A. Reilly, a spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said on
Friday that the agency ''anticipates taking Mr. Busic into custody as scheduled
when he is released to our custody.'' A spokeswoman for the Federal Bureau of
Prisons said Mr. Busic was being held at the Federal Correctional Complex in
Terre Haute, Ind., with an expected release date of Sunday.

Asked whether Mr. Busic would be deported, Ms. Reilly said: ''That's what having
a detainer on a person implies. Beyond that we don't discuss the details of any
deportation arrangements.''

An official at the Croatian Embassy in Washington could not answer questions,
referred calls to Croatia and then did not return several phone calls.

Though the final chapter of the story is not complete, Officer Murray's widow,
Kathleen, said she was not happy to hear of Mr. Busic's parole. She said she
wished that ''the federal government would have given me the opportunity to
respond before letting him go.''

Reached by phone at her home on Long Island, Mrs. Murray, 60, added that she was
''shocked'' that Mr. Busic had been granted parole, news  that rekindled painful
memories. ''Because of the crime committed, in the name of the Croatian
community, he's got a huge following,'' she said. ''They're sorry that a
policeman was killed, but happy that he stood up for them at a time when Croatia
was a Communist country, and I understand that.''

Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said the New York Police Department had not
been notified about the development. ''I find it outrageous,'' Mr. Kelly said in
an interview. ''He killed a New York City police officer, besides the other
things that he did. It's just a matter of principle that anybody who kills a
police officer should not be paroled.''

Marc Blackman, a lawyer in Portland, Ore., who represents Mr. Busic, did not
return phone calls on Friday.

The explosion in Grand Central, on Sept. 10, 1976, was typical of the violence
of those times, when New York City was a stage for any number of groups seeking
attention for international causes. A year earlier, a bomb in a Wall Street
restaurant, Fraunces Tavern, killed 4 and injured more than 60. The Armed Forces
of National Liberation -- known more commonly by its Spanish initials, F.A.L.N.
-- which sought independence for Puerto Rico, claimed responsibility.

Mr. Kelly spoke about his memories of that era. The 1976 bombing, in addition to
killing Officer Murray and partly blinding Sgt. Terence McTigue, wounded two
other officers, Henry Dworkin and Fritz Behr. ''Any death of a police officer is
shocking, but it was a message that it is a smaller world,'' Mr. Kelly said.
''It was jolting. It was a reminder of the fact that terrorism existed even in
those days.''

The plane Mr. Busic and his four accomplices hijacked was bound for Chicago. The
five devices they displayed to the passengers, which they threatened to
detonate, were made of Silly Putty.

To strengthen their story that the ''five gelignite bombs'' were real, they
disclosed the location of the bomb in Grand Central. It was removed from the
station, and while police officers tried to deactivate it, it exploded, killing
Officer Murray instantly.

The hijackers eventually surrendered at Charles de Gaulle airport outside Paris,
and in May 1977, they were convicted in federal court in Brooklyn. Mr. Busic and
his American-born wife, Julienne, were sentenced to life in prison for air
piracy resulting in a death. Three others, convicted of piracy but not of the
death of Officer Murray, got 30 years.

Mr. Busic was committed to federal prison in 1977, said Traci Billingsley, a
spokeswoman for the Federal Bureau of Prisons. In 1987, he burrowed out of a
federal prison in Orange County, N.Y., but was quickly recaptured.

His wife and the others were paroled in the late '80s after serving about 12
years. Croatia declared independence in 1991, and sympathizers there called for
Mr. Busic's release. Under the law, he was entitled to parole after serving 30
years of his life term.

''Busic should have gotten life without parole,'' said Kevin B. Barry, who
retired in 2002 as a detective in the Police Department's bomb squad and who
knew all of the men. ''Brian Murray was a young man with a young family. Hank
Dworkin and Terry McTigue were seasoned veterans. Fritz Behr was an inspector,
and you couldn't meet a nicer man, as a boss.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Officer Brian J. Murray and his wife, Kathleen. Officer Murray
was killed by a bomb planted as part of a hijacking plot.
 Zvonko Busic in 1976.(pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 20, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant, Pregnant, Is Jailed Under Pact

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1027 words


It started when Juana Villegas, an illegal immigrant from Mexico who was nine
months pregnant, was pulled over by a police officer in a Nashville suburb for a
routine traffic violation.

By the time Mrs. Villegas was released from the county jail six days later, she
had gone through labor with a sheriff's officer standing guard in her hospital
room, where one of her feet was cuffed to the bed most of the time. County
officers barred her from seeing or speaking with her husband.

After she was discharged from the hospital, Mrs. Villegas was separated from her
nursing infant for two days and barred from taking a breast pump into the jail,
her lawyer and a doctor familiar with the case said. Her breasts became
infected, and the newborn boy developed jaundice, they said.

Mrs. Villegas's arrest has focused new attention on a cooperation agreement
signed in April 2007 between federal immigration authorities and Davidson
County, which shares a consolidated government with Nashville, that gave
immigration enforcement powers to county officers. It is one of 57 agreements,
known formally as 287G, that the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agency has signed in the last two years with county and local police departments
across the country under a rapidly expanding program.

Nashville officials have praised the agreement as a successful partnership
between local and federal government.

''We are able to identify and report individuals who are here illegally and have
been charged with a criminal offense, while at the same time remaining a
friendly and open city to our new legal residents,'' Karl Dean, the mayor of
Nashville, said in a statement on Friday.

Lawyers and immigrant advocates say Mrs. Villegas's case shows how local police
can exceed their authority when they seek to act on immigration laws they are
not fully trained to enforce.

''Had it not been for the 287G program, she would not have been taken down to
jail,'' said A. Gregory Ramos, a lawyer who is a former president of the
Nashville Bar Association. ''It was sold as something to make the community
safer by taking dangerous criminals off the streets. But it has been operated so
broadly that we are getting pregnant women arrested for simple driving offenses,
and we're not getting rid of the robbers and gang members.''

Mrs. Villegas, who is 33, has lived in the United States since 1996, and has
three other children besides the newborn who are American citizens because they
were born here.

She was stopped on July 3 in her husband's pickup truck by a police officer from
Berry Hill, a Nashville suburb, initially for ''careless driving.'' After Mrs.
Villegas told the officer she did not have a license, he did not issue a ticket
but arrested her instead. Elliott Ozment, Mrs. Villegas's lawyer, said driving
without a license is a misdemeanor in Tennessee that police officers generally
handle with a citation, not an arrest.

After Mrs. Villegas was taken to the Davidson County jail, a federal immigration
agent working there as part of the cooperation agreement conducted a background
check. It showed that Mrs. Villegas was an illegal immigrant who had been
deported once from the United States in March 1996, Karla Weikal, a spokeswoman
for the county sheriff, said. She had no other criminal record.

As a result, immigration agents issued an order to take charge of Mrs. Villegas
once she was released by the local authorities. Based on that order, county
officers designated her a medium-security inmate in the jail, Ms. Weikal said.

So when Mrs. Villegas went into labor on the night of July 5, she was handcuffed
and accompanied by a deputy as she was taken by ambulance to Nashville General
Hospital at Meharry. Cuffs chaining her foot to the hospital bed were opened
when she reached the final stages of labor, Mrs. Villegas said.

''I felt like they were treating me like a criminal person,'' Mrs. Villegas
said, speaking in Spanish in a telephone interview. The phone in her room was
turned off, and she was not permitted to speak with her husband when he came to
retrieve their newborn son from the hospital on July 7 as she returned to jail,
she said.

As Mrs. Villegas left the hospital, a nurse offered her a breast pump but a
sheriff's deputy said she could not take it into the jail, Mrs. Villegas said.

Mr. Ozment, the lawyer, said Mrs. Villegas would never have been detained
without the 287G cooperation agreement.

''Whether this lady was documented or undocumented should not affect how she was
treated in her late pregnant condition and as she was going through labor and
bonding with her new baby,'' Mr. Ozment said.

On July 8, Mrs. Villegas was taken to court, where she pleaded guilty to driving
without a license and was sentenced to time served. Immigration agents
immediately released her while a deportation case proceeds, following a policy
adopted last year by the Immigration and Customs Enforcement to avoid separating
babies from nursing mothers.

Ms. Weikal said Mrs. Villegas's jail stay was prolonged by the Independence Day
holiday weekend, when the courts were closed.

''There is a perception that she was treated different from other inmates, and
it just is not true,'' Ms. Weikal said. ''Unfortunately the business of
corrections is that families are separated. It's not pretty, it's not
understandable to a lot of people.''

She said that it was standard procedure to bar medical equipment like a breast
pump from the jail.

More than 60,000 illegal immigrants have been identified for deportation since
2006 through 287G cooperation programs, said Richard Rocha, a spokesman for the
federal immigration agency. Most of the agreements are aimed at increasing the
screening of immigrant convicts serving sentences in local jails, in order to
speed their deportation. Some, like Nashville's, provide for immigration
screening right after any foreign-born person is arrested.

Arrests of immigrants have increased rapidly in Tennessee since early 2006, when
the state stopped allowing illegal immigrants to obtain driver's licenses, after
five years when they had been able to drive legally.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Juana Villegas and 2-week-old son in her lawyer's office
Thursday in Nashville. Mother and son had been separated for two days.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A17)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 149 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 15, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Texas: Militant Ordered To Stand Trial

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 132 words


A federal appeals court ordered a Cuban militant, Luis Posada Carriles, to stand
trial in El Paso on immigration fraud charges. A three-judge panel of the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in New Orleans, ruled
that Mr. Posada, 80, an anti-Castro militant, should stand trial on charges that
he lied to federal authorities in his 2005 bid to become an American citizen.
The criminal case had been dismissed last year when a federal district judge in
El Paso, Kathleen Cardone, ruled that the government engaged in trickery and
deceit by using a naturalization interview to build its case against Mr. Posada.
Felipe Millan, one of Mr. Posada's lawyers in El Paso, said Mr. Posada's legal
team was reviewing the decision and would decide on a course of action
afterward.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company
